[{"Title":"Wow","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow was my first reaction to seeing the film back in February 2003. I had bought it on a whim and watched it one night when I was bored. The rest is history. Terms remains one of my favorite films and I really can't say why. Reputation has made this out to be the ultimate chick flick upon which every other tear-jerker is judged. But it's definitely more of a character study than a weepy mushy movie. In fact, it's anything but mushy. Where it could of been over-sentimental, it was poignant. Where it could of been boring, it was insightful. And where it could of been corny, it was tongue-in-cheek.Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger give career performances as mother and daughter. Both characters are polar opposites and in real life the actresses despised each other, but on screen their chemistry sizzles. Jack Nicholson is his usual suave self and John Lithgow is perfect as the wimpy banker. Danny Devito also has a quirky cameo.James L. Brooks is definitely an actor's director. To him, the performances are clearly more important than set pieces or flashy camera work. Each of the three main performances are brilliant (especially MacLaine's). It has been decades since a movie about illness has been made like this that is so achingly real. Two scenes to look for Aurora walking across a seedy hotel (heat-breaking) and Emma telling her mother that she's pregnant (hilarious).Terms of Endearment is a triumph!  "},{"Title":"Quirky characters who eventually grow on you","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The shifty, funny/serious tone of Terms Of Endearment caught a lot of people off guard in 1983 and word-of-mouth about it being a seriously good tearjerker/comedy was strong (opening near Christmas probably didn't hurt it come Oscar time either!). But since then, TV sitcoms have been mining this kind of flippant, edgy, raw sense of dynamics (Roseanne comes to mind), and Terms doesn't seem as fresh. Watching it again the other night, I couldn't help feeling that some of the juice was missing, or that Shirley MacLaine's Aurora Greenway was actually more of an irritant than a sympathetic harridan. But on closer inspection, the lives of these characters are quite endearing, and the tender music on the soundtrack always underlines a poignant scene at just the right moment. Vivid Debra Winger is incredible as MacLaine's daughter, as are John Lithgow, Jeff Daniels, Jack Nicholson, and Danny DeVito (in a small but telling part). As for MacLaine, I think she makes a few missteps in her characterization, and I didn't like the scene where she leaves her own birthday party in a huff and finds herself at Nicholson's door--it feels put on--or her famous scene with Jack driving on the beach, which is highly improbable. However, her determined will and loving possessiveness/detachment towards her daughter makes her a complicated and colorful bundle of nerves. The picture is flawed, yet has scenes of worth and love, many memorable lines of dialogue, and shows a real skill for balancing different moods. *** from **** "},{"Title":"I laughed! I cried! I laughed! And then I starting sobbing!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"41 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Exactly how in the world did I never see this movie before? I rented it on DVD the other night because I heard it was good, but I didn't expect it to be as good as it was. Incredible story, such powerful and passionate acting, it's just such a great film. I don't think I need to say anything about the acting in it, if you've seen Terms of Endearment you know that Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger, and Jack Nicholson bring their characters to a life rarely seen in movies. I just can't get over how great this movie was. The story is so good, it's so funny and at times among some of the saddest moments I've ever seen portrayed in the movies. I don't want to go any further for fear that I might spoil it for those who haven't seen this incredible story about life and love and laughter among family. Oh, and if you haven't seen one of the greatest movies ever made, go do so now. Wrapping up, if you can't tell I loved Terms of Enderament. I guess I had always stayed away from it because it seemed like THE chick flick, but it's not. It's such a great story, great acting, everything of a great movie. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best of all time","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"52 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can I say about this film other than it is, in my opinion flawless. Every performance, every character, every scene... Debra Winger should have shared the Oscar with Shirley MacLaine. Few movies can make you laugh and cry OVER and OVER again, but this one does it for me. Even when I catch a scene on cable, I find myself drawn in emotionally and grabbing for my box of tissues. The mother-daughter relationship is so true-to-life and the chemistry between Debra and Shirley and Shirley and Jack is palpable. It is one of the greatest films ever made and should be required viewing for all mothers and daughters. This is an AMAZING and moving film! "},{"Title":"The #1 Movie I Love to Hate","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"33 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the late 60's, early 70's, when movies began to circulate as news and talk show events, we the public began to believe we were to leave the theater having gotten (or not) the message. Such was for better or worse. Great movies like BONNIE & CLYDE, MIDNIGHT COWBOY and NETWORK were fussed, discussed, etc., and educated and entertained us with varying points of view (if no more through water cooler encounters). I may be naive but was it THEN that it became fun to discuss favorite movies, much like books had so been? SUPPORT Siskel & Ebert's AT THE MOVIES began to appear on PBS in the late 70's.The blowback was a series of shallow - if mildly clever - movies that either the new industry and/or the media spun to we the public as art. Hence TERMS OF ENDEARMENT, DRIVING MISS DAISY, MOONSTRUCK, and more recently Shakespeare IN LOVE, etc. I suggest that films of this caliber, not necessarily terrible, never won Oscars in the 40's, 50's or 60's.The characters in TOE are inarticulate, impatient and shallow people. TOE might have been good if such were the intended message. The sentiments of the movie are incredibly contrived; e.g., we are told zero of the substance of Flab's affairs though Emma's affair is, of course, justified, authentic, etc. I sum up McClain's Character in one word shrill. I also dare anyone to create a more unashamed melodramatic ending. After watching this flick I walked out of the cinema in Topeka, KS in 1983 not giving a rat's ass about any of the folk or sentiments I'd just seen. Blame it on me being Roman Catholic but the only events, people, circumstances, etc., worthy of concern in TOE were Flap and Emma's children, to which NO attention was paid.I'm going to sound like a snob now. Here's the substance of the personal comments I heard and still hear when I inquire about TOE It was so good, It was so sad., It was soooo good!, It was sooo moving., It was just like real life., I can't believe she died., You know my sister just died. You get the picture. "},{"Title":"Another  near perfect blending of the smile and the tear...","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" TERMS OF ENDEARMENT is an undeniably gripping and emotional film experience that will have you rolling on the floor during one scene and weeping uncontrollably during the next. This film follows the complicated relationship between an icy, Texan widow named Aurora Greenway (Shirley MacLaine)and her slightly-off-the-wall daughter, Emma (Debra Winger), who at the beginning of the film is marrying a man named Flap Horton (Jeff Daniels), whom her mother clearly hates, seemingly just to get away from her. The film follows Emma's marriage through three children, infidelity, and unexpected tragedy but it never lets go of the unspoken bond between Aurora and Emma...a bond so strong that it transcends telephone lines, geography, and even dialogue at times...there are moments in the story where you see Aurora and Emma communicate without saying a word to each other. Writer-director James L. Brooks won a pair of Oscars for writing and directing this funny and heartbreaking story that stretches over a long period of time but never fails to hold interest and trust me, the last 20-30 minutes of this film will have you weeping. Shirley MacLaine finally won her long-overdue Best Actress Oscar for her controlled performance as Aurora and Jack Nicholson won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his performance as a retired astronaut who moves in next door to Aurora after Emma moves out and begins a hilarious and touching relationship with Aurora. Debra Winger is explosive and unpredictable as Emma and Jeff Daniels is fully invested in the unsympathetic role of Flap. A truly unique motion picture experience that will leave you limp. "},{"Title":"A little heavy, but with astonishing performances.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A well-observed, well-made drama (with occasional comedic moments), that may not be exactly high art (it's neither profound nor original), but DOES feature some great acting and manages to pull you in. Debra Winger gives an extraordinary performance; she has a naturalness and expressiveness that you rarely see on the screen. When her character is happy, her whole face brightens up and her joy becomes infectious; when she's sad or confused or embarrassed, the emotions come across strongly, although she never goes over the top. Considering that she lost the Oscar to her co-star, Shirley MacLaine, who is reasonably good but far more one-note, I'd say we had a major Academy Award injustice there. Jack Nicholson is fun to watch and has some amusing lines, and most supporting roles, like those played by John Lithgow and Danny De Vito, are also first-rate and completely believable. So overall it's a good film, directed almost flawlessly, although in the final 20 minutes it needlessly wallows in melodrama. (***) "},{"Title":"Cannot believe THIS won the Oscar","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came out before I was born, but I finally caught it on TV last night and couldn't believe THIS won the Oscar!! I'm usually the biggest sap there is, I love sentimental movies but this movie made me HATE every character. Where is the development of the relationships between mother and daughter? We meet Aurora as a very overprotective, neurotic mother, and before we know it, the daughter is getting married to...someone. And the mother doesn't like him....why? Apparently, he's an unmotivated louse but the movie never lets us get to KNOW Flap. We see the couple become parents and struggle and fight, for some reason. i still don't know why i'm supposed to care about these people, but then we learn the husband is a cheater...maybe. So what does Emma do? Why, have her own affair, of course! Except, um, that relationship comes out of the blue as well. this guy pops out of nowhere and offers to pay for her groceries, and in the next scene she's going off to have sex with him? I couldn't believe what I was watching. Then, when Emma SEES Flip with another woman, she becomes enraged!! Because, HE shouldn't be potentially cheating on her!! Poor Emma...she then goes off with her supposed best friend (who we only saw in one scene in the beginning of the movie) but, decides to go home and uproot her kids and stay with her husband....because that makes sense. then, the tears come...Emma has cancer!! but it is the shortest, most unemotional illness i've ever seen in a movie. Her best friend is there for her, but only offers to take care of the daughter, not the two older sons. So the natural decision Emma makes is to take her children away from their FATHER and give them to her mother. Because that makes sense. I barely noticed when she died, until Aurora starts crying. I couldn't believe I spent two hours watching this people, and didn't care about them at all. How could I, when the movie never lets the audience gets to know these people? Classic case of telling, not showing us these people. Absolutely ridiculous movie that is truly one of the worst I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Stop Trying To Pretend Like You Hate Me","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've heard many good things about James L. Brooks's 'Terms of Endearment' and finally I decided to give it ago. Honestly speaking I was expecting a typical melodramatic tearjerker that's sole aim is to emotionally manipulate the viewer. I was wrong. 'Terms of Endearment' is a slice of life that centres around a mother, her daughter and their respective lives. The film looks very authentic. The sets, makeup, costumes and art direction look genuine.This is very much a character driven film. The dialogues are full of humour and wit but what's also striking is how deeply layered the words are. While the visuals are quite simplistic it's the characters that shine especially through the actors' natural performances. Their excellent non-verbal gestures, spot on line delivery and restrained performances are superb.A sassy Shirley Maclaine and bubbly Debra Winger are spellbinding. Both actresses beautifully carry the film and they are brilliantly supported by fine actors like Danny DeVito, Jack Nicholson, John Lithgow and Jeff Daniels.What particularly appealed to me about 'Terms of Endearment' is the depiction of the mother-daughter relationship and the dynamic of it. It definitely has its ups and downs and it does not involve the use of clichéd lines like 'I love you' etc but at the same time the unconditional love between them is wonderfully conveyed. "},{"Title":"Quite good, but overrated","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After looking forward to seeing this film for many years, I finally have watched it, and was left a little disappointed.  Don't get me wrong, it's a good movie, but I expected so very much more.  I found the plot to be rather thin for a movie this long, and after some thought, I'd have to say that the script was average at best.  With a weaker cast, I suspect that I wouldn't have even liked it.  Fortunately, this film is blessed with a spectacular cast, and this film deservedly received Oscar recognition in the acting categories.  It just didn't deserve the best picture Oscar that it also won. "}{"Title":"Extremely overrated","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never really got the Oscar quality to this film when it was first released and certainly don't get it now. Nicholson's part is the same sly cad he's played many times before, only phoned-in. Shirley MacLaine plays a brittle, over controlled (and controlling) version of the ditzy, oversexed characters she usually plays. Jeff Daniels is completely unbelievable as an academic (I used to be one). He doesn't even rate as a marginally employed academic although vapid guys like his characters often are the ones who wind up having affairs with the coeds. The accents are forced (like Winger, I'm a Clevelander and couldn't do Texas either). The cancer ending is forced and overwrought. I used to work with cancer patients and this film is an insult to them and their families. The performances lack depth and James Brooks clearly was better for television than for a film like this. I never read McMurtry's story, so I don't know how faithful it is. I hope the story isn't as gassy and predictable as the film. "},{"Title":"Overrated and manipulative","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"35 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a heterosexual, red-blooded woman who hates Terms of Endearment. There, I said it, and I don't care who knows. Terms of Endearment is one of those insufferable movies aimed for women, even though it is clearly written by men who clearly don't know anything about real women. It's also a disjointed, plot less, excruciatingly dull story with some of the most poorly written characters to ever disgrace the screen.I didn't know which female protagonist I found more insufferable Aurora (Shirley McClaine), an overbearing mother who clings to her daughter Emma (Debra Winger) like a leach but doesn't appear to actually love her. Aurora is one of those people who refuse to let go and let God, as evidenced where she happily wakes her sleeping baby daughter up because she's convinced that Emma has suffered crib death. Emma is so sick of her mother's nagging ways, she marries the first loser who shows interest, much to her mother's chagrin (You are not special enough to overcome a bad marriage, Aurora bluntly tells her).Then there's Emma herself, who I desperately wanted to root for, having an overprotective mom myself. Emma could have been written with a certain amount of dignity, passion, and endearing insecurities and intelligence that emerge in spite of Aurora's crappy parenting. Instead, Emma is an immature, petulant, flighty ninny who goes from having a backbone of steel one moment to being a complete pushover the next. She firmly calls her ne'er-do-well husband Flap (Jeff Daniels) on his infidelity, and yet stays with the cheating bastard for no clear reason whatsoever. Not to mention Winger plays Emma the way one would a mentally unstable 3-year-old and who sounds she doing the world's worst Joan Cusack impression. I got the feeling her children would be like the type of kids who have to raise and clean up after their alcoholic parents.I knew something was wrong when the only character I even remotely liked was Jack Nicholson's aging womanizer character. Considering that I don't even like Jack Nicholson, that's really something.Worst of all, Terms of Endearment is responsible for starting the trend of manipulative tearjerkers that involve families coming closer because of death (Stepmom, The Family Stone, One True Thing). Not only is it reprehensible to treat death so lightly, but it is unfair to the audience. It's as if filmmakers are punishing them for not being emotionally invested enough in the characters by creating latent feelings of guilt by killing them off. And it's always with Hollywood Cancer, the type of cancer where vomiting and chemotherapy somehow never come into play.I have nothing against chick flicks, I really don't. Just this one. "},{"Title":"As comedic and dramatic as life can get ...","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes, I surprise myself by being sad during a happy family occasion like a wedding or a birthday party, when it makes me realize how old someone who's very dear to me is getting, or how fast life can go. And some other times, as we're mourning the passing of a beloved family member, I find myself sitting at a table, laughing at the jokes of my uncle, or remembering some funny anecdotes involving the one who's not with us anymore. Go figure why, but we humans have this strange tendency to lean over a feeling that is opposite to the situation we endure, like a sort of defensive reaction. Happiness reminds us how we must seize the day, and death how great it is to live. So that's it, we laugh when we should be sad and cry when we should laugh. Actually, life teaches us that there's no 'should' when it comes to feelings, and its beauty is to make us swing back and forth between happy and sad memories. And to a certain extent, faithful to this very comedic aspect that can't go without a few tears, Terms of Endearment embodies the passing of life as this big joke with a sad punch line we all laugh, have great time, but every once in a while, a sad event comes to remind us what is waiting for us. It follows a streak of successful Best Picture winning family dramas, such as Kramer vs. Kramer and Ordinary People, but Terms of Endearment is slightly superior in the way it dares to approach life with an intelligent mix of detachment and irony but never without a profound and inspiring humanism.Still, what a strange film! No wait, I shouldn't even use the word 'film' because by no chances, does it try to exploit some cinematic conventions in order to extract the right feelings from its audience. Albert Brooks not only trusts our intelligence but also our patience as the story plunges us in the world of Aurora and Emma, Shirley MecLaine and Debra Winger, mother and daughter. I say 'strange' film because it has the curious feel of a TV movie without the archetypes of a vulgar soap opera, it's made with a modest tone of pastel colors and following an episodic structure, like so many slices of people's lives, people no worse or better than you and I, but the flow is so fluid and perfect that we let ourselves guided by the story, never really expecting for something to happen, we're just put here as witnesses of a story, which exemplifies our own vision of life.And that's the remarkable exploit of the film, the key that forged its success. Terms of Endearment, which is unlike any film made before, was one of the highest grossing of 1983 and although I found The Right Stuff to be a much more extraordinary experience (and most deserving of the Best Picture award), Terms of Endearment possesses an endearing quality, which relies on its faithful approach to life, something made of laughs, anger, sadness and fears, simply put the four main emotions that drive our feelings. Terms of Endearment finds the perfect tone and balance between laughs and sadness, comic and pathos. In a way, the film can remind of Love Story without an hyperbolic classicism that could have ruined it.Emma the daughter, has this burning passion in her heart just like Ali McGraw's character and her mother works as the total opposite, she seems cold and distant, criticizing all her daughter's choices, above them all the decision to marry a teacher named Flap (Jeff Daniels). But Emma never decides, she just lives while Aurora uses her maturity and status as a courted widow to better not to look at her own issues. The interactions between Emma and Aurora seems so genuine that I wondered if the two actresses were really mother and daughter. You could tell that these two women were the best friends in the world, with this unique complicity that couldn't only be translated into awkward reactions. One of the biggest issues that undermine the characters' interactions is the impossible communication of true feelings and the way it's handled provides the comedic spice of the film.At a pivotal moment, Aurora finally decides to invite Garrett Breedlove, the ex-astronaut, neighbor since years and infamous for his lust for younger women, just to see her 'Renoir', referring to a very precious painting -a second reading at these lines makes the whole situation subtly hilarious. And not only this role was so tailor-made for Nicholson that it earned him his second Oscar win, but Mac Laine is the perfect match for him, and Brooks knew how to build a believable chemistry between them. At one point, Garrett makes a whole rhapsody about the way he feels things are getting too serious for his taste, to be interrupted by Aurora's reactions, it's funny but it also shows that not only she's no fool, but she doesn't even feel hurt. The film avoids two opposite clichés, turning them into derision to better show the futility of all that stuff. Another crucial scene is Emma's monologue in New York City on the way she feels about people's problems, an extraordinary moment I don't want to spoil. The film evolves beautifully with a last act that is forever rooted in our memories, thanks to the remarkable performances of both Debra Winger and Shirley MacLaine, surrounded by great supporting performances. The film doesn't feature iconic moments, isn't renowned for a particular quote, but it has a level of emotionality that has often been copied but never equaled. And to give you an idea if you haven't seen it yet, just listen to Michael Gore's magnificent theme and it will give you an idea. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment stands the test of time. This film was released in 1983 and is defiantly a classic. Shirley MacLaine as Aurora Greenway and Debra Winger as Emma Horton are two of the best actresses of this generation. Not to mention, Jack Nicholson as the Astronaut Garrett Breedlove, his characters are always memorable no matter how big or small his role in a film.This film is about the lifelong relationship between a daughter, Emma, her slightly neurotic mother, Aurora and the men in their lives. From the beginning of the film you see Aurora's dependence on Emma, even though Aurora is slightly cold towards her at first. You also see that Emma, as a daughter, doesn't care, she loves her mother unconditionally for who she is, as a child does. The film goes on to tell a realistic tale about how life is funny, exciting, disappointing and just plain sad.Very few films have the ability to tell such a heart warming yet heart wrenching tale so realistically. The director's focus in this film is on the emotional effect, he wants to make you feel as if you are living life with these women. The use of natural lighting and the use of a subjective view point keep you sitting next to these woman as they experience dating the astronaut and having children with a spouse who is not always there for you.I have to say my favorite part of the film was being transported back in time to the place where I grew up. A place of Laura Ashley furniture and phones that had a cords. The setting to this movie was so authentic that it made me wish for a simpler time before all the technology came along and children used to play outside. You really do feel that you are widowed housewife in Texas, trying to figure out that astronaut next door and what you may want from him. Maybe you're also the mother of three trying to figure out where your husband is; of course he is probably trying to figure out where you are.One of the nicest things in life is being able to share your whole self with someone who will love you anyway. That is what this story conveys. It may not always be happy and rosy, but it is funny and real. It reminds me of the movie Steel Magnolias which Shirley MacLaine also does a terrific job. This is a must see movie for anyone. "},{"Title":"Extremely weak","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, I had low expectations when I saw this film; I didn't know much about it, but I had a sense it was going to be a chick-flick. But since I'm determined to see every Best Picture film, I had to see this one. And since I was going to see it, I tried to start with an open mind.Well, it was worse than I expected. I can't quite rate it as awful, because it did have a good cast, and I thought the performances were pretty good. And the story actually had me interested... for a while. My complaint is this after setting up all these interesting dynamics and tensions between the characters, I was interested to see how it would all resolve. And the resolution? Well, here's the spoiler the central character gets cancer and dies. That's it. Cheap, trite Hollywood cop-out. That's basically NO resolution. There never really IS any resolution of 1) the mother and Jack Nicholson, 2) the older son's anger at his mother, 3) Emma's TOTAL (and totally annoying) hypocrisy about infidelity (and notice how, after having given the husband this sanctimonious sermon about how he had to come clean with her, she later TOTALLY dodges coming clean with him. Ultra-hypocrite), 4) The hatred between the mother and the husband. Because everything just gets pushed aside once Cancer comes into the story. By that point, it just becomes heavy-handed and obvious. Feh. "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly boring","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie consists of a highly disfunctional woman constantly bearing children while her phone rings off the hook with her mother calling her. Later, her vapid and self-absorbed mother falls for an equally self-absorbed and pompous baffon of a neighbour.  The acting, while good, didn't make me want to care about any of the characters except for the kids.  Overall, there's nothing redeeming about this movie.  Truly a waste of film.  I want those two hours of my life back, please.Rating 2/10. "},{"Title":"Sappy soap.","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films not made for me, yet since it appears on my television now and then, I feel compelled to comment on it. Terms of Endearment is basically a big, glossy soap opera with a strong cast and clichéd script. This production doesn't disguise the fact that it is exactly that. The central character is an overbearing and domineering matriarch played by Shirley McLaine, and the story deals with her daughter's problems and her own awkward relationship with the astronaut next door. Yep, you heard that right. Jack Nicholson plays an astronaut living next door in her Houston neighborhood. His name.... (please hold your laughter) Garret Breedlove! What a name! What a guy! Of course he is this womanizing loner when he isn't out in space. Do you think he and Shirley will be able to find common ground?? It really doesn't matter since the more interesting parts deal with the daughter (Debra Winger) and her disastrous marriage to a conniving English professor (Jeff Daniels). The marriage is a joke from the start, and things only get worse for Winger as she later develops a Hollywood-type cancer later that we learn little about. All we know is that the ladies in the audience better get their tissues ready. There seems no way for her to be cured. At least she gets to see New York for a few days before the cancer finishes her off.Not a lot more to say about it. This was originally based on a novel by Larry McMurtry, but there likely isn't a lot of his original ideas left in this script. Apparently the Nicholson character wasn't even in his book! Could it be that an astronaut was added to sponge off the popularity of The Right Stuff which also came out that year and was also nominated for an Oscar?? Hmmmm. Anyway, the acting is generally good. Nicholson adds testosterone to the estrogen-rich script, even though his character seems contrived. Jeff Daniels plays a paper scarecrow character, but he does what he can with it. Winger is pretty good. McLaine is over-the-top and maybe thats what won her the Oscar. She's the type of person in real life that you could maybe stand to be around for oh... five minutes at a time. Look for John Lithgow and Danny Devito in small and amusing cameos. Some of this was filmed around my old college in Lincoln, so that's interesting enough. The scene where Winger confronts Daniels while he's talking to a mistress with their baby strapped to his chest was filmed right in the middle of campus. Winger was also romantically involved with our governor Bob Kerrey at the time. Other than these little trivial facts, there isn't a lot more of interest here. At least this film cleaned up at Oscar time, so the people involved can be proud of that. Tender Mercies would seem a more deserving best picture, though. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Soppy, overrated melodrama that fails to endear itself","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Over the years, I have heard stories about how supposedly good this film was but I must say it is one of the most pretentious, overrated and worst movies to win multiple Academy Awards. I wanted to watch this film as my mother and father watched it in the 1980s when it was still relatively fresh and as a chick flick, you can guess my mother loved it and my father hated it. I was incredibly disappointed as there was not one thing redeemable about this film, whether it be the directing, the acting, the script and even the music playing throughout, all of this making the film feel like a made for TV movie or soap opera rather than a feature film. I can't accurately judge other films from this year but it seems like a weak year for films, 1983 and this about tops it. Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger are totally unconvincing as mother and daughter, Jack Nicholson has been in far better form ( A Few Good Men, Batman, The Departed) as a supporting actor in particular, John Lithgow didn't get enough screen time as was the case also with Jeff Daniels. Probably the worst film to win the Academy Award for Best Picture and I think I need a few days to recover, not from supposed tears rolling down my cheeks but from the absurdity of a melodramatic pile of bile such as this. "},{"Title":"The best tear-jerker ever made","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a startling brutal film, that holds comedic weight to it in-between the dramatic occurrences. James L. Brooks, who developed 'The Mary Tyler Moore Show' and 'The Simpsons' and also directed Broadcast News and As Good As It Gets, has never topped himself after this film and probably never will again. This is really a comedy, but in the final third of the film that all changes.Shirley MacLaine, who won the 1983 Best Actress Oscar for her performance, plays Aurora, a self-centered widow who lives in the upper-sides of Texas. She has raised a daughter, Emma, played with immense strength and sensibility by Debra Winger- who earned an Oscar nomination for Best Actress. While the movie centers around their turbulent relationship, it also centers around the men in their lives.Winger is about to marry a handsome simple man- played by the underrated Jeff Daniels. Aurora objects to this at once, but this could be because she never will be satisfied with who her only child brings to the table. Emma still marries him, but as Aurora generally predicted, he turns out to be a cheating sleaze, dragging Emma and her three kids she eventually has with him, all the way from the outskirts of Iowa to the homelands of Nebraska. Yet because Emma is so fragile (and also no dummy), she puts up with it.Meanwhile Aurora has a fling with her next door neighbor, played with comedic style by Jack Nicholson- who took home Best Supporting Actor. Nicholson is used for the comic relief, and a way to let Aurora let her hair (and eventually everything else) down and not act so...well so uptight. The interactions between these two actors in their scenes are among the film's highlights, including a very unexpected car ride that turns into a big mess.And now the final third. Emma develops cancer, and is going to die. While this may come off as a TV Movie-of-the-Week type of deal, the way Brooks approaches the material is so realistic and true to life you never catch on that it's a movie. It seems real. And Winger especially plays her role like you would expect Emma to play it. Never going for over-the-top moments but letting the audience feel her thoughts. Her farewell to her children is the scene most people break down in. Her older son, around twelve, has been painfully difficult with her, while her younger son has been a saint. As she lays there giving them her final words, she tells her older boy that even though he's been pretending to hate her, she knows he really loves her. And when she's gone, he should never beat himself up about his treatment of her. That moment in the film brought me to the realization that Terms of Endearment had soared above to the elite group of films that make me applaud. "},{"Title":"Gosh, it has aged very badly!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Re-watching the sobbing of Terms of endearment revealed that it has aged pretty badly, I'd say. The portrait of these oh so strong women is as '80s as can be. How these strong, but still gentle women change their surroundings with their strength and their love can be quite unbearable to watch. Almost all male characters are jerks who becomes jerks-turned-around after the meeting with these strong, independent women who has their sacred fellowship with each other. Well - if I had a bra, I would burn it!!When the story centers itself around the infidelity of Flap and Emma it is only the man who is to blame since he gets caught! But because of her female strength, her inner spirit, her motherhood and sisterhood she can actually forgive him.I am glad I was too young to marry in the '80s! This portrait of women is terrible and it is hard for me to believe that it once was up to date!4/10 "}{"Title":"MacLaine's best performance; ditto Winger & ensemble; Classic Nicholson - an excellent dramedy","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" TERMS OF ENDEARMENT (1983) **** Shirley MacLaine, Jack Nicholson, Debra Winger, Jeff Daniels, John Lithgow, Danny De Vito. Wonderful serio-comedy about a strong-willed and independent woman (MacLaine in top form) and her only daughter a strong, yet indifferent and directionless free-spirit (Winger, nominated for Best Actress, excellent) with a penchant for a husband with a straying soul (Daniels also great). Winner of 5 Oscars including Best Actress (MacLaine), Supporting Actor (Nicholson in a gleefully unkempt performance and the film's stranglehold on having a good time), Screenplay (adapted from Larry McMurtry's novel), Director (James L. Brooks who also adapted the screenplay) and Best Picture. Best scenes Nicholson's blind date with an uptight MacLaine and MacLaine's heartache in getting her daughter morphine in a hospital. "},{"Title":"Vapid and boring","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If it's possible to make watching this dismal film any worse my review may contain spoilers.There are no likable or even comprehensible characters in this film to relate to or identify with. They are all shallow people whose banal lives bear no examination. None of them learn anything during the course of the film, and neither do we.Sadly there isn't much of a story either. A girl is born, lives an unremarkable life and dies young. I cheered when she finally died and hoped all the other characters would die too.Possibly this film is a subtle observation of what the empty lives of narcissistic people are like - perhaps, as such, it is intended to be boring and obscure, in which case it is a clever work of art and may serve as a warning to us all.My warning, though, is don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie To Ever Win The Majors Oscars.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crash, The English Patient, and Dances With Wolves are generally regarded as some of the worst movies to win the Oscar for Best Picture. At least those movies were good. The Right Stuff, Scarface, Return of the Jedi, and The Outsiders were so much better than this! I tried watching Terms of Endearment twice and I could barely handle it. My hopes were not high when I watched this. I didn't even know how many awards it won until recent. I didn't even make it past the first hour the first time and felt like I should've gotten a medal for sitting through the full 131 minutes the second time.Terms of Endearment uncovers three decades (which the movie certainly doesn't show well) of a mother and daughter, played by MacLaine and Winger. Each want romance and happiness. Winger marries Jeff Daniels who becomes a college professor and they have some kids together. MacLaine falls for goofy astronaut played by Nicholson. There's really nothing more to it. A movie that documents these many years of somebodies' lives should give us a general sense of who these people are. What do they do? What are their personalities? What do they do in their spare time? What are their ambitions? And none of these general questions are ever answered for any of the characters! Well, I shouldn't say ever. The only things I find out about any of the characters are that Winger and Daniels like to cheat. She cheats with John Lithgow yet is furious when she find out her husband is trying to get out of the same predicament. Karma's a bitch!If found it really shocking how underdeveloped the whole movie was and I took a great amount of pity on the writers who created completely blank and careless characters with no plot at all. Why this movie won so many major awards is beyond me. "},{"Title":"It has its flaws, but to resist this film you'd have to be made of stone","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A movie's opening scenes are often its most telling and important, and so it was with Terms of Endearment. The first few scenes of James L. Brooks' family drama are probably the best in the film. A widow who wants badly for her daughter to need her for comfort accepts her daughter's invitation to share her bed, because the daughter knows who is really in need. The sharing of the bed really establishes the relationships between Emma and her mother Aurora early on, which is vital because that's the focus of the entire movie. For every scene in which Aurora is interfering or disapproving, we can remember the very first scene where Aurora was so desperately protective of her daughter that she would wake her up to ensure she was still alive.Shirley Maclaine is a delight to watch in this movie, especially in the opening and closing moments of the film. An unconscious smile comes over Shirley's face when her daughter fights with the husband she so strongly disapproves of. A man familiarly lays his hand on her and she looks at him with pointed indignation of someone whose been through this far too many times. She is sassy but deeply loving of her daughter Emma, which becomes a core of the movie. Towards the middle of the film, Aurora enters a forgettable and slightly forced romance with the aptly named Garrett Breedlove (Nicholson), which sidelines a lot of Maclaine's talent. Nicholson is a master class actor, but this is definitely not one of the best performances on his resume.Emma, also played unforgettably by Debra Winger, was just as mesmerising as Maclaine. She is utterly charming and shares great chemistry with her husband, mother and children. Winger (along with Jeff Daniels and director James L. Brooks) is so effective that the mere mention of her mother can kill the mood in a moment, which is as authentic as real life can be. Throughout the film, Emma's marriage with Flap falls apart because she suspects he is having an affair, so she jumps along with Sam (a performance that John Lithgow somehow got an Oscar nomination for). This is about where the film lost me, because even when Flap's infidelity is confirmed, I could hardly sympathise or support her because I knew she cheated on him first. However, Lithgow and Winger have one of my favourite scenes in the film - each tries to hold the other's hand and both miss by a few seconds as the other doesn't notice. Its beautifully awkward.Towards the end, Terms of Endearment takes is famous turn for the tissues as Emma is diagnosed with terminal cancer. James L. Brooks is at the top of his game in creating beautiful, affecting moments, fully and ably supported by Winger and Maclaine. Shirley Maclaine wins the Oscar in a single scene where she shrieks for someone to manage her daughter's pain. Winger (and the actors playing her children, especially Huckleberry Fox) delivers one of the saddest movie farewells I have ever seen. You have to be made of stone not to be affected by young Fox's tears as he hugs his mother goodbye.James L. Brooks' script has some great moments of comedy and even more of drama. For example, see where Emma's friend Patsy is trying to get around talking about cancer. Emma directly says to Patsy Its OK to talk about the cancer and then Brooks cuts to a new friend saying almost verbatim so Patsy says you have cancer! as if it were a new fishbowl or garage door mechanism. The reaction of Patsy (to spit out her food in shock) completely mirrored my own. Brooks is also masterful at directing such scenes, but throughout the film I couldn't shake the feeling that most of the scenes were strung together without making a cohesive narrative. I also found Patsy's attempt to adopt just Emma's daughter to be a poorly chosen subplot towards the end, especially where Patsy tearfully wishes she could take the little girl away. Not tasteful or effective.But for the most part, Terms of Endearment sets out to tell a beautiful small scale family story, and it does it remarkably well. As I said, you'd have to be made of stone not to be affected by the end. "},{"Title":"Maybe if I'd seen in it 1983......","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  but somehow, all these years I have managed (unintentionally) to never see this film.  However, it was being run on television today and I had nothing better to do, so I thought why not?  Well, I got about halfway through it before I became so bored that I started checking my TV Guide (who, by the way, rated this thing with 4 stars!!) to see what else was on. Maybe this was hot stuff in '83, but today it's - well - let's just say you can probably find a better use of your time, although I'll admit it is kind of fun to laugh at the '80's music, home decor, clothing and hair fashions.  But worthy of the Oscar(s) it received?  Yikes!! Oh, one other thing (maybe some other imdb user can help me out here) if MacLaine and Winger's characters (as well as Winger's first-born child) were all born and bred Texans, how come not one of them has the accent that is invariably associated with Houston (and I'm not stereotyping here, I've spent a lot of time in Texas and I know how people talk down there).  Perhaps the actresses couldn't pull it off, although anyone who has seen Steel Magnolias knows MacLaine is quite capable of it. Maybe she just couldn't work up the energy...... "},{"Title":"Strong drama","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Larry McMurtry's novel, about a mother and daughter and their relationship together, and apart, is well brought to the screen by James L. Brooks, director and screenwriter here. Not all the characters are likable - few are - but all are well portrayed. Both Shirley Mclaine and Jack Nicholson give good performances, while Debra Winger is excellent in her role as Ms. Mclaine's daughter. Danny De Vito, Jeff Daniels and John Lithgow are also very good in supporting roles.The drama, which makes this film the winner it is, is very well balanced with the humour throughout. Terms of Endearment won five Academy Awards including Best Picture, Director (Brooks), Actress (Mclaine) and supporting actor (Nicholson).Tuesday, April 14, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"The All-Star Movie Cast (Director and writer too!)","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What made this movie so likable was the fact that it was so human. Nothing in this movie, which includes character interaction, the plot and the emotions of the characters could have happened in real life. So, in a way, you can relate to these characters. Especially since they are played by the great Shirley MacLaine, the fantastic Jack Nicholson, and the surprisingly well done performance by Debra Winger. Widowed Aurora Greenway only has her daughter to clutch on since she has no one else. But, when her daughter moves away, Aurora has to learn to live life, and she is put to the test when she meets her boozy, womanizing astronaut neighbor, Garret Breedlove (Jack Nicholson). Meanwhile, Emma (Debra Winger) is having marital problems with husband Flap. Throughout several years, the Greenway family must come together once more when Emma is faced with a life threatening situation. MacLaine and Winger give honest, true perfromances. Nicholson is probably the standout in this cast. the role he plays fits him like a glove. Five Oscars (Picture, Actress, Supporting Actor, Director, Adapted Screenplay). Watch this film, but have a box of tissues handy! "},{"Title":"Emotional","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was in my teenage years (1986).  Although I had not personally  been through any riveting circumstances in my personal life to relate the emotions of this  cast, I have to say this movie was the first movie to make me fall in love with Shirley  MacClain.  I loved the turmoil between her and Debra's character.  I cried, I laughed and I was  entranced throughout this movie.  Whenever I see this movie, I am always prepared with a  box of tissues and a box of chocolates to comfort me.  I loved this movie when I was 16 and I  love even still at 32.... "},{"Title":"Touching despite the flaws...MacLaine excellent...","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TERMS OF ENDEARMENT successfully runs the gamut of emotions from A-Z despite the fact that none of its main characters seem to be less than quirky and all of them seem to have lost their moral compass along the way. All of them behave in entirely unpredictable ways--which gives the movie its strength I suppose.But the glaring fault seems to be letting Shirley MacLaine's uptight and prissy character fall for anyone as rude, obnoxious and seedy looking as Jack Nicholson. Surely her Endora deserved better than this. And in the course of falling in love with him, she allows herself to stoop to his level. Not exactly a dream couple which means the focus has to turn to the other leads--and none of them are exactly cast in a heroic mold.Debra Winger is effective as the free-spirited daughter; Jeff Daniels and John Lithgow are surprisingly subdued and yet very impressive as a couple of weaklings; and Winger's boys are genuinely affecting and real, particularly during their last visit to her in the hospital.All of it leads to a very sentimental finish--but there are generous amounts of laughter and tears along the way. If you can get past the irritating factor of MacLaine's character pairing off with Jack Nicholson (who seems to be enjoying himself immensely in a typical Nicholson role) and the quirkiness of a few of the main characters, you'll find TERMS OF ENDEARMENT worthwhile to sit through. Otherwise beware. The MacLaine/Nicholson chemistry seems a bad mix to me. They make an unbelievable match.MacLaine is a gifted actress and does superb work here. Her Endora, for all of her irritable qualities, is still a highly sympathetic central character and she dominates the movie with the force of her presence. Debra Winger is skillful as the ill-fated daughter.The background score adds to the enjoyment of a finely crafted movie which would have been even greater if the characters weren't such losers.   "},{"Title":"Another example of a 'Don't Watch' Oscar winner","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I often do not enjoy Oscar winning movies, and Terms of Endearment falls within that guideline. The only movie from that year I actually liked was The Right Stuff. If you're young, I would want you to appreciate that the 80's was not a great period for society. The freedoms everyone feels they are entitled to, were another flavor of 'I don't really care what anyone else thinks'.While the movie has an impressive cast from the leads down through the children, it is the movie itself that is the problem. The story doesn't contain any examples of relationships working well. Reflective of the period, the men are all nightmares - almost textbooks examples of how to not behave. The women really are not any better.This movie is not a feel good romance, and even though it's posted as a comedy-drams there is nothing funny about it. I just kept wanting the movie to be over. If you have friends that act the way these characters do, then you need new friends.Terms of Endearment is well acted, but I cannot recommend for anyone's entertainment. "}{"Title":"Lachrymose and Sentimental","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Contains SpoilersIt is interesting that a previous reviewer refers to Shirley MacLaine's character (whose real name is Aurora) as Endora. I am not sure whether this is a deliberate witticism or a Freudian slip, but it struck me as highly appropriate. Aurora is very similar, both in looks and in personality, to Agnes Moorehead's old witch from the 1960s television show 'Bewitched'. (I was even more delighted to discover that Shirley MacLaine has been cast as Endora in the cinema version of 'Bewitched' due to be released next year).Like Endora, Aurora disapproves of her son-in-law and never misses an opportunity to interfere in her daughter's marriage. At the beginning of the film the daughter, Emma, is engaged to be married to a young university teacher, named Flap. (He appears to be the sort of person who only has a nickname rather than a Christian name). Aurora disapproves of the marriage, largely because she thinks that Emma could do better than to marry an academic, and refuses to attend the wedding. After this beginning, I found myself hoping that their marriage would be a blissfully happy one, not because either of them is a particularly sympathetic character but because Aurora is such an unsympathetic one that I could not bear the thought of her being proved right. Unfortunately, blissfully happy marriages do not generally make for exciting drama, and so it was quite predictable that Emma and Flap's marriage would eventually break down. Flap forms a suspiciously close relationship with one of his female students (it is not clear if their relationship is ever consummated) and, in revenge, Emma begins an affair with a local bank manager named Sam. Emma and Sam are parted, however, when Flap takes a new job and the family have to move house; when Emma finds out that he has done so in order to be near his girlfriend, she leaves him. Soon afterwards, she is diagnosed with terminal cancer. Interwoven with the story of the marriage of Flap and Emma is Aurora's own romance with her next-door neighbour, a former astronaut named Garrett Breedlove, played by Jack Nicholson. This is not, perhaps, one of Nicholson's really great performances, such as 'Five Easy Pieces', 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' or 'A Few Good Men', but it is nevertheless a good one, and easily the best thing about the film. The cynical, hard-drinking, womanising Breedlove is about as different from the 'Right Stuff' image of the astronaut as one could imagine, and the film is always at its most entertaining when he is on screen. Unfortunately, he is not on screen for much of the time, and the rest of the cast are less interesting. Shirley MacLaine's character is an over-the-top caricature. (I found myself wondering why a man like Breedlove, surrounded as he was by attractive girls, should have settled for an eccentric older woman). In other films such as 'An Officer and a Gentleman', 'Black Widow' or 'Betrayed' Debra Winger came across as an attractive and vivacious actress, but here, as Emma, she can arouse little interest. Both Jeff Daniels as Flap and John Lithgow as Sam seemed weak and spineless; Emma was clearly fated to be attracted to men with little about them. (I wonder whether residents of the American Mid-West were offended by the implication that Flap could only find jobs in supposedly unglamorous places like Iowa and Nebraska because he was not a great success in his career). To judge from the number of Oscars and Oscar nominations that it won, the film was obviously highly regarded at the time it was made. 1983 was not perhaps the greatest year in the history of the movies, but there were nevertheless some much better films in contention, such as 'Silkwood', 'Yentl' and 'Educating Rita', none of which were, in the event, even nominated. That Shirley MacLaine beat Meryl Streep and Julie Walters to 'Best Actress' is incredible, explicable only if one assumes that the Academy were suffering pangs of guilt over MacLaine's four previous fruitless Best Actress nominations. Only Nicholson's 'Best Supporting Actor' award was deserved. However popular the film was in its day, today it looks like an eighties update of 'Love Story', a lachrymose and sentimental piece of schmaltz, and one of the weakest films to have taken the 'Best Picture' award in recent years. 5/10, largely because of Nicholson's performance. "},{"Title":"James L. Brooks' First and Best","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very good character study which captured the Best Picture Oscar in 1983.  Terms of Endearment deals with the relationship, short- and long-distance, between the mother (Shirley MacLaine in her Oscar-winning role) and her daughter (Debra Winger in an Oscar-nominated performance).  After Winger marries English teacher Jeff Daniels and they move off to Iowa, we see both women have ups and downs, but the constant is their relationship with each other.  Daniels turns out to be having an affair, which in turn leads Winger to seek revenge.  Thus she has an affair with a local banker (John Lithgow, Oscar-nominated).  In spite of the fact that their love for each other has turned sour, they stay together because of the three children they have.  Meanwhile, MacLaine has found love in next-door neighbor Jack Nicholson (in his second Oscar-winning performance).  However, Nicholson does not know how to handle a relationship and he is scared off by the thought of a commitment.  Later on, Winger is diagnosed with terminal cancer and MacLaine must come to terms with the reality that her only child is at death's door.  Nicholson comes through in the end, providing the stability that MacLaine needs to get through the awful ordeal.  Terms of Endearment is strong in comedy, but it is the dramatic elements in the film's last act that puts the film over the top in the end.  James L. Brooks' direction is very strong, but it is the screenplay that is the real factor in his scheme.  All the performances are strong as well.  Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson, in particular, are at the very top of their careers here.  Overall, the film is very good in the major areas of the cinema (acting, directing, writing, characterization).  4.5 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Oscar disaster","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst films ever made.  Shirley MacLaine over-acted within an inch of making me nauseous. It is basically the story of a mother who is a control freak and who cannot let her daughter live her own life. The daughter mistakenly lets her mother bring up her children when she is taken ill.  Why they made a sequel is a mystery! "},{"Title":"Pass Me a Barf Bag","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Blech!! A gloopy soap opera starring Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger as a contentious mother/daughter duo, whose on-again/off-again relationship culminates in the daughter dying of cancer in one of the most emotionally manipulative plot developments in the history of cinema.Both MacLaine and Winger are too good to waste their talents on this, but it's only because of their wisecracking smart-ass personalities that the film is watchable at all. Jack Nicholson, as a retired astronaut who cozies up to MacLaine, gives us all an inkling of the actor he would eventually turn into, all sarcastic smirking and self-conscious mugging.I especially hate the way this movie looks. It's gauzy and padded, all big hair and bigger shoulder pads. Nothing ever looks like it's completely in focus.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Give My Daughter the Shot!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When has such a moment of indescribable hysteria coming from a mother seeing her daughter in pain caused such a gripping, emotional reaction and uncontrollable laughter with equal measure? This is one of those scenes, led by Shirley MacLaine's powerful and immortal performance, that have gone down in history as one of the most gripping moments in dramatic films. With heavy nods to DARK VICTORY and LOVE STORY, TERMS OF ENDEARMENT is right at the top of the list of women's pictures and is, alongside STEEL MAGNOLIAS (also featuring MacLaine) one of those rare beasts of manipulative beauty that brings out all the stops but never does so overtly. It was a huge winner at the 1983 Oscars giving MacLaine her first ever award for Best Actress, and is a film that goes well above awards, filled with beautiful performances by its entire cast, great moments, solid entertainment and a overwhelming, classic finale filled with tears. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I only saw this movie for the first time a year ago, and I have to say it immediately became my favorite.  The mother/daughter relationship portrayed here is one that some current movies (Hope Floats, One True Thing) have tried to emulate but haven't done nearly well enough.  Shirley MacLaine is incredible and steals my heart as the compulsive, neurotic Aurora.  Her performance, particularly at her daughter's deathbed, amazes me.  Debra Winger is phenomenal as well as, for once in the movies, a believable mother who gets upset with her children but also loves them unconditionally.  Jack Nicholson is, as always, nearly flawless.  Very few movies have the ability to leave me in tears, but this one does every time I see it.  As for the AFI's top 100, it's obvious that they fell into the common trap of glorifying old movies while ignoring some equally deserving newer ones. Without a doubt, this movie is a masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Wow... what a piece of junk *spoiler alert*","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was easily the worst movie I've ever seen in my entire life... wow. It was bad. I resent movies that try so desperately to make people cry; they tried way to hard. I honestly could tell that she was going to die from the beginning- I heard it was a tear-jerker, and the outcome was obvious.The speech she made before dying seemed like it was trying way to hard to make the audience bawl. I must say though, I liked Nicholson's character- he was the only thing that made watching it bearable- the comical sleaziness he exuded made the ordeal somewhat worthwhile. This movie is good only if you like the heart-wrenching, tear-jerking overwrought type. I also enjoyed MacLaine's character in her dealings with Nicholson... Basically, the actors were good, but the script was not my favorite. "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable scenes in film history","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terms of Endearment may be one of the most famous tearjerker movies ever. It has a great cast and a wonderfully funny and 'real' screenplay.  James L. Brooks carries us through the years with subtle hints at the time that has passed rather than your staple New Years celebration or birthday party (or worse yet, the turning of the scrapbook pages that is used in the far inferior Brooks-less sequel to this film).  Instead the filmmakers believe that their audience is bright enough to put together the pieces on their own (Aren't those kids older than they were in the last scene?). The whole film comes off near-flawlessly.  This touching story of a girl becoming a woman, while watching her mother re-learn the heart and the fun of a little girl, is an epic ride. Is it a chick-flick?  By all conventional definitions, I'm sure it is.  Is it wonderful movie no matter how you categorize it?  Yes, it is. Shirley MacLaine won the best actress oscar and deserved every bit of it. Her scene at the nurse's station has got to be one of the most touching and memorable scenes in film history.  She would have won my vote for that scene alone. "},{"Title":"wildly overrated","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every so often I go back and watch this movie again to confirm the awful truth I just do not respond to it in any way except a mild revulsion. McMurtry, like some contemporary novelists (like, say Anne Tyler), has a bad habit of equating adultery with liberation and adolescent behavior to la dolce vita.  On occasion, the story can still work (THE LAST PICTURE SHOW, or THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST, in Tyler's case), but mainly it's just a bunch of characters, desperate and floundering.  (Albert Brooks notes in the far superior BROADCAST NEWS, Wouldn't it be nice if neediness and insecurity were sexy?*)  The characters in this movie are uncommitted and insecure, but not in a way that really lets me in.  And by the time the cancer runs its course, I've felt not even mawkishly manipulated -- that's how uninvolved these characters leave me (and each of these actors have, I think, been just great elsewhere).Boy, I admire James Brooks, and he tends to give us great, smart, witty entertainment.  But not here, I'm afraid.*I can't say this is quoted verbatim. "},{"Title":"Shows that parents and children often love each other without liking each other","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a good exploration of the fact that parents don't often like their children even though they may love them, and children often have a hard time liking their parents when they turn out to be 100% correct - on the long haul - about the people they choose as spouses. Especially when the parents never let the child forget about the mistakes they have made. It also shows that death has a way of rewriting the past - often immediately.Emma falls in love and marries at a young age - about twenty. Her mother, Aurora, apparently married a man who was well off but died young. Aurora is controlling, illustrated in the first scene when she gets up to make sure Emma is breathing when she is an infant. Emma thinks she'll be happy in a one room shack and she won't look back when she marries poor young college teacher Flap Horton. And then the babies start coming, and keep on coming. At this point Flap and Emma prove they are quite flappable. Flap cheats because he can, and with a woman who is more like himself, more like the woman he probably would have married had he been older when he made that decision. Emma eventually cheats because she is drowning - in bills, in lack of emotional support, with an oldest son who sees the lack of respect everybody else gives his mother and apes the behavior.Then there is Jack Nicholson's place in all of this. As the aging astronaut who lives next door to Aurora, he is the only one who can get Aurora to fall off her pedestal as high priestess of perfect and emotionally detached decisions, and then she is terribly disappointed and surprised when he bolts as he feels the walls of monogamy closing in on him. Quite frankly, I was surprised that she was surprised that this happened.Some people have told me this is just an awful soap opera, but I disagree. Maybe a little bit because I have an aunt who trod the same tragic path as Emma, and maybe because I am also an exiled Texan who was a bit dismayed at the lack of wildness in the people in the state where I would spend the next quarter of a century. But then, I loved this film before any of those things happened.At any rate, highly recommended for the human drama of it all that hasn't really aged in 33 years. The only thing that lets you in on the fact that you are in a different time is Carol King's It's Too Late from 1971 playing as Aurora looks out the window at one point. "}{"Title":"Does this mean you won't be knitting the baby any booties?","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was another film that I really hadn't heard too much about before this year's Oscar month. Even the big name stars of Jack Nicholson, Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger, Danny DeVito, and Jeff Daniels; this movie flew well below my radar. Terms of Endearment, directed by James L. Brooks, won Oscar's top prize for 1983. Although it was an enjoyable film, I am perplexed at its Best Picture win, and will undoubtedly never see it again.Terms of Endearment shows one very unique mother/daughter relationship. Aurora Greenway (Shirley MacLaine) has an overly close relationship with her daughter Emma (Debra Winger) and seeks to control every aspect of her life. Accepting this as just the way her mother is Emma goes along with her overbearing mother's wishes, until it comes to her marriage. Aurora does not want Emma to marry her boyfriend, Flap Horton (Jeff Daniels) and refuses to give her daughter a wedding gift, or even attend the wedding. Aurora believed the union was ill-fated and tried to dissuade Emma from the marriage. The marriage eventually bears Emma three children and a move across states, which does not sit well with Aurora's need to control her daughter. The film then follows several years of the women's lives, through childbirth, heartache, and Aurora's dating life. Against her better judgement, Aurora begins a relationship with her philandering neighbor, retired astronaut Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson). Aurora is used to being pampered and worshiped, and Garrett refuses to do either of those things. The story of two women traversing life miles apart, yet never losing their connected spirits Terms of Endearment is one to definitely watch only when tissues are close by.The acting in Terms of Endearment was divine. Each character was incredibly quirky and full of nuances, and each actor delivered on those nuances with ease and believability. Incredible acting, that deserves to be noted, but in a not so incredible film. The story has been told before, and better if you ask me; Splendor in the Grass, I'm looking at you. I remain perplexed as to how this film managed to pull off Best Picture; I can only think that it must have been a slow film year. This film tugs at your heartstrings, just for the sake of doing so, it seems. I also found Terms of Endearment a bit weepy and melodramatic. Nothing should be taken away from the acting, that can't be said enough; Shirley Maclaine and Jack Nicholson definitely deserve their statuettes. I suppose I would recommend this film to anyone who likes something along that vein, fans of Jack Nicholson's will leave the movie pleased. Mental note watch all the other 1983 nominated film and see where Terms of Endearment stacks up, comparatively. "},{"Title":"wonderful mother daughter movie","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Emma (Debra Winger) has had to deal with her widowed mother Aurora (Shirley MacLaine) since the beginning. Aurora is needy, wild, flirtatious and really the love of her life. Hard-partying former astronaut Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson) moves in next door. Emma marries Flap Horton (Jeff Daniels) despite Aurora's warnings and her backhanded insults. Aurora doesn't even go to the wedding. The marriage gets into trouble and she has an affair with Sam Burns (John Lithgow).Terms of Endearment is utterly endearing. Debra Winger is hilarious and I love her relationship with MacLaine. I just love Winger yelling at her kids and then quickly switches back. A lot of praise has to be given to director/writer James L. Brooks. This is funny, touching and a real tear jerker. Winger talking to her kids on her death bed is incredibly heart breaking. "},{"Title":"Fun Little Relationship Movie","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Aurora and Emma are mother and daughter who march to different drummers. Beginning with Emma's marriage, Aurora shows how difficult and loving she can be. The movie covers several years of their lives as each finds different reasons to go on living and find joy.This is a fairly subtle comedy. Some could call it a drama because it is about relationships and how they succeed or fail. There is plenty of doubt and infidelity to go around here. And a solid cast behind the characters (Debra Winger may have the role of her career here).To me, it is all about the comedy. The neurotic actions of parents, and especially some of the mannerisms of Jack Nicholson. Can you see Burt Reynolds in the role? Perhaps, but it would have been so different. They just have such different styles. Nicholson has the quirky strength, whereas Reynolds could have been more suave, perhaps. "},{"Title":"What more could you ask for!","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say that Shirley Maclaine gives her Oscar winning performance as Aurora Greenway, a mother that we come to love and hate at the same time. Shirley brings a complexity about the character and her relationship with her daughter, Emma, played by Oscar nominee Debra Winger. I have to say that picking one of these two actresses for Best Actress would have been difficult because they are equally good. Jack Nicholson picked up his second Oscar for Best Supporting Actor as the aging astronaut neighbor of Aurora who fall in love with each other. Jeff Daniels and John Lithgow also earned Best Supporting Actor nominations as well. When Emma and her husband Flap move to Iowa and later Nebraska, the relationship develops between Aurora and Jack next door. When Emma is diagnosed with cancer, well, it just breaks her heart in the final minutes of the film. You still want to cry for people that you come to know, love, and understand why it won Best Picture Oscar too. "},{"Title":"Nice character study","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film spans some 30 years portraying the love-hate relationship between a wealthy widow and her willful daughter. The performances between the two leads are great, but who I really liked, of course, was Jack Nicholson's character, an arrogant, lustful retired astronaut (and dirty old man), who spends most of his time sauna bathing, swimming, drinking, and chasing young girls, who reluctantly makes a commitment to Shirley MacLaine, since she herself has not been with a man since her husbands death and has spent years in repression, gardening her well-decorated backyard as an outlet. It seems that all the women in this movie are strong and independent and all the men, to include Debra Winger's husband Flap (an understated performance by Jeff Daniels) are all pathetic. I personally found this to be an overrated movie, but found it worth the time to watch. The sequel wasn't as good, but Jack Nicholson's cameo in it was definetly a highlight. "},{"Title":"Hey, it's a great movie!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, this is one of my favorites, so I am a little biased.  But you have to admit it - - - it's one of those big, broad movies that screams Hollywood! and manipulates the audience, but hey!  that's why we go to the movies; we're in it for the grand escapism and great stories.  And as wide and fabulously unreal as the movie itself is, the characters and bare storyline are truly appealing and winning.  And while in hindsight The Right Stuff should have probably received the 1983 Best Picture Oscar, Terms of Endearment definitely has a lot more heart and soul than some of the competition of that year, most notably The Big Chill.  "},{"Title":"A True Classic. One of the Best Acted Movies of All Time","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's not often that we get films that give us true emotion and feels real enough to where we forget it's actually a movie we are watching. Terms of Endearment is one of the greatest films of all time. It gives us easily one of the best acted movies we have ever had. Shirley MacLaiine, Debra Winger, Jack Nicholson, and John Lithgow give us classic performances in one of the more emotional movies I have seen.It's about a mother and daughter relationship that has had many ups and downs but when push comes to shove they realize how much they mean to each other. What I appreciated most was the realism this film displayed. They take situations and problems that families deal with on a day to day basis and brought them to film without throwing in any movie clichés. It's told over a several year span and not once during the movie do you stop and think oh well it's just a movie. It truly speaks to life and how things actually are. However hard it is to appreciate the people and things you have now, you have to, because you don't know how long you have with them.MacLaine is the major standout and has a number of memorable scenes, particularly with Winger. They make their relationship an unforgettable experience to see on screen. I think Jeff Daniels was a bit miscast and played the same one note character he did in The Purple Rose of Cairo. I have yet to really see the world class actor in Daniels what everyone else sees. There are also a few times where I had hoped to see more about the family at a certain time in their lives. They skip a few years every few scenes and sometimes right when the tension was rising.A few mistakes here and there don't make this film any less extraordinary. It's really refreshing to see a film that exhibits emotion that normal film just cant compete with. It's not only an incredibly acted movie but also one of the greatest films of all time. There are few films that have effected me this much and just made me appreciate the life that I have.+MacLaine and Winger give all time great performances +Exhibits true emotion +Mother daughter relationship unlike any other +Real life situations with real life consequences +Thought provoking -Frustrating skips in time 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Classic picture in a non-conventional light","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a piece that focuses on the life, and all that goes along with it, of a young girl who is brought up into the world alone by her overbearing yet good-natured mother. The movie follows the path of the girl from childhood through adolescence and up until adulthood, showing how she dealt with her seemingly impossible mother, her complicated husband, her children and her general problems with cheerful indifference and love. Eventually the story deviates from the relationship of the mother and daughter to her individual life and how she grows up with her husband, family and friends. Once on her own troubles arise and complications are many, but the relationship of mother and daughter is never forgotten nor does it go unacknowledged. "},{"Title":"Very Sweet and Extremely Emotional,","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a fantastic movie with a very well developed storyline and an outstanding cast that all deliver beautiful performances.The movie has brilliant character development,we learn so much about all the main characters throughout the movie,although I did feel like we could have gotten to learn more about Jack Nicholson's character,his character wasn't the most important,but his performance was outstanding so much so that he (along with Shirley MacLaine) won an Academy Award for his performance,definitely deserved more time.The movie is also very sweet and emotional and I am not afraid to admit that the ending had me in tears,certainly one of the most upsetting moments in film history.Terns of Endearment is a great movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good drama. A woman flees from her suffocating mother and try's to manage life with two kids and a failing marriage.Best Performance Jack Nicholson "},{"Title":"Review of Terms of Endearment","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie Terms of Endearment, starring Shirley MacLaine (Aurora Greenway) and Debra Winger (Emma Horton) follows the story of a mother and daughter whom are completely different, but are the best of friends. They have a weird twisted sense of humor when they confront each other on their faults; which adds some comic flair to the emotional theme of this film along with touching the romantic journeys that they both encounter in their lives. Between Aurora finding love with her cradle robbing neighbor Garrett Breedlove played by Jack Nicholson and Emma married with three children who has an affair with a banker Sam Burns played by John Lithgow. Emma only has the affair because she suspects her husband Flap Horton played by Jeff Daniels an English teacher is cheating on her. Through the up's and down's the movie shows a dark side to the ending that no one would expect with the idiosyncratic theme of the film Emma's death (Brooks, 1983). The use of low-key and high-key lighting can be seen throughout the whole film.The high-key is used when the scenes of the film are happy and the low-key is used for the scenes that are depressing that the emotion is targeted instead of the characters. Stretching is another method that is used in certain scenes to intensify the emotional aspects of the film (Boggs, 2008).These lighting aspects are what help the themes and the plot come together. Without the dramatic lighting in some of the scenes the feeling of the film would be lost and the plot of endearment would not be there. With the dark sense of death with this film it opened up the passage for another movie named The Evening Star,directed by Robert Harling, which shows Aurora living with the fact that Emma is gone and has to raise her 3 children. The Evening Star shows the same sort of emotional theme as Terms of Endearment. Terms of Endearment is a great movie that moves through the lives of two people showing an emotional roller-coaster. The title itself gives off the identifier of what the theme is of the movie characters showing the act of affection (Boggs, 2008). Every character in the film has to show some sort of affection and that is what makes the film title so unique, even though it might take the character awhile to show that affection no other title would be more fitting. "}{"Title":"Terms of Endearment an all-time great tear jerker...","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment (1983) is a story of the relationship between a mother, Aurora Greenway, played by Shirley MacLaine and a daughter, Emma Horton, who is played by Debra Winger. This movie takes place during a long span of time and covers the relationship between mother and daughter. Aurora and Emma have a very turbulent relationship as Aurora always has to be the center of attention. Emma just wants to live her life and her mother always has a lot to say about that. As the story builds, Emma begins to share more of her life with her mother as does Aurora with Emma. Emma marries her first love, Flap Horton played by Jeff Daniels. In addition, Aurora has a relationship with her famous astronaut neighbor Garrett Breedlove played by Jack Nicholson. The theme of this film is the relationship of Aurora and her daughter Emma. They have a rocky but loving relationship, and this film does a great job of drawing the viewer into their strange relationship. In the end, the viewer knows that they love each other, even if they have a somewhat strange way of showing it to each other. Emma is in love with Flap and he with her, but as they are married for a while and begin to start their family, he has a wondering eye and has an affair with a woman at the college where he teaches. This causes much sadness for Emma and she shares this with her mom, Aurora. Aurora has been single since her husband dies, but has many male admirers whom she doesn't give the time of day. However, when she starts dating her neighbor Garrett all of that changes. She begins a fling with Garrett and is falling for him, but he is a womanizer who doesn't want to settle for one women. Jack Nicholson does an amazing job with this character, and turns someone you want to hate into someone you love. The lighting in this film is soft and muted in the parts with Aurora as she is a very flowery and showy person, and this reflects her well. The lighting on Emma is darker towards the end of the movie, where she becomes sick and is in the hospital. The motif used in this film is the telephone; throughout the film, the use of the phone brings Aurora and Emma together. They are constantly arguing and talking on the phone, the viewer can tell that Aurora annoys the hell out of Emma, but she loves her mom just the same. The film Steel Magnolia's (1989) starring Shirley MacLain, Julia Roberts and Sally Field has a similar theme to Terms of Endearment (1983). Both films share the theme of the relationship with their daughters. In both films, the daughters love their mothers but want to live their own lives. In addition, both mothers are very involved and want to give their advice to their daughters. "},{"Title":"Tragedy builds relationships","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a comedy/drama, which focuses on real life relationships that that take place over the period three decades that many people can relate to. Aurora Greenway, played by Shirley MacLaine, is the doting overprotective but distant mother who does not quite know how to show love to her daughter Emma, played by Debra Winger. As Emma grows and the relationship between Aurora and her becomes more strained, Emma falls in love. Emma gets married right after high school, seemly to be able to move away from her mother. Aurora is very vocal about her discontent over Flap, Emma's husband who is played by Jeff Daniels, and refuses to go to the wedding. One would initially think that the hatred toward Flap could be jealously of Emma's male-female relationship since Aurora had not been with a man since her husband died several years ago or could be Aurora's sadness over losing her daughter and the only real relationship in her life. Aurora's hatred for Flap became justified when Flap began having an affair during the course of his and Emma's relationship. After moving Flap,continues his affairs while Emma feels more and more isolated. Her loneliness leads her into the arms of Sam burns, a married banker played by John Lithgow. After Flap falls for a student at the college Emma takes her children to her mothers, who had begun seeing her long time neighbor Garrett, played by Jack Nicholson. This was important to the film because Aurora had not been with anyone in many years, since her husband had passed away. Emma forgives Flap and goes home. He convinces her that he should take a new job at a college in Nebraska and the whole family moves yet again. This is painful for Emma in several ways. One, she has to move away which further isolates her from the people who care about her. Two, she has to break off her relationship with Sam, which is the most comfortable relationship that she has ever had. Three, once moved Emma found out that the college of Flap's new job is where Janice is now at. When she left Janice, Emma and her daughter went to a doctor's appointment. While at the doctor, Emma's doctor noticed a lump in Emma's armpit, which turns out to be cancer. After finding out the devastating news, Emma goes to spend time with her friend Patsy in New York, but cuts her visit short and comes home to begin treatment. While Emma undergoes treatment, she learns that the medications are not working and that she does not have much time to live. Her mother flies out to be by her side and Garrett comes later to be with Aurora. Garrett and Aurora rekindle their relationship, and Flap does not leave Emma alone. Patsy even comes to be with Emma during her last days. Aurora decides that she needs to talk to Flap about what will happen to the children when Emma dies. Patsy offers to adopt Emma's daughter and Aurora offers to raise the other children, but Emma does not want her children to be separated. Emma also does not want her children to be raised by Janice, so Flap agrees to let Aurora adopt and raise the children. Emma's older son lashes out to Emma and bad mouths his grandmother, Aurora. Emma smacks him sending him straight into the arms of his grandmother, helping to him to find the comfort he needed. Later that night Emma dies. After the funeral, the children build a close relationship with their grandmother and Garrett, leaving one to consider that nothing builds a family relationship, more than sickness and tragedy. Two techniques that stand out in this movie are the lighting and the sound effects. During the opening scenes, the screen is blurred around the edges, which is symbolic of the blurriness of their future since Aurora's husband/ Emma's father passes away. The sound effect technique can be noticed during the hospital scene as Emma is dying. With the use of a dead track (Boggs, 2008) where there is no sound for a brief period, the camera first focuses on Emma and then on Aurora and their expressions. The viewer can feel the strong friendship relationship that Emma and Aurora had. The lighting in the room is low-lit and gloomy which coincides with the loss of life. Even without any words being spoken, the music alone would give a person that feeling that it is a somber moment. The highs and lows of the relationship in this movie reminds the viewer of the movie Beaches, where friendship and relationships are followed over a long course of time, helps the observer embrace the true meaning of friendship and family. The journey between career changes, marriage and other aspects of life, help the watcher build their own relationship to the characters in the movie. Boggs, J. M. & Petric, D. W. (2008). The art of watching films. (7th ed). New York McGraw- Hill. ISBN 0073535079. Brooks, J. (Director). (1983). Terms of endearment (Motion picture). USA "},{"Title":"Sweet And Humorous","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a film that I had no clue on whether or not it would appeal to me. After seeing it twice I can safely say that for the most part, the film made an impression and it is hard to nitpick on a film that is directed so well that seeing it's flaws did make me feel awful. Objectively, the film does have it's flaws but it's a flaw that I felt that was only raised due to my personal tastes.The film is based on a book by Larry McMurtry and the screenplay was written by James L. Brooks. The film travels through the moments of these characters lives whether they are positive or negative, and the timeline span is quite huge. The film jumps from year to year, which felt spontaneously but that could have resolved if the film spends more time at that moment, but running the risk of feeling to overbloated and long. This does end up making the film feel very episodic and it may not be an approach that would appeal to everyone as some would prefer a flowing experience of these people's lives. Brooks wants us to experience the lives of both Aurora and Emma and not have us be focused on a plot in driving the film forward. This episodic approach does at times do make the film feel draggy and honestly a certain time period could have been a film on it's own if explored long enough. The highlight of the film is the relationship between Aurora and Garrett as the clashing of both personalities just brings out moments of humor and surprisingly at times warmth and happiness.James L. Brooks also directed this film and I must say that he has done a magnificent job. Brooks' direction is the reason that the film doesn't feel like going through the same motions again and again because he doesn't fill the film entirely with one note. There are times where you may feel like you are about to shed a tear and there are moments that would make you laugh, and because the film allows us to look into their lives in a natural and lengthy approach, it doesn't let the moments of humor and melodrama feel forced. There were moments where it might land on heavy sentimental territory but Brooks' balance with humor buffers that tone. This was Brooks' first film and what a great way to start off his directorial career by winning Best Picture and Best Director at the Oscars.The film's director of photography was Aandrzej Bartkowiak and he has worked on some notable films later on like Falling Down and Speed. Terms of Endearment was one of his early films and what he has done for Brooks' film is that he gave the picture a warm tone and has a soft look to it. The film's warm tone definitely a major apparatus in conveying the light heartedness that drives the film and it also allows the film to feel accessible. Brooks and Bartkowiak has opted to use an abundance of close-ups as the film is drama centered and the film primarily focuses on the characters reactions and feelings towards certain things, the expressions on the actor's faces makes this film feel wonderful and most importantly natural.The film's score is composed by Michael Gore and if I had to describe his work for this film in a nutshell, it would be beautiful. The score is driven with this light piano sound and it goes back and forth to being sad and cheerful, which kind of a great representation of life. Michael Gore doesn't seem to be working lately but he has worked on notable films like Fame and, a personal favorite of mine, Pretty In Pink. Gore's work here is definitely a standout and is a central key in having us laugh or cry throughout this film.This film has a stellar cast with almost all of the key players being nominated for their performances. Debra Winger was fantastic who starts off as being young, quirky and adorable to a matured, experienced and endearing person. The evolution of her character is amazing and that I really believed that she went through everything that was shown on screen. Shirley MacLaine won Best Actress for this film and it was well deserved though competing against her co-star was a tough one. MacLaine was able to shine throughout the entire film as she is at her best when she has someone to challenge with in a scene, so all of the moments where she is with Debra Winger or Jack Nicholson, it brought out the best of her. Jack Nicholson is not the focus of this film but he does make quite an impression in this film and I was also surprised he was able to come off as sweet and likable as my experience with his films are usually him playing someone frightening or intimidating. Jeff Daniels was not given the attention he deserved for this film, in my opinion he gave an award winning performance and he was able to come off as likable and sympathetic even after everything he has caused. This film is a type of film that challenges and brings out the capabilities of an actor and each cast member have shown off their most outstanding of performances here in this film.Terms of Endearment is not perfect in my eyes but it gets a lot of things right that it would be horrible decision to pass it up. James L. Brooks' wonderful direction and Michael Gore's score will have you laughing and crying from start to finish, and acting performances that will have you caring for the characters and the troubles and joys that they go through. "},{"Title":"This film brings realness about it because there are a lot of mother's and daughter's who have relationships like this","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spoiler Terms of Endearment (1983) is a beautifully made film about a mother and daughter relationship from birth to death. The mother and widowed, Aurora (Shirley MacLaine), and daughter, Emma (Debra Winger) has an up and down relationship throughout a thirty year span the movie represents. Aurora is the overprotective, neurotic mother who doesn't always like the choices her daughter Emma makes. To escape the her mother's over protectiveness Emma gets married to Flap Horton the college teacher played by Jeff Daniels, Aurora boycotts the wedding because she says, if you marry Flap Horton tomorrow it will be a mistake of such gigantic proportions it will ruin your life&#x85;.you are not special enough to overcome a bad marriage (Brooks, 1983). Emma and Flap had three children together, but their marriage is not really a love marriage. Flap ends up having an affair with a student, and Emma has an affair with a banker (whose marriage is unhappy), played by John Lithgow. Emma stays with Flap when he receives a different job in a new state. Meanwhile, Aurora has gentlemen pursuing her one named Vernon, played by Danny Devito who thinks Aurora walks on water, but Aurora does not reciprocate his advances. However, Aurora has a neighbor, former astronaut Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson), who she feelings for. She goes out with Garrett and has fun and starts a relationship with. Jack Nicholson's character Garrett brings fun and laughter to the serious uptight Aurora, which Shirley MacLaine plays so well. Garrett calls off seeing Aurora because he started to have feelings for her; he has always been a self proclaimed bachelor and ladies man. Toward the end of the film Emma loses her fight with cancer, is the blow that sent me (and possibly millions of other viewers) into tears. Watch Aurora's face; watch Emma's, and you'll know exactly what they're saying without them even saying a word. Simply devastating! The use of the theme song to transition to different sequences of the movie was good. Because the movie spanned thirty years instead of completely jumping to a new scene the music would start and the one sequence would end by fading out and once the music started you knew a new sequence was to start jumping several years. James L.Brooks who won the Academy Award for Best Screenplay Adaptation (from the novel by Larry McMurtry) and for Best Director, very impressive since this was his directorial debut.And, it also won Best Picture of the year. The story has many funny moments, sad moments, and intense moments, just like in real life. Mr.Brooks went on to write and direct Broadcast News in 1987 and As Good As It Gets in 1997, which were two very good films. Shirley MacLaine won Best Actress and Jack Nicholson won for Best Supporting Actor for this film, they both gave very good performances with their characters. This film brings realness about it because there are a lot of mother's and daughter's who have relationships like this. It brings in perspective in what is really important in life, not to dwell on the wrongs all of the time. "},{"Title":"A Classic Tearjerker","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a drama adapted from the novel by Larry McMurtry. It features Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger, and Jack Nicholson together with Danny DeVito,Jeff Daniels and John Lithgow. It covers thirty years of the relationship between Aurora Greenway and her daughter Emma.It was written and directed by James L.Brooks.Fiercely protected by Aurora throughout childhood, Emma runs into resistance from her mother when she marries wishy-washy college teacher Flap. Aurora is even more put out at the prospect of being a grandmother, though she grows a lot fonder of her three grandkids than she does of her son-in-law. Flap proves that Aurora's instincts were on target when he enters into an affair with a student. Meanwhile, Emma finds romantic consolation with an unhappily married banker. As for Aurora, she is ardently pursued by her next-door neighbor, boisterous astronaut Garrett Breedlove. After 75 minutes or so of pursuing an episodic, semi-comic plot line, the film abruptly shifts moods when Emma discovers that she has terminal cancer. This is a classic tearjerker.It isn't shy about reaching for the heartstrings but is so well-acted and smartly scripted that it's almost impossible to resist.The most remarkable achievement of this film is its ability to find the balance between the funny and the sad, between moments of deep truth and other moments of high ridiculousness.This is one of the best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt Comedy of Unconditional Love","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment will pull you into an unhealthy yet tender relationship between a Mother (Aurora Greenwood) and her daughter (Emma Horton). Beginning with the death of Emma's father/Aurora's husband you see the co-dependent attachment to Emma that Aurora displays. Aurora is a high maintenance, feminine, and compulsive woman who not only loves adoring attention of men but thrives upon it. The movie will take you on a wild ride of her humorous love affairs with several different men, finalizing on Garrett Breedlove who will steal your heart just as much as he does Aurora's. Emma is a free-spirited, laid-back, tomboy who falls in love with her high school sweetheart. Flap, and marries him at the first chance she gets. Flap is an altruistic writer who drives Aurora crazy with jealousy for the affection he shows her beloved daughter. You will be invited into Emma's sweet demeanor and willingness to make both her mother and new husband as happy as possible, even if it means sacrificing her own desires. The theme of Terms of Endearment is unconditional love. The unconditional love shared between Emma and Aurora, Flap and Emma, and Aurora and Garrett will absolutely pull at your heart strings and leave you completely enchanted with the film. The film will take you on an emotional roller-coaster ride through Emma's life. You will see her heartfelt interactions and unconditional love for her mother, husband, best friend, and children. You will become emotionally attached to her character and feel yourself being placed in her shoes on more than one occasion. Emma is the type of role you can't help but love and feel for. She evokes emotion out of the viewer in almost every scene. If you enjoyed the comedic and warm moments shared between Shelby and M'Lynn in Steel Magnolias you will adore the relationship between Aurora and Emma in Terms of Endearment. It shares the same funny and emotional element that Steel Magnolias does. Two film techniques used in Terms of Endearment are sound and lighting. The best thing about the soundtrack to Terms of Endearment is that the music chosen is without lyrics yet still conjures profound feelings. It will establish a meaningful connection between you and the characters. The sounds used throughout the film bring you into another world without you even knowing it. Before you realize it you are attached to the storyline and are pulling for each role to persevere the troubles they are presented with. Lighting is used to illustrate the good times and the bad. When each person is dealing with a sad time in their life, the lighting is dimmed and over casted showing an overall sorrow. When times are good, especially during the scenes of Aurora and Garrett falling in love, the lighting is bright and cheerful. Finally, this story of unconditional love will touch your heart in more ways than one. Tears will fall, laughs will escape, and you are left with a sense of contentment and adoration for your own mother and significant other. "},{"Title":"Life's relationships are often hard, but nothing in life that is worth while is easy.","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment was an instant classic for me. This is a tale of a mother and daughter and all the struggles that their lives encounter both together and apart. I loved this movie, and I found it absolutely wonderful! I cried a lot, but otherwise, it was great. I would have to state the theme of this movie as love is tough and often hard to endure, but it is shown in a variety of ways even when it isn't obvious. This movie has many different relationships throughout which display that exact sentiment Emma and Aurora, Aurora and Garrett, Emma and Flap, Emma and Patsy, Emma and her children. Love is difficult, and often times, it is hard to show and prove to someone that you love them. However, it is through those terms of endearment that you truly do build lasting and meaningful relationships. This movie is a real tear-jerker. It begins the story with an overbearing, overprotective mother trying desperately to protect her only child, Emma, from any harm. With the passing of Emma's father though, there is a bit of role reversal in which codependent mother, Aurora, often seeks her independent daughter, Emma's support and love that should be shown to her instead. In one scene in particular, Emma is sound asleep, and Aurora comes into the room to wake her up to see if she wants to sleep with her. Emma states no, and Aurora ends up sleeping in her child's bed instead. Emma's best friend in the world is Patsy. The 2 are inseparable. In this movie, Patsy is right alongside Emma for majority of the ups and downs her wedding, her marriage, her affair, her illness. Their relationship is touching. There is one scene where Patsy says to Emma, You're my touchstone, Emma. This was a very heartwarming scene in the movie. These 2 friends are lifelong. As Emma grows into a woman, she falls in love with a man by the name of Flap Horton. They marry, and Aurora makes a spectacle by not showing up for the wedding. She says to her daughter, You are not special enough to overcome a bad marriage. Unfortunately, Aurora's comment isn't far from being true about theirs being a bad marriage. Emma and Flap's relationship is often tumultuous and tested by environmental factors such as other romantic interests, common woes of everyday marriages, and Flap has to deal with Emma and Aurora's very off-balanced relationship. They were definitely tested right from the start. Emma and Flap's marriage and union result in 3 children in the movie Tommy, Teddy, and Melanie. Emma's relationship is definitely tried and tested especially with her oldest boy, Tommy, but you can tell throughout the movie that Tommy loves his mother. He is just very unsure of how to deal with everything that surrounds him in his very dramatic life.Aurora, in the midst of Emma's drama, is able to find love once again. She had many gentleman suitors that were trying to catch her eye, but only one man could do the job her next door neighbor and former-astronaut, Garrett Breedlove. Garrett is a ladies' man, and he is very much a beast that will not be tamed; however, Aurora allows herself to become involved with him. He gives her as much as he is capable of giving, and he is there for her when it matters most. They have a very deep friendship, and she confides in him unlike she has with anyone else. Toward the end of the movie, we come to find out that Flap is having an affair. Emma and her family had been relocated to Nebraska to be closer to Janice (Flap's mistress), and Emma finds this out the same day that she finds out she is sick. After finding Flap and Janice together on the campus of the school that he taught at, Emma goes to the doctor with Melanie for routine flu shots, and the doctor discovers a lump under her armpit, and they do tests and find out it is malignant. She ends up losing her life to the battle, and her children get left with Aurora as Flap is unsure if he can handle them on his own. Patsy had wanted to take Melanie, but Emma would not allow the children to be split up. This movie was amazing, and while it was sad, it was also inspiring to me.Nothing good comes easily. You have to work for love, fight for love, and always, always stand up for love. Any meaningful relationship will have ups and downs. This movie merely makes a person look at what they have, examine it closely, and be thankful for it &#x96; even the difficult moments. Love is often tough and hard to endure, but it is totally worth it in the end. "},{"Title":"Good to watch for many reasons","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has phenomenal acting from four lead actors and actresses, a thing that is hard to find in almost any movie. Jack Nicholson is hilarious, he plays his role to perfection, expect his same old acting, but on a slightly higher scale, his Oscar was deserved. Jeff Daniel shines from start to finish, at the end his silence and staring says more than words ever could, great. Debra Winger is the main character, she is great at the beginning and holds her own the entire movie. Shirley MacLaine is probably the greatest character in this movie, she can be funny, serious, annoying, undesirable, desirable, and cruel.This is a good movie to watch, it could inspire a few people on how to make movies, what you would have done differently and such, a lot to learn from this picture. Rent it, you will not be dissapointed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Come to Laugh, Come to Cry, Come to Care, Come to Terms","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Yeah, the tagline says it all. Terms of Endearment is one of the most emotional movies I have seen. Great performances of the trio; Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger and Jack Nicholson contributes to make this movie a really emotional experience. Check it out, everyone should see this classic picture.  My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but it has problems...","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Academy Award winning director James L. Brooks made what could of been a dull and pointless look at some womans complicated life and turned it into a perfect study of life, happiness, and love. Despite a few flaws including a slow and uninteresting beginning with annoying mother and daughter characters, it does however involve you in the story as the movie slowly progresses, it also captures your interest after about the first half an hour. Featuring wonderful performances from Jeff Daniels (where was his Oscar nomination?), Shirley MaClaine (deserving of the Oscar), Jack Nicholson (always fun to watch), and of course Debra Winger (deserved the Oscar nomination). This isn't exactly a film that I would recommend to everyone though, because as I stated it does have a slow beginning and people with short attention spans are likely to think that this is the worst film ever, but I assure you that it's not. I got involved with each character, I really started to feel the pain and emotion of each character. It's a really heartbreaking film that caused me to get a lump in the back of my throat. All in all it's a wonderful film with terrific acting, brilliant writing, and fantastic direction. A must see for anyone who considers themselves a film buff. Not a film for everyone however.Final Grade *** (out of 5) "}{"Title":"Great movie that is filled with the ups and downs of family life the emotions, joy, and sadness.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  James L. Brooks really hit a winner with this one. This Oscar winning examination of a mother- daughter (Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger) relationship spanning 30 years is simply a masterpiece. The movie is well written and the performances from Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger, Jack Nicholson, and John Lithgow couldn't have been better plus the music played during the movie is wonderful it helps carry the story and emotions of the film along just perfect. In fact Jack and Shirley MacLaine won Oscars for their Terms of Endearment work, hers for Best Actress and his for Best Supporting Actor both were well deserved. Every scene that Jack and Shirley had you could see the greatness. Nicholson was great as Garrett Breedlove a retired pot-bellied, hard-drinking, girl-chasing astronaut who didn't worry about his image and when he settled into the Houston, Texas suburbs he is romantically touched by the neurotic Aurora Greenaway played by Shirley MacLaine, but the bittersweet romance was secondary to the main theme of the up and down but loving mother-daughter relationship (MacLaine and Winger) had it is very common with many mother and daughter relationships to have the over protection and worry and concern filled with lighthearted moments, the Aurora Greenaway character is very high strong but loving and kind she reminds me of my own grandmother you just love a person like that. This movie is punctuated by tragedy it has one of the saddest endings in movie history you can easy cry your eyes out. See this as many times as you want I suggest it each time I view it I see how the movie holds true to the way life and the relationships we have are full of ups and downs and learn to enjoy every minute you have of life because it really goes quick and things happen unexpected.  "},{"Title":"Don't let the drama fool you -- one of the funniest movies ever made!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How could anyone not love this movie?  The acting is marvelous, the writing is brilliant -- sharp, witty and so carefully textured.  It walks such a skilled, fine line between comedy and tragedy.  The characters are unforgettable.  I can't count how many times I've seen this movie, but I'm sure it's been at least fifteen. Some people are puzzled when I refer to Terms of Endearment as a comedy. While it technically is a drama because of its sad ending, almost everything leading up to that ending is deliriously funny.  From that snotty cashier at the grocery store to MacLaine's fiasco of a date with Jack Nicholson -- so much hilarity, so much LIFE.  And it's much funnier than some of James Brooks' other films (Broadcast News and As Good As It Gets).  But then the drama comes out of nowhere, catching you off guard, giving it all the more impact.  I highly recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Probably the most touching movie I have ever seen - even to this day...","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film remains my absolute all time favorite movie. Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson give the performances of their long and distinguished careers.  Jeff Daniels actually does a good job in this!  Debra Winger and John Lithgow show that they are truly great actors.  These people were perfectly cast.  MacLaine IS Aurora.  Nicholson IS Garrett.  Winger and Daniels ARE the Hortons.  I think you get my drift here.This movie made me laugh and truly made me cry.  Accompanied by the amazing musical score by Michael Gore, this film touches those who watch by letting us really enter the inner-workings of Aurora and Emma's relationship.  This is what the Oscars are all about.  A film that can truly span every category in the Oscars and stand up there with the absolute best of them.Get this movie when you just want to sit back and enjoy quality film making and acting and you want to be emotionally moved.  "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry...","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, I love the film, but I don't deny that it's very manipulative (especially in a hospital scene at the end wing Winger and her kids). It's totally engrossing, has believable characters and situations and all the acting is great (especially Shirley MacLaine--she really won her Oscar for this movie).  But it gets very sad and depressing towards the end.  Still, you're not upset after it's over--the very end is actually uplifting. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt Cries","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A touching story of mother and daughter, this movie explores the complexities in this relationship making you laugh and cry during the process.  Filled with Academy caliber performances, this film takes hold of your heart strings and refuses to let go.  Jack Nicholson lends the strength necessary to keep it from becoming a morass of teary women and adds the light touches that make the emotional scenes so much more powerful.  Every movie fan should see it. "},{"Title":"Touching!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terms of Endearment is amazing comedy-drama and very touching.  All the actors did amazing jobs. One question how did this movie get away with a PG rating...it should be PG-13. "},{"Title":"The only truly notable romantic comedy","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not a huge fan of Romantic Comedy as a genre, or of tearjerkers; i tend to avoid both. But Terms of Endearment is much too good to let pass by. The performances of all three principals are terrific, heart-breakingly realistic, and human and super-human all at once. the supporting cast is rock solid (even the little boys), and they all leave their mark on the screen, but I was awed by Jack Nicholson, Shirley MacLaine, and Debra Winger. The story (a chronicle of a mother and a daughter, and their various relationships) is riveting, and although it has numerous opportunities to become trite or maudlin, it maintains a cautious distance from melodrama at all times. it does manage to be, however, intelligent and truly moving, a movie that involves you in it deeply and does not let go.  "},{"Title":"Every character can be identified with!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies.  The casting was excellent, as MacLaine is very believable as the emotionally sterile Aurora Greenway. Winger and Nicholson are superb as well, as this film evokes every emotion known to any human. Some of the best lines in the movie include Imagine you going on a date when it isn't necessarily considered a felony and Well then, you must be from New York.  I have seen the film many times and it still makes me cry from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Good Call For The Oscars","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" .The year 1983 was quite a great year for movies. Many great classics came out that year. But the two that stood out the most in that year was the classic Philip Kaufman film called The Right Stuff and the always emotionally charged classic Terms of Endearment. Even though I was still a little boy boy at the time this movie was released I had high hopes that The Right Stuff was going to capture the Oscar that year and I was taken aback by the Academy Awards that Terms of Endearment actually won the coveted prize. I was really appalled by the judgement and I cursed at the Academy as being biased and only adulate at certain films and neglect those that really deserved the win.Now that I'm an old man at 36 years old, I watched the movie again and I can see exactly why this movie deserved such high-honoured prestige. Something I couldn't decipher in my childhood. After much viewing, in spite of the overdone melodrama and thank mostly to the brilliant script and direction from James L. Brooks, and his gifted cast, Terms of Endearment stands on its own as a family oriented drama that rises from what the viewers expect this movie to be as it stretches beyond what its intentions are.The story extends through decades, following the complex relationship between a mother and her adult daughter. Aurora Greenway (Shirley MacLaine) is an obstinate woman, whose cynical wit and cautious observations are at times too much too handle for her laid-backed daughter Emma Greenway (Debra Winger). Emma takes her liberated views by going off to marry a young man named Flap Horton (Jeff Daniels), much to Aurora's dismay. Aurora think that her marrying Flap is the ultimate liability for her. Sure like in all marriages, they are not without their trials and tribulations, but still Emma continues her loyalty to Flap, due the fact that they have three children together. In Aurora's case she has had her share of men in the past including her infatuation over a former astronaut and neighbour named Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson), who is also at the same a philanderer. And though they have lived contrasting lives, their bondage has remained in sync and before long, their bonding progresses even stronger than it ever has in their lives.Sure this looks on paper as a depressing, melancholy tear-fest that you would likely see on The Woman's Channel or The Hallmark Channel, but it's really more than just that. It has all the tools to be featured on those channels with issues like tragedy, conflict, and just rooting for the protagonist to win over any obstacles that are getting in their way.The film itself goes beyond the barriers of the standard mother-daughter fare. Aurora does not always comes across as a very likable character. She's aloof towards anyone she comes across and she's quite self-centred in nature. At a dinner scene, she was flabbergasted when Emma and Flap announced they were having a baby. Instead of pleased to this joyous occasion, she exhibits utter anger that know she's the right age to be a grandmother. But still MacLaine does everything possible to make sure Aurora never falls victim to becoming a one-dimensional crab-cake. Her phone discussions with Emma shows that she deep inside cares about her daughter and truly protects her welfare and her well-being.In the case of Emma, Winger just can't seem to change her ways around her character as she continually goes against her mother's wishes and at the same time hungers for her mom's acceptance to whatever decisions she wishes to fulfil. Although there felt at time the old vulnerable daughter marrying an unfaithful husband, we end up seeing a very steady woman who has tripped over a few hurdles in her life and because of that, she discovers that she can stand on her own feet. for that reason alone I think Aurora and Emma are both able to defy any cliché within their characters.Overall this movie still isn't up there with The Right Stuff, but now after multiple viewing, I can now see why the Oscars selected Terms of Endearment the winner for Best Picture. Good call Oscars. "},{"Title":"The drama of life, told with charmed realism and not overdoing the sentiment.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment (1983)With three knockout performances and a heart wrenching story, there is enough substance here to get it through a few short improbabilities and clichés. With its sledgehammer ending, all the humor and playful romancing ends up being a set-up for the final act, making it that much more powerful. Director James Brooks shows a feel for real interactions in a very normal sense, and this is his first of only five completed films (another being As Good As It Gets, which has a couple echoes to this one). It isn't a brilliant or original film at all, but it's sincere, and seems to touch on themes of the times (and ours) in a meaningful way.So who are the three? Well, easily Debra Winger steals the show for warmth and life, and she is, in a way, the one pure spirit throughout. Shirley MacLaine has a more idiosyncratic role, and she pours herself into it with amazing clarity and conviction. And then, in a slightly smaller role but equally important, Jack Nicholson manages his best, charming, audacious, slightly selfish type. The interwoven interactions between these, and a few others, is the core of the film.The movie is more important for its events than for how it's made, but it's a solid piece in all. And notable, and noticeable, is the editing by the fabulous Richard Marks, for which he won an Oscar nomination.And life happens, without too much sweetener. "}{"Title":"Overly Hyped","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie at the show when it first came out and I was disappointed, to say the least. I had heard what a tear-jerker it is. Not only did I not cry, I didn't find the characters sympathetic at all. I really can't understand how anyone could find this movie sad. Most of the characters were obnoxious. Another reviewer said the characters were real and that is what makes this a sad movie. I know lots of real people in the world, but authenticity doesn't necessarily mean I love them or cry when they die. Far from it. Some people you like and find them sympathetic, some you don't. Something else that may have colored my view of this film is that I had read about the feud between MacLaine and Winger. Shirley was furious that Debra was acting circles around her, and she wanted to win the best actress Oscar or there would be hell to pay. This film is one of those films that is annointed by Hollywood to be a great film, when in actuality it isn't. Shirley MacLaine's Aurora was the most interesting character, along with Jack Nicholson as the aging, pot-bellied astronaut. Emma was not a sympathetic character. Someone who looks dirty, needs to wash their hair, seems to deliberately want to be a slob, and has the means to bathe and shampoo, is not a sympathetic character to me, whether its a real person or not. I have cried my eyes out at sad movies. I walked out dry-eyed at this one. "},{"Title":"Just life...","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Everyday idea, however deep and thoughtful. Well handled plot - audience is taken with ease through the portrayal of the script. Originality is added to the story thanks to the charisma of the actors Themselves. Well blended vision of the settings. Is best enjoyed when watched in a calm mood - film may be slow to the more dynamic movie oriented audience.Emotionally the film will touch most of its viewers. Looking deeper for the films message, one will find that behind the plot lies a hidden monologue discussion - reaching in the depths, of the fact, that life is not a rigid harmonious cliché. Overall a good piece of work.6/10 "},{"Title":"Saw this with my Dad....A must see even if you do not like emotional films....","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am saying that with a sense of humor, because my father (a stoic person) adamantly would not go to a theater to see any films that sounded emotional, but because Nicholson was in it, I persuaded him!.Nicholson really is the foil in this serious and comic drama. It is realistic because nothing is sugar-coated. Think of other films offered up to the public that year. Mr. Mom; (disingenuous, and insulting to the audience). Money Pit. Need I go on?.A decent film does not insult its audience. A good film makes them think. A masterpiece; well...those are few and far between. This film is almost brilliant, because it depicts tragedy, and the way that the characters must move on (albeit how imperfectly). Jeff Daniels as the philandering son in law; Shirley Maclaine as the dominant yet loving mother; Debra Winger as the struggling and too loving mom, married to a n'er do well; but loves her children.It is a serious theme, hence explaining the need for Nicholson. Granted, at this point in time we have seen him as the cynic way too many times, but at the time of this film his interactions with MacLaine were fresh, comic, and realistic.The awkward scenes between Debra Winger and John Lithgow engage the audience; two people alienated and trying to connect, having an affair in Nebraska. The scenes where Daniels moves the family to several different towns are classic; the kids are engaging and effective. In fact this is the ONLY film I can think of where a director has humanly portrayed children as complex and interesting, rather than irritating and noisome.Maclaine is at times overbearing, but understandably so. She is also the matriarch. Danny DeVito is also available for comic relief, as several wealthy widowers pursue Maclaine. This story was written by Larry McMurty (Lonesome Dove, Evening Star). I highly recommend it; if you have a family audience it is a great conversation piece. My Dad and I have two generations between us; and he is the greatest critic, not easily impressed, and he remembers the great films of the 40's. This is the one film which will meet, and exceed your expectations. 9/10. "},{"Title":"The best of the best","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're making a list of the greatest films ever made during the course of the 1980s, you have got to put this on top of your list. This movie deals with all the issues we have to deal with during our lives from affairs to fights to coming to terms, this movie tackles all of those issues in spectacular fashion. Shirley Maclaine gives the performance of a lifetime as Aurora Greenway a high strung mother who does her best to make sure that her daughter played by Debra Winger has the best life she can possibly have while falling in love with a boozed up astronaut played to perfection by Jack Nicholson who deserved the supporting actor Oscar for his performance. When you're talking about a film that deals with family issues, this is number 1. Shirley, Debra, Jack, Danny, John and Jeff, they're all perfect in this movie. James L. Brooks gives us his best piece of work in his movie career, this work of his overshadows his development of the Simpsons, his direction of As good as it gets, and all of his other works. If you want a great movie, go get this movie, it's the best of the best! "},{"Title":"These Terms Will Always Be Endearing to Me","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" **** and more to the engrossing memorable Terms of Endearment.This comedy-tragedy hits the spot.The segue showing the change from comedy to drama is done just right.Shirley MacLaine, finally won the Oscar in 1983, as Aurora Greenway, an overprotective mother who will not allow her grandson to call her grandma.Debra Winger was also nominated for best actress in this film. Had she been in the supporting category instead, she may very well have won.As the astronaut flinging for romance, Jack Nicholson garnered the best supporting actor Oscar. His scenes with MacLaine were great, filled with hilarity.Jeff Daniels is quite appealing as the wayward son-in-law who has to come to the tragic grips of dealing with his wife's cancer. "},{"Title":"If you don't cry, then you are simply inhuman. It's as simple as that.","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There was recently a list published here in the UK by one of our networks detailing the '100 greatest tearjerking moments' of all time. Unlike in the US, 'tearjerker' is not immediately synonymous with deliberate sentimentality or a directorial bid to use emotion as a tool for clouding the critical merit of a film. Instead the word is taken at face value, and thus films such as ET, Ghost and The Green Mile comprised the top three 'moments'.In this sense of the word, Terms of Endearment is the definitive tearjerker. Its emotional crescendos are almost impossibly intense, and while the audience is aware of the obvious conclusion almost a hour before it arrives, this does little to blunt the anxiety and pain of the events. The central mother-daughter relationship, acted brilliantly by Shirley Maclaine and particularly Debra Winger, is the axis for the film's events, spread over a large number of years. Writer and director James L.Brooks draws his characters so skilfully and with such an entrenched emotional subtext that, whether we like it or not, we are inescapably involved with them from the outset, and thus the conclusion as a drama is successful. Winger's rocky marriage to husband Jeff Daniels, mirrored by Jack Nicholson's overt courtship of Maclaine, provides Brooks with the ability to analyse what constitutes a strong romantic relationship, and the spiritual bond two people can attain despite having their differences.All the performances in the film are outstanding. Winger gives a career best and it is an utter travesty that her mainstream movie 'shelf-life' was prematurely cut short by drug addiction. While Maclaine won the Oscar for her portrayal of Aurora, I agree with other comments on this site that it should have been Winger. Jack Nicholson also won an Oscar and is typically reliable in his role, as are Daniels and John Lithgow (much under-rated as a dramatic actor all that Third Rock has pigeon-holed him a bit I feel).The ending simply demands tears, and I will rather boldly assert that if someone claims not to be at least a bit dewey-eyed at the time the credits role, then they simply haven't devoted enough attention to the film. Brooks is one of the best directors still working and his brief yet impressive catalogue leaves me in great anticipation of his future release 'Spanglish'. Please watch this film, you will be richly rewarded if you involve yourself with it enough.It must come as no surprise that I award this film 10/10. "},{"Title":"MacLaine, Nicholson, Winger and Daniels team for a superb human interest story.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I will not mention it in these user comments, but part of the fun I have watching this movie is that much of it was film in and around Houston, Texas, where I have lived the past 19 years. This is appropriate because the Nicholson character is a former astronaut, and most of them indeed lived and remained in Houston.But the main story centers on Aurora Greenway (Shirley MacLaine) who is very head-strong in all things, but especially when it comes to her daughter Emma (Debra Winger). She does not approve when Emma marries Flap (Jeff Daniels), and she is further hurt when they move away for Flap's teaching job.Meanwhile, back home in Texas Aurora's next door neighbor Garrett (Jack Nicholson) is carrying on, she appears put off by the drinking and carousing that goes on at his house. But Garrett, gregarious as he is, always tries to get Aurora to lighten up, come over, have a drink, maybe go out. And, she eventually does, she finds love in the most unlikely place. Meanwhile Flap and Emma are not doing so well, but as in real life they manage to work things to an agreeable point, then death takes its toll.Nicholson has always received his due, since movie like One Flew Over and Five Easy Pieces. But Shirley MacLaine has remained one of the great under appreciated actresses of her time. She is superb in this movie. "},{"Title":"What is the proper timeline?","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT - SPOILER ALERT!!!  I couldn't understand the timeline this movie was supposed to cover.  When the sequel THE EVENING STAR came out, it began in 1988, with Melanie at 18 as a college freshman, putting her birth in 1970.  When Aurora later describes Melanie as being 3 years old when her mother, Emma, passed away, it puts Emma's death in 1973.  However, earlier in the film, Emma is seen driving with her lover in a late 70's Pontiac through the Iowa countryside.  Not only this, but looking at the ages of her sons at the point of Emma's demise indicates they were about 10 and 5 at the time, which would put Emma and Flap's marriage in about 1959 or thereabouts.  Why then did Flap have long hair and speak as though it were the late 60's?  Why was a mid-60's Chrysler seen in Aurora's driveway before Emma's marriage?  So frankly, I don't understand - am I off by ten years, or was THE EVENING STAR wrong in its timeline all together?  McMurtry's novel puts Aurora's birth in 1913 and Emma's in about 1940, which is in line with the opening shots of Aurora as a young WWII wife with a baby.  Time is off seriously in this whole movie BUT...It was wonderful!!!   "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I cared, and I came to terms!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is outstanding!!!! The performances were outstanding. The direction is outstanding. And the writing was outstanding.Director James L. Brooks turned what would have been a chick flick into an outstanding portrait of life, family, and relationships.4(****)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"A Touch of Class","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many find this film incredibly sappy and devoid of real emotion. I defy those who say so not to cry when Aurora walks up those stairs to hug Garrett when she knows her daughter is going to die or when Garrett and Aurora have that wonderful sequence at the airport where Garrett, for the first time, admits that he loves someone. That sounds pretty genuine to me.   "}{"Title":"an excellent tearjerker drama. Oscars were well deserved.","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment covers three decades in the lives of widow Aurora Greenway (Shirley MacLaine) and her daughter Emma (Debra Winger). Fiercely protected by Aurora throughout childhood, Emma runs into resistance from her mother when she marries wishy-washy college teacher Flap (Jeff Daniels). Aurora is even more put out at the prospect of being a grandmother, though she grows a lot fonder of her three grandkids than she does of her son-in-law. Flap proves that Aurora's instincts were on target when he enters into an affair with a student (Kate Charleson). Meanwhile, Emma finds romantic consolation with an unhappily married banker (played by John Lithgow, who registers well in a rare nice guy performance). As for Aurora, she is ardently pursued by her next-door neighbor, boisterous astronaut Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson). After 75 minutes or so of pursuing an episodic, semi-comic plot line, the film abruptly shifts moods when Emma discovers that she has terminal cancer.Debra Winger, Shirley MacLaine, Jack Nicholson, Jeff Daniels, John Lithgow , Huckleberry Fox , Troy Bishop , Danny DeVito , Lisa Hart Carroll , Betty King.Directed by James L. Brooks.Nominated for Whooping/Jaw Dropping 11 Oscars including Best Picture, Director, Adapted Screenplay, Leading Actress Shirley MacLaine, Leading Actress Debra Winger, Supporting Actor Jack Nicholson, Supporting Actor John Lithgow, Original Score, Editing, Art Direction and Sound. it won 5 Oscars for Picture, Director, Adapted Screenplay, Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson. one of the most deserving Oscar for a movie other people don't find much deserving.i just finished watching this lovely comedy Drama. the last parts of the movie were quite difficult to watch for me since i was crying a lot. yes i did, again. this movie can make a guy's heart melt like a butter. superb drama with a great balance and understanding between comedy and drama. at the end you feel and get attached to the quirky and unlikable characters. this movie has such a beauty and a classic tearjerker feel to it. you will just love this movie so much. feel for it and at the end really a memorable movie.best directorial venture of Brooks it is, i haven't seen Broadcast news though. alongwith screenplay which maybe one of the best dramatic screenplay to win an Oscar. i mean really well written and quite likable. good story and nice pace to it. art direction was nice. editing was done well and score of this movie was just outstanding.talking about the performances, Shirley MacLaine's best performance till date, just superb work by her. every bit of scene, every bit of emotions she portrayed, such a diverse and colorful performance. just an outstanding and quite appreciable work. great looking and quite excellent. Debra Winger as her daughter was great. her performance was great too. outstanding. Jack Nicholson was excellent too, for a Supporting performance, he did quite well. though i don't understand why the hell was John Lithgow nominated i even don't remember him in the movie and he wasn't good. outstanding performances by the cast just so brilliant.this is a story of a mother and daughter relationship, the have this bitter sweet, love hate kind of relationship. this movie is shown at the span of 3 decades from her birth to her marriage and then her death. one of the best movies ever and seriously a great heartaching and heartbreaking drama. i cried like a girl to it. many brilliant scenes in this movie, some of them will make you laugh and other will make you cry. extremely emotional movie. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but inconsistent, flawed and not that sad","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" James L. Brooks made his debut as a director in 1983 directing 'Terms of Endearment'. Until then, he had only wrote a few TV series and produced them, but never worked as a director. He is more well-known as the writer of the episodes of 'The Simpsons', and after this movie he directed only three more movies. But his first one is still considered his best one, winning five Oscars in 1984 and still been highly acclaimed by the critics. That's what I call a debut!'Terms of Endearment is based on the book of the same name by American- writer Larry McMurtry. James L. Brooks adapted the story for the big screen, and also directed and produced it. It tells the story of Aurora and Emma Greenway, mother and daughter. The movie follows several years in both lives, showing the people around them, their loves, their lovers, their illusions, their disillusions, but mainly portrays the so- called 'terms of endearment' between them and the people around their lives, and how these terms can be broken and reunited.I haven't read the book that the movie is based on, so I can't really say how James L. Brooks adapted the story. All I can say is that the story is really good in the movie's first three quarters. It has some really nice character study and powerful scenes. But after that, in the end the movie started to decline and appealed to the cliché and predictable. I'm not gonna spoil it here, but they recurred to the biggest cliché of all. The other problems I have here are with some characters, like Danny DeVito's one. He could be much more well developed. DeVito is top billed here, but doesn't appear at all in the movie, except for a couple of non-important scenes. By the end, lots of things were not explained, which really made me angry, like Aurora's relationship with Garett Breedlove, Jack Nicholson's character. But this character wasn't in the novel, so it's a nice addition. And there were lots of scenes which seemed to have only the purpose of increasing the movie's runtime, like when Emma goes to New York. Completely unnecessary.This movie is known as one of the biggest tearjerkers of all time, because of its extremely sad ending. Well, I don't find it quite so. The ending is, indeed, sad, but it is also very cliché, which completely ruined the whole experience for me. It it also didn't hit me because of James L. Brooks not so good directing. If he had only directed these parts of the movie in a better way, and included scenes that really matter, it would have made me cry. Except for the final parts, James L. Brooks directed the rest of the movie quite well. But I would be happy to see a tracking shot, though.At least the acting is one good point here. This movie has truly an all- star cast, with big names like Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger as the two leads and a supporting cast featuring Jack Nicholson, Danny DeVito, Jeff Daniels and John Lithgow. The two main leads deliver a true show as mother and daughter. There isn't one scene were there was lack of acting with MacLaine or Winger, and Maclaine even got the Oscar for best actress that year, but in my opinion Winger deserved it more. Jack Nicholson also won the Oscar, with a good, but not great performance. In my opinion, John Lithgow deserved it more. Jeff Daniels was really good as Emma's husband, and Danny Devito almost isn't in the movie, so I can't really evaluate his performance.One thing that I was really pleased with in this movie is the Soundtrack. The main theme is quite amusing, and it is used on the right parts, only when it is necessary. Great sound editing. I also found the cinematography well-made, but I don't like the editing. Lots of scenes could've been cut off, to make the movie less boring and more interesting. The set-decoration is also excellent, extremely well done, so it's the representation of the periods on which the movie is portrayed.Overral, 'Terms of Endearment' is the kind of movie made with only two purposes first, to make make people cry, and it could've have been way more well-succeeded on performing this task; second, to win lots of Academy Awards, and it was extremely well-succeeded on this job. The Academy loves those kinds of stories, and me too, but only when they are well represented. This movie isn't, appealing to the predictable, which is really sad, because it has some really nice acting, and the beginning was great. Good movie for a directing debut, but that's what it is. The movie is inconsistent, flawed and not that sad. Good, but could've been better. Completely overrated.6,5/10, that goes back to a 6. "},{"Title":"A well-deserved Oscar winning film!","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A relative of mine told me that if I loved As Good As It Gets, I'd love Terms of Endearment. Shirley MacLaine, Diane Winger, Jack Nicholson, John Lithgow, and all the other cast members are simply magnificent. They aren't dramatic and theatrical like most Oscar winning performances are nowadays, but they portray ordinary people who encounter everyday life and situations.In other words, I did not see Shirley MacLaine or Jack Nicholson stealing the show, but making it real. The actors make me laugh. They make me cry. They even make me on some occasions clap my hands. The Oscars for Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson are well-deserved. This is a rare thing I have to say about the Academy Awards.In addition, the screenplay and directing by James L. Brooks is outstanding; he served his three Oscars for director, picture, and script. The only regret I have of this movie is seeing it for the first time recently. This is simply a wonderful film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 80's!","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never watch soaps, am not one for chick flicks, and generally steer clear of weepies. I was only drawn to this by the eclectic cast, and a vague recollection of acclaim.'Terms of Endearment' is a stunningly well-made film. Pretty much every scene is conceived, scripted and acted to perfection. Winger, MacLaine and Nicholson make these relationships pure gold. So much of the interaction feels natural, even improvised. A twist toward the end reveals a compelling new layer for each and every character.It's largely forgotten these days, but in my opinion stands as one of the very best films of the 80's. Cherish it. "},{"Title":"Sure it's a chick flick, but's also a damn good movie","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I had never seen this movie until my wife MADE me watch it one day on cable. Yes, it's a chick movie but it's also a pretty GOOD movie on the whole as well. The performances are good, the script is good, the music is memorable...Even though it is sappy at times, when Deborah Winger dies and Shirley McClain weeps in the arms of her son-in-law it is powerful. I can still hear her crying It's the hardest thing...It's the hardest thing...So, guys, get over your chick flick aversion for an evening and rent it. If anything, at least you will enjoy Jack Nicholson's character. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I feel like I'm either the blind man in the world of the sighted, or the kid telling the emperor he has no clothes.  By no means did this movie stink, but by no means does it deserve the incredible accolades it has received here and elsewhere.  And no, it was not worthy of the AFI 100. Mother-daughter relationships?  Loss of a loved one to cancer?  This is stuff that has been dealt with quite gamely on ABC Movies of The Week back in the 70's.  Don't judge the worth of a movie by the number of Kleenex's on the floor when its finished.  I remember watching this in the theatres when it first came out.  Most people reacted the way most of you here have....but I looked around and met the eyes of a few people in the audience who had that same expression THIS is what the fuss is all about?? I thought it was a waste of a good cast, and I was SUPREMELY INCENSED that it beat The Right Stuff, a much more timeless, important, and beautifully crafted film, for that year's Oscar.I know I'm in the minority on this.  Somehow, that doesn't bother me in the least.  "},{"Title":"A dollop of emotional syrup","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the introduction of Terms of Endearment, Aurora Greenway checks on her infant daughter, Emma, as she sleeps. Unsatisfied with assumptions that her daughter is soundly asleep, she climbs into her daughter's crib and pinches her. Ironically, Aurora acknowledges her daughter's safety by the screeching sounds of Emma crying. The 1983 Best Picture winner opens by showing us the spectrum of love and care. Aurora loves her daughter, but a tart, complicated love. I ultimately began to wonder does a child's need of being providing for from their parent outweigh the parent's need of psychological security and dependence from their child? When analyzing a film such as Terms of Endearment, one must keep in mind the portion size under investigation. Terms of Endearment may appear as a melodramatic novel adaptation if you hastily skim the overall product, but if you patiently watch each scene, the quality of filmmaking in the scope of any single scene is rich. Terms of Endearment takes one moment at a time, carefully collecting a group of consistently made scenes, molded by aced direction and existential writing. Director James L. Brooks fashions his film in a timid, yet melodramatic manner to string out big reactions from his audience. These moments are not necessarily cheap notions from Brooks to react by crying or laughing, but situational reactions, feeling as the characters feel in their predicaments. Yet, even in moments of high dramatic tones, there are instances of comedy that flow through the film's veins. The cast ensemble is lovely, stemming from the two performances at the helm. Terms of Endearment tends focus on Debra Winger's character, Emma, though her storyline is not as strong the one Nicholson and MacLaine share. Miss. Winger acts with youthful optimism and a happiness that is a joy to watch. Miss. MacLaine is granite hard and ice cold, but shares Aurora's misguided love in shades and holds acting experience over her co-star. You need to do a lot drinking to kill the bug you have up your ass, says Jack Nicholson's Garret Breedlove while flirtatiously interacting with Shirley MacLaine's Aurora. The two actors have alarming chemistry as wild trifles with arrogance. The two actors honored with Academy Awards for their performances form the film's best scenes, particularly when their characters embrace private moments. Nicholson's electric screen presence is an added excitement to the female-rooted project. Aurora refers to Garret as entertaining, a fitting description of Nicholson's performance. The reputation Terms of Endearment holds as a Best Picture winner could be doubted due to two possible criticisms. It is actually surprising to me that a film where a mother steers and a daughter applies the gas drove to the finish line of the Best Picture and Best Director races at the Academy Awards. This is the type of film that could be written off as a sentimental chick flick and left only honoring the emotional work of the actors. For a feminist, Terms of Endearment is a benchmark on Oscar roadmaps. The second criticism is what took away merit from my approving reaction. Unsavory bursts of sentiment derived from Lifetime movies appear in Terms of Endearment on more than one occasion, not enough to leave a substantial negative impact, but plenty to take note of. I blame the musical score for creating this problem. For most of the picture, the score finely matches what the film intends to say, other times it forces our hand in dancing to a tune we are too old and experienced to even hear. The ending will famously break you heart, like a cafeteria lady slapping a dollop of emotional syrup on your tray at lunchtime in school. Terms of Endearment is sappy, but never-the-less shows a mother's protection of her child can be optimistically sour. Rating 9 Grade A "},{"Title":"Entertainingly endearing!","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was until recently that i thought the movies that won all the 5 major Oscars were 'It happened one night', 'One flew over the cuckoo's nest', 'Terms of Endearment' and 'Silence of the Lambs'. I realized Jack Nicholson won the award for the Best actor in a supporting role and what a performance it was!The movie is an equal mixture of family relationship, love for the dear ones during hard times, sensible humor and attitude that bolsters with age. Aurora and Emma are a real-life-like mother and daughter who share an unbreakable bond despite the petty arguments they often have. Aurora and Emma have ups and downs in their respective families- Aurora divorces her husband and keeps denying Garrett a date with her, while Emma hustles with her husband, performs adultery and threatens her husband's colleague to end things with him. Emma is diagnosed with cancer and Aurora takes care of her daughter in the last days of her life. While Aurora and Emma portrayed a genuine mother-daughter relationship, Garrett, played by Jack Nicholson entertains you with his sardonic sense of humor. He's a retired astronaut who has hots for his neighbor, Aurora who constantly snubs him. The movie totally deserves the awards that were bestowed upon it. "},{"Title":"Review of Terms of Endearment","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The classic, emotional story of the strong bond between a mother and daughter is played out for the audience through the film Terms of Endearment. Shirley MacLain gives a perfect portrayal of Aurora, a mother that is over protective of her daughter and despises growing older as her daughter makes her a grandmother. Debra Winger gives an honest portrayal of Emma Horton, a daughter that rebels against her mother and marries a man her mother despises. Jack Nicholson's character, Garrett Breedlove, is Aurora's neighbor who is a retired astronaut that uses his former career as means to attract young women and gives Aurora an escape from growing older by showing her how to have fun again. Jeff Daniels, Flap Horton, was an immature husband that slept around on Emma and was a distant father to their three children. Terms of Endearment followed the relationship between Aurora and her daughter Emma from childhood through adulthood and embraced the struggles they encountered along the way through tears and humor. After Aurora's husband and Emma's father passed away suddenly when Emma was a young girl, Aurora focused all of her attention on her only daughter which ultimately led to her rebellion against Aurora.The strength of the bond between a mother and her child can withstand the test of time and the test of life. Terms of Endearment showed that the strong connection that a mother has to her child begins at birth, as the scene with Aurora in the very beginning showed her waking baby Emma up just to see if she was breathing. The film also showed how men, specifically husbands and fathers, come in and out of life but the bond between women, specifically mothers and daughters, is eternal. This thematic element is shown first when Aurora's husband died when Emma was a young girl, and then Aurora's short-lived romance with the astronaut next door, and finally with Flap cheating on Emma with a student. The women in the film did not act surprised when the men died, left or cheated on them, and almost seemed as though they expected it. "},{"Title":"Some of the most thorough, multi-dimensional characters in a tough but honest story","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Somehow, James L. Brooks manages to bring movies closer to the brink of reality than any other filmmaker without creating a total snooze fest on screen. Terms of Endearment tells a story of a mother-daughter relationship in strictly chronological fashion, but instead of a traditional plot arc, the plot ascends gradually up toward a conclusion with little spikes for memorable events along the way. What would surely be a pitfall for other writers and directors, Brooks maneuvers around deftly, drawing moving performances from his cast and painting complete and honest portraits of the main characters.The non-traditional plot structure gives Terms of Endearment a different sort of energy, one that relies less on a forward momentum and more on dissecting characters and relationships. Brooks lures us into drawing conclusions about the characters and then almost always proves us wrong. Aurora (Shirley MacLaine) comes out of the gate as an overbearing mother who manufactured a particular kind of relationship with her daughter, Emma (Debra Winger). Although she's hardly a wonderful woman, as the film progresses her other layers develop and suddenly we're looking at one of film's most impressively sculpted and dynamic characters, not the embodiment of the domineering matriarch as once expected. Equal credit belongs to MacLaine for selling it of course, which makes her Oscar win oh so worthy.Winger certainly deserves half that Oscar as was the sentiment of most at the 1984 Oscars. MacLaine's role has more sizzle, but the story mainly belongs to Emma. As a young woman who's always been emotionally responsible for her mother instead of the other way around, Emma has to be a bit psychologically imbalanced and Winger reflects that in her portrayal. She's sexually self-assured and fiercely self-sufficient, especially when it comes to taking care of her three children that pop up throughout the film's duration, but the negative impact shows in her relationship with her husband Flap (Jeff Daniels). She's prone to fits of jealous rage when she feels as if she's not the center of his universe.Both main characters find themselves in challenging situations with regards to love that make up a bulk of the conflict until things take a decidedly tough turn in the third act. Emma's doubts about her husbands fidelity lead her to stray from her marriage with a loan officer named Sam (John Lithgow). Her mother, on the other hand, has shut out men sexually for decades despite spurring their advances for want of attention, but she's intrigued by Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson), the astronaut who lives next door and prefers younger women. Their unlikely relationship provides the comedy of the film, but it evolves into something meaningful by the end. Nicholson gives the type of performance he would later become famous for, but the novelty of it here understandably won him the Oscar.Terms of Endearment can't be called typical or easy; it hits you in the gut with an emotional reality check, one that's unannounced and maybe even unfair to the viewer. Rather than preach its outlook on life or take up other methods to soften the blow, it asks you embrace it without questions. Life can be (and often is) bad, maybe really bad, but there's a lot of good too; whether we accept it or not, hope floats.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "}{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of endearment is now on my top 10 best movies ever. This is a drama with humor so it shows about the real life. Emma Horton that lived since she was young in big beautiful house with her mother, she has been raised as well from hers. When she grow up, met a man, getting married, been a newly weds that didn't thinking about the future at all. She doesn't have a job so she's anxious to take care her children. Flab Horton, head of the family does only has a job but his salary isn't enough for expenditure. That time they are become estranged. Emma has another man, Flab has another woman. They're both face with problems. These narratives show that how some real family have to face with these problems. In nearly the end, Emma would die cause from cancer. Everyone, her family, her mother or her friends have to restraint their mind. This is also shows that everyone in the world that have last stage of cancer cannot take a long life anymore. After she died, the children going to their grandmother a treat.Its quirky rhythms and veering emotional tones are very much its own, and they own less to movie tradition that they do a sense of how the law of unintended consequences pushes us ceaselessly through the years, permitting no pause for perspective. "},{"Title":"Pure joy, fantastic drama","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a fantastic touch of humor from Jack Nicholson this is maybe the best drama I have ever seen.Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson where at their best, they did a fantastic roles with any thing expected from such actors and even more, and what surprised me that Jeff Daniels did deserve an nomination for best supporting actor instead of John Lithgow which I found his nomination was absolutely ridiculous  sorry for the word but for real, I couldn't understand .Jack Nicholson is a first class comedian who can simply overrule any person on every scene, now how about that with a touch of genius from Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger and all that comes with such a smart screenplay, what else could we ask for.James L. Brooks, allow me please, your are a brilliant writer/director please don't stop giving us what you still have inside you. "},{"Title":"If you wanted to get me on my back, all you had to do was ask me.  - Garret Breedlove (Jack Nicholson)","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" #1 Film of 1983 There are few films that can capture the realism of a sad and dysfunctional family, and 'Terms of Endearment' is one of them. It's an extremely funny, extremely heartbreaking and an extremely emotional film that rings true around every corner. James L. Brooks does an impressive job directing and writing this incredible motion picture. There is so much to love about 'Terms of Endearment'. Before renting it I just simply panned it off as being a mindless and typical chick-flick that had no right to win Best Picture, but after seeing it (the only film I actually cried at the end of) I realized how untypical, intelligent and dare I say brilliant the film actually was. The ensemble cast doesn't have a weak performance in it. Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger give the performances of their career (in my opinion) as the conflicted mother and spiteful daughter. Jack Nicholson is absolutely hysterical in a scene-stealing performance that damn well earned him the Academy Award in the 1984 Oscar ceremonies (as did MacLaine, who beat out Winger for the Best Actress statuette). Rounding out the cast are television clown turned Broadway star John Lithgow as the owner of a local bank in Nebraska that Winger's character has an affair with, and talented actor who will unfortunately always be remembered as Harry from 'Dumb and Dumber', Jeff Daniels, as Winger's not too impressive husband. 'Terms of Endearment' has a few pacing problems, but it's demanding raw emotional power is impossible to ignore. If you can appreciate excellent film-making, don't mind a few minor pacing problems and don't mind balling your eyes out, be sure to experience 'Terms of Endearment'. Grade A- "},{"Title":"Great Performances!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Terms of Endearment' is a well acted film that handles its subjects pretty good but is too much of a tearjerker in the end. It won several Academy Awards including Best Picture, which it did not deserve. (Better movies from the same year include 'The Right Stuff', 'A Christmas Story' and even 'Return of the Jedi'.) It also won Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson an Academy Award and those were deserved. John Lithgow and Debra Winger were nominated for their parts. This says a lot about the movie. The acting is so good that you are willing to forgive the film its weak points, especially the end.Director James L. Brooks has directed four movies (including 'Broadcast News' and 'As Good As It Gets') and it is the strong acting they all have in common. The fact that he knows how to create a lot of comedy moments in a drama film, or the other way around, is admirable as well. In 'Terms of Endearment' people are not very happy. We have Aurora (MacLaine) who is an obsessive mother who is probably the most unhappy of them all. Her daughter is Emma (Debra Winger) who marries a guy named Flap Horton (Jeff Daniels); Aurora does not like him at all. As the story develops we see how Emma and Flap, who started pretty happy together, become more unhappy with their lives and each other. They move away from Aurora because Flap finds a job in Iowa. Aurora slowly lightens up. The main reason for that is the guy next door named Garrett (Jack Nicholson).Up until this point the film is an interesting look into a family but about here the story starts going wrong. Especially the events around the Winger-character seem to be there to keep the movie going in an interesting way, including an affair with Sam Burns (John Lithgow). The later events seem to be there only to jerk a tear. Fortunately it also provides scenes where MacLaine, Winger, Daniels, Lithgow and of course Nicholson can show how good they can act. Where the story goes wrong the acting only becomes better and better. That alone is a good reason to see this film, although especially the first half is interesting as a story as well. Actually, I think most audiences will not mind the second half. There is a good chance you ill be moved and the movie gets what it wants. "},{"Title":"Sappy, yes, but worth seeing at least once","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film that I avoided, for many years, but finally got around to watching it recently. This is a serious, funny, and sometimes  over-the-top story all rolled in one of the  love-hate relationship between a mother and daughter over the course of a 30-year period.  MacLaine & Nicholson are terrific together in their scenes, which earned them Academy Awards for Best Actress & Supporting Actor, respectively.  Won Best Picture of 1983.  A sequel was made in 1996 called The Evening Star.   "},{"Title":"An honest look into real life","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The authenticity of this film's portrayal of unglamourized everyday people is what I enjoyed most. All the characterizations felt real and not 'written' for a script. The magnificent all-star cast, led by Winger and MacClaine, did a masterful job of bringing the characters to life. There was a perfect balance of comedy and drama. All in all a very worthwhile experience, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy drama","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very good comedy drama seen more thru the feminine point of view.Very good production all around except for the average cinematography which kept this film from becoming a masterpiece.Delivers all the genre's goods with a great cast to boot.Winger deserved the best actress Oscar here but MacLaine did an excellent acting job as well.Only for mature minded comedy drama fans who have experienced much in life and for big fans of the lead actors.....  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't watch this film to the end. Having read Larry Mac Murtry's novel, the picture is painfully disappointing. The leading lady's portrayal missed the essence of Larry's Aurora. And the picture is only an outline not a cohesive story. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSOutstanding character development, great dialouge and adroit performances from Daniels, Winger, Lithgow, MacLaine and of course Jack Nicholson make this my 3rd favorite movie (behind The Godfather and Platoon, respectively).  Overall it is the story, a very human story, that makes this a superbly enjoyable film.  From a personal standpoint I identify with Flap very much, from his effete nature, his choosing a profession that is satisfying to him but earns the consternation of others, to the mother-in-law and friends of his wife that think so little of him, lets just say...I can relate.  And by the way the scene where the kids visit the dying Emma is a real tearjerker.A film I could watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"Superb cast, dazzling performance","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A superb cast provides a wonderful story about family, hardship, romance, friendship, marriage, and the trials of life.  Debra Winger, Shirley MacLaine and Jack Nicholson provide a dazzling performance  that is both heartwarming and heartwrenching. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All Time!","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie!  James Brooks did a wonderful job!  I also love one of his more recent ones As Good As It Gets.  I just love how he brings to life the simple, little things that we do and make them funny.  In Terms there are some serious scenes (the cancer, the cheating, etc.) but I loved the little things in this movie.  Like when Emma buys Flap the tie and he's confused why that made her so happy.  Or when Emma gets so happy when her son Tommy shows her his belly.  Oh and when she's at the grocery store and she has to decide what to take back without making her kids too angry.  So many sweet moments in the movie.  That's why I like it so much.  Personally, I think Debra Winger should have gotten the Oscar instead of Shirley. Shirley did great and all, but Debra's portrayal of Emma was so well crafted and flawless.  I gave this movie a 10! "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Shirley MacLaine's interpretation of Aurora Greenway is definately one of her finest. Debra Winger is delightful, and Jeff Daniels is fantastic.   When Emma (Winger) decides to get married to Flap Horton (Daniels), her mother Aurora (MacLaine) has a fit, basically because of her urge to be a control freak. Later, though, Emma discovers that her husband's been cheating on her, and worst of all, she has terminal cancer. Sad enough? Not yet. Aurora has been having an affair with her next door austronaut, Garrett Breedlove (Jack Nicholson) who I REALLY didn't care for at all. The casting was all wrong with Jack Nicholson as the astronaut. Provided that he pulls off the rude and idioticness of the character, he just doesn't look good enough for her. The first time I saw this movie, the moment I saw him with the girls in the car, I knew that they would end up a couple. I prayed that Shirley MacLaine wouldn't be put with him, but it didn't get granted. It sort of, well, ruins their scenes together. Otherwise, the rest of the movie is sad, sometimes funny, and very VERY heart felt. A 9. I took one off because of Jack. "},{"Title":"The movie is great.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Shirley MacLaine,Jack Nicholson,and Debra Winger give absolutely stunning performances in this excellent comedy/drama.Shirley MacLaine plays a single mother raising her daughter(over the years the daughter turns into Debra Winger) and how their relationship changes over 30 years and how they both find love. Jack Nicholson plays Shirley MacLaine's love interest and next door neighbor.The movie goes from excellent comedy to one of the saddest movies ever. The movie is excellent. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful comedy-drama","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terms of Endearment is one of my all-time favorite movies. It's about the relationship between a strong hearted mother and her independent daughter and the men in their lives. This movie has the power to make you laugh and cry at totally unexpected moments. Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger give the best performances of their careers as Aurora Greenway (the mother) and Emma Horton (the daughter), respectibly. Jack Nicholson comes in for a great comedic supporting role as MacLaine's next door neighbor who's an over-the-hill former astronaut. John Lithgow, Jeff Daniels, and Danny DeVito are also terrific in the other main performances in the film. Terms of Endearment won 5 Academy Awards Best Picture, Best Actress (Shirley MacLaine), Best Supporting Actor (Jack Nicholson), Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay (James L. Brooks), and it deserved every one of them. James L Brooks scored a bulls-eye with this film which marked his directorial debut. Since this film, he has made two other brilliant films Broadcast News and As Good As It Gets. He sure knows how to direct great material. But Terms of Endearment is his masterpiece. I'll never forget this movie for as long as I live.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"I almost cried at the end.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a completely enjoyable movie from beginning to end. And at the end my eyes got teary and my throat got tight because of what happened. Not too many movies do this to me.I will rate this movie a perfect 10.  "},{"Title":"What a movie","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh yeah, this movie is full of big, very big emotion. I`m a woman and untypically, I like movies as Indiana Jones, Star Wars...you see Action and Science Fiction. But Terms of Endearment was the first women movie I watched years ago. Now it's my favorite movie. Every time I watched it I laughed at the same joke and cried at the same situation. The story and the actors make the movie to something I can`t explain Nicholson is at his best, MacLaine plays perfect and Winger goes to the heart. Yeah, that's my opinion! Mel "},{"Title":"The best movie in the world!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terms of Endearment tells such a true story about a mother/daughter relationship.  It illustrates the tragic loss of the daughter to cancer.  It is such a sad and meaningful movie and I love it so much!  "},{"Title":"Even a guy loves this movie","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Speaking as a male, I can honestly say that this movie is one of the best of all time.  James L. Brooks created a true gem, and his all-star cast had the best inter-character chemistry in the history of film.  Winger, MacLaine, Daniels, Lithgow, and Nicholson all deserve praise. The AFI's snub of this film only proves that the AFI didn't take their ratings very seriously.  The entire credibility of their beloved list was shot, and it truly necessitates a flush down the toilet.  True film connoisseurs should disregard the AFI's trash.  Build your own list. "},{"Title":"Laughed, cried, experience life","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my top ten picks of all time.  It touched my heart in a way that few movies have done before.  The story of a mother and daughter brought to terms by several life-changing events made me laugh and cry.  The eventual revelations of adultery, parenthood, and cancer take us through the trials of life and allow us a peak into the relationship between a mother and daughter.  Shirley Mclaine was brilliant as usual, and deserved her Oscar.  Jack Nicholsan added a touch of comedy and compassion, and Debra Winger was phenomenal.  I loved this movie.  It makes me cry every time I watch it.  For anyone with a heart this is a definite watcher. "},{"Title":"A moving film.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terms of Endearment is a truly great film.  It tells the story of the relationship of a mother and daughter and their lives over several years. Shirley MacLaine gave the performance of the year(1983) and deserved her long overdue Oscar for this film.  Debra Winger is perfectly cast in the role of Emma (a part originally offered to Sissy Spacek).  She does an excellent job of making the character seem like a real person.  The supporting cast, especially Jack Nicholson are great.  This is a truly moving film and richly deserved the 5 Oscars it won in 1983. "}{"Title":"Worth Seeing!!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Acting, story, photography, everything.....wonderful.  Just be sure and take a BOX of tissues.  It will make you laugh and it will absolutely make you cry.  Shirley MacLaine as always is fabulous.  Debra Winger is amazing. Jeff Daniels, well, you will hate him but I guess that means his acting was terrific too.  It was the first film I ever saw him in and the character has stayed with me since.  If I ever see him in ANYTHING, I hate him no matter what!!  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I still wonder why more people don't love this movie the way I do.  The book is much better than the movie but took me three months to read off and on. It is a perfect example on how talented James L. Brook is!  It deserved to get that Best Picture Oscar of- 1983!  I wasn't even alive yet!  The first time I saw it was five times!  It is such an amazing movie and I do not know why it isn't on the AFI top 100!! "},{"Title":"Astounding acting but the jumpy structure cuts through the power.","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although a film with a loyal teary-eyed fanbase, Terms of Endearment is a Best Picture winner that gets shafted by many as mere TV melodrama. Sure, it's no Lawrence of Arabia, but it's significantly better than people give it credit for. James L. Brooks has a knack for what people like, or at least he did in the 70s and 80s, with this film being partly if tenuously responsible for the birth of The Simpsons, and his confident direction in this domestic comfort zone brings out the best in his actors. The cast may be heightened and overly measured, but they're deeply involved and passionate and it lifts the film off the screen.Each actor, from Shirley MacLaine to Debra Winger, Jeff Daniels to John Lithgow, bare their hearts and soul and it truly shows. Yet at the best of times it seems effortless and deeply human and they all have electrifying chemistry. I really struggle to choose whether MacLaine or Winger was the highlight but they both held the film on their shoulders magnificently. The only weak cog is the bizarrely Oscar winning Jack Nicholson, who isn't necessarily bad but doesn't have enough to do beyond his usual endearing schtick to warrant such acclaim. However, the biggest problem is the structure. The first hour is almost like short vignettes throughout the character's lives without enough flow between them. It just needed a touch more guidance. But instead it darts across their lives, jumping through years and simply losing us completely from investing in the moment. It feels too inconsequential. And subsequently it takes too long to get to its core and give us reasons to invest in these otherwise unremarkable, if engaging, people. Once it gets into the flow of the telephone relationship between Emma and Aurora it becomes much neater, if overzealous with how quickly it wants to jump to the next scene.Fortunately its production is strong, outside of the odd sound Oscar nomination because they mumbled too much, making the environments feel cinematic. If only I connected to it a bit more and found it more funny and emotional then I could look past its misgivings. Instead, it's simply amusing and moving, to use less enthusiastic adjectives. Maybe I should've watched it with my mother. Terms of Endearment is a surprisingly satisfying experience, worth more salt than it's been given post-ceremony, but Brooks bettered it with Broadcast News, if still with pacing issues.7/10 "},{"Title":"Underdevelopped characters","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this film when it came out and felt there was something lacking. Since I was a kid when I first saw it, I saw the Blu-ray version at my library recently and I decided to give it another try, since I love Shirley Maclaine so much. Now, with more knowledge in screen writing, I can see what's missing. It's missing character development. We don't know anything about Aurora  we don't know her background, what was her life, how was her relationship with her late husband, etc. We know that she is overbearing and self-centered. We know that she doesn't have any sex life because her daughter, through a phone conversation, informs us of it. She's supposed to be a flawed character that is anyhow likable but we never see the likable part of her. It's Sirley Maclaine's performance that makes her likable, not her actions. And her daughter is suppose to love her even if Aurora treats her badly. And to compensate for the lack of story, the authors decide to kill the daughter. How manipulative and unimaginative! That type of movies, based on characters rather than storyline, needs to flesh out the people in it in order to be interesting and we need to get to know them through action, not through phone conversations. Thank God, screen writing has evolved a lot since this movie came out and today, a movie like that would not succeed. "},{"Title":"Film Review for Franklin University Film Appreciation Class","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film, Terms of Endearment, lives up to many of the terms that it is categorized by. This 1983 film, starring Shirley MacLaine as mother, Aurora Greenway, and Debra Winger as daughter, Emma Horton develops as the two women grow. The story is told over the course of several years, beginning with Emma's father passing away at a very young age. From there, the story pans ahead to the life Emma and Aurora have built together. Much of Emma's childhood is centered on her mother's want and need to shelter and protect her, as very few things live up to Aurora's expectations. Aurora and Emma's relationship changes as Emma marries Jeff Daniel's character, Flap Horton. It comes as no surprise that Aurora does not approve of Flap, and much of the story revolves around this discontent. Both women struggle to find true happiness with themselves and those that they are in relationships with. Emma struggles with satisfaction in her marriage and with her children, while Aurora struggles with her age, being treated like a lady, and her eventual friendship with Jack Nicholson's character, Garrett Breedlove (Brooks, 1983). The overall theme of the movie is expressed in a journey for happiness. The price of happiness and being satisfied in life is ultimately shown in the ending of the film, when Emma's health is compromised. The viewer endures the struggle of the characters as they journey through tolerating each other and learning to love one another despite their differences. Emma struggles to be satisfied with her husband's success and tries to accept infidelity that she is unsure about. Her mother has always been a thorn in her side, but she knows that Aurora ultimately wants what is best for her and the no one will ever be good enough. Aurora on the other hand, struggles to respect what others have to say about anything. She struggles to accept herself as a grandma, and avoids the idea that she has, biological, needs that any man could provide her with. Throughout the film it is almost as if she finds men to be repulsive, until she builds a quirky relationship with next door neighbor, Garrett and eventually learns to accept the true good he can bring. Garrett provides Aurora with a fun natured side of life that doesn't have to be so serious, with a side of manly ego (Brooks, 1983).This film closely relates to the 1997 film, As Good as It Gets, also starring Nicholson. The film features a single mother who has found a likeness in Nicholson's character who is portrayed in much of the same light as in Terms of Endearment. Women struggle to trust an older man who likes younger women, and ultimately has an ego looking out for himself and his own enjoyment (Brooks). Ironically enough, both films have the same director. Coincidence? I think not. Two techniques of cinematography are used throughout the film that ultimately relate to the films theme. The film employs an easy-toned light that is not too bright or dark throughout the film. The use of such lighting helps portray the mood of the film, and the day to day struggles that characters endure. The lighting of the film does not change until the end when Emma's sickness arises (Brooks, 1983). A second very important technique is employed through the use of camera angles. A scene at the beginning of the film when Emma and Flap are leaving is shot from a lower angle, upward at Aurora (Brooks, 1983). These angles are used throughout the film to show the dominance of a character during certain scenes. The very first scene of the film shows Emma sleeping in her crib while Aurora displays a sense of panic about her well-being and provides a tremendous amount of insight into the characters, theme, and overall tone of the film (Brook, 1983). Aurora's concern will never squander, and is reflected again at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"One of the most tragic films I've ever seen","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a classic as far as I'm concerned, but awfully hard to watch at times. It starts off engrossing with some excellent character development involving Debra Winger, and the dysfunctional relationship with her Mother (Shirley MacLaine) The relationship between Debra Winger & Jeff Daniels becomes full of dissension, and that's when I started to become uncomfortable (in a good way) . I would have to say this movie is the definition of a tearjerker, but it puts your emotions all over the place. It managed to convey my emotions from happy to sad, happy to sad, etcetera. Debra Winger is excellent in the lead, and Shirley MacLaine is her match as the arrogant Mother. As her relationship with Nicholson evolves, she became more and more likable as the movie went on. Jack Nicholson is the one who steals the show as the boorish drunk. He often had me in stitches, and as his character evolved, I began to develop a huge liking to him. Nicholson is at his best here. I'd have to say it deserved best picture. The ending is one of the most heartbreaking you'll ever see, and when this movie is over, you'll be thinking about it, long after it's over. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Deeply Moving & Realistic Drama.","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shirley MacLaine plays Aurora Greenway, and Debra Winger plays her daughter Emma in this superbly acted, deeply moving, and realistic story of their turbulent mother-daughter relationship over the years. Aurora is a conservative woman who is often perplexed by her more free-spirited daughter, and not happy with her choice of husband, a student and later college professor named Flap(!) whom she believes to be immature, but who has an unfortunate roving eye for his female students... Jack Nicholson plays retired astronaut Garret Breedlove, her next-door neighbor who is a notorious ladies man and will come to play a huge part in her life. When Emma is diagnosed with cancer, their mother-daughter bond is strengthened, and Aurora will undergo a startling transformation as a result.James L. Brooks directs this Academy Award winner(Best Picture, Director, Actress, supporting actor, and screenplay) in this extremely well crafted and moving film, with a heartfelt and evocative score, and intelligent script. Late scene in the hospital with Aurora, Flap, and her grandchildren is devastating; so realistic it will move you to tears. This is what fine filmmaking is all about. "},{"Title":"Archetypical early-'80s overrated tripe","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I seem to prefer Brooks' TV work better..I really had a problem with this movie when it was released in 1983, and I still do. While I like James L. Brooks' TV work (Mary Tyler Moore Show, The Simpsons) I don't seem to love all his movies.When Terms first came out, it was praised as being SO moving and SO funny and SO real, you'll just die as fast as Debra Winger (and her subsequent career)... Well, that was just typical early-80s hyperbole, but this movie is about as real and as poignant as an episode of Little House on the Prairie and about as funny.I suppose it's harmless enough, but there is nothing -- NOTHING -- superlative about it. (I will be in the minority here, I realize). "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After keeping this movie for a long time with me and wanting to watch it, finally I did. I am a lover of great acting, and at times, its the performance by the actors which leaves an impact on me rather than anything else. I can say this for Terms of Endearment, that it leaves me touched not only by the fabulous performances by the leads but also other very important reasons.The movie is an adaptation of a novel of the same name. Its a story of a mother and a daughter - their relationship, their lives. Emma (Debra Winger) is very different from her mother (Shirley MacLaince), who is always tensed and worried about her daughter, and very quickly we move from Emma's childhood to her marriage and her family. Then the movie revolves around little things - of relationships, day to day lives, the personalities of the characters. One suspects (or expects) but it does not get very intense. Gradually though, the movie grows on you and you get emotionally entangled between their lives. The plot also intensifies towards the end, which highlights the best of the movie and you feel moved deeply. Apart from the amazing performances by Shirley MacLaince, Debra Winger and also Jack Nicholson, the screenplay is great. The nuances of a small family daily life, the different shades across genders, across societies, across regions have been well captured and decorate the simple story well. "},{"Title":"What's Cancer Got to Do With It?","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a lovely title for a film concerning the relationship not only between a mother and daughter, but also all the surrounding relationships which build up the key relationship. Aurora (MacLaine) is a controlling, finicky and over-protective mother who, after her husband's death, raises her daughter to be like her mother. However, Emma (Winger) is not what Aurora conditions her to be, as she becomes a more open, carefree girl who dresses and snorts like a tomboy and falls in love with a bum. Aurora, in one of the scenes, rebukes her for marrying such a man, and Emma suggests that she not come for her marriage. When Aurora, like a typical mother, acts as though she is hurt by her daughter's reply, Aurora cheekily tells her friend 'Oh, my own mother is not coming to the wedding like that makes her wedding unique. Flap (Daniels) is a teacher who lives in a shabby house where second-hand books replace furniture, a stark contrast to Aurora's own neat-and-clean bungalow with a large backyard embellished with flowers of multiple colors. Aurora can't bear Flap's flippant attitude and unrefined appearance and manners &#x96; she seethes inwardly when Flap takes a bite out of her meticulously prepared and decorated fish using his hands like a bumpkin. She feels insulted and livid by Flap's humorous remark to her reaction to Emma's pregnancy. Aurora is a difficult woman to like &#x96; like a cat she purrs around two men who are head over heels infatuated with her but does not let them bite her. Only a big bad prowling wolf like Nicholson can really seize her. Emma becomes a simple housewife who worries about her husband and children and the increasing financial tensions. When she leaves Texas, Emma maintains contact with her mother through the phone and both exchange talks about their lives. Emma falls for another guy but is still possessive about Flap while Aurora's heart is conquered by Garrett (Nicholson). Flap himself begins a secret affair with a student named Janice. In all this, the dreaded cancer strikes Emma and then all the attention diverts to this matter.I do not favor such an ending, because I feel it lacks a proper resolution and goes for cheap tricks instead. The cancer subject was treated better than many other films &#x96; the ten-fifteen minute cancer trauma in 'Love Story' was shabby and the 'Oh Hi Cancer! in 'The Room' was spectacularly bad. Terms of Endearment at least treats the cancer matter more seriously, but then there is a feeling of dissatisfaction of not getting to see a more fulfilling ending of all relationships. Some characters are trimmed off in the end and some unnecessary albeit well acted scenes between the four prime characters take place. In 2008s Revolutionary Road, Kate Winslet's character had deliberated about abortion in the beginning but then quickly dismisses the idea. But as circumstances turn for the worse and she cares less and less about the baby, Kate is driven to abort the baby illegally. I prefer such endings where some thread left loose in the beginning is brought back in the ending. Of course, Terms of Endearment would not need such a disturbing ending, but what if Emma had admitted about her affair to Flap? Or Tommy refused to live with Emma? Don't blame the director here though; it has to be loyal to the book. Otherwise, the movie has fine acting moments. Shirley MacLaine channels Aurora with the perfect aura &#x96; when she is in bed with Garrett and he is telling her about his space journey, she blushes and smiles and starts resembling her daughter. Sometimes Emma, played beautifully by Winger, begins to sound like her mother. Both the characters may be different in their thinking, but the actresses try to bring out certain traits that are similar between mother and daughter, for example their over-the-top nature. Nicholson is d the right man for the right job while Daniels is acceptable even though he does not lend individuality to his character. Lithgow was good in his parts, though his character went missing after the cancer tale. The actor playing Tommy too was fine &#x96; at the age of 10-12, many kids have this brashness and aloofness that Tommy had. I can cite the example of my ten year old cousin who really tries to act too mature and leave-me-alone type at times. Plus it is difficult for a ten year old kid to actually understand the feeling of loss &#x96; I was nine when my aunt passed away, but I could not really grasp that loss because I was too young.MacLaine deserved the Oscar, the tiny additions to her character like the constant movement of her fingers or the naturally expressive eyes are lovely to watch. Debra is equally great if not better, but yes, MacLaine was Wow! If only the cancer thing had not happened&#x85;.My Rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"Heartbreaking......","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by James L.Brooks this is a believable study of grief,pain and illness with some fine performances especially the Oscar winning MacLaine and Nicholson.A powerful look at 30 year's in the life of a mother and her daughter,taking in all the highs,lows,pain and deep love of this most complex relationship.Emma(Debrah Winger)is a young woman who lives life to the full and yet just can't escape her loving but overbearing mother Aurora Greenway(Shirley MacLaine).That is until she marries the love of her life Flap Horton(Jeff Daniels)and moves away raising two kids Tommy and Teddy.As we follow Emma in her new life we also follow Aurora's growing romance with charismatic next door neighbour and former Astronaut Garret Breedlove(Jack Nicholson).Garrett's quite a ladies man but wishing he could settle down with someone like Aurora.At first a very funny comedy the tone changes after Emma is diagnosed with Cancer,which turns out to be terminal.Aurora must give everything she has to make Emma happy and Emma in turn must forgive her mother for past wrongs.A deeply moving comedy drama with strong support from John Lithgow as Emma's friend Sam,Lisa Hart Carroll as Emma's best friend Patsy and Danny DeVito as an admirer of Aurora.Terms Of Endearment is true to life and has something in it to entertain everyone. "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie chronicles the long, difficult relationship between a Texas widow and her upstart daughter. It's a great movie despite being a little small-scaled for current audiences, overstimulated as they are by surface activity. The characterizations, the casting, and the mix of comedy and sentiment are astonishing. Although the movie is considered a 'weepie,' it has rousing, satisfying, uproarious ideas about how to make a movie of any kind, and serves viewers a vivid slice of life ...while introducing them to American regionalism ...while humming along to a standout score from the 80s. This production thankfully asks viewers to consider complex things and flawed people. Any number of things are very well done here.'Terms' won the Best Picture Oscar back when it was released, by toppling a dull formula, which was to strenuously avoid any hint of humor if you were making a serious drama. It remains great; due to the convincing arcs characters go through, for studiously avoiding the right way to do things or delivering standard emotions, for dealing candidly with sex, for showing lives and homes that are recognizable, but mostly for its unique, bracing blend of humor and tragedy. Tough guys like to reject this as a chick flick. But every film that presents a female story is not a chick flick. To be sure, there are horrible chick flicks out there. This isn't one of them. If you resent being asked to ponder anything that might make you cry.... if you only want to be shown polite, likable people... if you cannot handle loose ends, or unpunished human failings, you're not ready for this. McClaine, Winger and Nicholson all turn in amazing, skillful work. It also features at least one remarkable children's performance. "},{"Title":"Medium esteem&#133;Terms of Endearment","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not quite sure what I think about James L. Brooks' Terms of Endearment. Here is a film that won best picture at the 1984 Oscars, beating out a favorite of mine, The Big Chill. Everyone I talk to says they love it and here I am feeling a tad lukewarm on the whole spectacle. At first glance, I can't really comprehend what I saw exactly. Truthfully, the whole thing seems as though it was a device to get us to the end, the one sequence of time that has relevant meaning. By the conclusion, not much really happened, a young couple get married and have three children, infidelity ensues, the woman's mother hits mid-life and her usual cold self thaws into the arms of an astronaut, the family falls apart and gets put back together over and over again&#133;what's new? However, the more I think that what we have is the Usual Suspects syndrome&#151;a decent film blessed with a resonant finale&#151;the more I think about how genuine and realistic every moment was. Yes, it all means nothing without the end, but then I guess that can be said for most things. All the relationships evolve and grow in ways that are obvious and others that come straight from left field. One can't fault any step taken because without the hour and a half exposition the payoff would not mean even close to what it actually does.The acting is across the board phenomenal, no question. From the screen veterans to a surprising early turn, (possibly his first non-TV credit), by Jeff Daniels, everyone plays flawlessly. Even Debra Winger, as the glue holding everything together throughout all the hard times, who grated on me early on with her annoying Texas country-bumpkin attitude, comes out as a truly profound performance. Her naïveté and her kindness are what make her who she is. That ability to see the good in everyone and the realization of her place as a mother to her children, similar to that which her own mother had with her, but not quite, is the only reason the wheels didn't fall off much earlier. When you see the vain lifestyle her best friend has started living, coming home as though she is still the country girl she used to be, you begin to understand the honesty for which Emma Greenway Horton has always lived for. Sure she never discloses her infidelity to her husband, but besides that she never was anything but true to herself and those around her. Even the messed up marriage at the end was acceptable because their love for their children and each other was too much to allow the fact they were no longer a couple to ruin any of what was between them. If nothing else, this film shows us a glimpse into values, while not perfect, that one just doesn't see much of anymore. Family is always first; their wellbeing over your own as evidenced with Daniels' tough decision at the end.I was with the whole Winger/Daniels story thread if for nothing else but because I knew it was the central backbone to the whole. Besides a nice turn from John Lithgow, nothing else really stood out above the idea of getting a history of them across. What stuck with me most was the relationship between the matriarch of the Greenway family, played larger than life by Shirley MacLaine, and the astronaut next-door Jack Nicholson. These two have sparks flying from the first moment they share the screen. When she goes over and accepts his lunch invitation from a decade earlier, Nicholson's reaction is worth the price of admission alone. The treat of that lunch date, complete with his curtsy comment at its finish, is just gravy on top. His character coming back&#151;who really did think he'd be a good guy?&#151;just helps to complete that arc and allow the ending to stand on its own without any outside questioning of people not present. Allowing MacLaine full dedication to her daughter's illness is the best thing that could have been done. That connection is what makes the film work despite its shortcomings.Even though the fact that the conclusion is a total contrivance utilized to get everyone together to come to terms with each other, it still works on a raw emotional level for me that I am able to look beyond the blatant attempt by the filmmakers to tell me how I should feel. It is moments like the son and Nicholson in the final scene, as well as the likable, glorified adulterer Lithgow, that gave me the satisfaction necessary to accept all the fluff on the edges. You cannot argue that each bond is one that can be related to on some level. At times you believe this family is real and you are just catching a glimpse of their lives as in a documentary, that is how honest their portrayals are. Dysfunction is an understatement, but nothing happens that I couldn't shake my head to and understand exactly where they were coming from. At the end, it was an enjoyable experience on a pure storytelling level. Maybe a tad juvenile and completely structured for full emotional heartbreak, it held enough realism so that the craft didn't overpower it completely. The end is definitely heartbreaking and while Hollywood in the way everything works out, I have to give all involved credit for allowing the relationship between Winger and her eldest son to play out as it did. Setup from the absolute start, from his putting his coat on at age five to leave the house while his parents made love upstairs, to the poignant farewell, that bond is what will stay with me for days to come. "},{"Title":"terrific","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a terrific movie I could watch it over and over again. I loved Shirley Maclaine and Jack Nicholson in this one. They were great they fit the part perfectly. I loved the part when they went on their date hilarious and the part where they ride in the corvette on the beach.Aurora couldn't have been funnier. I just wished that Garrett Breddlove and Aurora had been together throughout the whole movie they would have made a great couple. And now after all those years today they couldn't have looked better.The second movie to this The Evening Star was really good to but not like the first one it is a really great movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most heart-rending movies ever made","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" *PLEASE NOTE, THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS* I first watched Terms two years ago, and I have to admit that I only bought the DVD because of Jack Nicholson. I am a huge fan of his and wanted to see what his performance was like. As always, it was outstanding, and I loved his chemistry with Shirley MacLaine, but I felt I should express how much I loved both MacLaine and Debra Winger in their roles as mother and daughter Aurora and Emma Greenway.From the start of the movie it is clear that Aurora has a smothering love for Emma. She's lost her husband and Emma is the only thing she has left. Aurora isn't an unattractive woman (she actually has a string of admirers) but she seems uninterested in men and simply enjoys spending her time criticising her daughter and telling her what to do and what not to do. She disapproved of Emma marrying a man she considered an idiot and as a result boycotted her own daughter's wedding. What I thought was brilliant about that, however, is that even though she did something so spiteful and heartless to her only child, it still didn't make you hate her. MacLaine made Aurora Greenway a character that kept you glued to the screen, eager to see what she would do or say next.The focal point of the film is, of course, Aurora and Emma's relationship. You can tell that Emma loves her mother, but that she also has a disdain for her and in that respect becomes rebellious, marrying the man her mother hates, leaving her hometown and having children with him. I think that maybe Aurora always assumed that she had a power over Emma and when this proves not to be the case, she in turn lets her daughter know how hurt she is but also somewhat respects her for having her independence. It certainly doesn't stop her calling her for hours each day! On watching this movie, I was touched at how it was able to combine family issues, happiness, sadness, love and tragedy all in one. Aurora feels alone once Emma leaves home and longs for companionship, even though she tries not to let it show. Her affair with the next door neighbour, astronaut Garrett Breedlove (Nicholson) is one of the funniest things in the film, and both Jack and Shirley do wonderful jobs conveying their tumultuous affair, and Aurora's realisation that she may feel stronger for Garrett than she realised.Terms does the job of really making you think about family values, and what is important-friends and family. When Emma suspects Flap is cheating on her and decides to retaliate by seeing another man herself (played brilliantly by Jon Lithgow), she looks to her mother for advice, but of course, Aurora is just as messed up as her daughter is! I thought Debra Winger did a fantastic job as Emma, she was able to play serious and comical equally-and you never really knew what was going to happen next. It goes to prove how wonderful Shirley MacLaine is by making you sympathise and understand a woman who is clearly an obsessive and self-righteous mother but undoubtedly adores her daughter, which is expressed when she realises she is going to lose her. Shirley MacLaine totally deserved the Oscar she was given.Anyone who hasn't seen this brilliant film, see it. It's funny, it's sad, it's moving. It's top-notch entertainment. "},{"Title":"the best movie of films history","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is absolutely the best movie I have ever seen. Director Jim Brooks has filmed such a deep human experience with a light sense of humor. The cast is simply excellent Shirley MacLaine is lovely, Jack Nicholson is so funny, Debra Winger too seems to be really part of the story. The most important scenes are two of course the one in the hospital when Emma sees her boys for the last time, and then the one in NY with the twin towers on the back when Emma makes a sort of list of western destructive uses. Watching the scene after the 9/11 attack is impressive because there is a certain link if death has come in western world it is also because we have lost our soul. "},{"Title":"Poignant tearjerker chronicling a mother daughter relationship","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm giving this movie a fairly high rating, mainly on the basis of its dramatic closing scene. Frankly, I do not see it as Oscar material for Best Picture (which should have gone to Educating Rita that year). However, it does wonderfully portray the ongoing close relationship between a mother, Aurora (Shirley MacLaine) and her daughter, Emma (Debra Winger) who are polar opposites and have their differences at times. I found Emma a sympathetic, though imperfect, character but Aurora mainly irritating. Thank goodness she's not my mother! Debra Winger should have received the Best Actress Oscar, not Shirley MacLaine.There's humor but some of the plot just isn't that great. The relationship between Aurora and her next door neighbor, played by Jack Nicholson (what charisma?) didn't work for me. Also, I found the infidelities of Emma and her husband interesting only to the extent that they emphasized Aurora as the constant, loving (though irritating) adult in her life. Unlike her philandering husband, her mother is the only one Emma could depend upon; I guess that's the whole point.For me, the film is all about Emma's terminal cancer and especially the ending. The lovely Debra Winger gives a fabulous performance throughout the movie and is totally convincing in her final moments. Her love for her own children is particularly moving. Get out the hankies, folks, especially if you have kids yourself. It's the tearjerker to end all tearjerkers. There's nothing sadder than a mother saying goodbye to her child / children, and here we have two of them. "},{"Title":"A Shakespearian Tragedy circa 1983...","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say, this film's exploration of the tragedy of love is enthralling. I am a male. I am only 18 years old and yet I was touched by each character's dynamic relationship with the others. We view the relationship of a widowed mother, Aurora, and her daughter Emma. We also explore the relationship between the seemingly cold mother and her neighbors of the male persuasion. There is also the relationship between the Emma and her husband. Then of course we have the exploration of Emma's relationship with her own children, mostly her oldest boy. The characters are unextraordinary in terms of who they are. They are regular people who are very real and do not display exaggerated or preposterous characteristics like the characters in some dramatic films. The film takes place in chronological order but skips large expanses of time, which is annoying at some points but necessary for pacing purposes. Heavy drama is offset by humor, and most of the humorous scenes are those with Jack Nicholson. The humor adds to the reality of the film and creates a vividness to the setting much like the humor in Forrest Gump. But as the film rolls to its conclusion it becomes apparent that this is a tragedy. The tragedy is two people's inability to recognize their love for one another, and their feelings are strongest in the event of loss. If Romeo and Juliet was the tragedy of one's ill feeling of another interfering with the lives of others then this is to a degree an evolution of that tragedy. Watch the film to see what I mean. Be warned however, this is a tear jerker. "},{"Title":"Live the experience of ordinary people.  Survive. Dive. Cry.","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was once a wonderful work of Hollywood merchandise. It gave the people of the 80s the impressing of being somehow deep, while at the same time being campy enough to grab their attention. Now however, it is hard to sit through it without realizing how much it has aged. You may still however be touched by it; you'll probably laugh, cry, faint... Just like the fancy tag line says. But you won't be able to enjoy it as much as you could've had you seen it when it first came out. Back when you thought trying to stuff every emotionally dramatic, kitsch kind of genre into two hours was artsy, when you often pretended that you cared about the shallow social, romantic, very adult experiences of everyday folks... Now I don't think we even pretend to care. Or maybe we have finally sharpened a taste buds a bit... Or you know what? Maybe I'm giving this all too much credit. I think the Academy Awards is full of it, doesn't know a thing and doesn't have much taste a whole lot of the time. But it has this big name so we can go on, like I just was, analyzing worthlessness because we saw on a list, or somebody told us that it won an Award for something... Whatever, man. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I heard about this film just a few weeks ago and I must admit that I didn't believe it would be that good. Although the plot was simple, it attracted my interest from the beginning to the end.And that because the story is an exact depiction of real world that made it too familiar to me. The characters, the situations, everything are taken from real life. The movie is about people who are not supernatural but they are people like us with good qualities, vulnerabilities and physical needs who come either to terms of love and endearment or other times have feelings of anger and jelausy for each other. Exactly like what happens in everyday relationships.Furthermore, I have to say that it deserved all the Oscars it obtained especially those for the actors. Both Sirley McLain and Debra Winger (and Jack Nicholson, of course) did their best showing us not only how important are love and endearment to our life but how precious are the people who can share these feelings with us.  "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Chick Flick","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I could watch Terms of Endearment every day and always cry at the end without fail. The story of a fiercely protective and clingy mother, Aurora Greenway, played beautifully by Shirley MacLaine, and her daughter Emma, is one of the best movies to come out of the 80's. Jack Nicholson is terrific as Garrett, the astronaut, and other memorable performances come from Danny DeVito, as Vernon, and John Lithgow, as Sam. Jeff Daniels plays Flap, Emma's unfaitful husband. If you want a good cry or a movie to watch late at night when you're by yourself, Terms of Endearment is that movie. Make yourself a big bowl of popcorn and curl up on the couch with a box of Kleenex, because I promise you, you're going to need them.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES EVER!!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so awesome. From the opening with a hilarious new mother (Maclaine) claiming crib death to the famous ride on the beach to the end, Aurora is truly a force to be reckoned with. Grant it, sometimes she dresses like a flower (she actually does look like one at times) but she is really more like kudzu or something--she takes over everyone and everything around her!!! Sometimes for the best, sometimes for the worst, and always against everyone's will. And Debra Winger is no wilting flower herself. She is frank, funny, and throaty (her voice). And of course, there is the ol' Devil himself, Jack Nicholson as Aurora's oversexed, aging, rude, and irrestistable neighbor, a retired astronaut. Anyhow, all though the movie can be downright hilarious at times, don't let it fool you! There's always a storm a-brewing between at least a few characters at any given time.  "},{"Title":"Undeserving Oscar winner","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Winning the Best Film of 1983 Oscar in a year where there was not much competition, Terms is not a bad film, it just failed to keep my attention. I found the mother and daughter characters irritating, and the film overlong. The only saving grace was the always watchable Jack Nicholson. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Wonderful!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I bought the film on a VCD sell-out. I really didn't think it was going to be any good but it was only 3$ so I thought 'Why not?' and got it. It took a week or two before I actually saw it. And I truly loved it! I usually don't write comments about films but this one surprised me so much. The actors are all excellent especially Debra Winger who really knocked me off my feet. Fight Club, Lord of the Rings & The Empire Strikes Back are some of my favourite films. As you probably understand Terms of Endearment shouldn't be able to get a high grade from me. But I gave it a 9(!) Its just so great, this film is what all romantic films should be about. Its not an unrealistic story with Hugh Grant, Meg Ryan etc. This feels real, this is laughter, pain, joy and greatness. I Salute this film!!  "},{"Title":"A dissenting view from an old curmudgeon.","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, perhaps I am not that old (it depends who you ask), but I am a bit of a curmudgeon when it comes to this film. I know that TONS of people love this movie and it won the Best Picture Oscar, but it left me cold. In fact, the only part of the movie I really liked was the bizarre scene where Jack Nicholson was driving along the beach (you just have to see it). I never really felt much about the rest of the film. So, as folks weeped during the sequences where Deborah Winger played a woman battling cancer, I didn't particularly care. The film felt, to me, manipulative and I didn't think much about the characters or the mother-daughter relationship. But, as I said, I am a curmudgeon...and I also didn't like Steel Magnolias, either. It isn't that I won't watch 'disease films' (after all, I am a cancer survivor), but not ones where I am not invested in the folks in the film. Sorry, but that's just my two-cents worth. "},{"Title":"Tears of Endearment.","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I relish the dialog between the Aurora (Shirley Maclane) and Garret (Jack Nicholson) over the fence. Here are two mature Actors who can show a thing or two about acting to the actors of lesser talent.This movie would have gone on the wayside (I say this since the story is generic tear-jerker,) if not for them, and of course Emma (Debra Winger,) who will be in their league when she gets to their age. The only actor that I feel was not up-to the mark was her husband Flap! who was a flop! when it comes to acting. The scene in the Hospital room apologising to her-another actor would have acted this out more convincingly. This is the First Movie that I have seen by James L. Brooks. He is neither Coppola nor Scorsese but he has certain angle to the film making that is laudable. I am curious to know if the scene at the beach was done with stunt actors? if it was not, I commend Nicholson and Macclane for their courage do this incredible stunt. The movie touches every chord of human relations and every scene is well scripted and acted. But the one whose performance that lingers is that of course Macclane's and she deserved all the awards and accolades. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why wasn't this movie on the AFI Top 100 list? I certainly think  it should  have been.  Audiences loved this movie, so did the critics, so did the  Academy...that's just about everyone, so why the omission?  Used to be my  favorite movie, until Titanic came along.  MacLaine gives the performance  of her long career and deserved the Oscar she won.  Terrific, wonderful  movie. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like movies which are merely a series of snapshots, then you might check this one out.  Otherwise, stay away from it.  The movie jumps around from year to year over a 30-year period, and lacks any cohesiveness as a result.To me, a movie should be more than a series of snapshots.  While the performance of Jack Nicholson is a joy to watch, he has only a small part and cannot save this film.3/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but I wasn't impressed","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Terms of Endearment is a well received movie that won critic's and audience's hearts in the 80's, not to mention how it snabed several Oscars including Best Picture of 1983, but I'm not so sure if it still has the same effect for today. While there were some moments that were funny and touching, the movie seemed to me like it was not well edited, everything went extremely fast and I couldn't keep up with what time the movie was going, it went from a year to next shot 10 years later without us even knowing. But I have to tell you that the only thing that really won my heart over was Jack Nicolson's character, Garrett, he was so charming and funny, I just absolutely fell in love with him.Emma and her mother Aurora are completely different, Aurora seems to really dislike Emma's husband, Flap, and Emma wants her mother to fall in love again. When Aurora notices the next door neighbor, Garrett, she starts to date him and eventually feels the scary emotion of love. Emma is going through a tough marriage though when she realizes how much of her life she's given up, but she is diagnosed with cancer and then soon comes to realize how everything she has was wonderful and she would never do it over again.Some of the emotions in this movie were just not well explained and the time that was expanded throughout the film was not edited well. Those were my main complaints, I'm sure you'll know what I mean when you see this movie. But still Shirly and Jack did a terrific job, they worked so well together and were just lovely. Unfortunately, this movie has just lost it's effect throughout time, it was the 80's, what can you say? 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick to give a bad name to the Genre","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes, Debra Winger is wonderful. Yes, the almost always underrated (and then recent recruit from the New York stage) Jeff Daniels gives a heartfelt real performance as the unfairly disparaged husband. Yes, perennial film favorite Shirley MacLaine chews scenery in every way imaginable and is matched every step of the way by Jack Nicholson in the first of his how far over the top will the director let me go? performances . . . but the bottom line is how much tolerance do you have for a film mother-in-law who tells her daughter (Winger) that any husband (Daniels) who becomes the HEAD of the English Department at a major university (or ANY similar job at the top of his profession) is a loser because the job requires that the couple live in a city other than where the mother is living (and catting around with Nicholson).Do you believe *anything* that woman is going to say in the rest of the film?A generation or two of husbands and boyfriends have sidled up to their wives and girlfriends (in tears after the manipulative final hospital scene) and said how wonderful the mother-daughter love bond was. But it doesn't take a major cynic to wonder if it wasn't more in the hope of getting lucky than genuine enjoyment of the film.There's nothing *wrong* with honest manipulation of emotions with idealized mother/daughter ties (OR father/son or even buddy/buddy - I've seen more grown men dissolved in tears after FIELD OF DREAMS or that straight teenage boy stroke film TOP GUN than I have women after TERMS OF ENDEARMENT), but the underlying relationship really OUGHT to be an admirable, healthy one. Many may feel that's what TERMS OF ENDEARMENT offers, but a healthy minority of us will beg to differ. "}{"Title":"Sweet and emotional...but slow","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Best Picture Oscar winner of 1984. Sweet and emotional...but slow.A good character-driven drama that takes too long to get to the point. I suppose, in this movie's case especially, it is much more about the journey than the destination.And what a journey it is. It is filled with emotional moments, sweet moments and some humorous moments. The dialogue is fresh, snappy and engaging.What drives the movie, however, is the performances. Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger are superb in the lead roles. While MacLaine ended up getting the Best Actress Oscar, Winger was also nominated for it and deserved it more. She gave her character a rare effervescent and lightness which was incredibly engaging. MacLaine's character was much darker and curmudgeonly and a bit more one-dimensional, so less engaging or intriguing. Great support from Jack Nicholson (especially) and Jeff Daniels. Nicholson is particularly good as the retired astronaut and playboy, bringing every ounce of charm, yet with traces of vulnerability, to his role. He well deserved his Best Supporting Actor Oscar.Not sure how John Lithgow got a nomination for Best Supporting Actor. He doesn't have that much screen time, and his performance, while solid, is not special.As mentioned, the main negative is that it takes so long to get to the point. The ending seems rather underwhelming too - I would have expected something more profound after such a long build-up. "},{"Title":"Malignancies and Motherhood","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the more popular of many women's pictures released in the early 1980s (Kramer vs Kramer, Ordinary People, Places in the Heart etc), James Brooks' Terms of Endearment stars Debra Winger as Emma, a young woman who marries Flap, a university professor. The couple have 3 kids, early sexual attraction soon fades and Flap begins to have an affair. In response, Emma also takes a lover.At the time, Endearment was viewed as a step forward in the representation of the modern woman; strong, independent and self-reliant (see, no bras!). But that's not quite so. Confirmation of the couple's infidelity coincides with news that Emma has cancer, Emma symbolically punished for her sexuality. The parallels between illness and sexual irresponsibility is then extended such that the film's ultimate message is far more traditional infidelity, straying from the traditional family, equates to a loss of enduring love and emotional support.In this regard the film's first two thirds focus on strong mother-daughter relations. Emma and her mother may constantly bicker, but it's an annoyance that brings with it a certain amount of emotional support. Meanwhile, men are portrayed as being either naive and immature (Flap) or sexually aggressive and philandering (another dangerously sexy performance by Jack Nicholson). As Flap strays from traditional father roles, his family crumbles. As Jack leaves behind his philandering, he becomes a surrogate father who heals Emma's family. With Jack, faith in monogamous relationships are symbolically restored, Jack shifting from a dissolute and irresponsible bachelor (he's literally an astronaut, always away) to an acceptable father-figure and potential husband. Offscreen, he inherits Emma's kids and rebuilds her dying family.End result The old generation - the grandmother and grandfather - then literally replace the dying new generation, offering a stable, fixed, responsible, tried and true, workable unit. Wthout matrimony, the restraints of family, responsibility, and strong commitment, the film says, women falter and men will engage in rampant promiscuity. Though its time-frame spans the 1960s, no mention of the turmoils of the era are present. The underlying implication is that women's liberation and even the feminist movements of the era, are all questionable. Any departure from a certain very conservative norm signifies disaster.Beyond all this, the film is well acted by the likes of Winger, a young Jeff Daniels, Nicholson and Shirley Maclaine. Fans of weepy melodrama will be at home, whilst those suspicious of naked button pushing and sentimental tear-jerking will find the film to be overwrought. Endearment features some snippets of Googie architecture, and some nice early 70s motels; utilitarian anonymity meets Holiday Inn middle-class luxury, with Mexican style walkways, tiles, double tiers, indoor pools and open air cantinas (early Spanish settlements in the American Southwest influenced the design of buildings in Nebraska). Some of the film's wood panelled hospital lounges are nice too, if you like that sort of thing.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"One of Those Few Masterpieces of Merging Broad Comedy and High Tragedy","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When families gather to recall their times together, the banter has a manner of transitioning effortlessly from the heartbreaks to the anecdotes. You'll talk about someone who passed away, and there'll be a second of quiet, and then somebody call to mind some silly thing that happened. Life constantly has a tragic conclusion, but you can enjoy yourself a great deal en route, and everything doesn't have to be drenched in profound meaning. One of the most outstanding accomplishments of Terms of Endearment, which is awash with them, is its knack for striking the equilibrium between the hilarious and the heartbreaking, between moments of multi-layered honesty and other moments of extreme absurdity. What follows in the story is supposed to happen. because life's like that. Since Terms of Endearment knows and loves its characters, we never have a second's misgiving.James L. Brooks' quintessentially bittersweet estrogen shot feels as much like life as any movie after the death of the New Hollywood era. At one fell swoop, it's a showbiz feat, with its high comic flair, its skill with bittersweet dramaturgy and its star turns for the cast. Possibly the best thing about this movie is the way it merges those two tonal styles of filmmaking, the purity of which has been sullied by the cloying, lugubrious manipulation of films like Jack or Patch Adams. This is a movie with hard emotional scenes and immense laughs, and together it's so resolutely at home in its pitch that we believe we're seeing real people.The movie's about two women and their relationships with one another and with the men in their lives. Moms are more prone than dads to support relationship development in their kids. Moms are more prone than dads to respond to their children's input in conversation. The way moms talk with their kids is better fit to encourage smaller children in their attempts to comprehend verbal communication than dads. It seems like James L. Brooks might've known this. The mother is played by Shirley MacLaine. She's a Houston widow who hasn't courted a man since her husband's death. Perhaps she's conveyed her sexual needs into the garden, which has grown so generously proportioned and detailed that she either will have to find a mate without delay or move to a house with a bigger yard.Her daughter, played by Debra Winger, marries a guy named Flap who teaches English in a succession of Midwestern colleges. She raises three kids and stomachs Flap, whose eye roves like a full-size SUV. Back in Houston, her mother at last goes out on a date with the swinging bachelor who has lived next door for years. He's an overindulgent ex-astronaut with a grin that hints at unutterable lust. MacLaine, a lady who envelops herself with superfluities and flowers, is shocked by this feral man and then affected by him.There are a couple of other bittersweet relationships in the film. Both mother and daughter have shy, good-natured male admirers MacLaine is pursued everywhere by Vernon, who asks just to be allowed to stare at her, and Winger has a gentle little affair with a banker. The years elapse. Children mature into puberty, Flap gets a job as department head in Nebraska, the astronaut turns out to have real human potential of becoming somewhat sensitive, and mother and daughter develop into a more welcoming and multifaceted bond. All of this is told in a succession of seamlessly written, acted and directed scenes that stream as naturally as a great day in a full life, and then something occurs that is completely unforeseen, and alters everything. Yet it pours out of everything that comes before it so sincerely.This is a superb film. I'm excited by the self-determination it affords itself to shift from the audacious clowning of Nicholson's highlights to the performance of Winger in the closing scenes. She surpasses herself. It's a faultless performance. And yet it's not a performance. There are scenes that have such a relaxed goodness that acting feels as if to have little to do with them. She doesn't grasp for indications, and neither does the film, because it's as it should be just the way it is. "},{"Title":"Wonderful...","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" James L. Brooks 'Terms Of Endearment' is a Wonderful film in all respects. Brooks handles the subject very well, and the performances are also very note-worthy.Adapted from a novel, 'Terms Of Endearment' tells the story of a mother & her daughter prominently. Their journey, or their goal, is to find love and deal with it.James L. Brooks truly is a legendary guy. Look at his body of work, so inspirational. 'Terms Of Endearment', which won him Academy and Golden Globe Awards, proved his potential. But, even if he hadn't won any sort of award, I would have still looked up to him. What I love about him is the way he executes his characters. He understands his character a little too much, but that just goes on to say how talented and sound he is.Coming to the acting department, Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger are bloody good. They give their characters everything. Jeff Daniels is superb, while Jack Nicholson is just about okay. John Lithgow excels.On the whole, 'Terms Of Endearment' is indeed a must watch. Surely, Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Get Out Your Handkerchiefs","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This funny and touching film about the bond between a mother and her grown daughter won a well-deserved Best Picture Oscar. Brooks, a veteran of TV sitcoms, makes an impressive directorial debut, pushing all the right buttons and perfectly balancing comedy and drama. The characters seem real and their relationships feel natural. The three stars are in top form. MacLaine is wonderful, giving arguably the best performance of her career as the uptight and controlling woman who smothers her daughter with love. Winger is equally good as the free-spirited daughter while Nicholson is completely within his element as a retired astronaut who reluctantly romances MacLaine. "},{"Title":"Still a good film","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have always enjoyed this film.What made the film for me were the characters & performance BOTHER Oscar WINNERS FOR Shirley as Aurora & Jack as Garrett.Winger & Daniels characters I just hated. Why did she stay with him after the cheating? His cheating made it OK for her to cheat with John Lithgow's character? 2 wrongs do NOT make a right.The oldest son Tommy. It took till near the end with him walking out of the hospital with his grandmother till an adult stood up to him for his behavior. Parents NEVER did a thing about it.Danny De Vito & his small part. Never did figure out why he was with the family when Emma was in the hospital near the end of the film. His character did NOTHING.Still a good film after the passage of time. Although, does not have the impact it did when released. "},{"Title":"Smooth and timeless. A keeper.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderful film, solidifying my love for Oscar winners in 80s. This movie again has its own flavor, like Kramer vs Kramer, Ordinary People and the likes. You get to learn how human beings may react in an odd fashion to situation that come to them unexpectedly and how they evolve over time. The movie moves nicely in the last one hour. The screenplay has been built very well based on the best stuff from the novel. The scenes are very short, well edited, to the point and move the story ahead smoothly and effectively which really makes it a classic. Jack Nicholson has done expectedly well but others also gave their life time best performances I guess. The most striking performance was however given by Emma's eldest son, whose character has been built very strongly and his each reaction is very mature and understandable.Hope today's movie makers learn something from this great movie. "},{"Title":"They ruined Jack's Garrett character and thus the film","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  had him cancel the relationship with Aurora in a shockingly false way. It reeked........so corny I almost threw up.  Ruined any credibility & entertainment value the film had.  I couldn't believe they would have Garrett say those totally lying and corny lines; unbelievable & shockingly stupid & corny. Up to that point he was total entertainment.  Then they decided to have him, unexplainably, ram a knife thru Aurora's body.  So all of a sudden, Garrett was supposed to become a believable slayer.  Ridiculous.  "},{"Title":"Mother Daughter Relationships Meh...","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Overall this movie reminds me of a better version of Steel Magnolia. It pretty much has the same storyline, minus a few of the minor characters, plus a lot of better side story lines. The story is follows a mother a daughter and skips over several years as we see their relationship and life unfold.This movie won 3 Oscars during their year&#x85; Though I kind of see why, I'm not super thrilled about it. It wasn't life changing and sometimes annoyingly random, which is a bit of a downer. I really didn't like the mother and the daughter was meh. The only thing I really got out of it was that I found the young Jeff Daniels super attractive.I really, really mean I find him super attractive even though he played a bit of a douche husband. But the good thing is that it's not all his fault, the marriage was of mutual destruction. "},{"Title":"a sentimental movie, but a fine one","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I generally leave this type of tear-jerker to my mother, and I honestly had no real desire to ever watch it.  So, when I was roped into seeing this film and found myself actually caring about what happens to the characters, I was pleasantly surprised.  The performances, especially Shirley MacLaine's, are very emotionally charged, yet believable.  I found myself really liking and really disliking each character in turn, but that's what makes them real. The plot bounces right along and the film is all-together very watchable (even for a seasoned chick-flick hater such as myself).  Larry McMurtry always had a penchant for entertaining story-telling, and this movie is no exception.The only character I had trouble believing was Garrett Breedlove.  As much as I respect Jack Nicholson's ability, not even he could make his corny antics work.  Garrett the astronaut stuck out like a sore--albeit sometimes amusing--thumb among all the other ordinary people.  Nicholson did what he could with it, but the subplot itself just seemed like it belonged in a different movie.All in all, a good flick, even if you typically don't go in for movies that try to evoke the full gamut of human emotion in two hours flat. "}{"Title":"What the movie is about","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It all comes down to what side you are on. Pro-Illegals and communism or following laws. That is what the whole movie is about. Pro-Illegals and Pro-communism. I'm tolerant on a lot of movies as I have over 1500 horror movies, but this one upset my stomach with the hatred of The United States. They just kept cramming it down your throat. If you hate America so bad then why not just leave. I went to watch a kick butt movie and all I got was political crap from the communist left. Enough is enough. We won't even get into the anti-god stance the movie takes or the racist crap it spews. I love Jack Nicholson, but he crossed the line on this one. People will say it's just a movie and that is like saying that Schindler's List was just a movie. "},{"Title":"Will Endear Itself To An American Daytime Audience","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's interesting that this movie dominated the Oscars the year it was released . Likewise it made over 100 million dollars at the American box office something that wasn't all that common nearly 30 years ago . It didn't do nearly as well commercially at the international box office and was ignored at the international award ceremonies such as the BAFTAs' . One instinctively feels that this might be because it's a film produced for an American audience and after seeing it for the first time these instincts are totally confirmed . It's also a film that never feels cinematic either and left me feeling is that it ?Director James L Brooks is someone who is familiar to the medium of television and created the great American comedy show TAXI with TERMS OF ENDEARMENT being his first directorial journey in cinema . This explains the whole look and feel of the film - it often seems like you're watching one of those TVMs from the Living Channel . The story involves two female protagonists a mother and daughter who don't get on so much so that the mother snubs her daughter's wedding with the story then following the fall-out from that just like you've seen in most of these TVMs . The film even has one of those  cute but irritating  kids so beloved by made for television family fare What stops TERMS OF ENDEARMENT being a complete waste of time is the high grade cast who do manage a likable on screen chemistry . It goes without saying Jack Nicholson lights up the screen . You can claim that once again you're watching Jack Nicholson play Jack Nicholson but a film like this needs this type of actor . Perhaps the best performance though belongs to John Lithgow as shy ,lonely man Sam Burns As said the cast save this film which struggles to feel like a cinematic picture and perhaps the fact that it won 5 Oscars exceeded all my expectations because this feels like a film that never escapes the TVM feel and seems one of the weakest films ever to win the Oscar for best picture "},{"Title":"She MADE me watch it!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My girlfriend MADE me watch this! She bought a box of Kleenex (NOT LIKE I NEEDED THEM!) Debra Winger is the worst actress ever! Who's supposed to relate to this crap? Boo-Hoo! You gave up your life to raise the kids of a guy whose connection to you is tenuous at best. Mommy doesn't approve! But HAS to love the kids, despite. Also has to post-maturely try out courtship awkwardly. Jack even says he likes 'em younger (sorry, but, DUH who wouldn't?)Boohoo, the grocery-store scene! Oh! The humanity! I'm supposed to SUDDENLY care that she can't afford candy bars for her kids?Then she yells at the older one.Has an affair. Gets cancer. Hubby's fooling around... (SORRY! WHO WOULDN'T? She's soccer mom! Yawn! ) Yeah, sure, I feel bad she got a terminal disease, but she was pretty generic and unlikeable anyway. You WANTED HER TO BE GONE! God, even the geriatric love story was more interesting! And who EVER says THAT?No hankies necessary; this is contrived pathetic girly crap. I gave it a chance, I SWEAR! I tried to find merit in it for my girlfriend's sake, but there was nothing to find. It's just a mess of (how hard it is to be a wife/mom! and poor! and cheated on! and sick!) laundry list worst-case scenarios for a woman. Please don't bother with this movie! Don't make your boyfriend watch it! He'll secretly resent you FOREVER! "},{"Title":"Mean people acting out","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am probably going to be slaughtered for this, but I didn't really like this show. I think it showed the worst of humanity. There was no chemistry among the three leads, it left me feeling that these characters all need to move away from each other and never see each other again.Having said that, I admit that the acting was good and there was some pretty good cinematography. And I will also grant that there are some genuinely touching scenes.Basically, though, I wouldn't waste my time seeing this movie again. It gets a 6/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Terms of Endearment","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on a best selling novel, this is a good directorial debut from the director of As Good as It Gets and producer of The Simpsons, James L. Brooks, he even won the Oscar, and was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Director. Basically it is all about the relationships between the Greenway and Horton family. Emma (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Debra Winger) is now part of the Horton family, being married to Flap Horton (Jeff Daniels), and her mother Aurora (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Shirley MacLaine) is finding it difficult to be loving. The film explores the running few years of all their lives, as each character finds different reason to be living and be happy. Aurora has a very close relationship with local cheeky retired astronaut, Garrett Breedlove (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Jack Nicholson), and apparently the next neighbour as well. But the film is also a story of life, and loss, showing their loves in different ways, best summed up with the dying of Emma from the AIDS virus. Also starring Danny DeVito as Vernon Dahlart and Oscar nominated John Lithgow as Sam Burns. There are many giggly moments, but for me it is Nicholson that made the film great. It won the Oscars for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Film Editing, Best Music for Michael Gore and Best Sound, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Jack Nicholson was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "}]