[{"Title":"Axel Foley Eddie Murphy's best role","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"66 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop was a big hit in the 1980's. The film was loved by many action fans, as well as comedy fans and movie buffs at the time. It is still being admired by many people as one of the funniest cop movies ever made.The thing I love about this movie is that Eddie Murphy was perfectly cast as the Axel Foley character. Originally, Sylvester Stallone was considered for the role. Thank God he wasn't! Eddie Murphy was perfect for the role, because he can be a clever cop, and can at the same time be very funny! Another great thing about Beverly Hills Cop is its smashing soundtrack. There are some great hit songs from the 1980's featured in the soundtrack, as well as an excellent musical score which can be heard throughout the movie (to me, the musical score is the Beverly Hills Cop theme song).Perhaps the only downside of Beverly Hills Cop is that it can be pretty slow in certain scenes. Hardcore action fans would probably be disappointed by this. But let's face it Beverly Hills Cop is not an all-out mindless action movie. It is actually a clever comedy with elements of action present within.To conclude, Beverly Hills Cop is arguably Eddie Murphy's best film since he fits the Axel Foley character perfectly. There are many funny scenes featuring Eddie Murphy that will have people laughing (even the action scenes can be cleverly funny)! P.S Look out for cameos by Paul Reiser, Bronson Pinchot, and Damon Wayans! "},{"Title":"Ultra-Slick and Ultra-Cool.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy became a true bankable superstar with Beverly Hills Cop. The film is an unconventional detective story that has Murphy, a Detroit police officer, go to Beverly Hills after his close friend is killed. Murphy wants to find out who killed his friend and why. What he discovers is one of the largest illegal drug fronts around in an art museum. Now it is up to Murphy to bring down the bad guys and save the day. Beverly Hills Cop is a film that showed the greatness of the 1980s. A pop-culture, box office hit that was funny and full of action and sported a smashing soundtrack. A nice film that is one of the most memorable money-makers of the decade that was the 80s. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Murphy's best role - a unique fish-out-of-water comedy!","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Detroit cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) is in Beverly Hills for a few days to investigate the murder of an old acquaintance. Axel assumes the suspect is a local tycoon, but no one seems to believe him &#150; including the police force, being semi-run by Ronny Cox (in one of his rare good-guy roles).Axel comes into trouble with the law his first day on the job after getting thrown through a glass window by some thugs. He is arrested, and when released finds himself hounded by a pair of inept police officers around the town for a few days. After outsmarting them (in one of cinema's most delightful moments &#150; ever) Axel gets hooked up with an old friend and manages to roam the streets looking for clues &#150; which, of course, he finds very easily.Before this film Eddie Murphy had starred in one film that had launched his name into Hollywood 48 HRS. But by all reasonable comparisons this is a much, much better film, and it's also much, much funnier, too. What's most refreshing is that it doesn't fall back upon the stereotypes of African-Americans inherent in so many mainstream motion pictures &#150; the role of Axel Foley was originally written for Sylvester Stallone (who was actually attached to star early on in pre-production before dropping out of the project) and it's quite clear that Foley was intended as a white character. Although massive rewrites were employed only two weeks before shooting, script flaws can still be spotted &#150; the heroine of the story is a white businesswoman, for example, and we expect some sort of sexual tension between them but there is none. We begin to question the very presence of the female lead because in essence it leads nowhere. We can imagine how it might have developed into a love story, but Murphy works against the flow, awkwardly treating her as nothing more than a friend.These sorts of things sometimes bring out the occasional odd touches in the film &#150; ironically they unintentionally set the film apart from other such movies of the genre because it's not typical in any sense. Sure, it has the routine shoot-outs but there is no romance subplot, no pointless racial comparisons (more of which would be seen in the two sequels), etc. The movie greatly benefits from this because it seems so fresh, and far more believable &#150; after all, rarely are romances developed in two days. The action genre always seems to end with the hero sending off the crooks to jail, and finally getting a long-awaited kiss from the leading lady. Beverly Hills Cop, to its credit, manages to avoid this and the result is a far more enjoyable film, even if most of its sequences are far from being 100% realistic.The film's director, Martin Brest, has a clear handle on the buddy genre and would go on to direct the immensely successful Robert De Niro / Charles Grodin road-buddies-comedy Midnight Run, one of the most popular (and best) of the genre. Beverly Hills Cop works just as well &#150; it's funny when it needs to be, thrilling when it wants to be, and features a stellar lead performance by Murphy in his most unusual role.Murphy is the driving force behind the film, presenting us with a truly likable character &#150; the most likable character he's ever played, as a matter of fact. Axel is unorthodox but a generally good guy &#150; Murphy is sometimes typecast into playing roles similar to that of which he played in 48 HRS. (being the loud, obnoxious racist who's got it all together), but here he plays someone we actually want to root for. At one point in the film he manages to get a couple of police officers in trouble with their superior &#150; but he takes all the blame, and actually fabricates a lie wherein they were heroes doing their job, despite the fact that they were all actually hanging out at a strip club. Axel is tough, cool, quick-witted, nice, sarcastic, and likable &#150; one of cinema's most enduring characters, and proof that African-American cinema heroes don't always have to be loudmouths in order to succeed as characters (pay attention, Chris Rock and Chris Tucker).The now-famous soundtrack (including 'Axel F' by Harold Faltermeyer) is a great blend of techno-pop and electronic rock &#150; the movie's theme is bouncy, rambunctious and fun a good parallel to Axel himself.Overall Beverly Hills Cop exceeds exceptionally well, even if a great deal of the film's success itself derives from pure accident and chance. I don't think anyone can say that those involved in the production knew exactly what they were doing at the time (DVD supplements include anecdotes about hectic filming and the project almost falling through at one point) -- but as luck would have it everything turned out fine. Beverly Hills Cop is an immensely enjoyable film, and one of the best examples of the cop-comedy genre executed properly. "},{"Title":"Funniest combination of bananas and tail pipes in cinematic history...!","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is by far Eddie Murphy's most popular role, and the movie that officially launched his career as a genuine movie star. It was one of those movies that my dad would let my brother and I watch on weekends, after my mom made him promise not to show us any rated R movies, and over the years it's easy to forget the level of violence and profanity in it that earned it that forbidding rating. Of course, as a kid I was just excited that I was getting to see something that I shouldn't, but in retrospect I tend to think that it was this combination of clever comedy and the ingredients from harder action thrillers that ensured Beverly Hills Cop's status as a cop comedy classic. You see, Foley has a bit of a criminal past of his own, but he is clearly much more at home on the right side of the law, and he uses his experiences in crime to his advantage in working his way into the criminal underworld, where he routinely attempts to bring down major crime ring kingpins. One day an old friend comes to visit him after having been released from prison and spending some time relaxing in the California sun. The two have a great time at the bar recounting their old criminal days together, until we learn that this guy, who once took the fall for one of Axel's crimes and served prison time for him without ever mentioning his name, now has stolen bearer bonds with him worth millions. Before long the owner of the bonds shows up and is not in a reminiscent mood. Axel is knocked out as they're staggering back to his apartment for the night, and he wakes up to find his friend murdered.The movie follows one of the biggest 1980s action movie clichés to the letter. Every single line is here, 'take some time off,' 'stay away from this case,' 'if you go after this guy don't bother calling in on Monday,' etc. My eyes tend to glaze over whenever I hear this situation in a movie, probably because I work so much and in such situations can only think of how great it would be if my bosses told me to take some time off, go on vacation, don't let them catch me working or they'll fire me. But Foley's trip to Beverly Hills to perform his own investigation yields results so promising that it keeps the movie moving along at a pretty fast pace. Of course we realize the real life odds of a police officer traveling to the other side of the country and immediately stumbling across the major crime organization that he's looking for, but Murphy's quick-talking wit and street-wise charm makes it pretty easy to root for him. The movie has the perfect premise to combine with Murphy's personality &#x96; he's an urban cop from Detroit named Axel Foley who is always driving his boss insane because he doesn't wait for piddly things like authorization when he wants to do major undercover work. The movie opens with one of these undercover and under the radar missions, which culminates in the police being called and then a major car chase through city and residential streets that must have caused millions of dollars in damage. Of course, when the cops have Axel at gunpoint, he gives them a grin and they shake their heads and lower their guns. Aw shucks, it's that crazy Foley again!Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play Detectives Rosewood and Taggart, two of Beverly Hillss finest who are assigned to keep an eye on Foley and make sure he doesn't start doing police work while a dozen states or so outside his jurisdiction, from which he's suspended anyway. So Foley moves around among the Ferraris and BMWs and Mercedeses of Beverly Hills in his ancient, beat up Chevy Nova, cheerfully laughing at Taggart's and Rosewood's bumbling efforts to tail him and doing his investigation right under their noses. In the standard buddy cop movie sitcom, you have two wildly different people thrown together in a police partnership situation and forced to work together. This was a staple of the 1980s and has remained popular to this day, with classic movies like Lethal Weapon, Tango & Cash, 48 hours (one of Murphy's own earlier comedies), Red Heat, Rush Hour (could two cops ever be more different than Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan?), and possibly my favorite, Hot Fuzz. And of course I shouldn't forget Bad Boys, which may very well have so much in common with Beverly Hills Cop as to warrant suspicion of plagiarism. I'll let it go though. I'm sure Eddie Murphy doesn't mind. Anyway, Beverly Hills Cop does follow all of the basic rules of your standard buddy cop movie, but somehow manages to avoid feeling like a formula film. The combination of Axel's determination to avenge his friend's murder is juxtaposed with hilarious situations involving Taggart and Rosewood trying in vain to keep an eye on him, as well as various police organizations tearing their hair out trying to keep him under control. Picture the police chief in Last Action Hero, a bad movie for which I maintain a certain affection, and make him intelligible and add a lot of profanity and you'll get some idea of what's going on here. I don't know that Beverly Hills Cop can quite be called a comedy classic, but it is definitely an action comedy classic.Also keep your eye out for the hilarious cameo from Bronson Pinchot, who you may remember as Balki from Perfect Strangers! Eleventh best TV show ever! "},{"Title":"The Peak of Murphy's Career","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film came out, Eddie Murphy's star was still rising and this pretty much was the pinnacle of his career.  This film is a funny, fast paced, action filled fun ride and Murphy really made the film an enjoyable experience.  Thank God that Sylvester Stallone backed out because I feel the film would have been a very dark intense film.  At least Murphy made Axel into a smart aleck who helped to lighten the mood of the film.  Also, the one underrated performance has to have been Judge Reinhold.  Reinhold makes an art of playing slightly goofy out of it characters and his portrayal of Detective Billy Rosewood was a perfect example of that and John Ashton was the perfect foil as Taggart.  This is definitely one of the top films of the 1980's "},{"Title":"Another brilliant 80s movie","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Without a doubt this film sums up the 80s; a feel-good movie with a great soundtrack and jaw-dropping stunts -- like that shot in the opening chase sequence with the bus doing a powerslide. And of course, Eddie Murphy's hilariously funny one-liners serve as a comic contrast to the violence and profanity. Why can't they make movies like this anymore? "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites witty, warm, and very funny!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Martin Brest has only made five feature films (Going in style, BHC, Midnight run, Scent of a woman, and Meet Joe Black), films strikingly different from one another, but that all share certain traits.  They are finely crafted, energetic, and extraordinarily human.  The warmth and friendship shine through, even through the gun- and fist-play which are obligatory in a cops-and-robbers movie.  This is one of the first and best prototypes of the buddy movie. Brest's casting is superb, and he elicits performances which are often the best of even young actors' careers.  Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, and Ronnie Cox are outstanding, and the ensemble clicks like a well-oiled infield. To me, this movie is still far and away Eddie Murphy's best performance.  He is remarkably talented, a comic genius.  As an actor, his expressions are sometimes outlandish, but always completely in character, and appropriate to the dramatic situation.  Villain Victor Maitland (played by Steven Berkoff, the husband of Alberta Watson, Madeline in La Femme Nikita) is chillingly underplayed; the cold-blooded evil shines through the civilized facade.BHC is one of the few movies which I can watch with my loved ones again and again and never tire.  Even as a comedy, it has a solidness and integrity which make it extremely durable. I look forward eagerly to Martin Brest's next film.  Meanwhile, I always have Beverly Hills Cop. "},{"Title":"The best cop movie ever made!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the past thirty years, there have been more movies made in the cop genre than any other genre. Out of all of the cop movies made, BEVERLY HILLS COP still stands out as the best very best one. Twenty years after it was released into theaters in December of 1984, the movie remains to be one of the most popular and highest grossing action comedies of all time, making $234 million in the U.S. and $316 million worldwide.When his friend Mikey Tandino is murdered, Detroit police officer Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) travels to Beverly Hills to investigate and find Mikey's killer. Lots of gunfire, laughs, and memorable quotes ensue.  Highlights include Bronson Pinchot's cameo, the banana scene, and Eddie Murphy's supercop speech. **** "},{"Title":"Murphy at his best!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BEVERLY HILLS COP (1984) ***1/2 Eddie Murphy, Lisa Eilbacher, Ronny Cox, John Ashton, Judge Reinhold, Paul Reiser, Bronson Pinchot.  Murphy, hot off his debut in `48 HRS' wisely continued to ride his rising star in this his first starring vehicle, tailor-made for his fast-talking, fun-loving, street-smart persona as Detroit undercover cop Axel Foley in this blockbuster hit who heads to posh Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of a good friend mixed up in a drug smuggler's art dealer front headed by equally good friend Eilbacher, and faster than you can say fish-out-of-water he's rousted by Beverly Hills finest, Ashton and Reihold &#150; a modern day Laurel and Hardy if you will, only to continue to fluster as he tries to unearth the muck in the richest city in America.  Pinchot steals the show as the effete, espresso hawiking art shop clerk Serge. Lots of laughs and a good blend of action (this was once earmarked for Sylvester Stallone!) and sprinkled with pop tunes that led to an even bigger soundtrack goldmine.  Waycool instrumental theme music via Harold Faltemeyer. "},{"Title":"Murphy Carries a Movie","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rather than having an incompetent Nick Nolte for a partner as in 48 Hours, Eddie Murphy shows he can take control of a movie all by himself.  This was in the days when Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer were getting started in their modern appeal to the dollar.  It also proves to be the best.  Audio is skimped on, as it always is in their movies, but the highlight is the fact that Martin Brest--previously fired off of WarGames--doesn't let Bruckheimer get in the way of the story.Had a less competent director, say Tony Scott or Michael Bay, been put in charge, the movie would have fallen apart like BHC II did.  Fortunately, Brest knows how far to push things and when to back off.  He is helped by Arthur Coburn and Billy Weber, two of the best editors short of Michael Kahn.  It's too bad that Arthur lost precedence in Hollywood and Billy wound up a slave to Bruckheimer.The charge in this movie is still strong after nearly 20 years, but there are obvious signs of aging.  Thankfully, the dialogue is not Bruckheimer's typical macho-BS, but rather natural and fluid.  Eddie delivers again and again.  The remainder of the cast, obscure as they are fair, but it is John Ashton who has the least trouble with his lines.The only major fault I find with BHC is not in the film itself, but rather in how many times the formula has been duplicated, mimicked, plagarized, and copied.  Each time less inventive or original than the rest.Overall, funny and somewhat vulgar (this is not for fans of Dr. Doolittle or The Nutty Professor), but it shows when Eddie was at his pinnacle of ability...before the inferior screenwriters took over.  A gem of the 80s.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Is this the gentleman who ruined the buffet at the Harrow club this morning?","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Cocky rule dodging Detroit Cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) heads to Beverly Hills in search of those responsible for murdering his friend. Upon getting there he falls foul of everyone he meets with his tough Detroit approach work. Undaunted, Foley, aided by old friend, Jenny Summers (Lisa Eilbacher) and two intrigued local detectives, starts to unravel the mystery.There was a time when Eddie Murphy ruled the world. After Trading Places had introduced us to his sharp comedic tongue, and 48 Hours had shown him to be a more than capable action character actor, Beverly Hills Cop fused the two and propelled Murphy to super-stardom. Directed by Martin Brest and produced by Messers Simpson & Bruckheimer, it's really no surprise that Hills Cop is shallow, simple (fish out of water comedy standard) and utterly commercial. Yet with its gusto, humorous script (Daniel Petrie Jr) and neat plotting, it becomes a hugely entertaining film. One led superbly by Murphy with his comedy fuelled energy and knack for timing.Hard to believe that the likes of Sly Stallone and Al Pacino were first mooted for the role, not as a comedy one imagines, but as it being a standard police action movie. But enter Murphy and it ended up a fine blend of action and comedy. There's little digs at Beverly Hills and its smugness, a way of life that Foley, with his down on the streets toughness, can't comprehend. While opposing police methods also get a wry once over; wonderfully threaded by the relationship between Foley, Taggart (John Ashton) and Rosewood (Judge Reinhold). Steven Berkoff's by the numbers villain is something of a let down and Ronny Cox is sadly playing filler time with an underwritten character. But this is about Murphy, the fabulous stunt work and the successful union of action and comedy. And hey! Even Harold Faltermeyer's bobbing synth score, Axel F, has a nippiness that remains quintessentially 1980s. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The movie that launched Eddie into Superstardom.","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've Seen this movie over Twenty times and i know the scenes word for word.It showed that comedians could be thrown in serious roles,instead of just playing a clown or fool.It was good from start to finish. Glen Frey's song The Heat is on Gets you pumped up to watch the movie.And Axel F is a great theme Song. The movie takes you on a thrill ride from the back of a truck where Murphy's hanging from,high speed chase,chewing out from Axel's boss,To his fish out of water experiences in Beverly Hills.To a Strip Club(funniest scene in movie)-my opinion.To shoot outs ,and cameos by Bronson Pinchot and Damon Wayans.It started a trend in movies too.Movies that followed this one shows that.Formula=ordinary individual,serious role or job,bullets, laughs,a touch of drama or dramatics,chase by car or on foot and over the topness. MUST SEE FOR MURPHY FANS!!!  "},{"Title":"Great star vehicle for Eddie Murphy","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) is a brash young Detroit cop. His childhood friend Mikey returns from LA having crossed the wrong people. Mikey is executed while out with Axel. Axel doesn't get the murder case. So instead he takes his vacation time in Beverly Hills to investigate. There he runs into cops who do things a little differently.It's a simple formula of action and Eddie Murphy hijinx. Eddie Murphy makes jokes, do the action thing, and create havoc. Young Judge Reinhold, grisly John Ashton, and by-the-books Ronny Cox play the Beverly Hills cops. There is the clash of culture, and Murphy's hilarious laugh. This is a star vehicle for Eddie Murphy, and he drives it with style. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's movie with Eddie Murphy","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Do you love the 80's? Good. Eddie Murphy plays Alex Foley, a cop from Detroit, whose friend is murdered in Beverly Hills. He then goes to Beverly Hills and sets out to solve the crime without his boss knowing about it. He tells people he is on vacation.Beverly Hills Cop is a good action-comedy classic that is a must-see. The movie was awarded the People's Choice Award for Favourite Motion Picture and stuntman Eddy Donno was awarded Best Vehicular Stunt (Feature Film) of the Stuntman Awards (1985). Cast includes Murphy, Judge Reinhold as Billy Rosewood, John Ashton (Sergeant John Taggart), Lisa Eilbacher as Jenny and Ronny Cox as Lt. Andrew Bogomil. Beverly Hills Cop led to 2 more sequels and it is said there is a fourth one in the works as of the writing of this review. Beverly Hills Cop is directed by American screenwriter, producer and film director Martin Brest, which was the big one for Brest as well. Murphy is funny and entertaining in Beverly Hills Cop and he and Reinhold make this movie a huge hit. For you 80's fans, you'll enjoy the 80's styled music and overall feel of this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Buddy Cop Movie","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of Eddie Murphy's earlier movies and thankfully still one of his best. Beverly Hills Cop was made around the time when Eddie couldn't seem to make a bad movie, 'Trading Places' '48Hrs' 'Beverly Hills Cop' 'Golden Child' - these were all made at the start of his movie career and they never failed to hit the mark.Beverly Hills Cop is probably still his best film though, certainly his best leading role. Its wall to wall action and gags from start to finish, and its all carried along with a solid storyline and dialogue.Judge Reinhold & John Ashton are his partners in crime fighting and their character development through the film is great fun to watch, adding more laughs as the story develops.Its a real shame Eddie went on to make some of his later movies, like 'Haunted Mansion' and 'Dr Dolittle' but i forgive him for all his bad films every time i hear him as the voice of everyone's favourite CGI donkey in the Shrek movies.All in all Beverly Hills Cop entertains on every level, and is a safe bet for every movie fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of Murphy's Best.","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   A black Detroit cop travels to Beverly Hills California to investigate the murder of his long time friend. upon arrival, however, Axel (Murphy) discovers that Beverly Hills is quite different from his routes in Detroit. Eddie Murphy shines in one of his best roles of all time. The plot remains interesting but gets slightly silly when it comes to the finale. The cop duo that follows Axel everywhere are a bit too stupid and unfunny, but Murphy's hilarious moments make up for their performances. To keep the pace, the film features one of cinemas most famous and loved music scores Axel. F. Although Murphy's recent films have been pretty bad, he will always have bragging rights to this excellent example of action and comedy.***/**** "},{"Title":"One Of Eddie Murphy's Best","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is one of my favorite Eddie Murphy movies.  It had all the quality elements for a great movie;  writing, a great cast;  Ronny Cox as Lt Bogomil, John Ashton as Sgt Taggart, Lisa Elibacher as Jenny Summers and Steven Berkoff.  Berkoff as Victor Maitland was an excellent villain;  Someone you could hate and want to see go down.  This movie helped launch some actors who were unknowns at the time;  Paul Reiser as Jeffery, Judge Reinhold as Billy Rosewood, Bronson Pinchot as Serge.  Bronson Pinchot stole the scene where Axel enters Victor's art gallery for the first time and Paul Reiser was funny, annoying but likable at the same time as Jeffery.In addition, other unknowns were showcased briefly; Damon Wayans as the Banana Man and a very young Gunny from JAG (Randy Vasquez) as the Beverly Palms Hotel Bellhop.Overall, this movie is funny, full of suspense and well done.  This is one of Eddie Murphy's best. "},{"Title":"Funny 80s Movie","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a movie with good acting by Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, and John Ashton, fueled by their great chemistry together.  The villains are some of the most despicable in all of movie cinema.  The directing is right on target in delivering a stylish film straight out of the 80s. The movie will rank right up there as one of the best action-comedies of all time.  Raise your glass's to Beverly Hills Cop! "},{"Title":"One of Eddie Murphy's best movies...","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is one of those DVD's that you need in your collection. It is filled with great acting, great music, and lots of comedy. This movis is one of Eddie Murphy's best, I think it goes like this Beverly Hills Cop, Trading Places, 48HRS, in that order. One of his famous lines is Trust Me. If you have not seen this movie, then you do not know what you are missing. Get it and add it to your collection today! - Chad Castorina  "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Greatest Achievment!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" SpoilersThis is Eddie's Murphy's greatest achievement! This is the movie that jump started his great career. Did you know that Beverly Hills Cop has held the all time record for the highest grossing rated R film. That record has held up for 19 years. It will be broken by the Matrix Revolutions. Wow...that's a long time.Eddie Murphy plays Axel Foley, a street wise, loud, cool, detective, in Detroit. His child hood fan, Mickey comes by to visit Foley in Detroit. After a night on the town, Mickey is murdered by 2 mysterious men. Foley was knocked unconscious and was unable to save his friend. Foley wants to avenge his friend and without his captain's consent, he goes to Beverly Hills to track down the 2 murderers. What Foley finds out is that his other child hood friend Jenny Summers is working at an art gallery in Beverly Hills. The owner Victor Maitland employed Mickey at his wearhouse. Foley tries to ask Maitland a few questions and is thrown out of a glass window. The Beverly Hills Police Dept. decides to keep a watch out on Foley. This is where the comedy begins.....Foley plays pranks on the 2 detecives Taggert (John Ashton), and Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) as they chase him along. Foley decides that the 3 detectives should work together and help him solve the case. Foley finds out that Maitland is smuggling drugs through coffe grounds. And they get the shipments before it comes out through customs. They also smuggle US Bonds which Mickey took, and got caught with. Foley then pesters Maitland to give up. There is a halarious scene in which Foley acts as if he knows Maitland and that he has a special message to tell him he he....Foley gets to close Maitland kidnaps Jenny and then Foley gets caught by Maitland's henchmen. Rosewood helps Foley and Jenny escape. They all go to Maitland's house for a final shootout.This is a great movie. This started the whole comedy action genre. Murphy is an abosolute comedic genious!!! Most of the great comedic scenes are all improvised by Murphy himself. All of the actors were great!!!!!! The DVD is cool with a couple of special features with commentery from the cast and Jerry Bruckheimer. This was a HUGE BOX OFFICE SUCCESS!!! It was second to Ghostbusters as the top grossing movies of 1984. This is followed by 2 sequel Beverly Hills Cop 2, and 3. There are rumors of Beverly Hills Cop 4. But with a more family oriented Murphy, it is very had to say if he would do another Beverly Hills Cop movie. I did hear he is interested in revising the role one more time. Bruckheimer is also interested as well. I hope it works out.........Majid "}{"Title":"Absolute Classic!!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of my favorite comedies of all time! Thank god the Execs at Paramount gave this role to Eddie instead of Sly Stallone.  This was supposed to be a pure action movie and Eddie turned it into one the funniest movies to date.For all you young people who wonder why Eddie Murphy is so popular and keeps getting big bucks to do crappy kids movies, give this one a chance and you'll see why he is one of the greatest comedians ever!!ps.  All the best scenes in the movie (at least the funny ones) were improvised on the spot by the MAN himself! "},{"Title":"Solid mix of action and comedy","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy is one of my favorite actors and this film is one of the main reason's.  Its got lots of solid action(the chase at the beginning is cool, and the ending shootout is top notch).  The comedy bits are very funny as well, including the scene where he is able to get in to the fancy restaurant by pretending hes got some sort of weird disease.  All this and more make this a top notch action comedy and if your and Eddie Murphy fan and have not seen this go out and rent it, or better yet buy it, its an essential watch.  4.5/5 "},{"Title":"very classic eddie comedy will succeed forever!!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this was the most funniest, most action filled comedy i have ever seen! the actors here are wonderful in there classic roles! eddie's character axel foley wants to get revenge on  the smugglers who smuggle drugs who kill his friend. mikey, played by james russo. (my own private idaho) the film is violent, and is    very highly funny! while he enters beverly hills! meeting serge was hilarious perfect strarngers bronson pinchot was wonderful! and british actor steven berkoff (octopussy, a clockwork orange) as victor maitland, who is supposed to be a art expert, but, is a drug smuggler.  ronny cox, john ashton and judge renhold are hilarious in there  roles, as the cops who are mysterious of  axel at first, but then all become buddies! i thought it was funny, when axel makes funny, sarcastic jokes throughout the film.  there is also  a cameo by damon wayans as a banana boy.  this movie was hilarious.  the chases between ashton an reinhold torwards murphy, and  the two other cops banana in the tail pipe joke.  this movie originally was going to star sylvester stallone! it wouldn't have worked, if he had the role. good thing they  chose murphy. paul reiser is in it too. as well, as detroit city councilman  gilbert r. hill, (gil hill) was hilarious in all of the cop films. this movie is hilarious, exciting, and refreshing murphy comedy!  his most classic one.  "},{"Title":"Violent, Funny and Entertaining.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yes, it's violent, but it is also a very entertaining funny film as well.There have still not been many Murphy films that live up to this one. Judge Reinhold(also in the follow ups) aldo puts in what is still probably his best on screen performance to date.Action, Laughs, Guns and tension, extremely good watch.9/10. "},{"Title":"A Milestone in movie history","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before BHC, there really hadn't been a wisecracking cop in a movie, at least in the lead. But Eddie Murphy in his prime, took on the unforgettable role of Axel Foley. The action and plot are standard of course, but Murphy has all the punches and punchlines to drive this to break box office records, bring joy to audiences and break barriers in movie history. See it for Murphy.  "},{"Title":"Murphy at his best","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is a great comedy filled with action and loads of laughs. Eddie Murphy plays Axel Foley, a Detroit cop who makes his way to Beverly Hills to investigate his friend's death. There he meets up with all sorts of trouble. This movie has some nice action sequences (nice opening one and good ending one) plus tons of laughs. Murphy is just brilliant. Also, the soundtrack is great, pure 1980's. If you haven't seen this film, go rent it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"So funny...","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy has never, and probably will never make a better film than this.  Beverly Hills cop is an 80's classic with a tremendous soundtrack, glorious car chases, and Judge Rheinhold and John Ashton fooling around as two dimwitted cops.  Makes Lethal Weapon and all other imitations look bland. "},{"Title":"WOOOHOOOOO","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Killing vibrations!!!! Eddie Murphy's best performance ever!!!!! Beverly Hills Cop 1 is the best of the three. It's packed with comedy and action on a high level. For the true Eddie-fan this is the prime movie ( why wouldn't they have already seen it?? ). Eddie Murphy, mixed with Martin Brest and the incredible cool theme song ( Axel F ) makes this a cool 80s classic.The heat is on!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Murphy at his best!!!!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is Eddy Murphy at his best. This is the hilarious action, comedy Beverly Hills Cop. I have seen a lot of Eddy Murphy films, and I would have to say this is his best one. This movie is one of the most loved movies ever made, and is in the top ten biggest office hits in history.  If you are in the mood for a good laugh watch this hilarious film. In my personal opinion, I think this is the best comedy ever, and Eddy Murphy is the best Comedian. If you would like to see another great Murphy film see 48 HRS. "},{"Title":"murphy and movie are great!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy at his prime! The movie is awesomely good. I recommend it to everybody! "}{"Title":"The Heat Is On","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time I saw this film was as a terrestrial tv premier, one Christmas holiday. Now not having seen it before, I found this edited for tv version hilarious. A few years later, I finally had my chance to watch it in all its profanity strewn glory. The moment where Foley's (Murphy) boss first walks into the the locker room, and launches into a tirade of F words, is just incredibly funny, especially if like me you believe that a proper comedy should contain swearing. As far as the story stands, Murphy is Axel Foley, the motormouthed detective with attitude. When an old friend of his is killed, he goes in search of the perpetrators. The case leads him to Beverly Hills, where he eventually teams up with two local cops (John Ashton playing grumpy and Judge Reinhold his younger, more easily influenced partner), and we move from great scene to great scene (a banana in the tail pipe, and a strip bar to name two). Murphy is electric in the role that made him the biggest star of the period, his street talk is funny and very profane. Ashton and Reinhold give able support, as the often bickering detective duo, and Steven Berkoff is suitably menacing as the villain. There is also a stomach achingly funny cameo from Bronson Pinchot as a camp art gallery employee, and his scene with Murphy lives long in the memory. In fact, many of the best comic moments are the sort you suddenly think of on the bus/train, and cause you to laugh out loud in public. To this day it stands as the highest grossing R rated film in America, and it lasted 13 weeks at the number 1 spot, a record recently broken by Titanic. "},{"Title":"One of the only times Murphy's talents has not been misused.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first time I saw this back in the 80's I thought that it was hilarious. Since then the passage of time has dimmed the luster a little but I still think that this is one of the best Murphy vehicles ever. His wisecracks was totally uninhibited and it shows.Since then there has been some good and very bad Murphy movies but when this first came out, his humour was enormously fresh. His sheep-like laugh was the clincher and has since been imitated, but never duplicated.The plot is not much to speak off and you could only wonder what a disaster it could have been if Sylvester Stallone had been cast, as was originally intended. The idea of a black man rubbing the very white people in Beverly Hills the wrong way is of course brilliantly thought out and I can't think of other actors who could portray the white cops better than the people chosen here.The one thing I will always remember about this was of course the theme song by Harold Faltermayer. It had some kind of inexplicably hold on you that you nearly whistled the tune out loud every time you heard it. While not in the league of Martin Brests next film, Midnight Run it will always be a fond memory of the time Murphy could do no wrong until Best Defense was released. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy Man With A Mission","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In a film originally intended to be a Sylvester Stallone vehicle, Eddie Murphy finally made the big transition from Saturday Night Live player to and scene stealing partner to the likes of Nick Nolte (48 Hours) and Dan Aykroyd (Trading Places) a full fledged movie star. Murphy plays a tough, street smart and sometimes very unlikely Detroit cop (and naturally an ex-con himself) who heads to Beverly Hills when a long time friend is mysteriously murdered. There he hooks up with another old friend, Jenny, and makes an uneasy alliance with local cop Judge Reinhold while the other cops (John Ashton, Ronny Cox) take to an immediate dislike to Murphy.This is a great showcase for Murphy fast talking antics and trademark laugh as he stays one step ahead of the cops and villains alike and generally spouts all kinds of nonsense that you can't help laughing at. Also memorable is the theme music and the song Stir It Up. Don't miss Murphy impersonating a homosexual and mocking a fellow black police officer's way of talking.  "},{"Title":"My favorite Eddie Murphy film!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Every time I see Eddie Murphy the first thing that comes to mind is Beverly Hills Cop and how wonderful of a movie this is.  This film is possibly one of the best action-comedy films out there.  The action is done extremely well, the comedy is right on, the characters are likable, the acting is fantastic, and the story is great.Eddie Murphy really shines in this role as Axel Foley, a very likable Detroit Cop, and does a fantastic job of laying out the groundwork for a great franchise, as does director Martin Brest.  Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play Axel's Beverly Hills counterparts.  Both pulling off fantastic performances and playing very enjoyable characters.  Ronny Cox also does a fine job with his role in the film.  Bronson Pinchot and Paul Reiser also deserve some notice as well, despite having very little screen time, they both make the best of it.  I'd also like to point a little known actor named Damon Wayans in the film, playing an extremely small part, but nonetheless a good one (he's the man that gives Axel the bananas).As I mentioned before the action and the comedy are right on and the scenes flows very nicely together, you never once get bored throughout the film.  If you are one of the few people on this earth that hasn't seen Beverly Hills Cop, I strongly suggest you watch this one.  It's a fantastic film and deserves to be seen.  Hope you enjoy(ed) it.  Thanks for reading,-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"Eddie's Best!!!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I admit, I haven't seen this film for a few years now, but I remember seeing it the last time and thinking, This is as funny now as it was in 1984!I have always thought Eddie Murphy was one of the funniest people in Hollywood.  From his days on S.N.L. to his comedy albums that I had to listen to with headphones to movies like '48 Hours' and 'Trading Places', I thought Eddie was fabulous.  When I saw 'Beverly Hills Cop', I knew right then that his career could only down from there.Don't get me wrong, he's done some funny stuff since then, but none of it comes close to Axel Foley in this movie.  Not even the sequels came close...then again, very few sequels ever do.Still, I'd have to say one of my favorite parts of this movie deals with Axel meeting Serge (Bronson Pinchot) for the first time.  I laugh just thinking about it.Do yourself a favor.  Watch this movie.  It is extremely funny and sure to please.Oh, and by the way, remember that the Eddie Murphy in this movie is the pre-'Nutty Professor'/'Dr. Dolittle'/'Shrek' Eddie Murphy.  This is not a show for your kids! "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's finest moment","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Lets get things in perspective, everyone involved plays their part well enough but it's Eddie Murphy who carries this film from start to finish. I hear everyone saying how Martin Lawrence is going to be the next Eddie Murphy, or how Chris Tucker's going to be the next Eddie Murphy but none of these guys have proved to me that there capable of carrying a film like Murphy does here. While Murphy does carry the film, he is helped by two other elements which make the film a success. Firstly the film contains the best soundtrack of the 80's, featuring such gems as the heat is on and stir it up, people sometimes underestimate how much a good soundtrack can mean to a film. And secondly a great script which surprisingly (yet deservingly) got nominated for an Oscar.  "},{"Title":"A timeless classic","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" That the film turned out to be coherent is a miracle. That it is successful proves there is a God. -Martin Brest on his own movie.It's easy to understand his feelings when you consider the endless changes made to Danilo Bach and Daniel Petrie Jr's script. They got an Academy Award nomination, but the final product is a million miles away from what they originally conceived.Axel Foley was originally written for Mickey Rourke, then it was geared around Sylvester Stallone, who significantly rewrote the script further before abandoning the project a couple of weeks before shooting was scheduled to begin. Eddie Murphy was brought on board at the last minute, and the script was re-written yet again to form the movie we know today. Bizarrely, all of the work Stallone did on the script was recycled into his reprehensible 1986 action movie Cobra, which, on top of being nothing at all like Beverly Hills Cop, called itself an adaptation of a novel called Fair Game by Paula Gosling (which it also bore little-to-no resemblance to). Nine years later, that novel was once again made into a movie of the same name starring William Baldwin and Cindy Crawford, which bore no resemblance to Cobra. When I say that Beverly Hills Cop had the biggest hodgepodge of a shooting script ever, you better believe it.The story could not get any simpler. Young renegade Detroit cop Axel Foley, forever tormenting his no-nonsense boss with his reckless antics, meets up with a childhood pal only for him to be murdered that very night. Axel follows the trail and travels to Beverly Hills in his crappy, banged-up sky-blue Chevy Nova. It's a world away from the streets of Detroit. Even the patrol cops look like soap opera actors. Axel's fast and loose work ethic, barely on the good side of the law, doesn't sit well with the Beverly Hills police department. Detectives Taggart and Rosewood (John Ashton and Judge Reinhold doing a Laurel and Hardy routine) are assigned to keep an eye on Axel as he very quickly discovers the bad guy.No twists, no surprises, and barely a couple layers deep, it's amazing that a story so superficial is able get 105 minutes of mileage. The film works thanks to Murphy's cheerful, upbeat performance and Martin Brest's ability to keep it light. Beverly Hills Cop would not have worked as a dark thriller. Harold Faltermeyer's iconic score and world-famous Axel F theme tune certainly help the happy-go-lucky nature.There are certainly shortcomings. Steven Berkoff, as Victor Maitland, is completely unconvincing as the villain. In fact, with the exception of Bennett from Commando, he's probably the least threatening/most campiest villain I've ever seen in a movie. And, as I have mentioned, the story is very straightforward. Taggart and Rosewood do virtually no police work and are just bystanders watching and reacting to Axel's hustles. Apart from one cruise along Rodeo Drive, we never really see or feel the glamor of Beverly Hills to juxtapose it next to the grime of Detroit. There are just too many interior scenes.But it never fails to entertain and is truly the highlight of Murphy's career. Once, long before he sold out to family audiences, his R-rated movies were huge business, and Beverly Hills Cop showcases his leading man ability at its very best. "},{"Title":"Best curse show ever.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The funniest R rated film ever. The opening scene I'm a businessman, talk to me establishes the mood as we listen in on Eddie Murphy doing his trademank jive talk. A few minutes later, Inspector Todd breaks the all-time record for cursing in a hilarious scene with Eddie and Paul Reiser listening on. The film is well cast all the way down to the smallest roles and Eddie is in top form, but not enough credit has been given to the excellent screenplay. A lot of people forget that the script was nominated for an Oscar. They think Eddie improvised all his lines and that all they did was insert swear words. What they actually did was take a classic fish out of water premise (Eddie in Beverly Hills!) and spin a wonderful variaion on it with rich, lovable characters and creative use of language. The salty language in this movie is used in a way that stings more than actual violence does. Could Inspector Todd be any more menacing if he actually had a weapon in his hands? No. His mouth is the weapon. Every character in this movie, all the way down to the Bronson Pinchot character, has a unigue way with words. It's the screenplay, not just the energtic acting, that will alow this movie to stand the test of time. Also check out Director Martin Brest's follow up film, Midnight Run, which also has a screenplay laced with salty words spoken poetically and richly drawn characters.    "},{"Title":"Do you want a bit of lemon twist?","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley is a reckless Detroit detective. After the murder of his friend, he travels to California to investigate and track down the killer, who he believes operate an arts dealership as a cover in Beverly Hills. He teams up with two reluctant detectives from the Beverly Hills police force who were supposed to keep a watch on him. But after seeing Foley's different approach to tackling criminals and other illegitimate businesses, they have no other choice but to help him....Here's another movie that gives strong evidence as to 1984 being the best year for movies ever, Beverly Hills Cop isn't just a great action comedy, it's one of the greatest comedies ever made and personifies the eighties as a really great time to be growing up.Murphy easily peaked his career making this, and when watching this, you know that he knows he is making something special, something huge, and on such a straightforward concept.What makes it so iconic though is that you can tell that everyone is enjoying themselves making this, and how at ease everyone is with each other, almost making you feel that you are part of Foley's world, because he is such a likable, and relatable character.Murphy steals almost every scene that he's in, and each little situation almost feels like a comedy sketch, but the writes and narrative seamlessly add the sketch into the plot.The rest of the cast know that this is Murphy's vehicle and just let him go for it. The only Pearson in the film that usurps Murphy is one Bronson Pinchot, and that's only because his part is very short, but memorable for all the right reasons.It's a wonderful, bright, sunny movie that epitomises the eighties, and even the synth soundtrack and hilarious outfits, can't age this movie.Because laughter is timeless...... "},{"Title":"Nice, Quiet Place Out of Town...Very Conservative!","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the best action comedies I have ever watched!The film is about a Detroit police officer Axel Foley, whom is visited by an old friend, Mikey Tandino, from when they were juveniles. The happy reunion, however, is short lived when hit men come and whack Foley's friend, which leads to Foley going to Beverly Hills, where his friend last worked.Along the way, he reunites with Jenny Summers, a girl who used to know both Foley and Tandino, but whilst investigating gets thrown out of a window and arrested. This is where he meets Detective Rosewood, Sergeant Taggart and Lieutenant Bogomil. Following a rocky start, they begin to form a partnership that allows Foley to finally find out why Tandino was killed!The film is brilliantly filmed, with an abundance of punchlines and comedy to go with blistering action sequences. Has a very feel-good sense to it, and one of my favourite movie scenes of all time when Foley tricks Rosewood and Taggart into following him into a striptease joint by saying something along the lines of he knows a nice, quiet place out of town...very conservative!Need some action? Need a laugh? Need to just feel good about life? Watch this film!! "}{"Title":"Pure 80's Classic","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In Short Fun, easy to watch, plot driven, timeless classic.Okay! So you have Eddie Murphy, his trademark laugh, out of town meeting Beverly Hills, all set in the 80's! These ingredients are already going to make a cute/fun, comedy. This movie isn't filled with deep, thought provoking, material. This movie isn't about nailing just one audience. This is a flick that showcases what Eddie Murphy has always done best; Eddie Murphy can make EVERYONE laugh.Though his humor may not be G-Rated, once you are old enough to watch this, or his legendary stand-up specials, Eddie's humor is always a welcome addition to an audience of two, or less people. This movie has one thing that other films from this time do not, when showcasing the talents of a famous comedian. This movie has a driving plot, that is actually what the movie revolves around, rather than the plot revolving around the jokes. I have seen it so many times, and will probably keep watching it every 7 years. "},{"Title":"This film is about a touch street wise Detroit detective named Axel Foley (Spoiler)","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is about a tough street wise Detroit detective named Axel Foley played by Eddie Murphy, who is out to avenge the death of his childhood friend Mikey Tandino (James Russo). Mikey had recently returned from Los Angeles and had been tracked down and killed by his former employer for theft of smuggled bonds.After the murder Axel heads to Los Angeles to seek more information about Mikey's past and who could have ordered the killing. The film's theme revolved around Axel taking whatever steps necessary to solve the crime, whether those methods were legal or illegal. He begins his search for answers by first visiting another childhood friend Jenny Summers (Lisa Eilbacher) and she informs him that her employer Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff) hired Mikey as a favor to her.Thus begins Axel's fact finding about what type of business man Victor really is. During his search for answers he is in constant conflict with the Beverly Hills Police Department over his choice of tactics in the search for the truth about Victor. He is constantly reprimanded by Lt. Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox) and tailed by Detectives John Taggart and Billy Rosewood (John Ashton and Judge Reinhold).Once Axel uncovers the truth about Victor he convinces Detective Rosewood to take him to Victor's warehouse where he believes a drug shipment is located. He entered with his friend Jenny and while she is kidnapped, Axel with Billy's help is able to escape and team up with Taggart and Rosewood to rescue Jenny and avenge his friend's death by killing Victor Maitland.The film used different aspects to portray Axel in many different scenes. To establish Axel as a tough street wise cop from Detroit the mood was gray and a montage was used in the beginning of the film to show a depressed city and a struggling population. Once Axel arrived in Beverly Hills a sunny, bright montage was presented displaying economic well-being and an environment that Axel would have to adjust to in solving the crime.The use of close ups throughout the film were very effective in both a comedic sense and to display character emotions. They were used extensively by the filmmaker to establish points at the end of different scenes.Axel's do whatever it takes mentality was extremely effective throughout the film. The film flowed well and Axel's common sense crime solving, much like Dirty Harry (Clint Eastwood) was effective and kept viewers on the edge of their seat, always wondering what was next. It was refreshing to see Axel solve the crime from the comedic and common sense view rather than Dirty harry just bullying or eliminating everything he needed to in order to solve the crime. "},{"Title":"A buddy cop genre film from the 1980's that is guaranteed to make you laugh!","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This review contains spoilers please be advised!Beverly Hills Cop, a 1984 cop genre film that stars amazing performances by Eddie Murphy (Det. Alex Foley), Judge Reinhold (Det. Billy Rosewood), and Gilbert R. Hill (Insp. Douglas Todd). This action based film follows Detroit detective Axel Foley on his mission across the country in California to find out who murdered his old friend Mikey Tandino (James Russo). After Mikey is murdered Axel is left with only a few clues but with his quick wit and cheap tricks he quickly finds himself picking up the scent of some corrupt characters that could have something to do with his investigation. With a strong theme of revenge this film does a great job of blending comedy and action together making it an instant classic.Axel is explicitly told not pursue his investigation of Mikey's murder by his chief inspector back in Detroit. With the threat of the truth about his actions in Beverly Hills getting back to his Detroit chief the local Lt. Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox), plagues Axel with constant surveillance by his own detectives. Just like other buddy cop movies like Lethal Weapon and 48 hours this movie takes three extremely different characters and forces them to join forces to catch the criminals. Axel's outrageous stunts and unorthodox way of scouting out information clash with the strictly by the book ways of local detectives Billy Rosewood and Det. Sgt. John Taggart (John Ashton). Of course, it's not all roses and unicorns for this dynamic trio in the beginning. Rosewood and Taggart are deceived by Axel's devious ways and comedic antics while attempting to follow their orders. Eventually they too take the streetwise ways of Axel after the trail of clues leads them the ultimate truth that Victor Maitland, a supposed upstanding business man, is actually a corrupt crime boss. With the reoccurring motif of good versus evil represented by differences between Victor's lifestyle and that of the most of the police detectives in the film. The good guys are the hardworking Americans that are struggling with their finances while the corrupt evil Victor Maitland lives luxuriously off of his illegal activities. The tension between good and evil is exaggerated by the camera angles the cinematographer chooses when the main characters are engaged in heated and most of the time ambiguous conversations. In the end the relentless detective Axel gets his revenge for the murder of his friend Mikey in the form of the apprehension of Victor Maitland and his despicable henchmen. With a soundtrack that keeps the action going and the comedy relief of Eddie Murphy's constant antics this film is and will remain to be one of the all-time best cop genre revenge movies. "},{"Title":"Murphy in his prime and at his best.","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When it comes to his career in films,beyond the 1980's,there's little for Eddie Murphy to brag about short of his Oscar nominated turn in Dreamgirls.It was nice coming back and seeing the man in his prime and at his best after so many years of mostly hit and miss.It's basically your typical fish out of water story.A hot shot Detroit cop goes to Beverly Hills to seek answers in the death of a good friend.You have a good mixture here of Murphy's great comedic talent mixed with explosive action sequences and a synthesizer heavy music soundtrack that was typical of that decade.For my money,it's Eddie's best work on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Tops","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was one of the biggest comedies of all time. Before this film, there were black comedians in movies that never reached their promise. Eddie Murphy coming off 48 Hours and Trading Places hit the ball out of the park. He set the template for every black comedy actor to follow which is a bit of a curse in itself.This is essentially a fish out of water film, with a pure 80s soundtrack, violence, action and a bundle of laughs. The bad guys are vicious and menacing, there is very little charm in Steven Berkoff and Jonathan Banks.Its the Beverley Hills setting that gives Murphy's character full reign to contrast the police procedures in his native Detroit to that of the more sedate Los Angeles enclave of the rich and famous. Great support from John Ashton, Judge Reinhold and Ronny Cox. "},{"Title":"One of the best action/ comedies ever filmed","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the best action/ comedies ever filmed Fish-out-of-water Detroit cop Murphy goes rogue and tracks down a friend's killer in swanky Beverly Hills. Initially running afoul of local authorities, he realises that he needs their help and cooperation.Murphy's funniest movie, matching wits with Judge Reinhold and John Ashton, who are equally good. The three of them play off each other perfectly here. Their Super Cop scene make me laugh every time I watch it. Bronson Pinchot's notoriously funny cameo is another highlight, and the dynamite music score is another asset.The title sequence drops us into the bowels of Detroit, its slums, but the more upbeat music keeps it from being depressing or morose; then contrasts that with posh and swanky Beverly Hills; the complete opposite and antithesis of Detroit's slums.Unusual arrangement of scenes early on (musical montage during opening credits/ then action scene/ then intro Michael Tandino to set up the main plot/ then two more musical montages as Murphy gets to Beverly Hills) works surprisingly well, it keeps the momentum going perfectly, without feeling like too much of a gimmick trying to sell a soundtrack record.The film is a hell of a lot of fun to watch, a great time almost from start to finish, marred only slightly by a couple of awkward changes in tone, especially toward the end. "},{"Title":"Loud and Profane","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Detroit cop goes to Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of his friend. This formulaic fish-out-of-water movie became a surprising hit, leading to multiple sequels. Although he doesn't really have any funny lines, Murphy is loud and foul-mouthed, which apparently many find hilarious. There are only a couple of scenes that are mildly amusing, courtesy of Reinhold and Ashton as straight-laced Beverly Hills cops. Cox is fine as a lieutenant, Berkoff makes a good villain, and Pinchot is funny in a brief role. Most of the situations are idiotic and the final shootout is quite ineptly staged, with bad guys wielding machine guns unable to hit open targets. "},{"Title":"Is this the best buddy cop action comedy ever made?","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Beverly Hills Cop' is possibly the best buddy cop action comedy ever made. There was a time when Eddie Murphy was the biggest movie star on the planet, and 'Beverly Hills Cop' shows him at the top of his powers. The balance of action and comedy is perfect, and the film opens with a spectacular car chase which really sets the tone for what is to follow. Murphy is wonderful as the wisecracking Detective Axel Foley, a Detroit police officer who goes to Beverly Hills to solve the murder of his friend, Mikey Tandino (James Russo). In Beverly Hills Foley tangles with Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff), a wealthy art dealer and the villain of the piece.Excellent support is offered by Judge Reinhold as Detective William 'Billy' Rosewood, John Ashton as Detective Sergeant John Taggart, and Ronny Cox as Lieutenant Andrew Bogomil. 'Beverly Hills Cop' was a massive blockbuster; it cost fourteen million dollars to make, and grossed nearly two hundred and thirty million.Bronson Pinchot really steals the show as Serge, a flamboyant salesperson at the Beverly Hills Art Gallery, and look fast for Damon Wayans as a banquet waiter. Unlike a lot of people, I also like director Martin Brest's later films 'Meet Joe Black' and 'Gigli'. I think they were both unnecessarily reviled. Sure, 'Joe Black' is really long, but it is also very rewarding.'Beverly Hills Cop' is just one of those films where everything slots neatly into place. It was an early hit for the incredibly successful producer team of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, and the soundtrack is pure platinum, featuring such artists as Glenn Frey and The Pointer Sisters. Murphy just oozes charisma from every pore, and he has some great lines to work with. A real classic. "},{"Title":"Funny 80's Movie!","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I have seen from the 80's other than Ghostbusters. I know we seen this plot so many times before but not in the 80's. Most people nowadays complains about the clichés in this movie. I think they should just watch the movie as if it's 1984.This is about Detroit cop Axel Foley who heads to Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of his best friend. He finds out that an evil tycoon is behind this but no one including the police believe Axel.This movie came out in Eddie Murphy's heyday. He was a fine actor in the 80's. It's only when the 2000's came when he made bad movie after bad movie(except Shrek). Judge Reinhold really adds comedy to the cops with his portrayal.Another thing that stands out is the music. Of course, everybody knows about the song, Axel F. This is one of the best soundtracks in modern movie history.Overall this is a great comedy/action movie. I kind of wish that I was able to see these 80's movies in theaters. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing the peace? I got thrown out of a window!","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nominated for an Oscar, a Golden Globe, and a BAFTA Award among others, this film defined Eddie Murphy, and put him on top. It is, in my opinion, his greatest role.I loved him in 48 Hours and Trading Places, but this role defined him, and he never topped this performance. Maybe that is why Beverly Hills Cop IV is in development.But, Murphy didn't do it alone. He had Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Lisa Eilbacher, and Ronny Cox to back him up. And, let's not forget Bronson Pinchot as Serge.A perfect blend of comedy, police work, and characters. Great music, too. "}{"Title":"Beverly Hills Cop","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy had great success in Saturday Night Live, and a good debut debut into film with 48 Hours, but this was the blockbuster that propelled him into stardom, from director Martin Brest (Scent of a Woman, Meet Joe Black). Basically Det. Axel Foley (Golden Globe nominated Murphy) is the young, talkative and wise-cracking Detroit cop, who while reckless in his crime solving has become talented since reforming from his hoodlum days. He delighted to see his childhood friend Mikey Tandino (James Russo), saying he is working in Beverly Hills as a security guard with Axel's mutual friend Jeannette 'Jenny' Summers (Lisa Eilbacher). Then Mikey is murdered right in front of Axel by a man named Zack (Jonathan Banks), and he is compelled to investigate the murder. Axel pretends to go on vacation in Beverly Hills to his boss Inspector Douglas Todd (Gil Hill), but there Lt. Andrew Bogomil (Total Recall's Ronny Cox) assigns Det. William 'Billy' Rosewood (Ruthless People's Judge Reinhold) and Det. Sgt. John Taggart (John Ashton) to keep an eye on him. With the help of Jenny, Axel meets her boss, and Mikey's one-time boss also, art gallery owner Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff), who doubles as a drug kingpin, using the gallery as a cover-up. After confirming all the suspicions, Axel, with the co-operation of Bogomil, and the help of Rosewood and Taggart, they all go to bring Maitland to justice. Also starring Stephen Elliott as Police Chief Hubbard, Gilbert R. Hill as Insp. Douglas Todd, Art Kimbro as Det. Foster, Joel Bailey as Det. McCabe and Bronson Pinchot as Serge. You have to remind yourself sometimes that Murphy was a huge star famed for his foul mouth before going into the family films genre, but that is one of the big hooks, my favourite lines are his Get the f*** out of here! to the foreign and camp art guy. Anyway, Murphy really throws himself into this fun role that could have gone to Sylvester Stallone, he has a great swagger attitude to the character, and the supporting cast add to the fun as well. I have to admit also that the Axel F theme tune by Harold Faltermeyer is great, but sometimes I can't help but think of the Crazy Frog (which I do like). I was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Score for Harold Faltermeyer, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Eddie Murphy was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Axel F was number 28 on 50 Greatest One Hit Wonders, and the film was number 63 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, and it was number 44 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Is this the gentleman who disabled an unmarked unit with a banana?","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is among the top of my populist list of favorites, meaning movies made to please Friday night moviegoers and renters more than the refined tastes of critics. A big part of why I love this movie is because I grew up on it. I loved Eddie Murphy as a kid. Whether he's a brilliant actor or not, or whether or not the majority of his movies are very good, he has an energy completely apart from a movie itself. He's simply Eddie, in the face of whatever his characters' adversities are. But this isn't the reason I still love this movie as an adult. Watching now, I'm seeing a sharply written fish-out-of-water story---a clever insight into how a character behaves out of his element---masquerading as a Hollywood blockbuster star vehicle.It opens with a way-over-the-top chase between a huge semi-truck and various Keystone-like squadcars, which would be exciting if it didn't function primarily as a Pointer Sisters music video. Neutron Dance is the foreground of this set-piece, not the imagery it's scoring. We're dancing in our seats instead of gripping them. Still, the film's beginning is also drenching us in the utter grittiness of urban Detroit. While also essentially a music video for The Heat is On, the opening credits sequence is comprised of naturalistic, documentary street scenes of real people, housing developments, smokestacks, etc. At the same time the film-making is glitzy and commercial with its soundtrack and obligatory set-pieces, it's truly impressive how it absorbs us in one environment and then, by the end, has completely entrenched us in another one worlds apart.We meet Axel in action, in character undercover, wearing a smart-ass shell when he shows his face at the station after such a disaster, following in the tradition of reckless cops winning scorn from their superiors, in this case a scene-stealing performance by Gil Hill as his no-nonsense boss Inspector Todd. We then see Axel take in a surprise visit from his childhood friend Mikey, who's broken into his apartment, raided his fridge, proceeding to show him some suspicious bearer bonds. Axel doesn't care, doesn't want to know, just happy to see his old pal. We learn that Axel wasn't always into serving and protecting, and although Mikey now has a job as a security guard out in Beverly Hills, Mikey still isn't. This is the reason the night doesn't end so well for Mikey, as well as why Axel finds himself conning his way through Beverly Hills, ostensibly on vacation but really working as an effective cop with the instincts of a street-smart criminal.This is very funny, because essentially the movie's premise is composed of a foul-mouthed inner-city cop showing clean-cut, by-the-book veterans how to catch a killer. We know who had Mikey snuffed as soon as we're introduced to him, which is correct, because what the movie's all about is how the strict bureaucracy and elite judicial system protect the biggest criminals. The culprit here is Victor Maitland, a sophisticated millionaire, one of the most respected art dealers in the country. He's also involved in a complex smuggling operation and ordering hits on little people who take more than they earn just as he does, like Mikey, and gets away with it because Beverly Hills' finest, the customs house, his manufacturers, all do just what they're told, nothing more. The more time we spend with Axel in Beverly Hills, the more we realize the cultural inducements that allow Maitland the luxury of being above even ballpark suspicion. Whenever/however Axel follows his detective instincts to Maitland, he's breaking rules, charged with felonies, in positions where he must fool everybody, until finally the Beverly Hills police are so jarred from their robotic procedure, and of course inclined to think like detectives, that reason takes over Why would this exotic cop, this foul-mouthed jerk from outta town be so persistent at all this if he didn't have reason to believe something's really up?Indeed, the movie doesn't paint Axel's unlikely cohorts as mean, ignorant, snobbish. We love these guys. In their own contrasting way, John Ashton and Judge Reinhold as Taggart and Rosewood are equally funny, perhaps even more so in some scenes, as Murphy is as Foley. And they're better than he is at adopting the gravity of less comical scenes, which makes their Laurel and Hardy relationship more complex and inspired. At any rate, these three are responsible for improvising much of their dialogue, even creating whole scenes, like the supercop bit, the red-meat-in-the-bowels, bringing an inimitable chemistry to their trio. While Ronny Cox is awesome in sinister roles like in RoboCop, he plays Lieutenant Bogomil not as an uptight jerk of a superior, just firm about enforcing regulations; he's got a boss too, and hangs his head and sucks up in his presence like Taggart and Rosewood do in his.And as I said, it's great on a pure entertainment level. There are actually lots of great bit performances. There's Bronson Pinchot's memorable Serge, an effeminate European art salesman, basically the first person Axel meets in Beverly Hills. Murphy's subdued reaction to Pinchot is correct. A Martin Lawrence or Chris Tucker would've probably submerged the scene in some bombastic repulsion, but Murphy's persona in its heyday was much more graceful and well-timed than that. There's also the great veteran character actor Jonathan Banks as Maitland's thug, so matter-of-fact and stone-cold, especially when he pulls the trigger on Mikey. Oh, and Paul Reiser as the fly buzzing around Axel early on at the Detroit precinct. And the soundtrack, including obviously the immortal Faltermeyer synth melody, does give the movie an upbeat energy, though I do have my complaints. It's a real movie about the underdog in the rich man's world, and a ceaselessly entertaining one. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone couldn't have done this.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Apparently, Sylvester Stallone was supposed to play Axel Foley in the great movie Beverly hills cop. Luckily, he didn't. Luckily, we didn't. Instead we got who used to be a comedic genius, not as much anymore but I believe he is somewhere, Eddie Murphey. Giving the best performance of his career. Eddie Murphey is a great actor. He is great even doing the voice of somebody(hence...Shrek). Beverly hills cop is probably his best comedy he has done. Forget The Nutty professor and Bowfinger, this is his best. This is a very short review for a very good film. It is kind of like with Mickey Rourke in The Wrestler. Nicolas Cage was supposed to play his part. Thank God he didn't. I like Nicolas Cage, but he couldn't have done as well as Mickey Rourke. Same thing with Sylvester Stallone. He couldn't have done better than Eddie Murphey. At a time, nobody could. "},{"Title":"More than a funny police film","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Considering how often I laughed during this movie, whether Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) mocked members of the Beverly Hills Police Force or boyish Beverly Hills Police officer Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) frustrated his much more seasoned partner, John Taggert (John Ashton), I tend to think of this film as a comedy. Anybody planning to rent it, however, may find himself feeling a little shocked on occasion if he has expected to recline on his sofa and take in an amusing story about a cocky, streetwise cop who upstages several naive ones.Beverly Hills Cop also includes a few plainly violent scenes, each one sobering because its realism. A viewer sensitive to gunfire or fisticuffs might find these moments upsetting, notwithstanding Axel Foley's gestures or comments to make light of their intensity. For those having an easier time assimilating the violence, though, Beverly Hills Cop not only entertains, with mostly clever and some crude dialog, it also informs. Featuring a plot that involves cocaine and coffee grounds, customs and contraband, responsible and reproachful police protocol, Beverly Hills Cop gives its audience a valuable introductory course in law enforcement and criminology.Beverly Hills Cop has remained popular, I believe, because of the performances -- all of them -- from those of the thugs with the small parts to the leads. To me, two actors stand out, nevertheless Ronnie Cox, the ethical Beverly Hills Police Lieutenant Andrew Bogomil, who handles his force with the controlled anger of a school principal, and Gilbert Hill, the Detroit Police Inspector Todd, not at all formal but equally intolerant of Axel Foley's nonconforming ways. "},{"Title":"The classic Eddie Murphy vehicle","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A super 80s matinée for the loudmouthed and often rough-edged talent of Eddie Murphy. A strange amalgam of the odd-couple/buddy movie and Pygmalion, Beverley Hills Cop involves the street-wise black guy shaking up the complacent local fuzz. In fact he hopscotches all over the thin blue line to get things done, blagging his way through the entire movie. No doubt much of Murphy's script was invented in front of the cameras.Murphy has balanced support - Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play a super double-headed straight guy to all this. Berkoff is in a rich vein of baddie-form, having done Octopussy the year before. The real star though is the eponymous hip hop theme tune, mainstreaming hip-hop in the same way that Murphy's Axel is blaxploitation-emancipated. 7/10 "},{"Title":"It's Like Shaft Meets 90210","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The 1980s, while virtually worthless in every other regard when it came to film-making -- gave us a host of classic adult comedies, and Beverly Hills Cop is one of them.The film made a star of Eddie Murphy, and paved the way for the action buddy comedy that has persisted to this day, though rarely as successfully. This is also the film that introduced (to me, at least) Judge Reinhold, who would go on to appear memorably again in one of my favorite comedies from the decade, Ruthless People. Also featured in a bit part is Bronson Pinchot as a flamboyant clothing store manager.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Great story, great cast, great film.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If ever there were a film where those involved in its production should have known they were making history, this was it. You got Eddie Murphy as the fish-out-of-water Detroit cop Axel Foley, supported by veterans Ronny Cox (Andrew Bogemill) and John Ashton (Sgt. Taggart). Throw in a fresh-out-of-Ridgemont high Judge Reinhold (Lt. Rosewood), and we have an action/comedy/buddy movie for the ages.Although most of the film centers on the chemistry between Foley, Rosewood and Taggart, the true buddies of the film are Foley and Bogemill. The Beverly Hills police chief knows something is wrong in his town when Foley shows up from Detroit investigating a murder from there, and seems to immediately sense that this street-smart inner-city cop who only recently crossed over from the wrong side of the tracks wouldn't be there without a good reason. Unfortunately, Foley does not blend in Beverly Hills, and Bogemill is hobbled by Police Chief Hubbard (Stephen Ellion). Paul Reiser had yet to emerge from the background at the time of this film, playing Jeffrey Mario Andretti Friedman (as he'd be called in the sequel), while Bronson Pinochet had his coming-out party as art-gallery flameball Serge.The film's conflict centers primarily not around Foley, but Bogemill, who literally cannot rid Beverly Hills of Foley faster than his suspicions about art gallery owner Victor Maitlin grow. Foley's presence upsets Maitlin, who grows more and more brazen in his attempt to put a lid on the genie of truth that wants to escape.The action moves excellently, and very comedically along the way, leading to a climax which unites Bogemill and Foley against a common enemy, to further underscore how similar the two are in their life's missions, despite the disparity in their approaches. Foley and Bogemill have a fundamental mutual respect for each other's methods, at times with each one wishing they could be more like the other, and knowing that both of them have their place in catching the bad guys. Bogemill is the least surprised in the department as he watches his officers repeatedly outsmarted by Foley, and the first to have faith in Foley's instincts when it becomes clear that Maitlin is not all that he seems.Ronny Cox is not the type of actor who stands out much, except perhaps with his over-the-top performance as Dick Jones in Robocop, but in this film he complements Eddie Murphy perfectly, helping to ensure that his film debut was a spectacular one. Without Murphy, the film wouldn't have been as funny (Stallone was originally set to play the lead), and without any of the other leads, it might have suffered a bit, but without Cox, it might not have worked at all. Every minute he was on screen was crucial to the plot, and any mistakes in his performance would have brought the entire film down. He delivered better here than at any other time in his career before or after.You aren't part of pop culture if you don't see this film at least once, and preferably three or four times. It's always on cable, so it's not difficult to find. "},{"Title":"engaging crime comedy worth watching","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy (Lethal Weapon) stars as slick cop Axel Foley who is out for revenge after the death of an old friend. He travels to the luxury area of Beverly Hills to find his friend's murderers and through the slick acting; the funny tale and fast energetic plot older audiences can appreciate a unique cop comedy. It's a great story about one cop and his pride to do the right thing for himself and his late friend. Murphy is sensational as the elegant energetic cop, not listening to anyone and preferring to do things the hard way by himself, his character is great and a real joy to watch.The story is fast flowing right from the van chase at the beginning to another chase towards the end. It conforms beautifully to the crime genre to focus upon the cop's life and his fellow companions in Detroit and Beverly Hills. The juxtaposition of Judge Reinhold and John Ashton was great, an enjoyable cop pairing which worked wonders with Murphy making the occasional mockery of the pair of them in the background.There are many twists in the plot and caged mystery which keeps audiences glued to the screen.It was interesting watching the different methods of crime and cop life in the different states. The rough brutal portrayed life in Detroit to a more sophisticated professional crime life in Beverly Hills. The change was enjoyable to watch as Foley didn't adjust to the changes but lived as he normally did, which conformed to the comedy genre as he acted in a way he shouldn't in a different community.The jokes are funny throughout with Murphy the obvious comedian, making audiences laugh with cocky jokes as well as his facial expressions and other means of physical humour. Steven Berkoff makes a great villain in this story. His tone of voice and facial expressions are worth notice as he portrays such a cleverly disguised vindictive character to make the plot intense but also elegant and sophisticated. worth watching just for Murphy's brilliance but the energetic engaging plot make it a sensation cop comedy "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy at his best","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film that started off Eddie Murphy, the 1984 classic that braught new path's for Eddie's career. Starring Eddie Murphy,Judge Reinhold and John Ashton.The plot follows around Det Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy), a rebellious Detroit Detective who seems to be always creating more paper work his Ploice Chief Hubbard (Stephen Elliott). His plans all change when his ex-con buddy returns for a friendly reunion and tell's Axel of his new life he had created in Beverly Hills, but Axel's friend does not stay long as he is killed by a hit-man including Axel being knocked out. By this happening Axel wants to gain revenge on the killer and solve what had happened, so he travels to Beverly Hills. And in doing so Axel bring great action sequences, comedy and the great 80's vibe he also meets two Beverly Hills Detectives,Det. William Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinold) and Det. Sgt. John Taggart who also add great comedy to the film. Also look out for Serge (Bronson Pinchot) he is hilarious.I greatly recommend you to buy this great film on DVD it will be cherished in your collection. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Terrific vehicle for Murphy, who gives a tour-de-force performance as a cheeky, foul-mouthed cop who goes from Detroit to Beverly Hills to track down an old friend's murderers - off the record.A sleek, tight script and a genre-defining mixture of action and comedy never slow down for a second. Add to that a wonderful music score, a great supporting cast, and irresistible dialogue, and you have a true winner.Beverly Hills Cop is a basic, old-fashioned fish-out-of-water tale, but the film delivers the goods in high style; its fast pace isn't an excuse for lack of invention, and the many funny moments are well-integrated in an appealing story that never falls flat. "}{"Title":"After more than twenty-years, it' s still Eddie's Best Role...A Comic Tour de Force","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After strong, scene-stealing performances in 48 HOURS and TRADING PLACES, Eddie Murphy firmly established himself as a superstar with BEVERLY HILLS COP. With a script originally intended for Sylvester Stallone, Murphy commands the screen in one of the greatest, single comic performances ever captured on screen, splashed against the backdrop of an action movie that is still riveting from start to finish. Murphy plays Axel Foley, a Detroit police officer who travels to Beverly Hills after a childhood buddy (James Russo) is murdered in his hallway, shortly after arriving in Detroit from Beverly Hills. Murphy gives a thousand mega-watt performance here, blowing everyone off the screen with the exception of Judge Reinhold as Beverly Hills cop Billy Rosewood and the then unknown Bronson Pinchot as Serge, a gay receptionist in an art gallery. Twenty two years later, this is still Murphy's best performance and best movie and I don't think he will ever match it and shouldn't even try. An instant classic. "},{"Title":"It's hip to be Axel Foley!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the finest actors of stand-up comedy does his finest in this movie, Beverly Hills Cop. Eddie Murphy of SNL(Saturday Night Live), plays Axel Foley, a young, hip Detroit Police Officer who goes to the West Coast to find clues of the whereabout of his friend's murderer. Though Foley(Murphy) is a little gung ho on his methods, they seems to work all the time. When he was done in that chase involving a semi, his friend Mickey(James Russo) drops by, and they have a good time. Then after the fun they have, Axel gets jumped, and Mickey gets capped. Beverly Hills is a culture shock for Foley, since he lives the simple life, the high life is not a challenge to Foley. When he meets two BH detectives(Judge Reinhold, John Ashton), Foley is the ultimate charmer. In Beverly Hills, he did have an old friend of Mickey's, Jenny Summers(Lisa Eilbacher), they have relived some of the good times, when Foley's in town. Even though Foley's antics have annoyed the police department, his skills are never denied by anyone he meets. The funny scenes are when he choked the car with bananas, and he fends off the would-be robbers at a strip-club. Rosewood and Taggert quickly bonded with Foley, even he helps save Jenny from her boss, Maitland(Stephen Berkoff). No fights crime better than Axel Foley, and no place has more class than Beverly Hills. The music soundtrack, the action, and the plots were all there, and it's never a dull moment. Have plenty of snacks when watching this movie. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Action pace and comedy by a magnificent Eddie Murphy","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley(Murphy) is a foul-mouth,street-smart and freewheeling Detroit police agent ,when a friend is murdered ,he heads to L.A. to investigate.He arrives to Beverly Hills where finds an old friend(Lisa Eilbacher) .The clues lead a mobster(Steven Berkoff)and henchman(Jonathan Banks)suspects of killing,drugs and customs bonds.He's helped by a pair of sympathetics L.A. detectives(John Ashton,Judge Reinhold) causing wreck havoc on the way.The picture mingles action packed,thriller,fast pace,tongue in check with humor.It's a recital Eddie Murphy accompanied by two likable palsAshton and Reinhold creating an authentic buddy movie,besides a grouch chief(Ronny Cox).The picture contains spectacular scenes,stopped action as is usual in the Dom Simpson-Jerry Brukheimer productions.Hilarious relief at charge of Eddie Murphy but his fast talking and jokes with the buddies cause most big laughs and gags subordinated to action.This vehicle for Eddie Murphy as freelance police is terrific,it's his greatest success and became him in a world star confirming his position as number one in the box-office.Catching music with international hit smash by Harol Faltermeyer.Glimmer and atmospheric music by Bruce Surtees( classic cameraman Robert Surtees's son).The motion picture is well directed by Martin Brest.It's followed by two inferior sequels with similar actors and producers ,the second part directed by Tony Scott and the third part directed by John Landis. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Masterpiece","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy's best comedy work was on Saturday Night Live with such classic sketches as Mr. Robinson's Hood. On the big screen, much of Eddie Murphy's work is stretched to the breaking point, with funny bits here and there. Not so for Beverly Hills Cop. Murphy is able to sustain his gift for levity from beginning to end. This is a must-see for his many fans, if there are any of the younger generation that have not already seen it. But it is also for any lover of exceptional action flicks with humorous dialog and situations. The writers pass the fun around. Fact is Murphy doesn't have the funniest line in the show. That honor goes to John Ashton as Det. Sgt. John Taggart. Detective Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) stands up like a wooden Indian and yells at the thugs shooting at him, Police! You're all under arrest! The thugs answer with a volley of machine gun fire. Taggart looks at Rosewood and tells him deadpan, You do that again, I'll shoot you myself! Also nearly upstaging the brilliant Murphy is Bronson Pinchot as Serge who has to be heard to be believed. His verbal exchange with Murphy at the art gallery is one of the high points of the movie.The writers and director deliver the goods for the multi-talented Murphy by giving him a good story filled with wit and daring and making the film action-packed with nary a dull minute. Det. Axel Foley (Murphy) is one of Detroit's finest but he is at times a loose cannon. He attempts to make an unauthorized drug bust only to haggle with the dealers over money. Not realizing Foley is undercover, uniformed police check out the situation leading to one of the most destructive chases on celluloid. After being chewed out by Insp. Douglas Todd (Gilbert R. Hill), Foley meets up with an old buddy, Mikey Tandino (James Russo), from California. Tandino turns out to be a target for the drug kingpin, Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff). Following Tandino's murder, Foley leaves for L.A. on vacation to find his pal's killer. The Beverly Hills Police Department unwittingly become involved to assist Foley in his quest. The laughs come fast and furious with most of the lines ad-libbed.All aspects of Beverly Hills Cops work including the soundtrack. My son was a teen learning the keyboard when this film was first released. The first song he learned to play was Harold Faltermeyer's Beverly Hills Cop theme.It is difficult to understand why Beverly Hills Cop was panned by many critics when first shown in 1984. I was hesitant to see it as a result of reading so many negative reviews. I learned quickly that film goers should judge for themselves. "},{"Title":"Eddie Vidi Vici","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy gave the 1980s its first fresh film star in this clever action-comedy, a fun-filled time capsule for all that was best about the decade of narrow ties and big hair. Beverly Hills Cop remains Murphy's sturdiest, funniest vehicle, a rare classic of its genre that even two weak-minded sequels can't cloud over.In Detroit, police detective Axel Foley (Murphy) loses a friend to a hit he believes had something to do with business the friend had in Beverly Hills. Apparently too poor for airfare, Foley drives to California in his beat-up Chevy Nova and pokes around, earning the ire of a sinister art dealer as well as the Beverly Hills police. Shrugging off assorted butt-kickings and improvising like a madman, Foley begins learning art isn't the only thing Victor Maitland is dealing, while winning over two Beverly Hills officers who learn to trust Foley's instincts, and maybe in the process, their own.The film wasn't written initially with Murphy in mind, and there's some awkwardness with that. For example, it's clear from the DVD extras if not the film itself that the lead female character, Maitland's employee and Foley's friend Jenny (beautiful Lisa Eilbacher) was intended to play Foley's love interest when Foley was to be played by Sly Stallone. When Foley turned into a black guy, white Jenny became just a friend.Though it's hard not to think the producers got cold feet because of the interracial love angle, it's easy to forgive because the film is better off without the obligatory romance. Instead, the movie fleshes out the more interesting relationship between Foley and the two Beverly Hills cops, Taggart (John Ashton) and Rosewood (Judge Reinhold). Murphy shines throughout the film, but he's a supernova in the presence of Taggart and Rosewood, both great foils in different, complementary ways. Hardcase Taggart glowers, while the kind and naive Rosewood is won over by Foley's amiable gamesmanship. Even after Foley sticks bananas in his car's tailpipe, a move that costs the two cops a day's pay, Rosewood offers heartfelt thanks for the sandwich Foley sent him as a distraction ploy.Another film would have played Rosewood and Taggart as the uptight white guys trying and failing to crush Foley's groove, but Beverly Hills Cop brings them in and gives you another reason to like Foley beyond his Bugs Bunny antics. We warm to Taggart, for example, even before he warms to Foley because of his stubborn, eyes-open loyalty to his goofy partner Rosewood.So the script has depth, but a shiny surface, too, augmented by many quotable wisecracks, at least in adult company. Most are Foley's lines (Can you put this in a good spot? 'Cause all of this *stuff* happened the last time I parked here. I might as well just call it 'Michael Jackson Can Sit On Top of the World Just As Long As He Doesn't Sit in the Beverly Palm Hotel 'Cause There's No *African Americans* Allowed in There!') but even Maitland gets off a good one in his creepy English voice Careful, old boy, you might hit me.What else is there? Everything! Start with that terrific score, the '80s equivalent of Saturday Night Fever in its front-to-back pop quality. There's standout performances everywhere, by people like Stephen Elliot and Jonathan Banks (a heavy here, though he plays a heroic cop in Murphy's previous action comedy, 48 Hours.) Bronson Pinchot's affectedly exotic art gallery employee makes an indelible impression in just two scenes, critiquing a fellow employee's unbuttoned shirt with the line Vot ees deat? Deat ees not sexy. I even love the sunny sheen of this film, which came to represent everything California was supposed to be when I first saw it back in the day. The Armani suits and coiffed blond hair carry a sense of style every bit as integral to Beverly Hills Cop as dusters and spurs are to Sergio Leone westerns.No, the mystery isn't much of a mystery, and there are flaws. Maitland's guards obviously took their marksman lessons from Darth Vader's stormtroopers, and everything seems to happen too easily for Foley. But all this is easy to ignore, whether you are watching this for the first or fourteenth time, because Murphy has you rooting for him all the way through. Even if he never did a film this good again, and he's been in some decent ones, Murphy created a centerpiece moment in his career that still shines on. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not the biggest fan of cop movies but this one was great, Eddie murphy shone as the kick ass, bad guy shooting, mouthy little pain in the *** but still lovable cop, and the bit where he gets thrown out of a window, is subsequently arrested and yells out why am I getting' arrested for being thrown out of a F*****g window, the soundtrack was quite nice, the pace was energetic with some typical cop argues and falls foul of his boss scenes as well as meeting a lovely lady and inevitably grabbing a gun and shooting the s**t out of someone, films like this can help to make or break someone and in this case it made murphy, now he's got 20 something years of acting behind him, he's mainly done comedy lately but another film like this would do him some good, anyhow Beverly Hills Cop is an 8 out of 10 actionpiece and it had a nice comedic ending when eddie wants to go for one last drink with them before he goes home and he says don't worry, I know a good place , just follow my lead ..........trust me "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really liked this movie simply because Eddie Murphy was in top form. There are few people as funny as he is. Not every movie he is in works, but most do - and this one definitely does.The thing about Beverly Hills Cop is that it is hard to specifically call it a drama or a comedy. And, it certainly is not a dramedy. Their are plenty of bad guys that get killed, but when it is Eddie Murphy involved, you just can't take it all that seriously. Every time you look at him, you want to smile. And, of course, the movie had lots of funny moments.The other interesting element to the movie was the fish out of water idea. A black Detroit rule-breaking cop goes to lily white Beverly Hills and intermingles with by-the-book detectives. It almost makes you laugh just thinking about it. It also reminds me of the TV show McCloud where you had a western policeman sent to NY to train. Culture clash movies are usually funny - especially when the fish out of water does a better job than the land people. Of course, Murphy does a better job.You can't go wrong watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Blockbuster star vehicle. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Barely a year after sensationally stealing 48 HRS from Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy got his chance to show what he could do in Martin Brest's exhilarating comedy-thriller BEVERLY HILLS COP. Smashing box-office records at the end of 1984 and then trouncing all other offerings well into 1985 with the exception of BACK TO THE FUTURE and RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART II, it is as high-concept an entertainment you could wish for.Murphy plays Axel Foley, a Detroit cop quick of mouth, but slow of appreciation for police procedure. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the opening sequence when he works undercover to bust a cigarette smuggling ring in the back of an eighteen wheeler truck which the driver proceeds to use to escape by smashing into anything and everything that happens to be driving at the same time.On arrival back at his precinct, his superior (a real-life Inspector, Gilbert Todd) reprimands him and says that he doesn't know everything. When he goes home, he finds his place broken into and discovers an old friend, Michael Tandino (James Russo), who works in Beverly Hills with a friend, Jenny Summers and shows Foley some bearer bonds. They go out for a drink and a game of pool, but on arrival back at Foley's, Foley is knocked unconscious and Tandino is killed by two hoodlums....Foley is warned by his superior to stay away from the case, but decides to take some vacation time instead, using it as a way to get to Beverly Hills to track down the murderers of his friend......Thanks to Brest's assured direction and some great supporting performances, notably from Ronny Cox, Judge Reinhold & John Ashton as the cops - and Steven Berkoff as Victor Maitland, BEVERLY HILLS COP is a dynamite comedy-thriller that works better than at first glance.A film which you make you want to 'Do the Neutron Dance' for years to come...!!! "},{"Title":"Eddie Takes on the BHPD.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BEVERLY HILLS COP stars Eddie Murphy as a Detroit policeman who tracks his buddy's killer all the way to Beverly Hills, having to contend with local police in the process.  Murphy's first lead performance is not bad, but he is not as good here as he was in 48 HRS. and TRADING PLACES, and the other characters, except for Bronson Pinchot in a pre-Perfect Strangers role as an art gallery salesman, either seem like they don't fit or act like copycats from other movies.  Murphy, however, saves this film from being a disappointment by making us laugh with his offbeat one-liners and hilarious chuckle very much intact.3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Very clean and smart","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a very clean and smart movie displaying human values and responsibilities of the law-enforcement. It indicates you cannot always live by the book, good guys make most of it from within professional limits and constraints. That's quite encouraging. Judge Reinhold as Detective Rosewood and Lisa Eilbacher as Jenny are very good selections. I normally don't like Eddie Murphy because he doesn't seem to learn to avoid temptations of over-acting, but Beverly Hills Cop is his best performance I would say, in this movie he carries a rather serious disposition with soft touches of clean humors. I really enjoyed those funny moments, when it came on TV this week-end I ignored all other hit movies on other channels and sat tight to watch it through.  "}{"Title":"There's a new cop in town","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is about a Detroit detective who after his friend gets murdered takes a vacation.  He ends up going to Beverly Hills to search for the killer responsible for his friend's death.  Eddie Murphy gives one crazy performance as Axel Foley.  I liked the way he portrayed certain characters.  It is pretty damn hilarious.  This was one of Murphy's best performances.  A great action comedy flick that doesn't disappoint.  ****stars.  (Paramount)&#0; "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's BEST!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Released in 1984 this hilarious and action-packed film directed by Martin Brest, stars Eddie Murphy in his best movie role to date! The concept is simple. Eddie Murphy plays a do it his own way cop who travels to Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of a friend. Along the way he teams up with two other cops. And the adventure begins which is full with a lot of great gags and action sequences.4(****)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"The start of the odd duos in movies","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Eddie Murphy and Judge Reinhold.A Detroit cop's friend is murdered right before him.  He then tracks the killer down to Beverly Hills, California and uses some detectives to help track down the killer.This is the start of the odd duos.  Just look at them all Murphy-Reinhold, Chan-Tucker, Chan-Wilson, Murphy-DeNiro, and many more.Murphy is hilarious as Axel Foley.  Although all the other films in the series isn't nearly as good as this, the series is still excellent. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Best Film","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy makes his starring debut in this 1984 Paramount release, a film with which Mickey Rourke and Sylvester Stallone were originally considered for the leading role but in the end the part wound up going to and truly belongs to Murphy. The part of unorthodox and streetwise Detroit police detective Axel Foley is tailor made for him. Murphy is absolutely hilarious here and has his best film in this tale of the aforementioned detective Foley, who takes a leave of absence to hunt down the killers of a close friend (James Russo). His quest takes him way out of his usual mean streets element and onto the posh boulevards of Beverly Hills. Through his adventures, Foley consistently outsmarts a duo of cops (Judge Reinhold, John Ashton) and their superior (Ronny Cox), reunites with a childhood friend (Lisa Eilbacher) and gains growing suspicions about his late friend's former boss (Steven Berkoff). Martin Brest's stylish direction and a well selected soundtrack (including the film's signature insturmental theme) add to its huge success. One of the highest grossing films of the 1980's and of all time and with good reason. "},{"Title":"The original, the funniest, the best out of all 3!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jerry Bruckheimer's and the late Don Simpson's second massive success was this 1984 action comedy starring the legendary Eddie Murphy. With brilliantly-written dialogue, some classy locations, one of the best movie themes in cinema history and one of my favourite truck-car chases, this is certainly a MUST SEE movie, and once you see this film, you'll want to watch it again, and again and again.  "},{"Title":"Murphy's best work-extremely funny with great action","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is one of my favorite movies of all time. The best of its genre...the action-comedy. Eddie Murphy gives a great performance as Detective Axel Foley from Detroit, who trails his best friends' killer from Detroit to Beverly Hills. He turns Southern California upside down while trying to solve the case. Unfortunately, his antics aren't accepted with the straight laced Beverly Hills police. 100 minutes of pure entertainment from a comic legend. I would recommend that you go out and rent it, if you haven't already seen it. **** and two thumbs up. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The heat IS on!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy is the foul-mouthed cop Axel Foley, who is delighted when his friend, Mikey visits him. Mikey tells Axel about his job in Beverly Hills, then, two people from Beverly Hills show up at Axel's Place....killing Mikey. Axel heads out to Beverly Hills where he gets arrested and thrown out of a window. The best 80's comedy ever besides Caddyshack or Ghostbusters. Murphy is great in this movie! "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy at his best","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A fresh faced and very funny Eddie Murphy stars in this film that turned him into a superstar. The movie is fast paced, action packed and very, very funny. Eddie plays Axel Foley a Detroit cop who ends up in Beverly Hills trying to find out who murdered one of his best friends. So this sets up a fish out of water premise as Axel wanders around Beverly Hills causing mayhem and lots of trouble for the local police, two of which he eventually befriends and they help him crack the case. The movie never lets up and is aided by a great 80's soundtrack. The film was followed by same again sequal and a rubbish third. But to se Axel Foley and Eddie Murphy at his best crack open a couple of beers and watch this great film ***8/10*** "},{"Title":"Hilarious Film.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know why but I had never seen the original Beverly Hills Cop film from beginning to end. I'd only seen parts on TV but it was always too edited.  Having just recently watched the dvd I realized what I was missing. Eddie Murphy is hilarious and I can see why he became so popular after this movie came out and why it did so well.  It far surpasses the two sequels that came out after it. My favorite scene has to be Bronson Pinchot as Serge but an honorable mention can go to the scene when Axel (Murphy) confronts the bad guy in the restaurant. If you haven't already seen this film and want to watch a very funny film with a bit of action mixed in then you should definitely go out and rent it! "},{"Title":"ONE OF 80'S CLASSIC","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  And one of the Eddie's most memorable roles. Who could not remember his laugh and style.Otherwise, movie is loaded with a great humor, not so great but still good action scenes and also a great music by Harold Feltmayr.Although made in eighties, movie is still watchable today, not just because Murphy's play, but also for other co-actors such as police officers Taggart&Rosewood. I guess it's just one of this type of movie, which always brings you in a good mood and that's why a high grade of8 out 0f 10 "}{"Title":"Put Eddie Murphy on the map","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Possible SpoilerThe first and definitely the best of the Beverly Hills Cop trilogy, this alongside 48 hours and Trading Places firmly established Eddie Murphy as a Hollywood star (pity about his career since). Basically, the story is about Axel Foley (Murphy), a tough Detroit detective, going to visit Beverley Hills to investigate his friends murder. He is initially chased then ultimately helped by the proper cops from Beverley Hills led by Lieutenant Bogomil. Stephen Berkoff is a suitably sadistic villain, with his wide staring eyes and evil voice, for once not overacting. You'll always notice something you haven't seen before no matter how many times you've watched it. (Note On the video trailer, mention was made of Murphy's next film, Best Defence. Never heard of it before. Has anyone else?)  "},{"Title":"Lots of fun.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is, I think, Judge Reinholds best film since Fast Times. Eddie  Murphy is of course what this film is about, but I'm a huuuuggge Fast Times fan and follow all of them as though they were my friends, which they kind of are. This film is funny funny funny, not just Eddie and Judge, but Bronson Pinchot in a cameo you will never forget. This is one of the best 'buddy/cop' films, even better than the whole Lethal Weapon series, if you ask me. If you haven't seen this, where have you been?     "},{"Title":"Great fun with cool","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Imagine Sly Stallone as Axel Foley... Thank God, the part was finally given to the young motor mouth Eddie Murphy.This movie is ruthlessly cool, funny, realistically action-packed; in two words well-made. Murphy is wonderfully backed up by nerdy Judge Reinhold and John Ashton's experienced cop. Steven Berkoff is an OK villain, a bit stiff and uncomfortable in the part though. Lisa Eilbacher delivers a traditional performance as good-looking lady in distress.Although we have the story of Detroit cop Axel Foley going to Los Angeles to find his good friend's murderer, almost everything focuses on Eddie Murphy's jokes and supporting characters who just don't know how to handle the street wise cop. But there's also a certain seriousness to Murphy's interpretation of the character which saves the film from becoming ridiculous.7.5/10, the sequel is better. "},{"Title":"great for eddie murphy","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This Eddie Murphy vehicle catapaulted him to stardom, and he deserved it. A terrific performance and writing contributed to a hilarious film. You'll love the line about the banana in the tailpipe, as well as just about everything in this comic gem.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Eddie's smash hit!!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not only is this movie a fun based roller coaster ride but a wonderful pairings of Axel, taggert, and Rosewood,a combination that is cool and hilarious. Eddie murphy's trash talkin and intelligence is the key in the blockbuster movie, his antics are funny and you will be amazed of his genius portay. After meeting with his long lost buddy Eddie spends the time with him and by the time they get back to his house the gangbusters attack his buddy and guns him down. After this scenario Eddie out smarts his boss in telling him he is going on vacation and needs time off. Eddie wants payback and drives to beverly hills to find the killer who took out his friend and this is where the fun begins as Murphy begins his pursuit.Excellent movie comedy, go out and rent it and see for your self!! "},{"Title":"The chief just called the deputy chief...","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...the deputy chief just called the assistant deputy chief, the assistant deputy chief just called the precinct boss, the precinct boss just called the mayor, the mayor just called the head janitor, the head janitor just called my wife, my wife just called me AND CHEWED MY A$$ OUT!  YOU CAN SEE I AIN'T GOT A BIT OF IT LEFT, DON'TCHA!!???That's about the only line I remember from this movie, which was actually kinda funny until the ending shoot-em-up.  Originally this movie was supposed to star Sylvester Stallone, and it would have been just another one of his stinkers like Cobra or Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot...yeesh, I start feeling ill just thinking about those two.I was sixteen when this came out and saw it five times in the theater.  I laughed out loud every time Mikey Tandino got popped in the back of the head with a .38...maybe that explains why people were glaring at me on the way out of the movie.Who can forget that scene when Tandino gets shot and goes pop-ptoo-pop?  A piece of spit actually shoots out of his mouth after the first bullet.  Hilarious. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Hilarious Action-Comedy Classic. Eddie Murphy At His Best.","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is an excellent and hilarious Action-Comedy Classic that combines wonderful direction,a brilliant and funny performance from Eddie Murphy and a great cast,terrific Action,Amazing laughs,a fantastic score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Beverly Hills Cop a timeless classic and Eddie Murphy at his best.Set in Beverly Hills,California and Detroit,Michigan,Beverly Hills Cop tells the story of Detective Axel Foley(Eddie Murphy),a clever,smart and wisecracking Detroit cop who while at home gets a visit from his friend Michael Tandino(James Russo). After hanging out together,Axel and Michael are ambushed and Michael is murdered. After the murder,Axel takes a vacation and heads to Beverly Hills where Michael used to work and investigate the reasons for Michael's death which lead to hilarious results.Released in 1984,Beverly Hills Cop is an amazing,hilarious and unforgettable classic that became a critical and Box Office success for Eddie Murphy. Prior to Beverly Hills Cop Eddie Murphy was already a star thanks thanks to his funny and memorable supporting work in terrific films such as 48 Hrs and Trading Places,his wonderful four year stint on Saturday Night Live and his stand up television special Delirious but it was Beverly Hills Cop that was Eddie Murphy's first leading role as an actor and was the film that made Murphy not only a mega star but also a movie icon. Right from the first time you watch the film Beverly Hills Cop is an instant classic that will make you laugh out loud and will have tears running down your face. The film is basically a fish out of water tale but is one of the smartest and funniest Comedies of all time that has many scenes and lines that have become apart of pop culture and is one of those films that whenever you see BHC on television or on Home Video you never turn it off. BHC is one of the few films that perfectly mixes Comedy and Action. The laughs and Humor in BHC are hilarious and truly masterful with most of the funny scenes involving the antics of Axel Foley and with moments and dialog that come at a rapid pace that gives BHC a great energy that never slows down until the very end. When you look the Comedic scenes in BHC some of them feel improvised and jokes don't feel forced or fake but flawless. The Action scenes in BHC are simple but thrilling and effective and are done in the style of Action movies that were popular at the time and give the movie a wonderful balance to the Comedy and laughs that happen throughout BHC. Beverly Hills Cop is one of the films that would set the standard for Action-Comedies that would follow years after it's release. The film's main character Axel Foley is one of funniest and most iconic characters in movie history and is a character you will love as soon as appears on the screen. Unlike most cops on the movie and Television screen who use their guns and fists,Axel uses his Humor,wits and smarts to get out of situations that can be dangerous and other times simple. Axel can also use his smarts and Humor and pretend to be something he's not and fool some of the people he talks to and he can do it on the spot. You will laugh your head off at the things that Axel does. Also,you would think that with Axel being a fish out of water and being from the mean streets of Detroit that he wouldn't understand or fit in with the rich and high glamor of Beverly Hills,but Axel gets used to Beverly Hills and gets a kick out of it laughing at the nature of the city and it's style. For Axel Beverly Hills is a playground and Axel is having a fun time. Axel Foley is a classic character that you will never forget and will live on forever. The ending of the film is great and funny mixing wonderful laughs and explosive Action. It's fantastic conclusion to Beverly Hills Cop that will make you laugh and smile.The whole cast is great. Eddie Murphy is excellent,hilarious and at his very best as Axel Foley,with Murphy bringing wonderful laughs and one-liners to the film. An amazing performance by Murphy. Judge Reinhold and John Ashton are brilliant and funny as Beverly Hills police officers and partners Sgt.John Taggart and Detective Billy Rosewood,with Reinhold and Ashton having funny scenes with Murphy and each other. Lisa Eilbacher is wonderful and sexy as Jenny Summers,an old friend of Axel's. James Russo is outstanding as Mikey Tandino,Axel's best friend. Steven Berkoff is terrific as Victor Maitland,the villain of the film. Jonathan Banks is fantastic as Zack,Victor's hit-man and right hand man. Ronny Cox is amazing as Lt.Bogomil,Rosewood and Taggart's Commanding Officer. Gibert R.Hill is sensational and funny as Inspector Todd,Axel's boss. Bronson Pinchot gives a fun and memorable performance as Serge,an art dealer. Paul Reiser is hilarious in his small role as Jeffrey,a Detroit cop. Stephen Elliot(Chief Hubbard),Art Kimbro(Detective Foster)and Joel Bailey(Detective McCabe)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for a early role and cameo appearance by Damon Wayans as The Banana Man.The direction by Martin Brest is great,with Brest always moving the camera and keeping the film moving at a tight pace. Fine direction,Brest.The score and Axel F. theme by Harold Faltermeyer is amazing,memorable and one of the most iconic scores and themes of the 1980s and of all time and matches the film perfectly. Terrific score,Faltermeyer. The film also has a great soundtrack with songs by Glenn Frey(The Heat Is On),The Pointer Sisters(Neutron Dance),Patti LaBelle(Stir It Up,New Attitude),Vanity 6(Nasty Girl),Harold Faltermeyer(Axel F.)and more. A terrific and memorable soundtrack. In final word,if you love Eddie Murphy or Action-Comedies,I highly suggest you see Beverly Hills Cop,an excellent and hilarious Action-Comedy classic that you can watch again and again and is Eddie Murphy at his best. Highly Recommended 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best Action Comedies!","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the best action comedies from Hollywood. Eddie Murphy stars as Detroit cop Axel Foley, who goes to Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of his friend. He tangles with the by-the-book Beverly Hills Police Department, where he meets Detective Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Det. Sgt. John Taggert (John Ashton). What follows is a hilarious game of cat and mouse with Beverly Hills detectives and a fast-paced mission to track down Foley's friend's killer.This film has a no-nonsense and compelling story with a humorous and memorable cast and exciting action sequences that make this movie a definite must-see for any people that are fans of action movies. If you're just a fan of comedy, this movie is for you as well.This is one of Murphy's best work - his quick wit and action, with the addition of Reinhold's cool and observant demeanor and Ashton's serious and commanding character give us one of the best movie trios ever assembled. It is also, I think, Director Martin Brest's best, and features one of the most recognizable 80s music themes from composer Harold Faltermeyer.It's one of those movies that I would watch repeatedly and it never grows old on me.Grade A "},{"Title":"The Heat Is On!","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw Beverly Hills Cop when i was an adolescent and that was a very long time time ago. I haven't seen it in decades until now. I can't believe how actors change their form of comedy over the years. And Eddie Murphy truly defines that. He used to be bold, raunchy and didn't give a crap about being image conscious like our society has become. Here in Beverly Hills Cop he just dominated his way through bar-none. From the opening scene where goes undercover selling cigarettes to some rather shady dudes to the engaging finale, Murphy sells his character without any real effort. Even though he's very funny, there are moments where falters on being way too serious. Yes every time I see this movie it brings a tear to my eyes. And the reason for that is I know Murphy can still provide solid comedy but all he does know is little kiddie film like Daddy Day Care, Pluto Nash, and Norbit.Axel Foley (Murphy) is a cop from Detroit who is a man of great potential, but his weakness is that he is very aggressive. He has all the right tools to be a cop, He is smart, dedicated to his job, but he is also very headstrong. Behind his superior's back he arranges undercover busts,which makes him not a model employee. One day a chum from his past pays him a visit. When they arrive at Foley's apartment, two thugs attacked him knocking Foley out and killing his best friend. The two thugs are professional hit men. Foley was demanded by his boss to stay away from the case and ventures off to Beverly Hills where he takes some time off from police duty. His friend last took a job in Beverly Hills and this is where Foley has an epiphany that his friend's boss may have been a conspirator behind his murder. Foley encounters some cops from Beverly Hills and the action and comedy gets underway.Overall, this movie is nothing more than just kicking back and enjoying the memorable ride. The slapstick factor is proved quite effective and the action is quite effective. But the highlight of the night is when Axel talks trash and boy does he ever throughout the 1 hour and forty-five minute duration. The dialogue is easily funny, but also at the same time it is sharp and the dialogue is quite intelligent. The music is quite fitting for the time period even though it is dated by today's standards. Director Martin Brest's formula was proved successful.For a 105 minute film, this movie flows at pace faster than a blink of an eye. It's just an above average action comedy cop movie.People who have followed Eddie Murphy since the early 1980's are familiar with the type of comedy that Murphy was at the time famous for. To the people who only remember Eddie Murphy for kid-friendly fluff like Haunted Mansion, and Drillbit Taylor will be shocked that the Eddie Murphy they know now used to make more edgier films and never cared about being image conscious. I have always had respect for Eddie Murphy, but I liked him better when he starred in movies like Beverly Hills Cop. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable and features Eddie Murphy in his best role","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow, I was surprised at how brilliant this film was. It was funny and thrilling and had Eddie Murphy in his best role. It looks great, with the cinematography, scenery and editing all stylish, and the soundtrack is note-perfect, while the script is fresh, believable and funny with plenty of wit, and the story is thrilling and fast paced. The direction is assured, and the acting is great. Eddie Murphy is brilliant playing his most likable character to date, and shares a believable chemistry with Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Lisa Eilbacher and Steven Berkoff who all match him without fault. In conclusion, greatly enjoyable, and much better than its sequel. 10/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"No more skillful a blend of action and comedy exists in cinema to date.","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ... and a large portion of the credit for this can be traced back to the improvisational genius of one Eddie Murphy. Free of the shackles imposed upon him by his appearances in more family-orientated fare, he is equally at home whether barrelling through a side-splitting comedic monologue or brandishing an intimidating weapon.The story itself is pretty routine, but it is the ease with which Murphy and his sidekicks plug the gaps that should have you marvelling. Right from the start it's an adrenaline rush fueled by iconic music, and the supporting characters that come into the picture sometimes only for a scene at a time all do their bit to ably assist the star. If you want a snapshot of how Eddie Murphy's talents have best been utilised on film, then go for this one. "},{"Title":"You want a laugh?","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As being a fan of comedy, I love laughing and having a good time with family and friends watching them. Comedy is the best movie genre because it provides so much entertainment! Beverly Hills Cop 1,2, and 3 are great examples of what comedy should be. Whacky mishaps, funny lines, a little bit of swearing, and a great plot make this movie one of the best I've ever watched. I couldn't stop laughing; that's how funny this movie is! I suggest that you don't even waste the money renting this movie because if you like comedies, more than likely you're gonna watch it again and laugh just as hard! If anyone gave this movie a 1, they don't need to even watch comedy because most likely they hate it in general. "},{"Title":"How can you not vote this a 10?","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie is one of the best. Eddie Murphy was fantastic.The whole theme of the movie is hilarious and how someone cannot think this movie is a 10 is nuts.There is not many films that are out there, that can hold a candle to this flick.The movie is so funny, well written and has some great talent. Although the sequels were not as good, the original still is a top ten movie of all time. Don't forget the music was great. So between the script, actors and soundtrack.....This movie is a 10 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Murphy at his classic best","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You could put that man in any film and he'd make it hilarious. He could make you laugh by reading the bible in his own way. Now about the actual film itself it's nothing special in terms of storyline; much the same as the other Beverly Hills Cop films which are all pretty standard for that type of idea. But you have to remember that this film started the trilogy that started the whole almost sub-genre of comedy cop films (like the kind Martin Lawrence does now-a-days), so it's worthy of recognition for that. Aside from Murphy I was also impressed by some supporting actors like Judge Reinhold (played Billy Rosewood in this film and the next two in the series). He goes nicely as the green cop. Lisa Eilbacher goes well also but I felt Steven Berkoff didn't look scary or evil enough to make a believable bad guy.  "},{"Title":"Good standard cop thriller &#150; totally made by Murphy","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Axel Foley is a street tough detroit cop.  When a friend, Mickey, visits him &#150; only to be killed in a hit, Axel investigates in a trail that leads to Beverly Hills.  As a visiting officer Liet Bogomil assigns Dets Rosewood and Taggart to make sure he stays out of trouble.  But when Axel finds the murder leads to art and drug dealer Victor Maitland &#150; trouble is never far away.At it's heart this is a by the numbers cop thriller.  The plot is nothing special and the action is of the `bullet holes inches away' variety. However, from the opening credits the film plays to it's main strength &#150; Murphy.  The plot allows for plenty of his fast talking and streetwise humour to be liberally mixed in with the odd shoot out and plot driving scene.  However where the humour drops, so too does the film.The strong support helps the film and both Reinhold (surely not!) and Ashton give good performances.  Cox is always watchable and the stage-struck Berkoff can certainly play a cartoon bad guy when he has to (see also Rambo 2).  Resier and Pinchot round out the cast of familiar faces.Yes &#150; it's not exactly new or clever, and some of the humour is crude and dated (every comedy in the 80's had to have a scene in a strip bar &#150; I think!) but with Murphy's fresh drive and energy in the perfect vehicle for him this turned into a big hit and rightly so.  Much fun. "},{"Title":"Eddie at his action comedy best","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is an example of Eddie Murphy at his best in an action comedy. The film set a new standard for action movies, having a black amercian in the lead role. The film is still noteworthy today. I give it 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  hasn't aged, still worthwhile","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm probably wrong, but Beverly Hills Cop seemed to redefine the police action / comedy. I believe that ratings should be based on recent viewings (not our nostalgia), but I caught it on TV recently and was pleasantly surprised to find that it is still holding up!Eddy Murphy was at the start of his career in 1984, but does a great job of being smug but not unlikeably smug, skilled but not unreasonably silly-super-skilled, and there is a sort-of plot. For an action film guy like me there is plenty of action, but the film is a safe comedy to drag your SO along.If you're curious about the early Eddy Murphy, check this out. It's certainly better than the recent Showtime. And the soundtrack can't be beat. I'm forced to admit, however, that those not wanting to experience some nostalgia can find just as good cop flicks from the 90s and today.Who should see this film-- Action film buffs on a rainy day, or if you lived throughthe 80s and somehow missed it. And skip 48 Hrs.-- Comedy buffs, see Trading Places instead if you'dlike to see some early Eddy Murphy.I'll give Beverly Hills Cop a resilient 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"one of the genres best","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really cannot say which 80s cop/action movie is my favorite LETHAL WEAPON or this. Both have certainly got all the makings of a great action movie. Eddie Murphy shot to stardom as Axel Foley, still his best role, bringing the right mix of everything to the part. Judge Reinhold and John Ashton add equally-good support as the Beverly Hills police detectives who become involved with Axel's hunt for the murderer of an old friend. Their old married couple-like bickering (the very direction Martin Brest gave the two actors) is great, especially considering a good deal of it was ad-libbed by the two actors. And who can forget Bronson Pinchot's small part as Serge, the art gallery worker?Producing team Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer get the most out of everything, from the chemistry between the three leads to an excellent 80s soundtrack. Not to mention Harold Faltermeyer's awesome electronic score (still unfairly unreleased by itself to this day), containing one of the most identifiable movie themes ever. Gilbert Hill is a riot in a brief role as Axel's police chief (his chewing out of Axel in the station locker room is probably one of the most-remembered scenes of the series), and Paul Reiser is funny in a small role as another Detroit detective.I also really enjoyed the sequels and was glad (and a bit surprised) to see Paramount give them some good DVD treatment, and I look forward to the long-planned fourth film, though when or if we'll ever see it (with Murphy having seemingly found a new home in kid movies like DR. DOLITTLE) will have to be seen. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Best Film","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is a classic.  It has is all, great music, action, and side splitting, gut busting, nut aching comedy.  Eddie Murphy proves he is a comedic genius in his portrayal of streetwise Detective Axel Foley. Director Martin Brest and his screenwriters fill the screen with classic scene after classic scene.  The only downside is the cliched cocaine smuggling subplot.  But that's a small fault in an otherwise kick ass, classic comedy film. "},{"Title":"The Cool Eddie Murphy","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At the age of 23, Eddie Murphy leaps upon our screens again in the first of a trilogy titled 'Beverly Hills Cop'. In it, he combines action with comedy, and fuses together all the elements of '48 Hours' with 'Trading Places'. What made him successful as a serious actor in '48 Hours' he uses as a cop in 'Beverly Hills Cop', and what made him successful as a comedian in 'Trading Places' he uses to appear as a non-threatening black cop who is acceptable to mainstream audiences. From this moment on, Eddie Murphy would no longer be seen as a serious actor, but as the epitome of comedy-drama films of the 80's. In addition to Eddie Murphy's contribution, one cannot forget the fantastic score that went straight to number one in our pop charts. That sympathised techno sound brought together the emerging underground techno scene and put it into earshot of mainstream audiences. "}{"Title":"Classic Eddie Murphy","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In 1984, Eddie Murphy took on probably the best role of his career.  His name was Axel Foley.  Axel Foley is a Detroit police officer who goes to Beverly Hills, California to find the men who killed his best friend.  When he gets to Beverly Hills, he finds that the law there is a lot stricter than it is Detroit.  As Lieutenant Bogomil(Ronny Cox) says,Here in Beverly Hills, we do everything by the book.  So Axel goes about finding the crooks his own way.  His investigation leads him to Victor Maitland(Steven Berkoff), a shady art dealer with possible drug connections.  So to help out Axel with his investigation, two detectives are assigned to watch him in case he gets into trouble.  They are Sergeant Taggart(John Ashton) and Detective Rosewood(Judge Reinhold), probably one of the best comic duos in comedy history.  Beverly Hills Cop is probably Eddie Murphy's best film role to date.  I'm surprised he did not win his Golden Globe nomination for his performance.  I mean Beverly Hills Cop is filled with some of the funniest and most profanity-laden dialogue in film history.  There are so many classic action scenes and jokes as well, such as the cop-truck chase in the beginning and the banana-in-the-tailpipe gag.  My personal favorite scene is the locker room scene where Axel's boss (Gilbert R. Hill) walks in begins his barrage of f-words.  Special praise should go to director Martin Brest for keeping the action tight and jokes funny.  Brest directed another action-comedy flick during the 80's, with Robert De Niro and Charles Grodin in Midnight Run in 1988.Beverly Hills Cop gets a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's best film","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop is still in my opinion Eddie Murphy's best movie. Released back in December 1984, this movie propelled Murphy into super movie stardom as it went on to become one of the highest grossing movies of all-time and it still is Murphy's biggest hit. It spawned two sequels, but this is easily the best in the series. In Beverly Hills Cop Murphy plays Axel Foley, a fast-talking Detroit cop who gets a visit from his troublemaking best friend early on. When his friend is murdered, Foley tries to take on the case against the wishes of his boss. The friend had told Foley that he had been working in a warehouse out in Beverly Hills, California. Foley then asks his boss for a vacation. The boss agrees, and Foley is off to Beverly Hills and tries to investigate on why his friend was killed. Beverly Hills will never be the same again! Beverly Hills Cop has great comedy, great action, and a great soundtrack featuring the hit songs The Heat Is On, Stir It Up, New Attitude, and Neutron Dance. Murphy is perfect in his portrayl of Axel Foley, and gets great support from Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, Lisa Eilbacher, Steven Berkoff, and Paul Reiser. This is one very entertaining motion picture. It's very funny and very exciting. **** (out of four) "},{"Title":"The best out of three","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The funniest film ever.  Murphy excels as streetwise, fast talking Axel Foley in this box office hit comedy. What more can one say.  Worth paying double for. My personal favourite part is where Axel is confronted in the bonded warehouse by the security guard. "},{"Title":"What More Needs To Be Said?","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Oh, the mere mention of this movie brings a wide grin to my face. I like the way Eddie Murphy is always talking so fast. When I was younger, I would always try to imitate that.  (Spoiler) It seems every time he talks to someone he says something real funny likeChief, you still got your whole ass there, Are you security around here? Then YOUR the f**king problem!, Phil, hey man, what's happening Phil? I know that was you, he told me that you wasn't come here no more, hey Phil!. That last line is enhanced since Foley is faking being drunk. But my favorite parts are the truck chase, Inspector Todd/Axel Foley conversation (Todd just keeps saying f**k), Foley getting thrown out of the window, strip bar scene...I mean the list just goes on and on. If you don't find this movie funny, you don't find anything funny. "},{"Title":"Cop on a roll","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I wasn't in mood to see such a action-com flick but in the end I sat down to see it. Well, this was actually not an usual action comedy movie. This seemed to be a trend setter for many others which made after 1990s. Yeah, this one really was cheesy yet stylish with powerful performances. Story was quite simple about a cop's raids in an unknown state. The film as concentrates on many little plots at the same time, it doesn't drag at all to make you groove. Technical departments ain't well noticed enough in this flick which make a bit dragging watch. The production design is not too delightful against some beautiful performances. Actors are well shaped and their dialogues are swiftly delivered yet there is no such thing which seem glossy to feel. Eddie Murphy is amazing, he nails his performance to make you clap on his work. From others, Judge Reinhold is quite impressive. Lisa Eilbacher is almost wasted. Still, these things doesn't make movie unwatchable. Go for it, will make you think over today's action flicks. "},{"Title":"I'm on vacation...","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is a classic movie in its own right, and it is one of those movie that everyone has seen. And it is a very entertaining movie that mixes comedy, action and a good storyline quite well.The story is about Axel Foley (played by Eddie Murphy), a police officer whose friend is murdered in Detroit, and ends up in Beverly Hills to look into the murder of his friend. He gets tangled in with the Beverly Hills police department and is soon deep in trouble as his snooping around is not appreciated.Story-wise Beverly Hills Cop is greatly paced and actually quite nicely built up and has a very good flow to it. The story has a lot of weight to it, and it is the type of movie that you can watch again and again.And lets not forget about the distinctive music score and soundtrack that everyone is familiar with.The movie has a great cast of talents to it, that really do great jobs with their given roles and characters. There is especially a great chemistry between Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold and John Ashton.A great and fun movie that never gets old. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Cop is the best classic  Action comedy film from the 80's","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop (1984) is my favorite childhood movie. It is one of the best Action Films in the 80's I have seen. I don't care if it is written comedy in the genre. It is humor in this film but I am considering as a classic Action Film. It is definitely Eddie Murphy's best film. Film about Beverly Hills Cop and Cobra will not be today Action films like are this. I am really disappointed with how action films are turning today. Beverly hills Cop is a legendary film. A film that I will always cherish and I will never get tired of it. I love this movie to death. Great job reviewing one of the best classic action films ever.This is my favorite film and one of the best classic action films from the 80's of all time. Yes I grew up with this film, that always fascinated me how this film is fascinated, awesome, brilliant and very funny. Eddie Murphy kick's ass!!! A freewheeling Detroit cop pursuing a murder investigation finds himself dealing with the very different culture of Beverly Hills. Beverly Hills Cop is a movie made successful entirely on the performance of its star. The film is fairly shallow when it comes right down to it -- really, it's a whole lot of talk, a fair bit of comedy, and only a little bit of action -- but Star Eddie Murphy's (48 Hrs.) charisma and complete mastery of his character is what makes Director Martin Brest's (Midnight Run) movie a fan-favorite success. Outside of Murphy, Beverly Hills Cop is as routine as routine gets; a standard cops-and-robbers plot, no mystery, and point-and-shoot and in-the-raw direction make for an otherwise dull picture, but Murphy saves the film from its own shortcomings with so much flair and genuine excitement that this might be the all-time best of any of the actor-singlehandedly-makes-the-movie movies. Beverly Hills Cop is the very definition of a star vehicle, a movie that's nothing without its lead -- this specific lead at that -- but with him? It's a movie that's always masking its mistakes behind Murphy's big smile and quick-to-the-punch comic style and timing that he's got going on no matter the time, place, or circumstances in the story, selling the character and his actions with a startling effortlessness that transforms him into Axel Foley in every scene. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) is a slick, smooth-talking Detroit detective who's disobedience and disregard for procedure has once again landed him in hot water with his Chief, and a promising career is on the brink of disintegration. Axel Foley is Eddie Murphy's best role that made him in to a star today. Beverly Hills Cop is a 1984 American action comedy film directed by Martin Brest and starring Eddie Murphy as Axel Foley, a street-smart Detroit cop who heads to Beverly Hills, California to solve the murder of his best friend. Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, Lisa Eilbacher, Steven Berkoff and Jonathan Banks appear in supporting roles.This first film in the Beverly Hills Cop series shot Murphy to international stardom, won the People's Choice Award for Favorite Motion Picture, was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical, and received an Academy Award nomination for Best Writing (Original Screenplay) in 1985. It earned $234 million at the North American domestic box office, making it the highest-grossing 1984 film in the U.S.Beverly Hills Cop is always on the precipice of disaster, the picture teetering on the edge but always pulled back from the brink by Murphy's contagious enthusiasm and pure comic timing. About half the film, it seems, is constructed almost exclusively of scenes featuring Murphy's character being chewed out for his actions that take place in the other half of the film. Whether he's defending himself in front of his superiors or defending his life on the streets of Detroit and Beverly Hills, Murphy consistently and perfectly juggles the film's requirements for action (as sparse as the action may be) with what is almost always subtle but extraordinarily effective humor that always flows from the story and feels genuinely off-the-cuff, rather than force-fed into the plot just to try and squeeze out a laugh from its audience. It's the film's sense of real, genuine storytelling, then, that outside of Murphy, is its greatest asset. The film is awfully standard, yes, but it's never mechanical, instead playing as completely organic. The interplay between characters seems perfectly natural, as does the humor, and it's all thanks to Murphy's uncanny ability to carry the movie with so much natural swagger and charm that Beverly Hills Cop is so much fun in spite of what would otherwise be a forgettable loser of a movie. The heat is on in this fast paced action-comedy starring Eddie Murphy as Axel Foley, a street smart Detroit cop tracking down his best friend's killer in Beverly Hills. Axel quickly learns that his wild style doesn't fit in with the Beverly Hills Police Department, which assigns two officers (Judge Reinhold and John Ashton) to make sure things don't get out of hand. Dragging the stuffy detectives along for the ride, Axel smashes through a huge culture clash in his hilarious, high-speed pursuit of justice. Featuring cameos by Paul Reiser, Bronson Pinchot and Damon Wayans, Beverly Hills Cop is an exhilarating sidesplitting adventure!I love this film, it is one of the funniest movies that I've ever seen. Eddie Murphy rocks the house.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Paramount Pictures, Eddie Murphy Productions Starring Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, Damon Wayans Director Martin Brest Producers Don Simpson, Jerry Bruckheimer Screenplay Daniel Petrie, Jr. Story Danilo Bach, Daniel Petrie, Jr., Eddie Murphy Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 45 Mins. Budget $15 Million Box Office $316,360,478 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy at his peak in a great cop thriller/comedy","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop (1984) stars Eddie Murphy as, Axel Foley, a fast-talking, streetwise Detroit cop who goes to Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of a close friend. He meets up with a fetching high school friend (Lisa Eilbacher) and encounters a handful of Beverly Hills police (Judge Reinhold, John Ashton and Ronny Cox ) while zeroing in on the wicked culprit (Steven Berkoff).Murphy's role was originally intended for Sylvester Stallone, who dropped out two weeks before filming was to commence because the producers insisted that Stallone's ideas were over-budget. A couple days later Eddie signed on resulting in massive rewrites to include his witty comedic flair. Despite these last-minute changes everything clicks for a great mid-80s cop thriller/comedy. The movie went on to become the #1 film in the USA in 1984 and #2 worldwide.Seeing it 31 years later (as of this writing) it's clearly a product of its time&#x97;e.g. the music and styles&#x97;but its greatness still shines. What's so great about this film? Of course there's Eddie's comic genius, but there's so much more The great Axel F instrumental by Harold Faltermeyer; the way the movie expertly meshes serious drama/action with excellent comedic elements; Mikey's surprising and potent expression of love for his friend; Axel's loyalty at all costs spirit; the theme of being different in a world that demands conformity; trying to understand how your colleagues think or work in order to solve a case; the great camaraderie that develops amongst the protagonists; Axel's acceptance once he proves he's the real deal; looking beyond outer gruffness to see inner greatness; Lisa's perky cuteness; the warmth the viewer feels for the protagonists as the story progresses; and more.The film runs 105 minutes and was shot in Detroit and Dearborn, Michigan; and Beverly Hills, Hollywood and Los Angeles, California.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphys best film ever made","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy is Axel Foley. The fast-talking Detroit cop. Axel Foley's old best friend Michael Tandino has returned to Detroit after been in prison for a while.One the last things Michael tells Axel is that he worked down in Beverly Hills for some art dealer which could been smuggling cocaine. But when Axel is walking Michael home from the bar Axel gets hit down and Michael gets shot down right in the hallway outside his apartment. When Axel regain conscious he decides to take a undercover vacation to Beverly Hills, California to find this art dealer Michael worked for. I Love this movie. This is my absolutely favorite movie of all time. It.s really funny but at the same time it get pretty serious. I have to watch this movie at least once a month. Great movie with great tracks too. "},{"Title":"All Cops be like Eddie Murphy in this film","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Set in two completely different backgrounds of Detroit and Beverly Hills we see the contrast in law & order, lifestyle and poverty. Starting off as a gritty detectives film focusing on the selling of cigarettes to an undercover officer taking us on a mad high speed chase between the police and a truck driver before finally a little later ending with a death of a close friend. Gradually the film picks up becoming light and funny as we head to the big city of LA. This is where the film becomes recognisable to audiences about a cop Alex Foley stuck in unfamiliar locations meeting people and police officers who are diametrically unlike him.Alex Foley's purpose for being in town is to track down the killer by looking up a female friend who had also known the deceased. The main character is forced into committing many felonies in his attempts to throw the cops off him who are trying to keep him from discovering the truth about Beverly's Hills most philanthropic individual. Here we find the villain and the architect of his friend's demise Victor Maitland, learn his nefarious ways of avoiding customs, smuggling drugs all under the noses of Beverly Hills Police Department. The movie turns into a straight forward action movie at the end as a full assault on the premises of the Villain leads to a full shoot out and multiple minions are shot.Critically appraised at the time and rightfully so, this film continues to impress decades after release. As for the music Beverly Hills soundtrack is one of the most memorable songs in movie history. "}{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's defining career moment","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yet another early comedic hit from Eddie Murphy. The movie is more subtly funny than his other movies I've seen (like TRADING PLACES), but the humor is just as good. The only bit that felt out of place/awkward was a cameo by Damon Wayans playing a stereotypically gay man. The plot is mostly straightforward Eddie Murphy's best friend gets shot and he goes to Beverly Hills to investigate, but what makes this movie great is the interactions between Eddie Murphy and all of the people he meets, which serve as straight men/comic foils to his laid-back, joking persona. If I had one major quibble with the movie though, it's the lack of a charismatic villain, but the banter between the main characters easily overcomes it. There's even some spectacular action scenes. Two that stood out to me was the opening chase scene and the final shootout, which were intense and excellently shot. Anyway, I'm enjoying playing catchup on 80's action/comedies, and this is yet another excellent addition to my watched list. "},{"Title":"A delightful surprise!","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This one is surprisingly entertaining. It's a delightful what-they-didn't-know-was with all its formulas cleverly reworked for maximum dramatic impact, plus well-timed and neatly-paced humor. Mr. Murphy is astonishingly able in the main role. The script allows him several impersonations which he walks off with most amusingly. Judge Reinhold heads a great support cast. Director Martin Brest makes use of both his players and his locations for maximum effect. This movie is totally gripping from the first all-action sequence to the last. In short, Mr. Murphy and his writers have created some believable characters and made good use of them in an involving plot which the producer and his technicians serve up in involving style on an A-1 budget. Available on an excellent Paramount DVD. "},{"Title":"Detroit cop turned Beverly Hills cop? Yes please...","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. It's so good. It is so entertaining. 1984 was such a good year. Because this fabulous, amazing movie came out.In this movie, we meet Axel Foley, a cop in Detroit. He is pursuing a murder investigation, and finds himself having to go to Beverly Hills. With a very different environment, and culture.Starring Eddie Murphy as the amazing cop, Beverly Hills Cop is truly a great movie. Anyone will like it. It's not meant for kids, so don't make that mistake. It has swearing, but it is hilarious. I just can't get enough of Axel Foley.Overall, I give this movie a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Great '80's Action Comedy","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I hadn't seen Eddie Murphy in anything worth watching for a long time, and I kind of missed the guy from movies I watched during my childhood days, so I decided to poke around his filmography to see what I missed. That's when I found the Beverly Hills Cop trilogy.Eddie plays fast-talking Detective Axel Foley who meets up with an old buddy of his who apparently was let out of prison five months earlier. Their reunion is cut short when they're ambushed by a pair of hit men and Axel's buddy is killed as a result, luring Axel to Beverly Hills to investigate his friend's murder (against his Chief's orders, of course). I'm not going to reveal much more than that, other than the fact that he finds himself in over his head stumbling upon a drug smuggling operation.One thing I'd noticed about this movie is that it's the first one where Ronny Cox plays a character (Andrew Bogomil) I didn't want to push out a window myself (having only ever seen him in Verhoeven's Robocop and Total Recall). Also along for the ride are Judge Reinhold (Billy Rosewood) and John Ashton (John Taggert), both of whom are ACTUAL Beverly Hills cops that befriend and help Axel. Even Bogomil turns out to be one of the coolest police lieutenant in all of film. These four leads are all very likable and fun to watch.The villain, Victor Maitland, is convincingly nasty and somewhat refined at the same time. What I like about the villains of this franchise so far is that all of the villains manage to be... well... villainous without acting like total psychopathic, trigger-happy nutcases.It's a fun movie that takes a lot of the fun parts of Bad Boys and Lethal Weapon without being gratuitously violent and dark. Eddie Murphy's speedy monologues are always funny and the situations he gets himself into should have had his badge taken away from him in the first five minutes of the movie, but that's all part of the fun of following him around while he does his best to prove his case to everyone else and bring justice to his friend's killer.Just watch for a fun ride and keep on the lookout for bananas in your tailpipe. "},{"Title":"Breakneck pacing and addicting music combined with a storyline that sadly got familiar","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) is a reckless, wise-cracking Detroit cop, whose young, streetwise-mentality comes in handy in a force of aging white guys. After his childhood friend is murdered, Axel assigns himself to investigate the murder, despite harsh opposition from others on the force. He travels to Beverly Hills to work for the Beverly Hills Police Department and turns the force upside down with his aforementioned character traits. Murphy is ideal for the role of Axel Foley in Beverly Hills Cop. Murphy's mile-a-minute conversational humor and rapid-fire wit keeps things moving at a breakneck pace, and the man has enough charisma to keep a story like this moving. Furthermore, writer Daniel Petrie, Jr. makes sure to give Murphy an ample amount of screen time so his Axel Foley character rise is given moments to be fiercely likable and someone we grow to like.And even after giving us an energetic central character, Petrie, Jr. is sure to give us terrific action sequences. For example, the film opens with a fantastic chase scene between numerous police cruisers and a large, eighteen-wheeler carrying dozens of cartons of Lucky Strike cigarettes with Axel being thrown every which way in the back of the truck. The scene goes on for about three minutes and possesses the same kind of excitement and practicalness of The Blues Brothers's famous action scenes in the regard that digital effects don't seem to be interfering with the film every chance they get.Instead, the chase scene feels much more natural and real because of the fact that it's as if we're watching a real-life car chase on TV. Another scene similar to this one is the shootout scene between Axel and two other detectives and several other goons using high-powered machine guns. The scene operates like a realistic shootout and is simply a lot of fun to sit back and watch.Another thing levying the entire film is the soundtrack, which blends the likes of electric pop and techno music that allows for an exciting mix of things. For 1984, this was an uncommon thing, and the film's frequent use of one specific techno song allow for a nice consistency and an inane catchiness to the film all around.The Beverly Hills Cop franchise is an interesting footnote in film mainly because all three films are directed by three different directors, who've had strong and prolific experience in the action genre. The first sequel was directed by Top Gun director Tony Scott, while the second sequel by John Landis, who directed The Blues Brothers. As for this film, Martin Brest mans this ship, a man whose entire career has pretty much been devoted to action comedies that pack a wallop. His camera-work and filmmaking techniques are continuously impressive, and with the help of Daniel Petrie, Jr., the story at hand never becomes shackled by the confines of dreary storytelling or even a romance. In a world where it seems buddy cop films can barely establish actor/ character-chemistry and a credible plot, it's almost shocking to see what Beverly Hills Cop does and does so well.Starring Eddie Murphy. Directed by Martin Brest. "},{"Title":"It played better back in 1984, but it's still a good film.","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Back when Beverly Hills Cop came out in 1984, it was a HUGE sensation--HUGE. Although the film cost about $14,000,000 to make, it earned back almost $250,000,000...in the US alone! And, the soundtrack from the film was almost as big--with many of the songs getting enormous airtime. In fact, the soundtrack was a HUGE hit as well. And, not surprisingly, Eddie Murphy soon decided to call it quits on Saturday Night Live. On top of that, everyone seemed to be talking about the film...I can clearly remember that. Oddly, however, I didn't get around to seeing the film until now! And, now that I've seen it, I enjoyed it but also feel that the film sure would have played better back in the day than it does today.In this dramatic-comedy, Murphy plays Axel Foley--a freewheeling cop who seems to be the only one in the film who has a brain. He's smart and capable--and naturally the Detroit Police don't understand or appreciate him. One night, an old friend of Foley's shows up and after an evening partying, some assassins are waiting for them--killing the friend and sparing Foley. Clearly, Foley was not their target. Now, with the BAREST OF EVIDENCE, Foley is going on vacation to Beverly Hills to finish the investigation unofficially. However, once there, he finds the Beverly Hills Cops equally unappreciative of his talents and hassle him throughout most of the film. When the trail leads to a scum-bag named Maitland, the cops must decide whether to keep hassling Foley or jump into the fray with this out of control cop.The plot itself wasn't all that interesting to me and seemed a bit more like a plot from a TV cop show. However, this is not why folks liked the film. What folks liked, and I appreciated, was Murphy's humor--which was very much appreciated in order to liven up the mediocre plot. Is all this nonsense great? Nah...but it is quite good and Murphy's charisma was a MAJOR plus. Too bad this incredibly talented guy who made this and Dreamgirls (for which he received an Oscar nomination) also ended up making Norbit and The Adventures of Pluto Nash. Worth seeing, though you should be aware of the very crude language, violence and brief nudity.By the way, and it's not a complaint, but HOW DID AXEL GET THAT GUN IN THE BACK OF HIS PANTS AT THE END OF THE FILM?! He was shot in his right shoulder (his shooting arm) and yet the gun is stuffed in the back of his pants---in a way that could only happen if he did it with his damaged arm. And, who sticks their gun back there anyway? They'll end up blowing their butt off!! "},{"Title":"Some Of Eddie Murphy's Finest,","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is a fantastic movie with a well developed storyline,a great comedic cast and good characters.It probably isn't his best,but its without a doubt one of Eddie Murphy's best roles,he's a very on and off actor,but when he makes a good movie,its really good.Sylvester Stallone was originally going to play Axel Foley,I'm happy that didn't happen,Eddie Murphy's too perfect.The sequels aren't as good,but I find them very underrated,there still pretty good,and I hope a fourth one someday,I don't like the idea of a TV series with Brandon T Jackson and Eddie Murphy's character only being recurring.Fans of Eddie Murphy and crime movies with a lot of comedy will love this movie.Axel Foley,a cop working in Detroit,heads off to Beverly Hills to investigate the murder off his close friend. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Eddie Murphy movies in his career","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well what can I say im a fan of Eddie Murphy. I saw him in Shrek 1,2,3 and 4,Beverly Hills 2,Norbit,Nutty Professor 1 and 2,Dreamgirls,Coming To America,Boomerang,Imagine This,Mulan,and a few more. This film however was downright brilliant. The kick ass soundtrack,the story heck even the acting was great. So lets start with the review.The movie is about a Detroit cop named Axel Foley played by Eddie Murphy who's best mate got murdered outside his apartment room and he sets off to find out who killed his friend by taking a vacation to the lovely Beverly Hills where he meets another cop played by Judge Reynolds and another friend of Axel's who works in an art gallery. So he gets arrested for doing something he didn't do as the cops over in Beverly Hills won't believe him over who killed his best mate and that he knows who the REAL killer is.Bottom line I really liked this movie. Im not a fan of Crime movies that much,or too much profanity but this one was definitely one to stay up and watch as it was on TV last night where im from. I mean come on you gotta love the Axel Foley theme tune im sure its stuck in A lot of peoples heads now. And even though im a 22 yr old woman who loves animation,Romance,a bit of Fantasy,Drama and Comedy, Beverly Hill Cop remains one of the best films of the 1980s.WHY can't movies not be like this anymore NOW there a bunch of rip offs. "},{"Title":"Greatest Action Comedy Ever?","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A freewheeling Detroit cop (Eddie Murphy) pursuing a murder investigation finds himself dealing with the very different culture of Beverly Hills.I love that they took a Sylvester Stallone action film, made some modifications, and then turned it into an Eddie Murphy comedy. I think without a doubt this was a wise move -- how many Stallone films have been forgotten, whereas this one was one of the top-grossing films of all time and sparked two sequels (thus far).Heck, I am generally speaking not even a Murphy fan... but he is just so great here, and really in his element. Eddie Murphy is Axel Foley more than he is any other character he has played (though I suppose the kids today know him best as Donkey). And the banana in the tailpipe! I can see that joke a million times! "},{"Title":"eddie strikes again","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i certainly did enjoy this buddy cop movie very much,, i didn't have the privilege of seeing it when it came out in the theatres as my parents would never have let me go see an eddie murphy film,, now i'm in my 40's and i've seen the movie several tiimes and it seems to be like a fine whine, just getting better with age,, the whole going from Detroit to Beverly Hills,, the culture shock thing i think is the biggest part of the movie. Judge Reinhold, and John Ashton are the perfect compliment to Eddie Murphy in this one,, i just love the scene where Axel orders the fellows a pizza out on the middle of the street and the maitre de' waiter,, whoever just brings it right out to their car,, ii just thought that was totally awesome,, and funny as you know what. "}{"Title":"Good 80's Action-Comedy!","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Lisa Eilbacher, James Russo, Steven Berkoff, Jonathan Banks, Bronson Pinchot and Ronny Cox star in this 1984 action-comedy. Murphy plays Detroit, Michigan cop, Axel Foley who is soon visited by his long-time friend, Mikey Tandino (Russo) who has just got out of prison. Mikey reveals to Axel that he's been working in Beverly Hills, California at an art gallery and has some bonds that he stole. When Mikey is killed, Axel is determined to avenge him and heads to Beverly Hills for answers. He tracks the art gallery owned by crooked businessman, Victor Maitland (Berkoff) and gets himself in trouble when he tries confronting him. Axel meets and befriends cops, Billy Rosewood (Reinhold), his partner, John Taggart (Ashton) and their superior, Andy Bogomill (Cox) who help him with his investigation. Eilbacher plays Axel's other friend, Jenny Summers who works for Victor, Banks (48 Hrs.) plays his right-hand man, Zack and Pinchot (Risky Business) plays Jenny's co-worker, Serge. Murphy & the the cast are great in this and who can forget Harold Faltermeyer's excellent score. This is a good 80's flick that's definitely one of Murphy's best I recommend. "},{"Title":"Review for Beverly Hills Cop","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I would really suggest the movie Beverly Hills Cop to a lot of the Eddie Murphy lovers. This movie was very spectacular in its own way. It was funny, action-packed, and spooky at the same time. Here is my view of the movie overall. This movie was very funny. I don't suggest it to young children because it might be too inappropriate for the young ones. There is a lot of cussing and there is some stripper scenes. But, the parents should always look at the rating before letting there child see it. Eddie Murphy has always been in movies with more cuss words than usual. The movie was also very action-packed. Whenever Eddie Murphy pulled out his gun, you were sure to lean forward in your seat. Although none of the revolver guns that the police carried was loaded, they still made it seem like there was. I love this movie and I believe a lot of other people will too if they see my view of it. Although this movie was only 1 hour and 45 minutes long, it still covered everything it should have covered. This movie is a true masterpiece to my family and I. It was phenomenal and an intriguing movie. There isn't many things this movie did wrong. This movie was spooky and frightening in its own way. It had some scenes where I wanted to cover my face with the blankets because the final scene between Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) and Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff) was like a face-off. It was very fun to watch but frightening at the same time. The movie was based on Axel Foley's friend from California coming to visit him in Detroit. Later that day, he was killed by a man named Zach. Axel follows Zach to Beverly Hills in California. Axel was looking to find who was behind his friends death, and in a way, he wants to avenge his friends death. His police department lieutenant doesn't want him involved in this case. But, he goes anyway, Axel thinks that his friend Lisa's boss Victor was behind it. Axel begins to follow Victor and his workers around. At the same time, lieutenant Bogomil from the Beverly Hills department has assigned two cops to look after Foley to make sure he doesn't do anything stupid. In a way he manipulates the two cops to help him solve his case. Foley does solve the case; although, I am not going to tell you the person who was behind it.Overall, this movie was very exciting. I really recommend it to others. It is surely a must see when your old enough, of course. I love Eddie Murphy and I am an Eddie Murphy lover. "},{"Title":"Terrific Mix of Comedy and Action","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop (1984)*** 1/2 (out of 4)After his friend is murdered, Detroit cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) heads to Beverly Hills where he tries to track down the killers but he gets involved with a local big shot who appears to be doing many illegal things. BEVERLY HILLS COP is one of the better cop movies to come from the 80s, which was a time where many cop films were being released. Plenty of credit needs to be passed around when it comes to the film being a success but the majority of the pie has to go to Murphy who delivers a fast, very funny and very much original performance. You can't help but watch a film like this today and really wish that the actor was still doing the same type of stuff because his comic timing is pure genius here and there are just so many examples where his charm just overwhelms the viewer. Murphy is pitch perfect playing the smart aleck cop who is constantly playing by his own rules no matter what's at stake. The early scenes in Detroit where we see the operation going wrong are flawless as is the sequence where he tells his boss off. Things certainly don't slow down when we hit Beverly Hills because Murphy's given a terrific cast to work with including Lisa Eilbacher, John Ashton and Judge Reinhold among many others. The entire cast works terrifically well together and the chemistry they share constantly jumps off the screen. Again, a lot of cop movies featured fighting with one another but the perfection here is what makes this one of the most memorable. The action scenes are all incredibly good as they contain a nice mix of drama and fun. Another major plus is the now classic music score and songs, which were a staple of 80s cinema and they remain fun today. Martin Brest did a very good job at mixing everything up and making sure that the film never slowed down or got off track. BEVERLY HILLS COP has a lot going for it but Murphy remains the main reason to watch it. "},{"Title":"Ideal vehicle for Murphy. A great movie","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The very first scene (after the opening credits) might lead you to believe this won't be a very good movie, but fortunately, the movie is not mediocre. Murphy is wonderful and funny, in a movie that is also wonderful and funny. It gives you characters to care about, or maybe even relate to, it doesn't preach, condescend, or waste time with any unnecessary material. Sure, some of the cops are stubborn, but that's what this kind of movie should be. Also, look for an appearance by Bronson Pinchot (Balki from TV's Perfect Strangers). If you like fish-out-water movie, then you may enjoy it.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Disturbing the peace? I got thrown out of a window!","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nominated for an Oscar, a Golden Globe, and a BAFTA Award among others, this film defined Eddie Murphy, and put him on top. It is, in my opinion, his greatest role.I loved him in 48 Hours and Trading Places, but this role defined him, and he never topped this performance. But, Murphy didn't do it alone. He had Judge Reinhold, John Ashton, Lisa Eilbacher, and Ronny Cox to back him up. And, let's not forget Bronson Pinchot as Serge.A perfect blend of comedy, police work, and characters. Great music, too. "},{"Title":"Review Of Beverly Hills Cop","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before he directed Midnight Run, Martin Brest made Beverly Hills Cop, the 1984 action comedy starring Eddie Murphy. Murphy plays Axel Foley, a Detroit cop who pursues a murder investigation in Beverly Hills. I was somewhat impressed with this movie. Eddie Murphy was very impressive in the title role - he was as funny as he was heroic. The script was pretty well written. The soundtrack was iconic. Sadly, there's nothing much else I can say about this film. It's just good. It's nothing too special, it's just. . .solid I think is the word? Yeah I'll go with that. Overall, I felt that Beverly Hills Cop was solid. "},{"Title":"He's Mr. California","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" BEVERLY HILL COP is quite a funny and enjoyable 80s flick that got Eddie Murphy seated in super-stardom, and quite deservedly so. His performance is simple, yet all so much better for it, he more or less plays himself and has this laughing, pleased and joyous character to work with, which suits him fine. The film isn't especially original or groundbreaking, it's first and firmly a well made action/comedy that pops up with a likable protagonist that investigates bad guys in Beverly Hills while he's surrounded by swell locations and accompanied by some fantastic music by Patti LaBelle, Pointer Sisters, Danny Elfman and off course the memorable theme track. A brilliant vehicle for Murphy, and still a fine one to shoot back to as it shows that it's dated well. "},{"Title":"Fun 80s film","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There was plenty to enjoy in Beverly Hills Cop. In one of his early roles, Eddie Murphy plays Alex Foley, a cop who wants to take action on the crooks who killed his buddy and goes to Beverly Hills to track them down. What results along the way is a great number of laughs here and there. Judge Reinhold and John Ashton make hilarious co-stars, as usual. One of my favorite scenes involves Foley having room service sent to the cops watching him across the street while he shoves a banana up their tail pipe. That's just a sample of how funny this film can be. The film is similar to other great action comedies such as Rush Hour or Midnight Run. Beverly Hills Cop, however, is generally considered to me more monumental than those, most likely because it was the first of its kind. That is not to say, however, that it is the best of its kind. I find the latter two films to be funnier, though I don't have a lot to complain about with this one. My only problem with this film is the substantial amount of strong language. If this bothers you as it bothers me, I suggest you find an edited-for-TV version or a special version edited for content to remove the profanity. Without that, the film will be much more enjoyable and less of a distraction. There's plenty to enjoy in this movie, but don't expect it to be the best action comedy you've ever seen.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Damn good","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While its sequels were formulaic and safe, the first Beverly Hills Cop set out to explore some uncharted territory, and succeeded. A blend of violent action picture and sharp comedy, the film has an excellent director, Martin Brest (Scent of a Woman), who finds some original perspectives on stock scenes (highway chases, police rousts) and hits a gleeful note with Murphy while skewering L.A. culture. Good support from Judge Reinhold and John Ashton as local cops not used to doing things the Detroit way (Murphy's character hails from the Motor City). Paul Reiser has a funny, brief moment at the beginning, and Bronson Pinchot makes a hilarious impression in a great, never-to-be-duplicated scene with the star. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy,film icon","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before this movie,Mr.Murphy was primarily a wise-cracking,comedy circuit comedian from the lean years of SAturday Night Live who had managed to score a few hits(48 HRS,Trading Places) and one dud(Best Defense,released the same year),but was still a bit of a figure that had more cult-following status. Roughly five months of large screen first release and a colossal box office take later,and Murphy was now roundly a bona fide film star.Twenty-three years of box office,rentals and re-plays on everywhere from TNT to Comedy Central make this film's plot a given. Suffice it to say,to watch Murphy's Axel Foley(and to realize what kind of bizarre alternate universe of casting this film could've been party to,one need only consider the ethnicity of the name Axel Foley to know that Murphy was NOT who the filmmakers originally had in mind for this role)use his wit,street smarts and physical agility to cut through facades in facades-a-plenty L.A. to find the very bad dudes who offed his childhood buddy is STILL like watching a work of art. Director Martin Brest must've felt like he'd been given a gift from Heaven in Murphy,whose improvisational skills and ability to keep the kinetic-ism of the action probably made it easy to roll the cameras. Ditto for actors Judge Reinhold,John Ashton,Rony Cox,Lisa Eilbacher,Gilbert Hill and JOnathan Banks(As the heavy),who get to play straight guy to Murphy's riffing detective. Other than a near-hammy swishy art curator played by a pre-Perfect Strangers Bronson Pinchot,there is little competition as to who controls the show's tempo or flavor. If you're ever curious about how Murphy became the sort of incumbent film presence(or have become turned off on his more recent work),you need to catch this movie. "}{"Title":"The definitive Eddie Murphy movie.","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Murphy is cocky, street-smart and above all funny as motor-mouthed Axel Foley, the Detroit detective who takes an extended vacation in the super-bling surroundings of Beverly Hills to investigate the murder of an old buddy (James Russo). Ever-accompanied by Harold Faltermeyer's irritatingly-catchy Axel F backing track, Foley ruffles more than a few feathers as he winds up waist-deep in a secret world of mobsters, drug-smuggling and extremely plush-looking finger buffets.Judge Reinhold and John Ashton are the local detectives who end up working alongside Foley, via a banana in the tailpipe. Steven Berkoff is the curiously-accented villain-by-numbers Victor Maitland, whilst Jonathan Banks is Maitland's token lazy-eyed henchman.Murphy keeps us reminded that he's indeed no stranger to the letter 'F', though the swearies are generally infrequent enough not to interfere with the good comedic quality of the script.And, if you're up for some unintentional humour, look out for the big-boned Daley Thompson look-a-like appearing on screen for a split-second as Murphy's double in the scene where Foley throws Maitland's henchman over a restaurant table. Had me in stitches first time I had that pointed out to me.It's got an 80s-tastic soundtrack, complete with Glenn Frey, the Pointer Sisters, Patti LaBelle and the mighty Mr Faltermeyer, what else do you need? "},{"Title":"Slick and enjoyable","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A great fun action/comedy which has Eddie Murphy's trademark stamped all over it. He is Axel Foley, a Detroit detective who goes to Beverly Hills to track down the thugs who murdered his buddy.Marty Brest directs with flair and keeps the comedy rolling thick and fast, whilst the action is very entertaining too. Judge Reinhold and all the supporting cast are fun, but this is Eddie's movie. Murphy's foul mouth proved to be a nightmare for the T.V. censors, and the resultant modified version is quite funny in its own right.Slick, enjoyable and reasonably plotted, with a jazzy score from Harold Faltermeyer to back it up.Saturday, May 15, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Still a modern concept for policemen,crime investigations and other sectors","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although the general outline of the play is reflecting the beloved 80s, it is well -presented that when management is wrong the mission fails, so people without official permission may need to take things in their hands.. . especially in serious matters... Nowadays, in Greece, management is based on people who are chosen by the political party on Government. This has made the whole country, come to a general mess in any sector, because of bad management and because of people who do not feel what should be done in each crisis that appears. This play shows very well, that many times we have to disobey the official rules in order to do what must be done. Unfortunately, this in Greece has to be done every day. So, the wonderful protagonist, the cop of Beverly Hills is a close friend since lives inside us. Very good story, wonderful music and a wonderful Eddie. "},{"Title":"Very funny and entertaining cop/buddy movie","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" MPAARated R for Strong Language,Violence,Some Drug Content and Brief Nudity. Quebec RatingG(should be 13+) Canadian Home Video Rating18A(should be 14A)Beverly Hills Cop is in my opinion, one of Eddie Murphy's best films.Its a bit like 48hrs only better.It has a good mix of hilarious Eddie Murphy style Comedy as well as Action and Drama.The film is about a cop who'se friend gets killed while he visits him.His boss does not want him to interfere with the case but the cop goes to Beverly Hills to try and find out who killed his friend.The film spawned two sequels.I have seen a bit of the second film and it looks fairly good,I have not seen the third but I heard it sucks.There's a fourth one coming out,hopefully its as good as this one! Fans of Eddie Murphy or films like Rush Hour should check this out.The film has a great soundtrack as well. "},{"Title":"1 of the best films of the 80's and certainly the greatest Murphy flick to date.","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THRILLER!!!!!! i don't think so.......... Action Comedy are my words. At the beginning of 85' a film came out, a very slick cool film, that was Beverly Hills Cop. Comedy at its pinnacal peak of laughs and thrills, joy and excitement. Murphy made action comedy's live again, this was the start of a new, more comedic and actiony look at films. action. Adventure. Comedy. Murphy gives a bloody damn good comedy performance making him one of the top and most respected comedy actors to date. Axel Foley (Murphy) is a Detriot police officer, who wants to find the man for the murder of his friend Mikey Tandino. And decided by saying to his boss he wont go but does go to Beverly Hills, where he gets thrown through a window, goes to a strip club and puts a banana in the tail pipe of two cops, Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Sgt John Taggart (John Ashton) who are trailing Axel and experience hilarious results.Murphy, Reinhold and Ashton make Beverly Hills a long and well worthy experience of cops and comedy, action and adventure and a killer soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Slick action and good comedy - too bad about Eddie Murphy, though","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Out of curiosity, I decided to get Beverly Hills Cop. Let me tell you...it doesn't disappoint. It is not particularly original - I have seen this sort of cop-buddy movie done about a thousand times before, along with the 'renegade cop' thing. But Beverly Hills Cop stands out as one of the better ones of its genre. One reason for this is Eddie Murphy. Lately, his presence has been a waste of screen time - look at him in The Haunted Mansion! But here, he seems in his element - he's fresh, he's likable and he's pretty funny at times. He always seems to inject his humour at the right times, like when he rants on about Michael Jackson and defuses a potentially awkward situation. Beverly Hills Cop is a slick movie, it must be said. It may just be Beverly Hills, but there is a slickness about the movie which is noticeable. For example, the expensive hotels, the luxury cars - yes indeed, Eddie Murphy's character, Axel Foley, is really out of his element here. A real...fish out of water. Foley, you see, is used to living in the 'ghetto' that is Detroit - crappy car, derelict buildings - no, Foley doesn't have it easy. Another thing which apparently doesn't exist in Beverly Hills is the unorthodox nature of Foley. I am just thinking about how unoriginal all of this really is - the stupid chief, the renegade cop who is always right, etc, etc. But it still works better than a movie like Die Hard 2. Mind you, Die Hard 2 is not a bad movie (see that review for more), but Beverly Hills Cop has something that Die Hard 2 doesn't...maybe some humour. Or maybe the fact that there is no strip bar scene in Die Hard 2! ) The theme music here is memorable, as well.The acting was OK I guess. The only one who really does well, like I said, is Murphy. Steven Berkoff is somewhat cold (although not really menacing) as the villain of the piece, while the rest are adequate.As well as being a good comedy, Beverly Hills Cop also delivers on action. There is a good shootout near the end of the film, at what I believe to be the same mansion which was used in Commando. The chase scene at the start is also eyecatching and I couldn't help laughing when Foley threw one of Berkoff's thugs into a buffet. And what about the banana trick? Overall, this is a good action movie which provides some good comedy as well. It does not score any points for originality, but it does deserve it's reputation as one of the better cop-buddy movies. Although I would never call Beverly Hills Cop great as such, it is still definitely worth a watch or two. I could definitely watch it again.4/5 stars "},{"Title":"Instant Classic!!","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Beverly Hills Cop trilogy is my favorite movie/series. What I love about it is that it's different; it's about cops that are serious but it's funny. It starts with Axel Foley who is played by Eddie Murphy going to Beverly Hills because his friend was murdered. While there he tries to solve what happened to his friend and learn about Beverly Hills. It may seem serious but it's very funny. Judge Reinhold plays Billy Rosewood who is the goofy serious guy who is one of the lead characters. There's also Taggard who is the serious guy who never laughs or smiles. While watching this movie, you get a sense of Eddie Murphy and his real funniness while trying to cover up his character in the movie. All in all I recommend this movie to anyone who likes comedies with some action in it. Enjoy the movie!! "},{"Title":"Exciting and lots of fun","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First time I seen this movie, I am 10 years old (yes its rated R I don't even listen!) After about an hour I fell asleep! Then I thought this movie is really boring but after a few years, I watched it again and I realized this movie is good. Eddie Murphy really shines as Axel Foley and he brings a lot of energy on every scene as well as his co-stars. The pacing is good and the soundtrack hits the right note. Although action scene is simply part of the plot rather than some kind of expensive fireworks (like what Stallone envisioned) it could have been a little better, it doesn't have to be a lot of action, but at least it have some finesse and this movie lacks of it. "},{"Title":"A classic 80s film","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is one of the best 1980s films. It also helped propel the career of Eddie Murphy. As Detroit cop Axel Foley, he is on a murder trail that leads him to the quaint city of Beverly Hills. This is a film that pokes fun at cultural differences between two very different types of environments - Detroit and Beverly Hills. The great thing about this film is how the 3 main actors, Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, and John Ashton, are properly cast in their roles, they definitely work well together. Also, the score to this film is both inventive, new, and classic 1980s style (kudos to the composer and songwriters). This is a must see film for all ages - 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Best cop comedy ever","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you wanted a cop comedy with lots of violence, Beverly Hills Cop is for you. Beverly Hills Cop established Eddie Murphy as a movie star in late 1984. The heat is on in this cop comedy film starring Eddie Murphy as a renegade Detroit police detective in Beverly Hills investigating a murder. But what makes hilarious is the use of obscene language. But I watched years ago an edited broadcast TV version years ago with no profanity. However, after 21 years after its first release, Beverly Hills Cop is still enjoyable. The soundtrack its quite good, the song The Heat Is On, Neutron Dance and the instrumental Axel F had become hugely popular in the '80s generation. "}{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's Best Movie","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is my favorite Eddie Murphy movie, a lot alone my favorite Beverly Hills Cops series movie. This is the one where Axel Foley meets Billy Rosewood and John Taggart. You get to understand how Axel made his way to Beverly Hills from Detroit. It has a good story too. One of his oldest friends gets murdered and he goes to Beverley Hills to try to solve it even though his boss told him not to get involved in the case. Axel Foley is a good character. A smooth cop whos tricky and knows his way around things and does what he wants. I liked Damon Wayans' small role in the movie as the fruit guy who gives Axel the bananas. It was his first ever role ever as well. You don't know what you've been missing until you've seen Beverly Hills Cop (1). "},{"Title":"Cop this!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just imagine what a dire movie this would have been, if Sylvester Stallone had accepted the part of Axel F.  BHC was intended as a Cobra style, highly serious action thriller. But when Sly pulled out of the movie, and someone suggested a black lead, ie Murphy, the scripts were hastily re-written for his comic talents...That didn't stop him ad-libbing throughout the film.  Check out the scene in the art gallery. Murphy and his co-star can barely contain their laughter.And don't forget that great soundtrack by, amongst others, the Pointer Sisters, and Harold Faltermyer...Whatever happened to him? "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's claim to superstardom","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although he had starred in two prior box office hits, Beverly Hills Cop, released in late 1984 is the film that really made him a superstar. Starring as Axel Foley, Murphy proved an extraordinary comic talent and developed engagingly funny chemistry  with costars Judge Reinhold and John Ashton.  The film was such a hit that it  spawned two sequels. "},{"Title":"Yer not gonna fall for a banana in the tailpipe?","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy shines and soars in BEVERLY HILLS COP, a superb film that combines smart comedy with fast action. Murphy is Axel Foley, a tough, wise-alecky cop from Detroit who storms into Beverly Hills to nailhis buddy's killers. Beverly Hills detectives Taggart and Rosewood (John Ashton and Judge Reinhold) tail behind the out-of-towner.Murphy's wisecracks and jokes are proven effective elements to goalong a crime drama, and that's what makes the film so great. A true comic classic in the making. "},{"Title":"Eddie is the best","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly hills cop is one of the funniest and greatest films of the 80s. Eddie plays Axel, a Detroit cop whos friends is murdered by a big crime boss who is also an art dealer on the sides. This art dealer/gangster played by Steven Berkoff lives out in Bervely Hills and with leads he gets Axel goes out pretending to be on holiday to investigate. He gets on the wrong sides of the Beverly Hills police force and is watched and followed as he intimidates and annoys Berkoff.Axel is a cop who is as cool as they come, anything goes as he jokes his way convincingly into situations. Top comedy and a fantastic film from one of he best comedians and actors of the present. 10 out of 10 and so so so much better than Star Wars. "},{"Title":"Hysterically charged!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film on Paramount last night for the first time and it had me in stitches. It is not Eddie Murphy at his best(he was at his best in Coming to America) but is very close.I have seen Beverly Hills Cop 3 and didn't think much of it but after seeing this one I am going to see the second film.Eddie Murphy is fantastic!Check him out in Bowfinger! "},{"Title":"Full of energy, in spite of some flaws","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) was a brilliant Detroit cop who didn't do things by the book. One day his best friend Mikey Tandino visited him and got shot dead at his apartment. Therefore Axel went to Beverly Hills to investigate Mikey's murder, where Mikey used to work for a famous art dealer Victor Maitland.This was a typical guy movie in which Lisa Eilbacher's character Jenny Summers was only a small role. Axel, Jenny and Mikey grew up together in the same neighborhood and they were great friends. And now Axel came to L. A. to find the people who killed Mikey, and Jenny owned an art gallery, which belonged to Maitland.In one scene when Axel took Jenny to his hotel room, Jenny sat on the bed and asked How long are you gonna stay?, with a big smile and full of anticipation. Til I find the man who killed Mikey, Axel replied. Obviously this answer was a huge disappointment to Jenny, who I personally think, intended to have sex with Axel.I also think that this film portrayed gays and less macho men in a stereotypical and satirical way. Indeed, there were various scenes contained such matter that did make me feel funny and laugh, but ultimately, this is not fair to homosexuals.Nevertheless, Beverly Hills Cop was still a marvelous movie with the actors' outstanding performances which made me laugh out loud and dazzling car chasing and action. Eddie Murphy was particularly lovable in this film, in comparison with some of  his other work. "},{"Title":"Justice Served","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is a film about a rebellious Detroit police officer who plays by his own rules. He is a man who believes in justice and truth, he isn't afraid to get the job done even if it means getting a little dirty along the way. Axel Foley isn't your typical play by the rules type of police officer. Axel Foley is no basic police officer. The film Beverly Hills Cop begins with Axel Foley in the back of a semi truck along with two tough gang members in Detroit, Michigan. He is negotiating on a price for the untraceable drugs which he had supposedly packed into cigarettes. They are interrupted when a police unit rushes in with there sirens blaring; the police are oblivious to Axel's undercover operation. All of a sudden shots are fired, one man falls to the ground and the other jumps into the drivers seat and takes off, with Axel still in the trucks trailer. A wild police chase erupts with collisions and explosions throughout the city of Detroit and when the truck finally runs out of steam the police realize it is Axel working on an unauthorized case. This is not Axels first time to work undercover without authorization; and as a matter of fact the city of Detroit and the police chief are not happy with Axel's stunts. The city seems as if it was steamrolled and shredded to pieces. Axel is given a final warning from his police chief and threatens to take his job away if he pulls another stunt like that. Shortly after being sent home from work due to his crazed actions Axel witnesses the death of an old friend named Mikey and is driven to crack a case across the country in Beverly Hills. Here is where the movie truly begins to take off, Axels chief told him to stay away from the case, but Axel being the rebel police officer he is knows he can not stay away from the murder case of his best friend. He decides to take a vacation to Beverly Hills where Mikey had worked for a man named Victor Maidland. After some investigation on Victor Axel is arrested and taken down town and becomes very familiar with a few of the Beverly Hills police officers. Axel is picked up from the police department by an old friend named Jenny. She works for Victor and was also a good friend of Mikey's. This works out perfectly for Axel because she is able to get him access to buildings in Victors business and give him inside intel that eventually solves the case. The remainder of the movie is all about Axel investigating Victors company searching for clues and evidence to solve the murder case of his friend. He eventually becomes close with police officers who were originally sent to follow him and get him under tight watch. These officers eventually help Axel solve the case and are with him throughout the end of the film. Throughout the film Axel does many things that shouldn't be acceptable for a police officer to do. He goes under cover when he is not authorized to do so, he carries a gun outside of his jurisdiction, he goes to strip clubs and does many other asinine things that a cop is not expected to do. He bends many of the rules and even the laws that police officers are expected to abide by. Even though Axel makes many risky decisions he solves the case and does a really good job. He takes many bad people off the street and cleans up the city of Beverly Hills. If Axel would have done anything differently in the film, the outcome would have been much different. If Axel would have played by the rules and listened to his police chief, he would never have solved the case of his good friend. If he wouldn't have taken police officers that were on duty to a strip club, he never would have gotten a lead that would lead them straight to the source of the murder. Breaking the rules in Axels case was well worth it. Although he had to face a lot of opposition from his senior officers and take a lot of heat from his colleagues. A major case was solved because he wasn't afraid to finish a job regardless of the consequences. Axels bending and breaking the rules type of behavior was a necessary procedure in order for him to be a successful police officer. In the case of Axel Foley and Beverly Hills Cop risking your job, life, and reputation are worth doing something that you believe in. Overall the movie is pretty average, this is your typical police action movie with a bit of Eddie Murphy's comedic twist. So if you have the time go ahead and check out the film Beverly Hills Cop "},{"Title":"couldn't finish it","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was too young to watch this movie when it came out in the 80s and so recently I tried to watch it for the first time on Netflix. Couldn't finish it. It was too annoying. The guffawing, the filthy language that would make a sailor blush, and the constant wind-up of the movie left me cringing at scene after scene.Amazing soundtrack though. Love those 80s synthesizers. And the idea of the movie is great! It starts off in poor, dirty Detroit and moves to posh, upscale LA. Great idea for a movie - you've got the socio-economic conflict, the race conflict, the geographical conflict. Sounds good on paper, but most of the movie was just unwatchable. It was just too annoying. I didn't like it. I'm no moralist or anything, far from it, but every other word was f$#@ this, f#$% that. Terrible script, it reminded me of this trashy, tattooed guy I used to live next to. Honestly, I can't believe this script got OKed, it's terrible. But this movie has a 7.3 user rating!! Ha! Oh, that made me laugh. It's a 3 or 4, tops, come on man! Really?! You guys are just too much. Wanted to like it, tried to like it, but didn't. At least I tried. I've seen some awful movies lately so I think I deserve a little bit of credit. "},{"Title":"Arguably the worst 80's comedy.","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy can get so out of control and so full of heat in anything he does. When he plays a tough Detroit cop who is sent to Beverley Hills to investigate the murder of his friend, I thought there would be some opportunities for Murphy to get absolutely hysterical. Wrong! Due to a ridiculous script and horrendous directing from Martin Brest, Beverly Hills Cop' was doomed from the first sentence of dialogue. The opening sequence with the credits made it look like a sentimental crime story with shots of the people of Detroit as if society was weighing down on them. Next we have Eddie Murphy as an undercover cop dealing with some crooks before getting in a destructive, audacious car chase. There's more ridiculous action where that came from. There is a shootout that of course has sharp shooting good guys with handguns and bad guys with machine guns who couldn't hit a tree from three feet away if their lives depended on it. Most tragically, this doesn't even feel like a comedy! Martin Brest isn't sure if he wants this to be action- packed, funny and silly, or dramatic. If I has to define this film by it's mood, I would call it a ridiculous action film instead of a comedy. Many say that this spoofs cop films, which is far from the truth. It feeds off of cop films instead of trashes them. With guns, action, bosses, crooks, and every imaginable thing to happen, this is a film that is impossible to find something good about. Murphy doesn't have room to shine due to his quiet character who only gets cocky when in danger. The real tragedy is how it doesn't blend comedy and drama well to make it a dark comedy, which would have been stellar. With zero subplots, were stuck with a boring story that fails at almost everything. "}{"Title":"Oh joy","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Looking at the script alone it's easy to conclude that this film could easily have turned out to be a complete mess.Bit it didn't. Why? I am still not sure. Although great casting played a major role. All the roles were perfectly cast, and Murphy (unlike in some of the films he made later in his career) was really into it this time around. These actors were all into it, and clearly having lots of fun.But is that all? No. There is the awesome musical score as well.What else? Solid direction? Nice locations? Yeah.What else? I guess it's one of those few projects where all the stars in the sky aligned properly so as to give it that x-factor that renders a film awesome. And that's what this film is awesome. Beverly Hills Cop is pure enjoyment from beginning to end, from the first scene to the last. Finally, there was an honesty and genuine filmmaking enthusiasm that characterized films in the 80s. Now it's all routine, cynicism, and calculation. As long as the film makes money, nothing else matters. That's not an attitude that can sustain the film industry in the long run. You can condition your audience to put up with rubbish for a while, but sooner or later people will become starved and desperate for genuine movie magic. In the meantime, I am sticking to 80s classics like The Beverly Hills Cop.An easy 10/10. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Beverly Hills","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first of a hilarious trilogy of films,Beverly Hills Cops stars Eddie Murphy as Axel Foley who is a street-smart cop from Detroit who is looking for a dish of justice to be served as he intends on tracking down his best friends killer in Beverly Hills.Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play Detective William'Billy' Rosewood and Detective Seargant John Taggart respectively played with humour and quick wit.In my view,overall the film deserves some good pointers such as the action sequences,the humour and quick wit and humour by Eddie Murphy,Judge Reinhold and John Ashton plus Steven Berkoff and Lisa Eilbacher as Victor Maitland and Jeanette'Jenny'Summers respectively play their parts well as well as some wonderful directing by Martin Brest.Overall,it is a comedy that won't be forgotten anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Classic Eddie, timeless!","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I recently bought the best of Saturday Night Live Eddie Murphy, and I just about died laughing. Unfortunately, before that I only saw like three of the episodes of SNL with Eddie on tape, Eddie was kind of before my time, but when I got to see the best, I was really excited and my mom asked me if I ever saw Beverly Hills Cop, but I didn't. She went out to buy it and I just watched it, I nearly died laughing.Eddie plays Axel, a tough street smart cop from Detroit. His convict friend comes to visit him with some phony bonds, but ends up getting murdered. Axel decides to take things into his own hands and goes to Beverly Hills to find his friend's killer. He ends up getting followed by the Beverly Hills cops while he's on the case of Victor Maitland, the number one suspect for his friend's murder.Eddie has some amazing scenes in this movie, my favorite is where he has to get into the restaurant to see Victor again and he acts gay and says he has a disease that he has to tell Vic about to the host. This is a terrific movie and really shows the many talents of Eddie Murphy, the guy is just great. What a laugh! 10/10 "},{"Title":"one of Murphy's most memorable and entertaining films","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Murphy is well-cast as Detective Axel Foley, a street smart, foulmouthed Detroit cop who never plays by the rules, which eventually puts him on thin ice with his short-tempered, no-nonsense superior officer. Having just completed a case in his typically reckless fashion, Foley is paid a visit by an old friend from Los Angeles who's unexpectedly murdered. Angered by what he views as an inadequate investigation, Foley travels out to the west coast himself to try and find the real culprit. An ideal action-comedy if there ever was one; the story may be simple but it's elevated by Murphy's exuberance, great songs, and an outstanding supporting cast. Slick, violent, and very funny, with Murphy displaying his talents perfectly. ***½ "},{"Title":"3 Stars","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Agreeable, often engaging, cop comedy/action film about Detroit cop who takes it upon himself to help a friend held hostage in Beverly Hills. Almost entirely carried by Murphy (as are most of his films), this movie is at its best when dealing with a Detroit cop's difficulties adapting to Beverly Hills life.  First in a line of sequels.   "},{"Title":"Murphy separates BHC from the rest of the 80s cop film junk pile","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" They just don't make 'em like they used to--80s cop flicks starring a rebel protagonist with a smart mouth. It's sort of its own classic genre and it's epitomized by Beverly Hills Cop. The movie is nothing near sensational, especially considering how the genre has transformed simply by virtue of technology, but it has a niche near and dear to the hearts of many.Eddie Murphy stars as Axel Foley, a detective for the Detroit PD with a knack for doing things the theatrical and brash way. After getting an earful from his boss, a friend is killed and Foley decides to investigate his friends' case (despite warnings from his boss), which will take him to Beverly Hills where he gets caught up in some drug pushing. He also has a couple of LAPD guys on his tail making sure he stays out of trouble, which of course he doesn't. In fact, he ropes the two of them into it.Murphy is far and away the best part the movie. His lines are well written as he plays this foul-mouthed troublemaker that always keeps the moment awkward with a tone of voice and jokes that completely don't fit the situation. The rest of the cast is pretty much garbage. A few good roles here and there, but the acting is mostly forgettable.The story isn't too important. It just sets up situations for Foley to be the rule-breaking, crazy cop who never learns but always comes out on top. It also sets up some neat chase/action sequences, which consists of the film crew driving trucks like wrecking balls down a street full of cars and bashing everything in sight.The film also makes itself a very clear tribute to the grooves of the 80s, many times when those songs are completely out of place. The film's iconic synthesized theme works, but the rest of the song choices add too much of a playful, not-serious tone for a film that does try to be a crime drama in ways.Beverly Hills Cop is certainly the antidote for a case of haven't seen enough 80s action movies lately, but other than that it's just a plain cop drama with an interesting main character. "},{"Title":"An Exciting Action 'Fish-Out of Water' Comedy","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is one of Eddie Murphy's few genuinely good movies. Murphy is cast as Axel Foley, a Detriot policeman with authority issues who travels to Beverly Hills to learn what happened to one of his close friends. He discovers the ultimate adversary in villainous Victor Maitland (Steven Berkoff of Octopussy), while he cannot get his head around how the Beverly Hills Police Department operates. Eventually, he makes friends with two blue-collar cops, callow Detective Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold of Fast Times at Ridgemont High) and Rosewood's gruff, no-nonsense partner Sergeant Taggart (John Ashton of Midnight Run) who have been dispatched to conduct surveillance on him by their immediate superior, Lieutenant Bogomil (Ronny Cox of Deliverance) who wants Axel out of town. Axel isn't the kind of guy who gives up easily as everybody comes to realize with dire chagrin, especially Maitland. Axel's Detroit Police Department Captain, Inspector Todd (Gilbert R. Hill) is the only person that Axel seems to respect. Anyway, Beverly Hills Cop is fast-paced fun with all the dull spots edited out for maximum velocity from the early scenes in the Motor City when he busts cigarette smugglers to his repeated clashes with Maitland and his minions, most memorably Zack (Jonathan Banks), the evil villain who killed Axel's friend and loves to brag about the feat. Martin Brest made his reputation with this top-flight action thriller. Before Beverly Hills Cop he made an amusing oldsters actioneer with George Burns, Art Carney, and Lee Strasberg entitled Going in Style. He went on to helm the top-notch Robert De Niro bounty hunter thriller Midnight Run. The bouncy orchestral theme by Harold Faltermeyer became a popular hit. Beverly Hills Cop was an early example of a Jerry Bruckheimer & Don Simpson production. "},{"Title":"Young talent on the rise","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is already the 30th anniversary for the early Eddie Murphy movie Beverly Hills Cop. Director Martin Brest has a pretty unique body of work afterward. He scored 2 Oscar nominations for Scent of a Woman (the film that won Pacino finally his Oscar), but seemingly killed his career in 2003 with Gigli and has not directed a movie ever since. Beverly Hills Cop was the highest grossing film from 1984, ahead of classics like Indiana Jones, Gremlins, Karate Kid and Ghostbusters. Quite a good year for cinema with a winner that you would not necessarily expect. Probably thanks to the commercial success, the script received an Academy Award nomination, and Harold Faltermeyer's excellent soundtrack scored some recognition at award shows as well. He had to wait for the sequel to get his Oscar nomination though. Fittingly for its audience numbers, the film also won People's Choice Award for Best Movie of the Year.Eddie Murphy was a rising star back then. He got a Golden Globe nomination, his second already after Trading Places and an earlier Best Newcomer nod for 48 Hours and all this in his early 20s. There have been two sequels already for Beverly Hills Cop in the 10 years after the original, but judging from what the critics say, the quality got steadily worse. Maybe the possible 4th film, which could come out in 2016, will be received better again.I personally found this film work much better as a crime thriller than as a comedy. Murphy's usual stick has never been really my cup of tea, but it's not so bad that it destroys the whole movie. His character is as loud, obnoxious and smart as you know it from Murphy's other works. The film has all the ingredients one rich evil antagonist, violent scary henchmen and a good-looking female, who has even less to do than Bond girls usually do. It is all a bit predictable, but I liked the ending with the reference back to the made-up story Murphy told earlier in the film. That connection was nicely written. You could summarize this film as a story about a cop who goes from New York to Beverly Hills to solve the murder of his friend (oh back in the days when males could still tell males I love you without the audience smelling any homoerotic tendencies). Decide for yourself if you want to give it a go. If you do and if you have seen Breaking Bad, you will find the young Jonathan Banks (Mike Ehrmanntraut) in the cast as well in one of the bigger parts including a shootout scene with Murphy. "},{"Title":"A career-defining role","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Looking back on it now, Beverly Hills Cop feels like a packaged deal; take a name producer, MTV-friendly pop soundtrack, and an up-and-coming star and it just looks like a formula for printing money. And I guess it'd be pretty easy to write it off as just that, but there's a lot more going on here.Eddie Murphy proves the ideal choice for the smartass who ends up schooling the rule-adherent West Coast police department. Most of the enjoyment you'll get out of this derives from his sense of humor (not to mention that laugh). It's pitch-perfect casting, and that trivia about Stallone originally being considered . . . man, that would've been a completely different movie.But there's a real camaraderie that forms between Murphy, John Ashton and Judge Reinhold once they're all working together, and it's thanks in no small part to the actors' chemistry. What could be a stale narrative deepens when the unconventional cop actually finds kindred spirits in his coastal counterparts. When all is said and done, the laughs are there, but so is the solid cop story.It's an action comedy, with the usual car chases and shootouts, but it still stands up extremely well. This is a gem. And that score is infectious! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not great, but still...","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" BEVERLY HILLS COP is one of the films that kick-started the action-comedy movie that ruled the 1980s. Films like LETHAL WEAPON and their ilk wouldn't have existed if Eddie Murphy hadn't come along to begin with and show them how it's done.I'll admit, right away, that I'm no Murphy fan. I've seen him in a couple of okayish movies (THE GOLDEN CHILD, METRO) but most of his filmography I wouldn't go near. BEVERLY HILLS COP presents him at his most successful and most commercial, full of wisecracks and edgy humour. Watching him go up against the staid, by-the-book-cops is a lot of fun.The film has dated quite a lot. The story feels a little bland and not much happens. Some of it's repetitive, and other scenes feel extraneous. There are a bunch of familiar faces (Ronny Cox, Steven Berkoff, Paul Reiser) but the really interesting roles go to Judge Reinhold and John Ashton. Watching the effect Murphy's character has on them is a lot of fun.That's good, because the action is fairly routine and there are no twists that you won't work out well in advance. In fact, I think this would be a pretty pedestrian film were it not for Murphy's larger-than-life turn. He brings the vital life and energy that helped turn this into a classic. "}{"Title":"A Great action-comedy with an even Greater lead character.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy's star was rising with 48 Hours and Delirious, he was still very young, unbelievably self-confident and effortlessly funny, with the added benefit of not having all his jokes, voices and THAT laugh heard repeatedly, it was all very fresh.The director Martin Brest might not have made many films but he had a knack for making action sequences more visceral without big effects and explosions, equally as important Brest had an ear for solid tunes to accompany said action. The opening road train chase and the string of stunts that open the film attest to that.As trite as it might seem putting a brash young black guy in among a bunch of stiff shirt by-the-book cops works, especially when the black guy is Eddie Murphy at the height of his comedic powers and the stiff white guys always remember to look suitably shocked and appalled (something they just forgot to do with BHC3, where's the fun in being mildly obnoxious if no-one is there to be offended?).The original Beverly Hills Cop boasts a soundtrack that can lay claim to being one of the strongest in living memory &#x96; with a few songs that still hold up almost 3 decades later &#x96; and an immediately catchy and timeless theme song entitled Axel F.Even the cops are perfect for the film, Rosewood is the keen young pup who admires Axel even though he knows he could never be him, Taggert is the wizened vet who thinks he's seen it all and can't wait for Foley to trip and fall on his face, and Bogomil is the department head who just doesn't want it to happen on his watch.Unlike the earlier Murphy vehicle Trading Places (so-so) Beverly Hills Cop remains rooted in reality as Axel and the initially reluctant Beverly Hills Police officers ordered to accompany him on his many jaunts, Taggert and Rosewood, swear, shoot and bull their way across the city in search of Axel's buddies' killer(s).Beverly Hills Cop is a perfect blend of action, comedy and story that sadly seems so hard to replicate today. They could try to remake this a hundred times and not make anything near as good.Final Rating &#x96; 8.5 / 10. This isn't one of the best films of all time, but it is an extremely well made and efficient action comedy, and in Axel Foley it does manage to create one of the best characters of all time. "},{"Title":"The movie that made Eddie Murphy a star","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of those films that I consider a classic film from my childhood. It is about a Detroit cop who goes on 'vacation' to Beverley Hills to attempt to investigate the murder of a childhood friend, despite the fact that he is not allowed to. Beside watching it again because I had not seen it in a long time, I also noted that I have reviewed the third movie, but not the first and thus decided to rectify the situation. The one thing I do like about movies is that to rewatch them does not take anywhere near as much time as it does to re-read a book.This film is hardly original the cop that acts on instinct and is pretty much a loose cannon that gets results, and the setting of a cop going outside of his jurisdiction, and against orders, to investigate something that is personal to him. What makes this movie great is Eddie Murphy and the role he plays as a fast talking cop that is able to get what he needs simply through verbosity.One thing that stands out is how that contrast Beverley Hills with Detroit. Detroit is a dirty city with run down buildings and a busy and dilapidated police station. Beverley Hills is completely the opposite. While in Detroit you are after real criminals, the most that a Beverley Hills Cop does is to keep the peace. I note that on a number of occasions the cops are quick to arrest Foley (Eddie Murphy) and it is clear that he does not fit into this world. It is also interesting that because of the wealth and the reputation of Beverley Hills, it is almost inconceivable that its residents are criminals, at least to the police force. However, where there is money there is also corruption.The one thing that makes me raise my eyes is how Foley was intending on paying for his room at the hotel. It is clear through the movie that he cannot afford the $300US a night that they charge, and that is on top of all the added extras (such as sending food out to the cops who are watching Foley), though at the end the Beverley Hills Police end up picking up the tab (mighty generous of them, though I suspect that a lot of questions will be asked nonetheless).This is a heaps cool movie, and for those who have not seen it I would recommend watching it at least once. To me, Eddie Murphy created the fast-talking, quick witted, smiling cop (though he doesn't always play cops), and this movie is one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"Question","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What was the name of the bar in Beverly Hills Cop, first movie? It is possible the name of the bar is our family name. Is the bar name a real one or just part of the movie setting? If it is a real establishment, does anyone know where is it located? I have a wager riding on this answer. It would be interesting to have our name showing in a movie of this one's caliber. I'm filling space a bit so please forgive the length of this comment and running on. The guidelines force me to post a minimum of 10 lines. The guidelines force me to post a minimum of 10 lines. The guidelines force me to post a minimum of 10 lines. The guidelines force me to post a minimum of 10 lines. "},{"Title":"Cliched, brainless but watchable.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If one of the characteristics of a great film is that is stands the test of time, then Beverly Hills Cop is by no means a great film. Almost everything about this comedy-actioner looks already dated today, including Eddie Murphy's persona. Although there are undeniably some comic highlights, the movie is sunk by its painfully cliched and unoriginal script which makes it feel programmed and destroys all the suspense elements. But Steven Berkoff makes a calmly effective villain and the film is OK fare if you're undemanding.   (**)  "},{"Title":"Not Very Memorable","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was just not a memorable movie. Its Script was well done in a few areas, but it just wasn't very funny, with the exception of a couple lines. I think the Sequel was just much better. If they could have made it more funny I would have given it an 8. But I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Now-Tired Themes Make It A Lot Less Fun That It Used To Be","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was a very entertaining movie when I first saw it at the theater in the mid '80s. Later, I enjoyed it on VHS. The film featured good music, good action and good humor.After a hiatus of 5-10 years, I viewed it again in the late '90s and got more annoyed than anything else. By then, I had seen thousands of movies and was starting tired of the new stereotypes I was beginning to see with regularity; reverse racism in which the black guy is always smarter than the white guy, for example. In here, it's Murphy smarter than all the white cops, most of whom are pictured as outright stupid. (If the reverse was shown, there would be an uproar.)It's also one more example - among hundreds in films since the late '60s - in which the renegade (regardless of color) is the only one who can solve cases. The regular law enforcement, from local cops to FBI to CIA, are always featured as bumbling idiots with stupid superiors. It's all getting tiresome. Murphy had a great run in the '80s, but his act has worn thin and I hadn't heard much from him in years until this year for his supporting role in Dreamgirls. "},{"Title":"Surprise Box-Office Hit.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy plays renegade Detroit police officer Axel Foley, who travels to Beverly Hills to track down a ruthless murderer, only to find a bigger conspiracy. Judge Reinhold & John Ashton play local policeman who never encountered anyone like Axel before...Smash hit in 1984, though I really have no idea why. Good music score, but plot is strictly routine, no better than a TV series plot.(Nothing wrong with that, but still!) Film coasts along on the persona of Eddie Murphy, who plays Axel as a wise-cracking buffoon on the one hand, but a dedicated and brilliant detective on the other(Sounds like Columbo!) Trouble is, I found his act tiresome; he succeeds in his investigation because the script says he does, since I didn't buy how he bluffs his way through tough situations because the people are so gullible.And the banana in the tailpipe joke really makes Foley look like a jerk! "},{"Title":"Largely unexceptional farce, made watchable for the odd moment that is far removed from its meagre plot and derivative nature.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is a relief that Eddie Murphy is as good as he is in Beverly Hills Cop, otherwise the film wouldn't be as tolerable as it is. Away from the jokes; the wisecracks and the sheer arrogance of the man, we sense his Axel Foley is someone tough enough to dish out a beating but equally hard enough to take one. The film isn't particularly good on its own, but had it been so unbelievable that Foley was in it for the gags before having to go through a fight because the screenplay demanded it, it would have fallen at the first hurdle. As for the rest of it, there isn't necessarily anything interesting here; it cracks along, tries too hard to impress with its second unit material and maintains an uneasy line between comedy and black drama. There can be little doubt that the film is made up of bits from others you've already seen the revenge story that sees a tough individual traverse a distance to investigate; the eventual plot that has much to do with narcotics and the uneasy combination of black and white, of carefree and regimented in the central character pairing. The trouble is, each of these things were better when you first saw them.At the core of the picture is how a ragtag, unorthodox cop from somewhere as rough and ready as Detroit can bring a little carefree energy to the stiff procedure driven folks in Beverley Hills. A point is made early on as to how the Californian police officers cannot break their stiff routine when the chance of getting themselves out of trouble is offered for sake of a lie to a superior officer. They pass it up, preferring to take the heat for their actions if it means remaining truthful &#x96; when the time comes to establish what everybody's learnt from the exercise that is Beverley Hills Cop, it is to tell us that the stiff cops have come to embrace bluffing to the suits in charge if it means cracking the case and getting away with avoiding ramifications. How Martin Brest tells this tale is essentially in the mould of what you might get if you merged Get Carter with The Cannonball Run, a revenge story about a man far from home told under a colourful umbrella of different parties out for a similar thing &#x96; each getting in each other's way and tripping over one another in the process.Beginning in Detroit, the aforementioned Foley has shown the brash initiative we will later learn is synonymous with his character in that he's decided to infiltrate a smuggling ring without authorisation. When things go wrong, he bears the brunt of his police chief but we sense Foley is suffocated by narrow-mindedness out of the fact the chief cannot see all the good work Foley was responsible for. Plus it was ultimately the untimely appearance of a squad car which blew the operation. From here, we get a brief taste of what life in Detroit is like for those occupying it; the film in no hurry and refusing to play its hand. People live rough, they swear; they occupy sleazy pool halls and make stupid bets on one's ability to pull off trick shots &#x96; one person is even gunned down in cold blood. In spite of this, Brest doesn't want to gross the audience out too much; there remains, throughout, a distinctly fruity atmosphere of fun and frolics. This is not a film directed particularly well, but often its dialogue and willingness to crack on with things it knows are not particularly smart in that B-movie way.About that instance of someone being gunned down in cold blood it ends up being the film's catalyst out of the fact it was a friend of Foley's who had come over from Beverley Hills to visit him. Unfortunately, he had brought too much of something else with him and incurred the wrath of a hit-man. Distraught, Foley takes time off work but is warned by his chief of treading too close to his usual ways of playing the lone-wolf and hunting for the perpetrators of the killing. Thus, the titular Beverley Hills Cop is born when he heads over there in his raggedy car to investigate a name his former friend mentioned. What unfolds is not so much a detective story per se, but a series of scenes based upon the fact Foley already knows who's guilty &#x96; he just needs to work backwards from the right answer and land something on the antagonist guilty of some seriously amoral stuff in a world where affluence can buy you into rarefied circles free of accusation. Steven Berkoff fills this void and does so with a slimy relish, amply supported by a doughy eyed second-in-command thug assassin.Away from the case, the film must flesh itself out with a series of scenes depicting the police force of the area questioning Foley, while the scenes that play out wherein Foley just doesn't seem to belong in Beverly Hills are done so with a sort of confident relish that just feels heavy. The fact of the matter is, Foley is not a fish out of water beyond the racial and class distinctions; he is a police officer mixing with other police officers striking us as someone following up on leads the locals cannot bring themselves to fathom for the fact the suspect is who it is. The stubbornness of the locals in this regard is so hard to break down, that the film must resort to the villain engaging in a straight-up case of kidnapping so as to prolong a police presence for the final shootout. Where by no means a disaster, the film didn't do an awful lot for me beyond individual bits and pieces that were often as good as they were out of Murphy's delivery. In the long run, this is fairly poor a middling-to-bad effort. "},{"Title":"Only some specific scenes are funny","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expectinga laugh riot, but what I got was movie with just a few funny scenes.  Here are the few parts I found pretty funny in this flick.Spoilers!!! 1) The exchange in the back of the truck with the ciggeretes2) Axel meets Serge for the first time. (I think Bronson Pinchot is hillarious as the prissy worker at the art gallery. Needed more of him in the flick)#3) the scene at the strip club is funny4) The many different characters eddie plays, such as the Ramone, the customs security officer etc...But the problem is that these scenes are too short and far between.  Plus the actual plot looks like it could have been lifted off of an episode of Knight Rider. I hope that the sequels are better3)  "},{"Title":"Being Poor Makes You Tough.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I never know quite what to make out of this movie. Yes, the Beverly Hills police get skewered -- along with Beverly Hills culture in general -- and if Beverly Hills represents the realization of the American dream it certainly deserves skewering. The materialism blossoms like a fungus in a vast spiritual void. You ought to see Rodeo Drive. One millionaire's shop after another and a constant parade of customers groomed and dressed identically in thousand-dollar jeans. It's like a Theme Park. I wouldn't want my kid to grow up there.But to ridicule the locus while exalting the obnoxious figure doing the ridiculing raises entirely different questions of taste.Eddie Murphy is Detective Axel Foley from Detroit, at the time the murder capitol of the nation. He's poor. He's savvy. He's black. He's everything they're not. Murphy giggles as he drives his beat-up clunker through the city (if it's a city) and eyes the ritzy hotels and jewelry stores. He's on a quest for the murderers of his good friend back in Detroit and has reason to believe the trail starts in Beverly Hills. It does, and it ends there too.Meanwhile Murphy teaches the uptight local cops how the cow ate the cabbage. The local cops are stupid beyond belief. They follow the rules. They call people sir and they say please when they tell a suspect to do something. The Beverly Hills cops act like Boy Scouts, squealing on each other and on themselves. They're clean. They're well spoken. They're white. His opposite number is Judge Reinhold, than whom no one can possibly look and sound wimpier.Well, that's just about the whole story. Murphy acquires a white girl friend without quite acquiring a white girl friend (this movie will be shown in Jackson, Mississippi), he brazens his way out of complicated situations and exploits his environment. He insults people of his own color for not behaving as if they were black enough for him. He violates the law at every turn. When he walks in public he looks back over his shoulder and chuckles at the two gay guys who just passed him, although they've done nothing comic.The musical score, though, is full of an appropriate zest. Reinhold acts as if his IQ were about as high as his body is in inches. Eddie Murphy often uses his big grin, wide mouthed persona, familiar from television, and sometimes it works for him, but when he tries to sound sincere, he does his best but there isn't a moment when he doesn't sound like Eddie Murphy trying to act. He was more effective when he was more subtle, doing the same number on the excessively rich in Trading Places. It's mildly amusing but I couldn't really get with it because I don't find insults in themselves funny. You want to see a very good movie involving the police of Beverly Hills? See Straight Time, if you can find it. "}{"Title":"A total '80s movie.  And how did Martin Brest degenerate into Gigli?","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop is the sort of movie that I would usually give 10/10, but there unfortunately is a major problem with it. The movie presents no challenge to the status quo, portraying the police as the good guys.But other than that, the movie is pretty funny. With Eddie Murphy in as Axel Foley, one gets the feeling that they must have had fun making it. Which of course brings up a few questions How did director Martin Brest go from this to a piece of dreckola like Gigli? Why is Eddie Murphy currently doing movies like Daddy Day Care? What ever became of Judge Reinhold? Oh well. The point is that you're sure to enjoy this movie, even if it is a total '80s movie. Neat. "},{"Title":"Too clichéd to be entertaining","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, so maybe it's not Beverly Hills Cop's fault that it has been copied so many times that we've already seen everything it has to offer a million times in a million other movies. But that doesn't help make it an entertaining movie again to modern audiences. All the clichés are there the rookie cop with unconventional methods, the tough lieutenant, the woman in peril, the evil drug-dealer, fish out of water, etc. Been there, done that. I had high hopes for this movie based on the good reviews, but in fact I was just bored most of the time and only got a few chuckles out of it. Yep, Eddie's shtick didn't make me laugh this time. (Check out his comedy albums if you want the real thing.) I can only give it 4/10, and that's being generous. "}]