[{"Title":"Just another Day....","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you liked the original (which I did) and expect the same level of sophistication here, don't.  This is not the sequel you've been waiting for.Porky's II The Next Day offers up some laughs but the rest is filled in with sub-plots about the KKK, political campaigning, American Indians and right-wing religion.  THIS in a movie with a character named Pee-Wee?Maybe Bob Clark felt he needed to do some social atonement for the non-PC stuff he committed in the original.  But just because it's PC doesn't mean it's funny.No Porky, no locker room humor, no Miss Honeywell, no shower scenes... but at least Miss Balbricker (Parsons) gets her comeuppance thanks to a snake in a most unexpected place.  And as far as verbal intelligence goes, its highlight comes when the principal (Christmas) tell Reverend Flavel (Wiley) what to do with his flock.  And if that isn't the level of sophistication you were hoping for, consider yourself warned.Four stars.  Boogedy, boogedy, boogedy! "},{"Title":"the best one of the trilogy","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this was the best movie of the Porky's trilogy.  The best scene in all the movies is the graveyard scene and this movie has it. If you're looking for some deep intellectual stuff, stay away from this movie and the other two.  But, if you're in the mood for good (unclean) fun try this movie.  It's hilarious.  And all those people out there who say women don't like this movie are wrong!  I'm a young women and I loved this film when I was a teenager, plus I used to watch it with my brother and (get this) my mom. If you're offended by  foul language, nudity and sexual humor don't watch this movie!  If you ignore this warning and watch it anyway don't complain that the characters said the f word too much or that everyone was obsessed with sex, 'cuz that's what it's about folks! "},{"Title":"Funnier than the first.  But watch Porky's and Porky's II together.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's II The next Day is even funnier than the forst Porky's, but should be seen together.  Watch Porky's (1981) first, then Porky's II The Next Day (1983).  By now you may notice the cast has developed a repertoire and delivery similar to the Dead End Kids/ East Side Kids/ Bowery Boys of 1937-1958, comedic-wise that is.  This film is NOT for children to see.  As usual, there is plenty of male nudity, several full frontal, and female nudity as well.  I will not spoil the surprises of storyline.  But Jewish people might get a good chuckle this time around and those who are Native American Indian might be offended or laugh as well.  I doubt that male indians would partake in such an auditorium gathering but keeping in mind, this is only a comedy movie.  However, I am glad the bris scene did not go any further.  Kaki Hunter is a hoot in her star-bangled character.   I was rolling on the floor with laughter.  The dirty words in Shakespeare Vs. dirty words in the Holy Bible two-man duet is a riot, too.  Continue watching this film during the end credits for more adult scenes.  The next film is Porky's Revenge (1985). "},{"Title":"she's sick of these mother-(censored) snakes coming out of this mother-(censored) toilet","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bob Clark's untimely death in a car crash a few days ago brings to mind his career, including Porky's II The Next Day. This one hilariously continues the get-laid-at-any-cost adventures of the teenage boys portrayed in the original movie. The actual plot has their school putting on a production of Shakespeare plays and getting threatened by the Ku Klux Klan, an angry clergyman, and hypocritical politicians. Of course, it's all an excuse for any crazy idea that they can dream up. I nearly laughed myself hoarse during the restaurant scene, not only at what was happening but also trying to imagine how much fun they must have had filming it! Anyway, it's just a pleasure to watch, particularly with what happens in the cemetery, and the whole end sequence. This was a sequel that equaled its original. And if you remember the electric sex from A Christmas Story, check out the Shakespeare performance here! Just hilarious. To play off of what another Porky famously said th-th-th-that'll never be all, folks! In conclusion Bob Clark, wherever you are, we'll always remember you, if only for the Porky's movies.Bob Clark directed flicks as different as the Porky's movies, Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things and A Christmas Story. The things that we see in life... "},{"Title":"Porky's II The Next Day (Bob Clark, 1983) **","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As often happens, this sequel to PORKY'S (1982) is inferior to the original - but, then, neither is it as bad as Leonard Maltin claims in his esteemed Film Guide! It does cheat by forsaking the titular establishment entirely, though the formula is pretty much the same as before - except that here some of the characters from the original disappear and are replaced by new ones, while the girl who was involved with the protagonist in the first film gets a bigger part this time around. Again, the film pits a certain minority - in this case, American Indians - against a bigoted community.While the film's major asset has to be the over-the-top characterization of the hypocritical Reverend, there are almost as many belly laughs here as in the original. Scenes that particularly stand out are the 'Shakespeare v. Bible' quoting duel (even if it's kind of silly and out-of-character to have the boys involved in putting on a show of the Bard's work in the first place) and the individual come-uppance of the gang's various antagonists - the KKK (in the school gymnasium), the duplicitous board member (humiliated in a restaurant prior to re-election) and the aforementioned evangelist and his flock (at their own rally).P.S. Interestingly, co-writer Alan Ormsby had previously collaborated with Clark on his first two horror outings - CHILDREN SHOULDN'T PLAY WITH DEAD THINGS (1972; which I've never watched) and DEATHDREAM (1972)! "},{"Title":"very UNfunny","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  what the hell did i just see?  i had never taken the time to watch porky's 2 until tonight (on comedy central).i found nothing funny about it, and i am a big comedy fan and can usually find some good in everything.  i can't believe this came from the same director that did A CHRISTMAS STORY, one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Porky's 2 was saddled with the unenviable task of following up The Most Successful Film In Canadain History(TM). It had the majority of the original cast and the same writer/director - what could possibly go wrong? Well, just about everything ...The original Porky's helped to create the genre of the American high school sex-comedy - still a hugely popular and bankable theme today. Whilst the original creamed $111 million at the US box office, the sequel only scored a limp $33 million.The problem with Porky's II is that it is supposed to be a sex-comedy, yet it has no sex and very little comedy. Whilst the original film had a pretty flimsy plot, at least it had one. The characters had clear motives, be it getting laid or taking revenge on Porky's. In the sequel the main motivation of the characters is to get a series of Shakespeare plays performed by their school drama group. Yes, that's right - they are no longer seeking out the pleasures of strip bars, peeping on the girls showers or trying to bed nubile cheerleaders - they want to perform a midsummer night's dream.It's hard to come up with a more poorly conceived plot device for the Porky's series. It takes some suspension of disbelief to think that the likes of Pee Wee and Meat are going to do battle with folk of angel beach so they put on the works of the great bard.The villains of this piece are also poorly realised. There is an extremely annoying hypocritical Reverend and a slimy politician. The role of Miss Balbricker is downplayed and Porky (the title character!) doesn't even appear in the film.The jokes here are laboured, far outstaying their welcome. The best (worst?) example of this is the final scene in the restaurant where Wendy exacts revenge on the duplicitous politician. It is a scene so overdone, so overacted that it is painful to watch. To be this bad takes sausAGES.Fans of the Porky film are not hard to please. Take some low brow comedy, add in copious amounts of gratuitous nudity and start counting in the cash. Remove these elements and you are left with a 90 minute waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Porky's IIThe Next Day","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Our gang of teenagers(using teenagers loosely) at Angel Beach High School are now butting heads with a fundamental minister with a flock of locals supporting him, the city commission, and the klu klux klan. It's all over, believe it or not, a Shakespearean festival considered obscene. The Klan have a problem with a Native American tribe in the area with one of their own, a student, in the Shakespeare play taking place in the school auditorium. Sufficed to say, the teens get their revenge when the festival is temporarily halted by the power of the city commission who fear for their political careers thanks in part to the reverend's clout with the community at large. Filthy language and sex-on-the-brain dialogue as in the first film, but less nudity. Worth seeing if just for Meat in drag and Pee Wee dressed as a green fairy. Porky's absence kind of takes away from this sequel, but Balbricker as a devoted member of the flock is kind of funny. Probably the most laugh-out-loud moment for me is when the boys play a trick on poor Pee Wee in the graveyard which results in him streaking down a country road afraid he had killed a woman via heart attack! Balbricker's snake incident in a bathroom thanks to the boys in an act of revenge because of her participation against their Shakespeare festival is another highlight. "},{"Title":"A worthy follow-up to the excellent original","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director/co-screenwriter Bob Clark follows up his surprise hit original with this solid and often sidesplitting sequel. This time those rowdy lads at Angel Beach High are pitted against a bunch of uptight killjoy religious fanatics led by the smarmy Reverand Flaval (a perfectly slimy Bill Wiley) who object to a Shakespeare festival on the grounds that the Bard's work is obscene. Moreover, the local Klu Klux Klan aren't happy that Native American John Henry (likable James Runningfox) is playing the lead in the production of Romeo and Juliet. Clark not only incorporates the expected wild'n'raunchy anything-goes humor that was a key pleasing ingredient of the first film, but also takes wickedly nasty satiric potshots at such deserving targets as racial prejudice, religious hypocrisy and political corruption. Once again the cast really sink their teeth into their parts with unbridled gusto. Special kudos are in order for Dan Monahan as the impish Pee Wee, Kaki Hunter as the cheerfully bawdy Wendy, Nancy Parsons as stern gym teacher Ms. Balbricker, and Eric Christmas as the timid Principal Carter. Comic highlights include a nice tongue-in-cheek homage to Clark's earlier fright feature Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things, Ms. Balbricker singing on the toilet, and Wendy acting like a loud obnoxious ill-mannered immature brat at a posh French restaurant. Cisse Cameron has a memorably sexy bit as a luscious stripper who disrobes in a cemetery. Reginald H. Morris' slick cinematography, Carl Zittrer's lively, rousing score, and the catchy golden oldies soundtrack are all likewise up to par. There's even a surprising amount of sweet sensitivity to be found amid all the wacky tomfoolery. Granted, this film doesn't totally match the gut-busting hilarity of the incredible original, but it's still plenty of good, naughty fun all the same. "},{"Title":"A dire Sequel","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With most of the original characters, this should have been pretty good, unfortunately it isn't.I Think the problem is, the first movie had a story and plenty to drive it forward, this one doesn't really have a plot, and although it tries hard to be funny, it never re-captures the humour of the first film (The Graveyard scene is pretty funny though - Especially the zombie)Even if you have seen and enjoyed the first, avoid this and go straight for something else, try Porky's Revenge (III) it,s better than this rubbish.3/10 (only because of the graveyard scene) "}{"Title":"Not only is it funny...it carries great social commentary","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think I love this Porky's the most out of all three. It was well written and (Spoiler alert!!) features corrupt preachers, politicians and the KKK getting their comeuppance.The kids wanted to put on their play and they had to deal with two-faced people who wanted to stop them; preachers and politicians that are sooooo hypocritical...and that message still rings true today.Fantastic social commentary, watch it again if you didn't notice before.I don't understand why this movie has such a low rating on IMDb or why some folks called it crap. Maybe because of the hidden messages? Anyway, watch it again even if you don't want to notice the messages. It's good every time. Just like the other two. "},{"Title":"Just as hilarious as the first","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For those that liked the first, this is the perfect sequel. For those that didn't like it, this movie isn't directed at you. Stay away from it and don't even start complaining about the nudity and sexuality in it. But for those of us that appreciate the humour contained in here, there is more of the same stuff.I will just tell you that I have not laughed as much as I did in this movie in quite some time unless you include Eddie Murphy's Delirious. But as a film this is one funny gag after another once again. If you want to know what is generically funny about this film, read the review for Porky's. It is the same kind of humour in both films. However, each film has a few scenes that I will never forget. In the first one it was the penis sketch artist scene. In here it will be the rendition that Billy and his counterpart put on in their Shakespeare Festival. They are dueling to the death in an epic sword fight. One of the swords break and it is up to Tommy to find a sword for them to finish to scene properly. So he hands him a leg from a woman's manikin...the same leg that made a nice lamp in Christmas Story, both films directed by honorary Canadian, Bob Clark. This has to be seen to be appreciated.I loved this movie and I really recommend it to those that love high school humour. And if you have seen the first and liked it, you will love this one as well. "},{"Title":"The most tedious of teen sex comedies","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen many, many teen sex comedies, and this must be the most boring of the lot. Of course, it goes without saying that there isn't a laugh to be had in the far-fetched, completely unbelievable shenanigans at Angel Beach High. You might be more surprised to hear that the majority of nudity in the movie is male. There is only one scene of female nudity, a brief topless scene. The full frontal nudity is entirely male, a group of ugly shaven headed gentlemen running toward the camera (don't ask).You may actually be able to remember a couple of the characters from the first movie Pee Wee and Meat. Pee Wee disappears about half way through, and Meat only appears so they can use that old chestnut dressing a macho man up as a woman. I can't believe they didn't use that for the first movie; it showing up in this execrable sequel only shows how lame that gag is.These characters disappearing begs the question did the actors realise what a stinker they were in and leave? Or did the script, obviously completed as quickly as possible to cash in on the first, just work on lame jokes and forget characters? Neither would surprise me. "},{"Title":"Quite a funny next day","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's hard to believe, that this movie takes place the next day, after you know.... but again too, it's hard to believe the actors are still in their teens, but back then in the eighties, that's how it went. Porky's 2 has as some moments (assets) that are pure gold, I won't ruin, but they're rib ticking funny, some moments, no matter how many times you watch it. What's strikingly different about this one is it's turn of original story, that has a not half bad plot, involving the Ku Klux Clan. Yes, Peewee has become a man, but let's move on, yes, past the traditional penis chart check opening. The students of Angel Beach High, are putting on a theatre show, which include some of our favorite students, but when the show's sabotaged, on account of he male lead being an an Indian, it attracts a not so hospitable folk, including Ms Balbreaker (Parsons), who bare some pretty bad and bitter prejudice. There's some real lessons to be learn't here, and who would think this movie, would be the one, but still this doesn't compare with the originality and freshness of the first, despite this one having some genuine qualities, and some absolute screams of laughter scenes, in a somewhat calmer Porky's film. It just, if enigmatically boils down to an average pic, and I didn't say comedy. Again as for the future of our Porky's performers, it's a pity, nearly all of their careers, sunk, in the years after. It sort of runs parallel to one of Wendy's lines, After you Peewee, where's a girl to go?. After these Porky's films, where's an actor to go? The last drawn out (trademark) scene is a killer hoot, with Hunter's fake goodies, that shoot out vomit. "},{"Title":"Worse than the first.","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Writer/director Bob Clark must've made a mint from his box office smash Porky's, so I can't really blame him for capitalising on his success with a guaranteed cash-cow sequel that repeats the same formula of dumb pranks and penis gags, while once again throwing in some racial tension to drive the story. What I do blame him for is making the film such a laugh-free mess, while toning down the raunchiness, one of the few factors that made the first Porky's bearable.No-one in Porky's II gets laid they're too busy prancing around on stage in a dreadful Shakespearian high-school production, which brings them to blows with a local evangelist Reverend Flavel (Bill Wiley), who deems the show obscene, the KKK, who object to Seminole Indian John Henry (Joseph Runningfox) playing the part of Romeo, and sleazy county commissioner Gebhardt (Edward Winter), who tries to seduce Pee Wee's girlfriend Wendy (Kaki Hunter). Cue lots of desperate gags that involve someone dressed as a George Romero-style zombie, an exotic dancer dubbed Graveyard Gloria (Cisse Cameron), a sword-fight with a mannequin's leg, a snake in a toilet bowl, and fake vomit.3.5/10, rounded up to 4 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"So, uhm... where's Porky?","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, it's a sympathetic sequel in a way, addressing rotten politics and racism for instance. But, uhm... where's Porky? And more importantly, where's the fun? Some of it feels like a mediocre rehash of the first Porky (graveyard). Some of it is just NOT funny (restaurant, snake). BUT... some of it is pretty good (mohel, rally, broken off sword).Again, the acting looks like they had a good time, but I didn't enjoy it that much. The fore-mentioned themes are admirable qualities in a film like this, don't get me wrong, but the ratio is off; there's too little fun and too much seriousness.Very mediocre stuff, all in all; 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Woooo Boogie Boogie Boogie!","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before there was American Pie, there was Porky's, the classic '80s sex-comedy created and directed (for two out of three installments, anwyay) by the late, great Bob Clark. Porky's II The Next Day is a laugh-a-minute smut fest that picks up exactly where the original Porky's left off. Pee Wee, Tommy, Meat and the Angel Beach gang don't have to deal with old Porky this time around; instead their school's big drama club presentation of the works of Shakespeare is being threatened by a fire-and-brimstone preacher and his flock, who claim The Bard's works are indecent. To complicate matters further, the production's Romeo happens to be played by a Native American, which brings the local KKK into the picture. Will Pee Wee and the gang put up with such interference? Of course they won't, and before you know it the boys (and girl) are busily setting up elaborate series of pranks to get even with the Reverend, the Klan, and a sleazy, double dealing councilman. They even take time to fix the wagon of the dreaded gym teacher from Hell, Miss Balbricker!... all in the name of triumphing over the forces of injustice and intolerance, of course. Yes, folks, believe it or not, this is a sex comedy with a social conscience. You'll still get your share of goofball raunchy bits (don't miss the scene involving Graveyard Gloria, which also features the best bit of comic zombie action ever filmed) but at the same time, you'll cheer as you watch the irritating Holy Rollers and clueless Klansmen get their comeuppance.I may be in the minority, but I think the Porky's series actually got better as it went along. I prefer II The Next Day over the original, and the 3rd film, Porky's Revenge, is my favorite installment overall. If you're looking for an '80s flashback, or just an immature chuckle, then give this one (or any of the Porky's films) a spin and give your inner 14 year old the time of his life. Wooooo Boogie boogie boogie! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably weak, worse than the first","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Old actors posing as teenagers, impossible scenarios of youngsters fighting by themselves racism and local town officials, is there any other movie less appropriate for fun? Plain disappointment, avoid it as possible. The plot is zero, they weren't prepared for any success with the first Porky, so they did not gather too many ideas for the second. It should have been a famous comedy, instead it turned out as being a strange cocktail of a propaganda movie (how fun is it to be a young American high-schooler), impossible situations (reverends fighting against Shakespeare plays), tasteless and unconvincing nakedness scenes (abuse of male bare behinds especially). It must have been quite a shock at the time the film came out, now it's completely stupid. "},{"Title":"Hello? Anybody? This is the humor in the film... can somebody help me?  I'm trapped under a huge pile of sub-plots...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the second Porky film... and it just exactly manages to be slightly worse than the first. Surprising(and unfortunate), since this actually does manage to produce a laugh or two. The humor is basically the same, but this somehow gets you laughing, at least a time or two. There is a rather funny exchange that ends with principal Carter telling a reverend where he can put his beloved flock. However, most of the humor is drowned out in subplots drenched in political correctness(rather contrasting to the 'point' of the films, which seems to be to be as offensive as possible). This does make for a few entertaining scenes, though, but the overall product is just not worth it. The plot is a mess. The acting is unimpressive and uninspired(apart from possibly Bill Wiley as Reverend Flavel), and at times terribly overplayed(Edward Winter's last scene being a prime example). The characters are underdeveloped and poorly written; they are all paper-thin clichés. The good guys are all heroic and intelligent(not terribly so, but still) and the bad guys are hypocritical SOB's. It's too easy to hate those you are supposed to, and almost as easy to like the ones you are supposed to. The writing is of the same low quality as that of the first film. Dialog is poor, both as far as writing and delivery goes. All in all, funnier than the first, but not as good(astoundingly enough). I recommend it to people who liked the first, but don't go out of your way to see it. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Complete failure...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Porky movie with no Porky in it? I didn't even laugh once. When the restaurant scene came, I just turned the movie off. Skip this one, and watch Porky's and Porky's Revenge instead. The first one is the best, the last is passable. "}{"Title":"Oh Brother.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just a sick continuation of its predecessor as the film picks up the very next day and more sickening and perverted situations take place over and over again. Once again a strong competitor at the box office. How bored were people in 1983? Was there nothing else to do except spend hard-earned money on a disgusting mess like this? A total waste. This film belongs in the cinematic hall of shame. Gobble, gobble. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Why The Next Day","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you thought the first film was pathetic, than you're in for a disgusted surprise.All the gang from the first movie is back and the film and its results are a disaster. The sequel to the original sleeper hit is more disgusting and foul than ever as this time the sex driven teenagers are up against city council and a pushy religious fanatic by the name of Bubba Flavel as they want to close down the school theater because the reverend disapproves of the sexuality in Shakespeare. If you read the bible, it makes more sexual references as well as plays or movies, so take that you religious freaks. Not to mention that the KKK want to kill an Indian because he's in the production of Romeo and Juliet. Like the first Porky's I reviewed, I had written that the film needed to make up its mind either make it a comedy or a drama and end it; it still suffers the same problem.Like the first movie, the pranks were a joy to watch. In the sequel, other than the cruel pranks, the scene where the principal reads sexual references from the passages in the bible were a real joy.The title The Next Day is an oxymoron because if it is the next day, than why do the actors look older with hair growing? Why didn't Bob Clark from the first Porky's shoot the sequel at the same time? Why isn't Porky in this film? Why is there more male nudity than female nudity? Why, Oh, Why was this sequel made? "},{"Title":"A Sequel That Should Have Never Been Made!!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is terrible. STRAIGHT TERRIBLE!! One of the worst movies ever made!! I went to see this movie because the first one was so good, I thought that the sequel would be at least decent. WRONG!! The plot was weak and the acting was hokey. It was just a terrible movie. The director tried to capitalize on the popularity of the first movie, and rushed to make this B.S. They should have just left well enough alone. Kim Cattrell (Who later gained fame on Sex And The City) didn't even bother to reprise her role as Miss Honeywell which should have been the indicator of how bad this movie was. Don't even watch this on video or DVD! A total waste of film!! Matter of fact, you need to find the producer and ask him for a refund!! "},{"Title":"Miserable and juvenile...","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another typical miserable, juvenile retread of the original with less laughs and more crude humor. The gang of idiots try to embarrass a bunch of educated people whose plan is to close down their theatre production.Bad, bad, bad movie--and guess what? It's just like every Police Academy sequel ever made. Quoting one of the worst characters of all time It stinks! "},{"Title":"not as funny as the first, but has more than enough solid laughs","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" porky's was a smash hit so obviously there was going to be a sequel, and unsurprisingly it wasn't as funny as the first, did you expect it to be, but never the less its great to be with the gang again, and there are still some laugh out loud moments here, thanks mostly to the ever great 'pee wee'. the most surprising thing about this movie for me was that the whole cast from the first one came back for this, and there is its ,main problem, there are simply to many characters simply standing around doing nothing, sure its great there there, but at least give them some good jokes to do. so never the less while its no classic like the original was, its a decent sequel, and fans of the first should check it out as there bound to have a giggle "},{"Title":"The Hangover Syndrome","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably just a very personal interpretation, but I feel as if Bob Clark couldn't have chosen a more painfully apt title for this sequel even if he wanted to. The Next Day &#x85; To me, that fully sounds like that dreadful hangover syndrome. You partied hard, drank way too much and did a whole lot of things that seemed like a good idea at the time but now are bound to regret &#x85; In short, you spent an awesome time but then, inevitably, the next day brings a terrible headache. You feel empty, lazy, uninspired and plain simply you want to be left alone. Porky's 2 alarmingly lives up to this unpleasant sentiment. The original is a tremendous guilty pleasure, because it genuinely makes you feel as if you are a sordid and derailed partying teenager again! The vulgar pranks are plentiful and impossible not to laugh with, the gratuitous sleaze is too welcome and the continuous politically incorrect ambiance is simply irresistible. The sequel, however, tastes like a sour after-party in your stomach. Gone is all the harmless entertainment; replaced only by embarrassment and redundant that makes you wonder why you even bothered in the first place. I honestly don't know what happened here &#x85; All of a sudden the infantile jokes make room for boring morality speeches and the act of juvenile delinquency are being replaced with charity initiatives! In the original, our 50's gang of hormone-overloaded adolescent losers already fought against various types of authority (law enforcers, teachers, night club owners&#x85;), but at least they exclusively did so for their own benefit&#x85; To see naked chicks and get laid as quickly as possible. Here, they battle against even tougher types of authority (like politicians and the local church community), but for a greater &#x96; and utterly implausible &#x96; purpose, namely to prevent a high school stage play about the oeuvre of Shakespeare from getting canceled. I'm sorry, what?!? The characters we were introduced to in Porky's wouldn't care less about anything school relate, let alone an art class project! Suddenly the biggest schoolyard perverts have become teacher pets, the school bimbo transformed into the sensitive and understanding type and laughing stock Pee-Wee has turned into the archetype of manliness. Only the one sequence in the graveyard, when Pee Wee hires a prostitute to pull a prank on his friends that evidently backfires, vaguely reminds us that we are &#x96; in fact &#x96; watching an installment in the Porky's franchise. The amount of T&A decreased with approximately 400%, there isn't a single ROTF moment and the morality lessons (don't be a hypocrite) are pitiable. Once more I'm reminded of the classic song by the Dire Straits Heavy Fuel, with its lyrics Last time I was sober, I felt bad. Worst hangover I ever had. That's the next day for ya! "},{"Title":"Very funny and underrated","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Language and Nudity.I have not seen the original 1982 film Porky's.I have heard of it though.It was the highest grossing Canadian made film until Bon Cop Bad Cop came out.So I decided to watch Porky's II yesterday night when it was playing on IFC.Porky's II is a teen comedy.Its like the American Pie of the 1980's though I preferred American Pie.The film takes place in 1954, a day after the original Porky's.The film has some very funny moments and if you are a fan of teen comedies, check this one out.This film is about a bunch of teenagers who tries to stop some religious fanatics and the KKK from banning the Shakespeare school play.Many humorous things ensue.Porky's 2 is a very funny film and I recommend it for fans of films such as American Pie. "},{"Title":"Porkys 2, massive let down..","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really don't know where to start with this film. I've seen some really bad films in my time, but this has to be up there with the best of the worst. I saw this movie today for the first time after buying it on a double DVD with the first one 2years ago. Me and my mate sat down to watch this and within the first 10 minutes you just knew it wasn't going to be as good as the first. To there credit, they did get all the cast back from the original and thats probably what stopped me from giving it a 1. There wasn't as many jokes as the first one, and the closest I came to laughing was the bit with the snake in the toilet. Similar to the part from the first one with Kim Catrall screaming. I also notice she didn't return for this. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Miserable & un-funny sequel","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first movie from 1981 was a great comedy and one of the best of it's kind. This one The sequel was one of the worst sequels ever made of it's kind. The actors is OK, but the plot and the fact that it never becomes funny make this film a must to miss. They really tries to make some funny scenes in the movie, but nothing seams to work as in the first one. "},{"Title":"Porky's II The Next Day","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Follows the same route as the original. Same jokes. Same pranks. Not as many laughs.  "}{"Title":"Just as funny as the first!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's II The Next Day takes place the next day, literally. I think it's just as funny as the first, only now, it's got some social issues added to it.  Like the first one, Pee Wee and the gang are back and they're up to their old pranks again.  A great comedy to watch.   "},{"Title":"This is a sex comedy?","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's is generally considered to be the movie that started the high-school sex-comedy subgenre, yet its sequel has very little nudity and not a lot of jokes either.The movie starts off pretty well with a story about Pee-Wee trying to get revenge for the Cherry Forever prank in the previous movie, but soon veers off into an after-school-special-with-swearing about censorship, corrupt politicians and racial intolerance. Which would all be great if it were funny, but it isn't.It's not that the jokes don't work there just aren't very many of them. Essentially, you get to see lots of straw-man villains act all evil and hypocritical, then get a mildly clever comeuppance. It does represent the fifties better than the original, but again passes up many joke opportunities.As for nudity, there are only two naked women. One is in a grainy black and white movie. There are also lots of limp penises on mostly unattractive males. Oh, and no one actually has sex in this one.In short, Porky's II could have been a lot funnier and sexier without weakening the points it was trying to make. In fact, it could have made them better and been funnier with better villains. Balbricker is underused here and the new guys just aren't as hilariously evil as Porky. In fact, the titular character doesn't show up outside the recap or even get mentioned that I remember.So not much nudity, not many jokes, lackluster villains, so-so melodrama and okay revenge. I can't find much to recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"I cant believe this was released!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's was one of the only films to make me cry with laughter. The shower scene goes down in history  (well, my history anyway) as one of the funniest scenes ever, followed by Miss Balbricker's attempts to justify a penis-lineup. Not many films have made me cry with laughter (only Porky's, There's Something About Mary, Braindead (Dead Alive in US), South Park Bigger, Longer & Uncut) and a little known live action Manga called Lady Ninja (Koga ninja magic third leg!) but this is one of the worst films I have ever seen, period. I bought this and Porky's 2 in a double pack, and as good as the first film was, the lump of dung that is Porky's 2 completely spoiled the whole package. Basically, there is not one funny scene in this whole film. Most of the charm of the original Porky's lay in it's politically incorrectness. The second film, however is completely tame in comparison. Whilst I did smile during the scene where the preacher and the headmaster have a battle of words using Shakespeare and The Bible respectively, the rest of the film had absolutely no charm whatsoever. If you liked Porky's, I can almost guarantee (90% certain) that you will not like this film. Just the fact that the presence of this film makes me want to return the original is testament to how bad it is. DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"This movie was a disgrace!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a disgrace, the worst of the whole Porky's series. To much nudity to be exact and to much sexually crude humor. I just have to warn you about this one, when your in the movie store, just skip this one and go right to the third one. "},{"Title":"not as funny as the first","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's the next day. Pee Wee is now overly confident having had sex with Wendy vowing to get a girl for the boys to gangbang. He gets librarian-by-day Graveyard Gloria for them. The gang is joining the school drama club's production of An Evening With Shakespeare. Miss Balbricker sees Shakespeare as obscene and tries to stop it with Reverend Bubba Flavel's help. Commissioner Gebhardt reneges on his promise to the kids. The local Ku Klux Klan joins the opposition due to a Seminole Indian student playing Romeo opposite Wendy playing Juliet.There are a couple of missing characters from the original. It's a problem because this is THE NEXT DAY. Elevating Wendy is a good move. The Reverend and the KKK are way too broad to be compelling and too serious to be funny, the KKK more than the Reverend actually. The Indian character is ill-fitting to a broad sex-romp comedy. The graveyard scene is pretty funny especially with the guys holding back the laughter. I just find the broad opposition to the play unfunny. Other than the graveyard, I didn't find this movie as funny as the original. "},{"Title":"overdone imitation of the first movie","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, OK...we have people who could be studying for their (second) doctorate who pretend to be 16yo high-schoolers...OK. This movie basically tries to re-create the atmosphere of the first, but without the Porky/brothel element...a lost battle to start with. Honestly, the only scene that had me laughing like mad was the fontana di voglio  dinner...overdone, yes, but gets the point across, and the final speech of the reverend with KKK men parading naked coming distant second. Plot was paper-thin in the first movie as well, but I wrote that its great plus was that This movie still oozes some kind of (weird) charm because -let's face it- it depicts highschool years like we wanted ours to be...fun...sleaze...pranks...some minor violence for thrills, but nobody dies, gets permanently hurt or sent to jail for life.. No longer with this sequel. We get the guys busy with some theater play and a bigot reverend (in cahoots with the KKK & duplicitous politicians ) trying to stop its rehearsal because of alleged obscenities. The whole movie is a lefty political manifesto of Greenwich village flavour, rather than a mild sexy comedy with characters such as meat or pee-wee. That REAL LIFE white teenagers IN THE EARLY 1950s Florida would have behaved like lefty hippies is a far-fetched assumption; after all, the first movie saw them pulling evil pranks on one another without remorse. I wouldn't have liked my highschool years to be spent campaigning like a loon. Therefore, why would THEY care? A silly theater rehearsal only a few of them seem comfortable with to begin with, anyways? How many guys are in the KKK? Twelve? Is THAT credible? "},{"Title":"You Will Squeal With Laughter! This Is Classic!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've seen this movie lots of times, and it remains one of the most funniest movies ever made in my book!The entire sex-starved gang of Angel Beach High have returned, with a few new faces for Porky's 2 The Next Day, and they're more ripe than a truckload of bananas in this one.Talk about funny! These bozos are doing everything possible to save their Shakespeare performance in a subplot that's loaded with laughs. In one memorable moment, Principal Carter screams to the domineering Reverend Flavel to Get The Flock Outta Here!, which almost sounds like something else he said. There's a brief sound of whimpering from the Principal Carter, then a look of shock from the kids, and suddenly a burst of applause for his heroics.Then there's the revenge on Ms. Ballbricker, the mean fat gym teacher from hell. While she's sitting on the toilet singing in a voice so awful, a snake emerges from in the toilet, causing Ballbricker to scream her ugly head off and run for her life while crying for her mommy, too! In my opinion, that one moment in the entire movie caused me to laugh my ass off. Wasn't life easier in school back in the 1950's? I think so.Did I forget that the gang also battles the KKK that turns into a another laugh riot that's sure to cause heart failure.Altogether, this movie is hilarious despite what others say. And there can never be another Bob Clark around to direct such funny, laugh-til-you-cry movies such as Porky's 2.If you haven't seen this, then you're hurting! "},{"Title":"not as funny,and entertaining as the first one but still pretty good","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  porky's II was sometimes funny, and entertaining, but it could'en top the first one because it just didn't deliver like the first one did. but it still has some laughs, and entertainment. i give porky's II **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Glad I'm not the only one who noticed the bizarre leftist agenda","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I actually came here to this page after I cracked a joke on the internet about this being the worst sequel of all time! And I was 16 when it came out, didn't even know what a leftist agenda was, and I still hated the film. Seriously? A bunch of white teenagers from Florida in 1954 with left-wing political leanings? The original is awesome, awesome. Who doesn't like shower scenes, and spending the rest of your time trying to get laid, and playing practical jokes on your friends? I suppose the cemetery scene was OK, but the rest of the film is a total bore. Fortunately for Mr. Clark (and I didn't know about his untimely passing a few years ago until I read these reviews), he came back pretty strong writing Porky's Revenge. "},{"Title":"Moral of the story..those who disagree with you must be humiliated !","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having enjoyed the original Porky's film I was expecting more of the same but alas I was to be disappointed.This movie is just terrible. The villains are completely over the top right wing caricatures (who curiously are always convenient bad guys in movies !) who our liberal heroes must humiliate and put in their place.Smug self righteous drivel ! That whole scene in the gym with the KKK members is just so stupid.Tommy and his friends would be too wussy to take them on alone so guess what ? They fill the gym with burly native Americans ! Kids in 50s America would never have been this liberal as another contributor pointed out.My advice folks is stay away from this self righteous rubbish. "}{"Title":"Duel of words and swords *may contain a spoiler or two)","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a bit sad that so many people hate this film... it's entertainment, guys, not social commentary. C'mon people, this is one of those films where you check PC at the door!While it *is* crude, it has some truly great funny moments in it, such as the duel of Shakespeare/Bible quotes (I shamelessly admit I love it when the principal says Get the fluck outta here!), the duel on the stage replacing a sword with a female mannequin leg (the death moment is priceless), and Wendy's besequined tart role-play humiliating the handsome jerk politician at a high-profile restaurant (It tastes much better going down...! EEEEW!!!)Another thing I love about the Porky's films is the male nudity. Female nudity not integral to the plot is rampant in most films, and while part of the story here, it's delightful to see more naked men than in any other non-adult film I know. Even The Full Monty doesn't show all *this*! Equality at last! And in the '80s to boot! "},{"Title":"I think it's better than the 1st one!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that Porky's II is better than the first one. I remember watching it as a kid, and laughing my a$$ off. WOOGIE WOOGIE! It's one of the best parts of the movie. I still laugh forever when I watch it. I dont remember laughing once in the 1st one. 10 stars!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the first--but that's not saying much","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1981 Porky's was a smutty sex comedy about a bunch of teenagers in 1954 Florida. It was nonstop sex jokes and full of nudity (both male and female) and characters being sexually humiliated. It was a surprise box office smash and two years later we got the inevitable sequel. It's tamer than the first and a little bit better--but that's not saying a lot.It starts off the day after Porky's ended. There are various plots here and there the kids are putting on a Shakespeare play and a local church considers Shakespeare obscene (???) and tries to close it down; a Seminole Indian has a part in it and the local KKK wants him out (remember--this was 1954); there's another gag to sexually humiliate Pee Wee (Dan Monahan) and Coach Balbreaker (Nancy Parsons) again has a cruel trick played on her. And, again, there's female and male nudity (though not as much as the first had).Like the first this has people being humiliated and everybody else laughing hysterically at them. Still I have to admit there were a few parts that got me laughing--when the dean of the school battles with the self-righteous reverend over Shakespeare being dirty they both quoting bits from the Bible and Shakespeare that are pretty racy (this is pretty intelligent for a sex comedy); a bit with Graveyard Gloria; one of the guys dressed as a corpse and getting totally drunk; a sword fight; the KKK getting what they deserve and Wendy Williams (Kaki Hunter) date with straight-laced Commissioner Gephardt (Edward Winter). All in all this has more funny parts then the first one had and moves quicker too. The acting is OK--a little overdone but OK. Nancy Parsons comes off best.This one also has a little moral message--that Indian guys (a Seminole guy here) are OK. The first one had the same exact message but for Jewish guys. There's nothing wrong with preaching tolerance but it's totally at odds with the extreme humor we have here. Luckily they have a good script and a top director (Bob Clark) helming this so it works.This isn't a good movie by any means but I'm giving it a 4 for the funny bits. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The multiple sequels.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Porky's II The Next Day (1983) was suppose to take place The next day but it looks like two years have passed by.   The cast is older and the laughs are not as plentiful as in part one, but it's still entertaining.  This time the gang wants to participate in the school's Shakesphere play.  But a local religious right group (along with the female physical  education teacher) is strongly and morally opposed to the teaching of perversion and filth in the classrooms.  The gang is  miffed at these stuffed shirt uptight stiffs, so they decide to take action against them just like they did against the last person who tried to keep them down.Great stuff, not as brilliant as the first film but there's enough sleaze and toilet humor that'll keep it's fans entertained.  The 'kids are starting to look like adults (bags, wrinkles and thinning scalps and receding hairlines).  For god's sake they should have ended the series at this point.  But no, the film-makers just had to make one more picture.BFollowed by Porky's Revenge, for the love of humanity please avoid at all cost.  If you don't, you'll be sorry "},{"Title":"Do you like to laugh?","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd hope so, anyone that says no should be subjected to extensive torture. Anyway, this movie makes you laugh.  I'm not going to bore your socks off with the generic comment that basically turns you off from a movie even if the comment is positive.  Yeah that would be fun.  As I said in my comments for the first Porky's, this movie rules, mostly for young guys.  I've gotten a lot of negative, loathing feelings towards this trilogy from girlfriends when they watch them, don't ask me why. It's just one of those things I suppose.  Anyway, I LIKE EM.  That's what counts, isn't it?  "},{"Title":"one of the funniest, Lmao","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was fortunate enough to be one of the naked Klansmen. I had speaking parts, close up's and even got the C_ _P beat out of me by a Bible swinging Baby Jane (a 40's child movie star). All of my shots were cut.... because after we wrapped, the continuity people realized that in all of my shots, (close up's and all), I was wearing my JEWISH STAR!Unfortunately they couldn't justify a Jewish Klansman, even in Miami Beach.... Bobby Clark is a great guy to work for as were were shooting in the swamps of Miami and Ft. Lauderdale where the actual Whiskey Creek flows behind Diaia Beach. Mr. Clark explained to me that he had gown up in this area and that is why he wanted to shoot this movie at his location. "},{"Title":"An insult to pigs.","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This isn't so much a sex-romp as it is a fanciful fantasy along the lines of Alice in Wonderland or Peter Pan. To say this dumb movie was based on shaky foundations would be a major understatement.Premise 1 a bunch of sex-starved, braindead teens (played by adults) actually give three craps about a school production of a Shakespeare play. These 30 year-old teens invest all of their energies into saving it. Because this premise rings just as true as L. Ron Hubbard's theories about ancient aliens, it is impossible to follow the flimsy plot of P2 with any amount of interest. The writer of this turkey actually thought that the comedy genre allows you to break all laws of logic and common sense. Far from it comedy only works when it is rooted in some basic, obvious truths; cut it off from reality and the gags suffer. Even so-called absurdist comedy (ZAZ films, for example) have to have some connection to the real world, otherwise they don't work i.e. can't be funny. Meat joins the play, as a transvestite no less, and this isn't funny for a whole number of reasons, the main one being that it is never explained why he'd agree to do something like that. At first he is adamant he won't do it, but then he inexplicably does &#x96; which isn't how comedy works. He simply shows up in drag, and we the tortured viewers are supposed to fall about in earthquakes of laughter. Well, some tards might.Premise 2 a Christian activist group actually tries to prevent the staging of a Shakespeare play on the basis that it is lewd. In the 50s. Whether this was possible even in much more puritanical 19th century America is highly questionable. The last straw that disintegrates this weak premise into invisible molecules is the group's leader, who is played by an Elmer Fudd impersonator. This means that P2 is stuck with a major problem its appeal is essentially to 5 year-olds, but the persistent sex themes are more suitable for (younger) teens (who don't laugh at Elmer Fudd nearly as much as they used to). One of the many reasons why this comedy is such a flop. Or am I underestimating the number of teens with an IQ lower than 60? Premise 3 viewers will laugh at jokes that are essentially embarrassing to watch and listen to. A major miscalculation, as it turns out. 90% of these bargain-basement gags are awful, the other 10% merely pathetic. All the actors playing bad guys &#x96; plus Pee-Wee - overact their butts off, rendering the anyway very low comedic potential of this piece of garbage useless. P2 falls squarely into the bottom of the cinematic pit, into the Police Academy 5 movie category. It's as low-brow as it gets, but without any of the (limited) appeal that low-brow comedy occasionally offers.Not to mention the renewed desperate attempts at politically-correct social commentary. In the first movie, Jews were the focus, i.e. one Jewish character. This time it's American Indians. I suppose that could only mean one thing Porky's 3 (which I haven't yet seen) must be championing blacks' rights. Right? Which brings me to why there was no Porky's 4 perhaps they ran out of minorities? Latinos and Koreans weren't nearly as interesting to the American Left during the 80s as the three above-mentioned groups/races. Or perhaps P4 never saw the light of day because the first 3 sucked so much? Something for trash-comedy historians to sink their teeth into.For MST3K fans, check out the actress playing the prostitute. It's none other than the scantily-dressed daft bimbo from the mega-classic Space Mutiny. Her topless scenes are the only highlight in this 80s garbage. "},{"Title":"A puzzling misfire.","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though many people refuse to laugh at the original, this quickly produced sequel is difficult for even die-hard fans of the series to laugh at. Back are all the same characters (except Porky!) but missing are the funny situations and much of the previous film's charm. What we're left with is a heavy-handed story about religious fanatics and the KKK trying to disrupt a Shakespeare festival at the kids' school. There are a few very funny moments, but nothing like we saw the first time around.Bob Clark was also in the midst of making A Christmas Story at the time. In fact the major award from that film can be found in one scene in this film. Maybe he was distracted. Maybe the fact that he shared the writing duties with two other people this time also caused problems. However you slice it, the laughs just aren't there.Our story begins (like the title says) the very next morning after the boys destroyed Porky's nightclub. Curious though how Micky, who was on crutches and had bandages all over his face from a previous visit to the infamous club, now is all healed and looks normal! It's goofs like this that make you wonder why on Earth they needed to have the story continue the very next day. Especially since the story in this film in no way has anything to do with what happened in the previous film. There are other problems we must take a look at....Porky's II seems to have more naked men than women! I cannot recall a mainstream film with more male frontal nudity. And most of it is from old men! It's hard to fathom who the target audience was for this type of material. Some of the pranks the boys commit in this film are just mean-spirited. We all know the female gym teacher Miss Balbricker is a bitch, but sending a snake up the toilet she's sitting on may be going too far. It's more creepy than funny. And how anyone but perhaps an experienced plumber could know exactly what pipe to put the snake into so it would come up through the right toilet is beyond me.The film also suffers from trying to take itself too seriously. Sure the KKK are a bunch of skunks, but taking them on wouldn't seem like a laughing matter. Especially back in the 1950s when this film takes place. You could really get killed for messing around with those guys.There are some nuggets of humor to be found if you dig in the right place, though. There is a hilarious scene in a graveyard where Pee Wee is made a fool of when he thinks he has the upper hand. Seeing what eventually happens to the KKK members is also worth a good chuckle.The film made a nice chunk of change, but nothing like part 1. If you're looking for additional laughs, give Porky's Revenge a try. That film is decidedly less self-righteous, and gives the gang plenty of zany things to get mixed up in. A nice return to the roots of the series, you could say.The 4.0 this film is scoring sounds about right to the Hound. 4 of 10 stars for Porky's II. "},{"Title":"Moderately entertaining contract obligation","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This first highly unnecessary sequel to Porky's again focuses on some bad guys getting their comeuppance, only this time I just really didn't care. The plot about some religious fanatics trying to shut down the production of a Shakespeare play didn't really work for me, mainly because the villains are so over the top they throw you right out of this movie. Especially the character of Reverend Flavel really makes it super-obvious what's going to happen. This movie pretty much wrote itself, but did a very bad job of it. It may still be fun to see the guys from Angel Beach interact, but they have absolutely nothing interesting to do and things get boring. Their main story has been over for a while, so they have to get by on lame, far-fetched story lines that really scrape the bottom of the barrel (the KKK subplot anyone?). And occasionally they also get involved in a lame practical joke that takes forever to set up. It's still Porky's, so I can't hate it, but the first is just so much better. "}]