[{"Title":"Money may not buy happiness, but it will buy the things that will Make you happy","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"156 out of 176 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are too many reviews of Risky Business for mine to have any relevance as a movie review. However, this movie is for me a time capsule of the era I saw it in, and a photograph of the future to come in American culture. I saw this movie when I was 22 in a tiny college theater with a date. I remember several disconnected things about it The movie was much more interesting than my date was, the music by Tangerine Dream was hypnotic and fit the tone of the film, which struck me as being more depressing in places than funny (although there are some funny moments in it), and it gave me a glimpse into a world that I thought was fictional. It turned out I hadn't experienced the world it was presenting yet. When Cruise asks his friends what they plan to do with their lives, one's answer is very simple and focused Make money. Another friend adds Make a LOT of money. It turns out the movie was precognizant of the next ten to twenty years of American culture; the absolute obsession with making money through any means necessary, legally or illegally, regardless of consequences to yourself or others. Then taking that money and buying the things that will make you happy a porsche, a big house, and most importantly, a hot babe in your bed, that will only be there as long as the money is. Internally discovered happiness? A quaint notion created by the poor who can't afford the toys that validate your existence.I am sure that the filmmaker would be the first to say that the movie parodies the hollowness of the American Dream of acquiring wealth to buy creature comforts, but too much of the time it feels like it celebrates them. At the end, the hooker stays Cruise's girlfriend only as long as he continues to make her money; she even says I'll be your girlfriend...for a while. Real loyalty there. But then, she is a hooker, and is being honest. She in fact is presented as the only person in the film that is not a hypocrite. She has no illusions that money & sex make the American world go 'round, and doesn't pretend herself to be otherwise; unlike Cruise and the rest of his friends. In the end however, she is still hollow, the values the kids pursue are hollow (they are only after sex, not love), and the movie feels as deep and solid as a glossy magazine ad for a Lexus. Even over the obsession of greed, however, the film illustrates the complete alienation of the modern American teenage male alone, isolated, judged by his peers with the kind of car his dad lets him drive, his clothes, and whether he can get laid or not. The emphasis is on sex, not relationship. There is no rite of passage into adulthood, no guidance from parents who more often than not are as distant from their children as the cardboard cutout parents in this film. In short, as depressing as this film is when you step back from it, it paints a frighteningly accurate portrait of how superficial and narrow a world, yet directionless (except for accumulating superficial wealth) a young boy's world can be. There are no values taught in this film, because there are none available as examples. And that is the environment too many kids are subject to. That is what was so disturbing to me about the film at the time I saw it, yet it took 20 years to understand why (as I was, like most kids my age, in the same vacuous and bankrupt culture this kid was in at the time). There are 300% more suicides committed by 14 year old boys in America than any other age group or category. This movie explains why. Seven stars, not for humor, but for photographing the beginning of an era that lasts until this day. The message from Enron, WorldCom, Martha Stewart and others for American kids will be Don't get caught. A message which is slowly becoming the only moral direction left in American culture. "},{"Title":"A Stylish and Intelligent Comedy that redefined the teen angst comedy and created a new movie star","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" RISKY BUSINESS is the smart and sexy 1983 teen comedy that brought intelligence to the genre and made a bonafide movie star out of Tom Cruise. Cruise is utterly winning as Joel Goodson, a high school senior excited about the prospect of having the house to himself when his parents go out of town for a few days; but things go from bad to worse when Joel crosses paths with a nubile prostitute (Rebecca DeMornay). This surprise hit brought an element of sophistication that was absent from a lot of the teen comedies that were populating the screen in the 1980's. This movie boasts a smart screenplay, imaginative direction, a memorable musical score, and on-target performances from Cruise, DeMornay, Curtis Armstrong, Joe Pantoliano (memorable as a slimy pimp), Bronson Pinchot, and Janet Carroll. Tom's sexy underwear dance to Old Time Rock and Roll has become Hollywood folklore. An instant classic upon release that still holds up over 20 years later. "},{"Title":"Not Just Another Teen Sex Comedy","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this film was released, it was during the time of the teen sex comedy craze.  Films like Class and Porky's were all about seeing scores of horny teens in the most raunchy escapades possible.  However, this film and Fast Times at Ridgemont High can be seen as more being a little more serious than the others.  Risky Business is definitely a commentary on how greed can corrupt an individual and what the consequences can be.  Also, the acting in this film, as well as Fast Times, is light years away from Porky's and all films like it and it will always be a classic parable. "},{"Title":"I deal in human fulfillment.","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is a film people unfortunately seem to forget about when they're listing off great teen movies. Tom Cruise, in his first major role, is wonderful as Joel Goodson. He's a boy-next-door type whose life spirals wildly out of control when his parents leave him alone for a few days. Joel is a decent student looking to spend his time wisely during his senior year of high school and hopefully get into a good college. He finds out the hard way that a few bad decisions can lead to all kinds of problems and possibly ruin your future at that age. The film has the intelligence of a John Hughes film combined with the sexual content of a Porky's film. Risky Business is the best of both worlds, if you look at it that way.Tom Cruise's Joel Goodson seems to have a lot going for him. He is the only child living in a nice house in suburban Chicago with his loving parents. You get the sense that he's never been left alone for any extended period of time the way they fawn over him before they leave. After leaving him a decent wad of money and a few instructions about what to do and what not to do around the house, his parents split, and Joel is left all alone. Things go downhill fairly quickly. His best friend (that scene stealing Curtis Armstrong)orders him a prostitute that will show up right at his front door. Needless to say, the person who shows up is not what Joel is looking for. In a fit of sexual frustration, Joels orders the services of the gorgeous, but high-priced Rebecca De Mornay. After a wild night of sex, she informs him he owes her $300. That is substantially more money than his parents left him. Before his dilemma is solved, Joel crashes his father's Porshe in Lake Michigan, gets suspended from school, has a crazed pimp on his tail, and winds up turning his home into a brothel for one night to pay for all the damages he's caused.This plot could have been crafted into an awful movie. Director Paul Brickman knows what he's doing, though. He gives each of his main characters enough dimension that we as the audience actually care what happens to them. We feel Joel's agony as his future seems in doubt during the film's final half hour. Rebecca De Morany is given considerably more depth that you'd think, but we are never allowed to get close enough to truly trust her. Joe Pantoliano is terrific as her pimp, also.Is this film believable? Heavens no. It's plays more like a young man's sexual fantasy run amok. The first scene of the movie mirrors this theme. We see Joel dreaming about having sex with a hot young woman in the shower, then finding himself three hours late for his college entrance exam. We walk such a fine line between pleasure and big trouble at that age.....9 of 10 stars The Hound. "},{"Title":"Coming of age and male fantasy call girl flick.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rebecca De Mornay at 21 is fabulous as the savvy call girl for any teen boy to die for -- or for that matter any red blooded male of any age.  She enters the film gliding silently into the back yard entrance of his parent's off-the-lake Chicago house, and after speaking only a few words, something like are you ready for me Joel, artistically slips off her demure little slip of a dress, back arched to him, one leg kneeled in the window seat, presses her bottom into him, silently invites him to take her, and then turns, melts into him, kissing him in apparent yielding passion.  This is immediately followed by cut scenes to multiple positions in multiple locations around the house.  It's a perfect male fantasy of what paid for wild but romantic sex might be like (however unrealistic).  It's also undoubtedly Joel's (Cruse's) first time.  What an initiation.The movie never gets that hot again (although the scene enacting Lana's thing about trains gets close).  But it does become increasingly interesting as a first rate coming of age flick.  Actually, it's a bit more than that.  It explores the tension between the self disciplined deferred gratification he and has friends have all been taught they need for upper middle class success, versus the let loose sexual and other risk taking he knows is out there, some other people are doing, and wishes he could get away with.  How far can a nice upper middle class boy go without throwing it all away?  That risky business is what the film is all about. Tom Cruz is perfect as the dutiful but less than gifted future enterpriser high school senior who's always had to work a little harder and stick more to the straight and narrow to try to live up to his parents' expectations -- without quite getting there.  Although he was about the same age as De Mornay when they made the film, Cruz looks and acts a thoroughly convincing boyish 16 or 17.  De Mornay's Lana is an iconic bad girl hooker of the naturally toney and perhaps feeling variety -- although about the last we're never entirely sure.  She remains ultimately an enigma, beyond Cruz's and our full grasp, but not beyond his connecting with.  Sadly, her first major role was probably her best -- although certainly not her only good one.Cruz may be on the right track, but it's De Mornay's Lana who knows everything about sex, life, taking risks, and living on the edge.  She seduces Cruz into turning his parents' home into a bordello, to tap the money to be made by mingling his kind of friends with her kind of friends for a night, while she is hiding out from her manager, and he has been left to act responsibly while his parents are away on a business trip.  The scene where the Princeton alumnus interviewer, whom his dad has contacted to try to help finesse his not quite Ivy League transcript, comes to the house to interview Cruz on the night the bordello party is in full swing, is deliciously funny and at the same time full of nervous tension.  Cruz's character is on the brink of disaster, and then in fact clearly has thrown away a good part of his future opportunities -- or has he?It's a delicious movie -- especially for males raised in seriously high academic achievement oriented families.   Every good boy would love to call a Lana sometime -- and get away with it.  "},{"Title":"fun, funny, and smart","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most funny comedies aren't very smart. They're funny because of individual jokes that play by themselves, without relying on the overall plot. Risky Business is an exception and the reason why it works so well, is because it tells a simple story that could really happen and would also be a lot of fun. Youre a high school kid, your parents go on vacation for a week, leaving you the whole house to yourself. That's the setup. A friend calls up a call girl, she shows up, and the entertainment begins. This movie is smart enough to know what kids think about at that age, sex, and it holds nothing back. It is very clever at times and has a strong character in Joel, played by a young, energetic Tom Cruise. Another thing that this movie understands is mood and tempo. Everything hits the right beat. Smart and funny is an ideal combination and this movie achieves it. "},{"Title":"Very stylish","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business tells the story of Joel Goodsen, portrayed by Tom Cruise, a young teenager who fantasizes about the usual stuff, girls,sex,money,having fun and has the usual concerns,please his parents,getting into college,secure a future.Joel's parents go on a trip and Joel has the house to himself.One of his friends convinces him to answer a sex ad.This is how Joel meets Lana, a beautiful young call-girl to whom he feels immediately attracted to.But Joel is innocent and naive and Lana,knowing this, takes advantage of him, staying in his house longer then she was suppose to stay and involving him in risky situations.The all thing gets quickly out of control which results in a series of accidents such as Joel's furniture being stolen and his father's car falling into a river. Now with his parents returning soon Joel has to juggle between solving the situation and make sure everything looks like the same it did before his parents left. Although it has some funny moments that may cause a few laughs, I wouldn't call Risky Business a comedy.The movie has quite a few dramatic and tense moments.The soundtrack is great and Tom Cruise did a great job as Joel Goodsen.Risky Business is a nice movie that in a way mocks the American dream.With his black wayfarers Cruise oozes style and charisma,no wonder why this movie has become such a classic and is seen as a defining point in Cruise's career.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A confused kid in a confused world","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Cruise stars in this 80's teen flick that was popular for its time and still has a good message to this very day. Tom playing the innocent Joel Goodson, a kid that is on his way to making it big and getting into a good college until he meets up with the call girl Lana(Rebecca De Mornay). This movie just goes to show you how certain decisions can have different impacts on how the overall picture turns out, and Joel sees and realizes just that. The show was cast perfectly and the music adds to spice the movie up. This is a Warner Bros. classic and I think anyone in their right mind should see it. "},{"Title":"Live a little, NOW ..","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Your parents are going out of town for a week. You are graduating from high school and haven't even been laid. Your friends have a future that is secure, but you seem to be going nowhere fast. Maybe, just maybe, while your parents are gone this weekend, you should say, What the F*ck??? (sic, quote from movie) and live a little bit more ....This is a brilliant movie, about life's choices, about living a little, taking chances, with a very positive message for people willing to risk living outside the box. Starring a 17-year old kid who's been thoroughly screwed up by his overly strict parents ....A lot of people miss the point of this movie. Joel takes chances, and pays DEARLY and REPEATEDLY for the chances he takes. He goes at least $1000 in the hole over the course of this movie, but ends up ahead in life because HIS FAMILY had clearly screwed up his brain and having a GIRLFRIEND and TRYING SOMETHING NEW has put him on the road to recovery.A few puritans gave this movie a 5 because they mistakenly think it has something to say about prostitution or making money. Nothing could be further from the truth, and the prostitutes in this movie are the most unbelievable and unpredictable characters, and Joel ends up roughly $1000 in the hole. A few others give it a 5 because the music is by New Age band Tangerine dream, and New Age is still not a very popular media. I give the movie a 10 for message, a 10 for cruise's facial acting (and dancing), and a 10 for irony and twists and surprises, over and over and over again.The love scenes between Cruise and De Mornay are IMHO, as good as anything that's been in movies for the past 20 years, while still being somewhere between PG13 and R rated, e.g. pretty tame. "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated Sign 'o' the Times","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Underrated (I) Cruise (Joel Goodson) is highly amusing as one of his most feared career moves might become harsh reality University of Illinois - here he is! Excellent movie providing an accurate, contemporary image of the eighties. Well to do family all shook up by low class intruders of various kinds. Underrated (II) the importance of the exhilarating music for this movie, providing a perfect match - between dreamy Techno (Tangerine Dream) and that old time rock 'n roll (Seger, The Police, Phil Collins, Muddy Waters, Bruce Springsteen). The relationship with De Mornay is amazingly vibrant - the dialogue sharp and cheerful. Everlasting oneliners everywhere. The impression this movie made here in Europe (is that what American highschool life is really about?) can hardly be overrated. "}{"Title":"She's In Product, He's In Sales","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business and All The Right Moves are the two films that launched Tom Cruise's career as brat pack film star. Unlike so many of his contemporaries from the Eighties, he's proved to have staying power and will no doubt continue to do so. All The Right Moves established Cruise as a dramatic actor, but Risky Business is a fun comedy about a hormone driven teenager who when the folks go away from his Chicago suburban home and he's left to play, he gets himself in all kinds of problems. First dialing up call girl, Rebecca DeMornay and then not having enough coin of the realm to pay her. Then getting mom's treasured glass egg stolen. And then getting the family car driven into Lake Michigan.But Cruise and DeMornay, who is having trouble with her pimp Joe Pantoliano, hit on the brilliant idea that there's a market out there for his group of eager overachievers. And Tom's house becomes quite the swinging brothel.Risky Business turns out to be pretty funny business. Best scene in the film involves Tom with Princeton interviewer Richard Mazur. You've got to love the way this boy gets into the Ivy League. Second best scene involves Tom and the family car as it plunges into the lake and then gets hoisted out.Tom's definitely proved to have staying power in show business. I can see his character in Risky Business growing up to be Jerry Maguire. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - set the standard for this genre","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" First, with respect to continuity, I just watched the movie (with my teen-aged daughter) and the plates on the Porsche on the way home from the garage is clearly Illinois and NOT New Jersey. In any event, my daughter and her friend were watching The Girl Next Door and I spent the whole movie thinking that this was very derivative and my daughter and her friend had never even heard of Risky Business, so we watched it. My daughter really liked the movie and agreed that her movie was a pale imitation (though it was cute). I think a lot of teen movies are now just trying to shock as opposed to telling an interesting and intricate story. This movie made Tom Cruise (with whom I very annoyed given his treatment of Nicole and his display on the Today Show - medication can help a chemical imbalance), but the movie is a classic. I loved it when I first saw it as a young adult (25) and I still think it is one of the best teen movies ever made. "},{"Title":"There is no business like the ho business...","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a rich Chicago suburban neighbourhood Joel Goodson (Tom Cruise) strives to fulfil his parents' Princeton goal, enlisting into an entrepreneur competition in order to better his resume. Coming-of-age comes about when his parents leave on a two week vacation, having him to cope for himself. After being hyped up by his friend Miles (Curtis Armstrong), Joel decides to invite an exclusive call-girl Lana (Rebecca De Mornay). After a fiery night Joel turns out to lack enough money to pay for the service, which soon leads to the situation to spiral out of control...Still charming and entertaining with an absolutely volcanic De Mornay igniting the screen, Risky Business does however lack the timeless commentary of The Graduate, while loses in wit and development to the quasi-remake The Girl Next Door. Basically just another teen-movie with style to share, straight-forward, not flashy, but extremely effective. The main strengths still lie in the more artistic, creative sequences, like a brilliantly executed train sex scene. Tom Cruise and Rebecca De Mornay captivate throughout making it a still likable, but by no means meaningful movie. "},{"Title":"Risky Business","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw the most memorable single scene on this film borrowed for an episode of South Park, and I had a vague idea of the film's premise, so I thought I might as well try it. Basically Joel Goodson (Golden Globe nominated Tom Cruise) has the (suburban Chicago) house to himself, because his parents (Nicholas Pryor and Janet Carroll) are going on vacation, as well as a Porsche. One night his friend Miles (Curtis Armstrong) contacts a call girl named Jackie, and it turns out it's a transvestite (Jurassic Park III's Bruce A. Young), but he does give Joel a contact number for a female call girl, Lana (Rebecca De Mornay). After spending one night with Joel, she asks for $300, she agrees to wait for him to get it, but when he gets back, she's gone, along with his mother's expensive expensive Steuben glass egg. Joel does find her again, and she agrees to give the egg back, as long as she can stay with him, and get away from pimp Guido (Joe Pantoliano). Originally Joel rejected the idea of inviting many of his friends over the house to pay for sex with Lana and many of her fellow call girls, but when his Porsche rolls into Lake Michigan, and getting a short suspension from school, he and Lana arrange a large party, the house becomes a brothel for a night. At that night, he forgot a Princeton interviewer, Rutherford (Richard Masur) was coming over to evaluate him, and quite a few interruptions occur. The evening was a success, but Joel wakes up to find everything in his house (furniture, ornaments, appliances) are gone, and he has to buy it all back from Guido before his parents get home. In the end, the only trouble Joel got into was with his mother and that glass egg (it has a crack), and he was accepted into Princeton, and Lana wants to keep seeing him. Also starring Bronson Pinchot as Barry, Shera Danese as Vicki and Raphael Sbarge as Glenn. This is a good comedy film, with some unusual scenes, and of course, the most memorable scene is when celebrates having the house to himself when he dances to Bob Seger's Old Time Rock and Roll (the scene South Park borrowed), which was number 100 on 100 Years, 100 Songs. It was number 51 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for Joel's first night with Lana. Very good! "},{"Title":"Take this for what it is","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" People, regardless of positive or negative reviews, take this movie too seriously. They try to connect this film with society today, the greed for money and power. This movie was released in 1983, just watch it for the great film that it is, a classic.Sure this film focuses on issues at hand, but it's not meant to. Also, this film is enjoyable for what it is, and many other films have taken ideas from this film which might be why the ratings are low, but keep in mind this was released before those.Tom Cruise does great as he usually does, but he's near his prime in this film. I enjoyed it, as well as the script and the dialogue. It was witty, unpredictable, and enjoyable.Try not to associate American politics and economics with this film, otherwise you'll be expecting a deeper plot and a more suitable ending. "},{"Title":"One Of Tom's Best!","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Cruise, Rebecca De Mornay, Curtis Armstrong, Bronson Pinchot and Joe Pantoliano star in this 1983 comedy-drama. A teen meets a hooker and turns his home into a brothel. Joel (Cruise) is a teen who longs to be a future enterpriser. He has the house to himself when his parents leave for a few days. He meets a hooker, Lana (De Mornay) and they start to fall for each other. Lana decides to leave her profession until her pimp, Guido (Pantoliano) tries getting her back and Joel learns the consequences. Lana talks Joel into turning his home into a brothel for one night where their friends can have some fun too. Joel experiences his turn as an enterpriser, but tries to set things right before his parents return home. Armstrong (Revenge of the Nerds) and Pinchot (Perfect Strangers) play Joel's pals, Miles and Barry. This is one of Tom's best and Rebecca and Joe are great in this too. I also like Tangerine Dream's score and recommend this 80's classic. "},{"Title":"More a Drama than a Comedy as Everyone is about the Money","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Risky Business, Tom was the happy-go-lucky high school senior with that ever-present peer pressure to have sex and party hardy while trying to meet his parents' expectation to make it to an Ivy League school. Rebecca was the high-priced call girl with a hot body and a certain edge and chill and a focus on extorting all she can from her naive new customer. Tom's impulsive late-night decision to ask Rebecca for a house call while his parents are out of town set in motion a whole lot of personal chaos, including his wrecking his father's Porsche and opting to fund its repair by letting Rebecca and her friends ply their trade among his friends in the neighborhood by opening the house up for a one-night hoe down. As the Tangerine Dream music created a smoldering timelessness to this movie, his friends intent to spend their futures making more money, one friend's lament about paying four-dollars for a cup of hot chocolate in a trendy restaurant, and Tom's entrepreneurial bent unexpectedly opening the doors of opportunity all dripped onto the canvas and gave us a glimpse of the economic reality which would be pursued by much of the generation which came of age in the 1980s. In the end, Tom may or may not have gotten the girl, but you knew he was going to get the money, and that was a happy enough ending. "},{"Title":"engaging 'sex' driven comedy","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The narrative.A fast energetic story with many funny twists and turns, promoting healthy viewing for older audiences. The beginning is amazing, sensational even. Cruise stands in a state of complete wonder and fascination. His narration is superb and conforms to a really energetic opening to a great story. The film is consistent throughout with engaging characters that are easy to understand and feel for at points but also to laugh with, allowing the story to flow consistently. Some maybe confused during the middle when De Mornay (hand that rocked the cradle) and Cruise (Magnolia) get involve in the business proposition but the story is always entertaining, always wanting to know what happens to the characters. The twists and turns encoded add to the excitement. The cinematography is also great, allowing for a picturesque view on America in some scenes.Characters and acting.Cruise has had his share of bad criticism but here he gives a great account of a stereotypical horny teenager just wanting to appreciate life in his own way. His character thinks the way normal teenagers do, assuming they all want sex and to have a good time, but allows a more concerned approach to different aspects of life. He performs well alongside the equally sex driven Rebecca who is also spellbinding in her role as the prostitute. Lala is certainly an interesting character with a very teasing attitude towards Cruise. Her actions in the film are very 'fruity' and conform perfectly to her personality as a troubled but trying to be positive young woman. The relationship between them in context is great because it isn't a conventional love story as most are these days, e.g. Love actually. It adds a different niche to the romantic genre and audiences can easily accept the ideologies of a different more anticipating and difficult un-trusting relationship.watch it if...energetic passionate sexual driven films are your cup of tea "},{"Title":"Here's what was risky.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone remembers the scene of Joel Goodsen (Tom Cruise) dancing around to Old Time Rock 'N' Roll, but some people may have forgotten some of the movie's other aspects. The plot of course has Goodsen hooking up with prostitute Lana (Rebecca DeMornay), but the movie also shows the takeover by greed in the '80s Joel's classmates are obsessed with money, and he even asks if people can think about anything else. Oh well. I really liked the scene where people are arriving in the house while Mannish Boy is playing (the movie was actually released the year that Muddy Waters died). And it's also surprising now that I know who some of the cast members were Joe Pantoliano - of The Goonies, The Matrix and Memento fame - plays Guido the pimp, and Curtis Armstrong - aka Booger in Revenge of the Nerds - plays Miles. Whoa. "},{"Title":"Quotable and Memorable, but Still Lacking","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to admit that before I saw this film, I only knew two things about it 1. The soundtrack was done by Tangerine Dream. 2. Tom Cruise dances around the house in his underwear to Bob Seger.It turns out that both of those things are true. Risky Business is about a kid named Joel Goodsen (Good Son, get it?) (played by Tom Cruise), a clean-cut high school kid who learns what it's like to say f--- it, and take risks when his parents go out of town. Joel's goals at the beginning of the movie center around getting into a good college and planning for his future. As the film progresses, however, we watch Joel make decisions that get him further and further into trouble, and we're expected to be amused as he tries to make his way out of it. The trouble that Joel gets himself into centers mainly around an attractive hooker, Lana, who is played by Rebecca de Mornay. One thing I did like about this movie was that de Mornay didn't play the hooker with a heart of gold role that has become all-too-familiar with post-Pretty Woman actresses who play hookers. Joel gets involved with Lana and her hooker friends, tries to help them out of trouble, and ends up getting getting into a tailspin of drama that includes, but is not limited to, death threats from Guido the killer pimp. He eventually gets trapped into a situation where he needs lots of money, fast, and ends up compromising pretty much every value he held dear to him before his parents went out of town. Plus, he ends up with a hooker for a girlfriend, which I think is pretty gross, and I was confused as to why Joel Goodsen (or anyone besides a junkie or something) would want a girlfriend who sleeps with random dudes for money. My biggest complaint is that Joel ended up as a much worse person by the end of the movie than he did at the beginning. The film had absolutely no pathos. Pre-corruption Joel asks his friends if they're interested in doing anything in life besides making money. He mentions cornily that he wants to help his fellow man. By the end of the film, Joel's last lines are My name is Joel Goodson. I deal in human fulfillment. I grossed over eight thousand dollars in one night. The kid compromises all of his values, and seems to have learned absolutely nothing about how dirty and hopeless prostitution can be--the closest he comes to having an epiphany on his actions seems to be that If there were any logic to our language, trust would be a four letter word. But shortly after saying that, he makes multiple decisions that would have one guess that he's never been there or done that before, which includes trusting a prostitute, for God's sake, over and over again, even though she screws him over each and every time. I guess if the goal of this movie was to watch high school kids get into various debaucheries with women who get paid to screw for a living, they've succeeded well. Additionally, if writer/director Paul Brickman (who went on to do pretty much nothing, by the way) meant to show that becoming a pimp can bring money, success, and entrance to the university of your choice, then he succeeded. Maybe he meant this to be a little darker than the average comedy, and maybe this movie would have found a more supportive audience in the year in which I was two years old, but I just found my sympathy for the characters and the movie as a whole went nowhere but down as the movie went on. "}{"Title":"A Classic When Times Were Better And Simpler","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The United States have gone a long way since Risky Business was considered a classic film that launched Tom Cruise's career as an actor.When the film was released,it was every teen-age boy fantasy to have the house on their own without their parents.Unfortunately,today's youth want a lot more than what Joel Goodman experienced in this film when his parents went away for vacation leaving him the full responsibility of the house and managed to have a lot of misadventures like driving his dad's Porsche and being able to deal with pimps and hookers.This was definitely a good comedy back in the 80's but not by today's standards.Many would even find it corny or worse even boring.But nevertheless,it is good to look back on how things were back then as compared today's time wherein it would take a lot to elicit lots of laughter from the average American due to the economic situation and difficulties that he is currently facing. It would be great to appreciate this film back when it won't take that much for the average American to laugh.Aside from the laughs,it was also a great movie that has great themes such as materialism,greed,getting into college and meeting the high standards set up by one's parents. "},{"Title":"The dream is always the same.....","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Left alone in the wealthy northern Chicago suburbs with the family house and Porsche at his disposal, Joel, through his scheming friends, finds himself entertaining call girl Lana. After meeting Joel's enthusiastic friends, Lana spots a business opportunity, and suggests bringing in some of her equally stunning colleagues. Joel is initially against such an idea, at least until the Porsche accidentally falls into Lake Michigan, requiring a quick infusion of ready cash......With such an illustrious career, probably one of the biggest successes in Hollywoods history, it's clear that Cruise is not just a bona-fide movie star, the man is a living legend.And then there's this film.....I must be missing something, I know that this kick-started his career into the stratospheric place it is now, but it's one of the most abhorrent, dislikable roles he's ever played.He basically plays a smug little rich boy who gets done over by a pimp and has to make ex amount of cash before his parents get home.Despite the screen presence he has in this, it's impossible to care about the situation he's got himself into because there is no empathetic repercussions to he character. in fact, he almost takes advantage of his situation to start the titular hobby.So if you want to watch a film where a smug little rich boy thinks about turning his back on education for all the wrong reasons, then this is for you.I found myself getting more angrier as the film went on. "},{"Title":"Boring and not funny","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently saw this movie again after not seeing if since it first came out. Now I know why I haven't watched this dog again in all this time. It's slow-paced, boring and just not that funny. It's hard to believe that this movie is considered a classic. There are some funny bits, but they are too few and far between to make it worth the effort to watch. The action (and I use that term loosely) takes too long to materialize, and the ending is very unsatisfying. Truly bad behavior has no negative consequences, and there are plot holes big enough to drive Joel's mom's station wagon through. And don't get me started on the so-called acting. "},{"Title":"a pinch of The Graduate, a dash of Ferris Beuller, and a whole lot of Tom Cruise","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joel Goodsen (Tom Cruise) is a horny suburban Chicago teenager who is always concerned about his future. His folks are going out of town, and Miles (Curtis Armstrong) tells him to say What the F***. His parents don't understand and they set up an interview with Princeton. He is part of the Future Enterprisers with Barry (Bronson Pinchot) but doesn't necessarily like it. Miles calls up a transvestite for Joel and he-she offers him Lana (Rebecca De Mornay). It's a memorable night but in the morning she wants her $300. She takes off with the crystal egg and he has to get it back. When he finds Lana in the city, they go on the run from his pimp Guido (Joe Pantoliano). Lana won't leave when Guido shows up. When the Porsche goes into the drink, he needs money to fix the car. He ends up in business with Lana, but Guido just won't let her go.This is a classic coming of age movie. Of course there is the classic and often referenced Tom Cruise sliding around in his underwear. However this is more than that in this movie. Joel is reminiscent of Ben Braddock from 'The Graduate'. He wonders if the plans that his parents have for him is right and he asks if all everybody wants is money. Doesn't anyone want to accomplish anything or do we just want to make money? Yet he doesn't run away from the money. He just doesn't have a clue about his future. There are the great dream sequences, memorable lines, and the general originality. Who could forget about the Porsche? The performances are terrific and the most vexing question of all is what ever happened to writer/director Paul Brickman. His limited success after this is the most disappointing thing in this movie. "},{"Title":"Misadventures of a rich kid student","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business was a big hit in the USA and gave Tom Cruise a leg up to become a big star. He carries the lead role well especially with the dance sequence to Bob Seger and very much has the 80s vibe.However there were too many rich college kids films made in that era, you know the ones that lived in a mansion, whose family had three cars and there was a Porsche or Mercedes in the household. Heaven forbid if you made a film about poor, working class students.Cruise plays a rather uptight, wide eyed innocent who becomes embroiled with a prostitute played by Rebecca De Mornay and becomes embroiled in a crashed Porsche, her pimp played with a mixture of menace and humour by Joe Pantoliano and a call girl racket in his parent's house.It is actually rather tame now but for a few risqué scenes usually set to music but its ever so slowly paced and yet it reminds one of a time when filmmaker's felt that your average rich kid student was worth making a film about time and time again. "},{"Title":"A Teen Comedy With A Tom Cruise Touch,","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is a fantastic movie with a clever storyline and a outstanding debut for Tom Cruise,who I find to be one of the best actors of all time,and this movie gives us a great first impression that Tom Cruise can really act,and he was only in his early twenties at this stage.The movie is one of those teen sex comedies,but there's a lot more drama and seriousness involved in it,it isn't one of those movies like American Pie or Superbad,there's a lot more drama to it,although the movie is also very funny at times as well.Fans of teen comedies will enjoy Risky Business and people who love Tom Cruise should definitely enjoy it as well.When his parents are away for a week,Joel Goodsen (Tom Cruise) gets carried away with trying to have a bit of fun and gets involved with the wrong kind of people. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film With Nice Subject and Performances","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business (1983) *** (out of 4) A teenager (Tom Cruise) decides to have some fun while his parents are out of town so he hires a hooker (Rebecca De Mornay) who just happens to teach him more than just sex. Director Paul Brickman does a very good job with his screenplay, which is certainly one of the most important things in making this work. There were a lot of movies based around horny teenagers but this here is certainly one of the best because of how serious the subject is taken. This isn't just a naughty sex romp but instead it takes a serious look at this teenager and the pressures on him ranging from his parent's expectations as well as getting into college and losing his virginity. The story really allows the lead character to grow and it's rather interesting watching how the film plays out to where it teaches him a lesson about life and going after what you want. Of course, this isn't 100% drama and we get several funny moments and situations scattered throughout including a wonderful bit dealing with his father's car. The film also manages to be incredibly sexy during the sex scenes. Most memorably the first romp with the hooker as well as a later scene set on a train. Some of the best and most underrated moments happen before the hooker even arrives as the director really gives one the details of that burning desire in teenage boys. Cruise was perfectly cast here as the bright student who still had a few things to learn. I thought he perfectly handled every aspect of the role from the early, weak virgin to the later power player. De Mornay is also extremely good in her role and there's no question that the two stars share a lot of chemistry. Add in the music of The Police, Bruce Springsteen and the now legendary Bob Segar sequence and you've got an all around good time. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise and a pair of Ray-Bans = a certifiable hit","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two things really floored me about Risky Business. One, its distinct atmosphere. Right off the bat, we're treated to nighttime shots of Chicago, played against the backdrop of a neon synth score. Then we move directly into the manicured lawns and big houses of John Hughesian Illinois suburbia. This movie puts you smack in the middle of a time and place that's entirely inviting and not at all generic.The other surprise is the movie's depth. This is about a kid who gets completely in over his head, and in order to drum up the cash to get out of trouble, he turns his parents' house into a brothel. That's not your typical teen movie material you'd expect to see in a movie aimed at this demographic. And Paul Brickman ably manages to also turn the microscope on the early '80s yuppie culture, where 18 year-old is governed by the need to go to college and make piles of cash (Doesn't anyone want to accomplish anything, or just make money?, asks Tom Cruise of his friends).Cruise is at his most likable here. He's always had distinct acting talent, but I can look at this and see Joel Goodson, not Tom Cruise. No little feat. And while I've never found Rebecca De Mornay to be the hot number she's supposed to be in the story, that's no disrespect to her performance, which gets to the core of Lana's sadness as a character. Curtis Armstrong plays the annoying friend to a T, while Bronson Pinchot easily steals his scenes. And Richard Masur does a terrific job as the Princeton rep. I love that guy here. And that Tangerine Dream score is something else!Risky Business is one of those movies that benefits immensely from a second chance. Many years have passed since I first saw this movie (as a teenager), and what I didn't absorb at that age just jump right out as an adult. And I dig the hell out of it. Just a really well-done movie.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Risky but rewarding","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone has their own coming of age story, and many could probably peddle theirs on the big screen if they worked hard enough at it. Risky Business is one example of this age old theme, and a great one for exploring issues such as class conflict, peer pressure and parental expectations, all as they relate to the sexual awakening of a young upper middle class male.This is the movie that launched Tom Cruise's career, and its success is due in a large part to his great performance as the lead character, Joel Goodson. Joel is an earnest, hard working high school student who wants to do the right thing, but is also possessed with desires (aren't we all) and an intense curiosity about life beyond his well manicured front lawn. To help him explore these desires are three friends who all seem to be a little more experienced and less inhibited than himself. This appears to be the source of much of Joel's problems. Joel, in a nutshell, needs to prove to himself and the world that he is more than just a Goodson. Now one will note that right off the bat, Risky Business offers a little more than the usual coming of age fare. There is depth, style, good music and a carefully crafted mingling of dreamlike sequences with real life sequences. All of this serves to create the proper mood for the play out of Joel's inner conflicts. And the conflict that haunts Joel the most in the opening hour of the movie is the one between sex and success. The message If you pursue one, you will sacrifice the other. Among those hammering home this theme are Joel's parents who fear that one day, the egg they brought into the world will hatch into a bad egg. So what happens when they leave home for a three day weekend, leaving their big house in the suburbs all to Joel? Well, keep an eye on that egg....Joel is tempted, and the empty house soon becomes a playground for the play out of his fantasies. Egged on by his friends, he invites over Lana (Rebecca de Mornay), a beautiful and classy working girl from downtown who represents everything he desires. They have sex, but soon after the fantasy begins to spiral out of control. For one, Lana has friends, and they seem intent on taking over Joel's house. All of this means that Joel's future is now in jeopardy. The egg meanwhile disappears for a time and when it reappears, it now has a crack in it...OK, so now we have arrived at the nexus of the movie's message, and it is one that many have argued about over the years. Personally, I find it abhorant that anyone's life should be ruled by a credo that says that sex and a successful working life are mutually exclusive. This seems a problem unique to Joel. Yet Joel's solution to this problem is only one of many, and really, I mean, turning your folks house into a cathouse for a few days doesn't rank up there as one of the smartest decisions that a young man could make. But hey, Joel will never be the bad egg that his parents fear, and the risk he took COULD be seen as a sign that he possesses some qualities that will serve him well later in life. Is that why his misdeed lands him a spot at Princeton, and ONLY why? I don't really have a problem with the message, having faced similar circumstances in my own life a long time ago. Anyway, through it all, Joel maintains a sort of sheepish attitude, smiling his way through much of the movie. But he also gets scared when he's REALLY in trouble (i.e when it comes to Dad's car). Otherwise, he seems way too genuinely nice to be a bad egg. And also, he falls in love with Lana, the scheming working girl and business woman who strangely becomes his mentor, both sexual AND career wise. To me, it all works in a crazy sort of way. His sexual awakening is balanced and augmented by a tutoring in how to respect the power of money. Maybe Joel can have BOTH his sex and his success in life after all...thanks to Lana...?So, but there is even more to Risky Business than that. Consider the great, hypnotic music by Tangerine Dream,and some truly memorable dreamlike sequences including one on a subway late in the movie. All of this brought emotional impact to the movie in addition to the conflict and inner tension. It was enough to almost bring one to tears. So how can Joel's parents not be happy with the outcome of all this? Joel knows his place in life, and he has securely positioned himself for future success. And that he had this little adventure only broadened his horizons a little while provided him with one heck of a real life fantasy! In conclusion, all of this secured Risky Business's place as probably the best coming of age movie to come out of Hollywood in the 1980's. And it also served as a springboard for Tom Cruise, who was justly praised for making it all happen through Joel Goodson, the earnest and appealing high schooler, who deftly transformed his sexual fantasies into a great career move. Risky Business is aptly named, and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Great early film from Tom Cruise","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this film when I first saw it back in the eighties but feared it would have not aged well; when I watched it again I realised I need not have worried as it was as entertaining as ever. Tom Cruise is Joel, a high school student whose parents are going away for a few days; he doesn't have any plans but his friend Miles does&#x85; he orders a prostitute called Jackie for Joel! When Jackie turns up Joel is understandably flustered and makes his excuses, Jackie leaves but not before giving him the number for Lana, apparently she is 'what all the white boys want'. Later that evening Joel make a phone call that will change his life; Lana comes over and after giving Joel the night of his life asks for three hundred dollars for her services, money Joel does not have. He goes to the bank to get it but when he returns Lana has gone along with one of his mother's valuable ornaments. He sets out to get it back but when he finds Lana she is having problems with her manager/pimp they drive off and she treats him to another night, this time for no charge&#x85; he still hasn't got the ornament back and things go from bad to worse when an accident leaves his father's car in Lake Michigan. Luckily Lana has a great idea to pay for the repairs and make a lot more money besides&#x85; she will introduce her friends to Joel's friends for a fee.This film surprisingly didn't feel very dated; if it wasn't for the fact that nobody used mobile phones or the internet it could have been set in the present day. Tom Cruise did a great job as Joel in the early role, Rebecca De Mornay did really well as Lana, coming across as smart, sexy and somewhat less than trustworthy and Joe Pantoliano was suitably slimy as 'Guido the Pimp'. Given the subject matter it isn't surprising that there are a few sex scenes, while they are fairly short and not very graphic they manage to be quite steamy. There is a small amount of nudity but it is almost a case of blink and you miss it. Normally I don't really notice a film's background music but here the score by Tangerine Dream is fantastic, fitting each scene perfectly. I'd certainly recommend this to fans of eighties high school films as it is up there with the best of them. "}{"Title":"Right Wing????  And what about TD?","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What on earth is this guy talking about? Joel learns a few lessons about business, I guess that is somehow a right wing agenda. As to being typical of the 80's, I'd say this film was anything but. It was such a stylistic comedy, the Tangerine Dream soundtrack obviously helped establish that. Is all that people remember from this the Bob Seger song? I mean it had a mostly electronic film score by a legendary German band -look them up, they have more than 100 albums, yet that aspect isn't remembered?. Dated? Only in the hair and clothes, this movie still holds up very well. And what is wrong with the plot considering it concentrates on a teen lacking in confidence? I could argue there are even similarities to Hoffman's role in the Graduate. Maybe a stretch, but likely that film was an influence. As for Cruise, his second best role of the 80's. And De Mornay did have a nice career for a good decade after this -Hand that Rocks the Cradle anyone? "},{"Title":"A Film That Launched Tom Cruise's Career","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is a film that launched Tom Cruise's career as a Hollywood superstar. It established him one of the most famous movie star in film history.The film was about the misadventures of Joel Goodman,a suburban Chicago teenager who suddenly cuts loose.When his parents leave on vacation and leaves him the responsibility of taking care of the house.When he decided to use his father's Porsche and got it into an accident,he sudden need for cash makes him use the house for some unauthorized business which involves a pimp and a group of call girls.The acting was excellent for the cast. Special mention should be given to Joe Pantoliano,Rebecca DeMornay and Tom Cruise,who became a superstar in this film.The direction of Paul Brickman was superb.The movie also had its great moments one of which becomes a classic representation of the 1980's when Joel Goodman sang Old Time Rock N' Roll in his underwear.Overall,this movie can be classified as one of the best during the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Not your usual lowbrow 80's teen sex comedy","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sweet and naive straight-arrow 17-year-old suburban high school student Joel Goodsen (a highly charming and spot-on performance by Tom Cruise) gets left alone to take care of a posh house after his parents are away on vacation. Joel meets and becomes smitten with shrewd call girl Lana (splendly played with sexy and saucy aplomb by Rebecca De Mornay), who turns Joel's previously bland and orderly world completely topsy turvy. Lana convinces Joel to turn his home into a brothel for one night in order to make a bundle. Writer/director Paul Brickman takes the hackneyed premise of your standard adolescent coming-of-age tale and totally turns it on its ear by eschewing the expected raunchy horny teenager hi-jinks in favor of a wickedly witty and astute satire on the blithely amoral money-grubbing capitalism and shallow materialism of the 80's. In addition, Brickman brings a hip and arresting elegant style to the picture that's positively breathtaking to behold (the glossy gliding cinematography by Bruce Surtees and Reynaldo Villalobos is simply sumptuous). Moreover, along with the cool neon aesthetic there's a dark and surprising element of stark and slightly scary danger and disaster lurking just around the corner; it's this bold extra ingredient that gives the movie a freshness and originality that's enabled it to hold up remarkably well over the years. Cruise and De Mornay do stand-out work in the leads; they receive bang-up support from Joe Pantoliano as menacing pimp Guido, Curtis Armstrong as the brash, scruffy Miles, Bronson Pinchot as the nerdy Barry, Richard Masur as stuffy Princeton college interviewer Bill Rutherford, and Nicholas Pryor and Janet Carroll as Joel's domineering parents. Tangerine Dream's hypnotic score further enhances the film's substantial mesmerizing buzz. Why, we even get a few moments of genuine eroticism (Lana's memorable introduction in particular is smoking hot). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"There's a new star in town!","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Cruise, for my money, will be remembered as one of the best, most bankable stars ever. He's made an eclectic group of films (TOP GUN, RAIN MAN, COLOR OF MONEY, BORN ON 4TH OF JULY, A FEW GOOD MEN, MISSION IMPOSSIBLE, JERRY MAGUIRE, MAGNOLIA, MINORITY REPORT, COLLATERAL) and has ranged in these films for my money from very good to great, mostly great. In every one of these films, Cruise exudes confidence and a persona that etches itself into the film and onto the viewer as we watch him. Ironically, Cruise the man tends to get confused with the actor and there is a core group on ongoing fanatics in Hollywood who simply refuse to accept his brilliance and contribution to American film. The gentlemen can simply ACT. And this film I'm about to review is the genesis of this great actor.In retrospect, I had a difficult time thinking about what were truly the best films of the 1980s. The 80s decade is widely seen as a pop culture decade with a LOT of entertaining movies, but very few truly great films. Fortunately, RISKY BUSINESS (premiering in 1983) manages to overcome this, and for me, is easily a top 10 film of the decade, maybe top 5! Why? It is really ahead of its time. A film starring mostly teenagers (or actors playing teens), it is not the standard teen fare that the 80s threw at us. In fact, it is very adult in its mood, tone, and atmosphere. It is one of the atmospheric films I've ever seen, almost film noir-ish in nature. Most of the scenes are set at night and it has a sexy, cool mood that permeates throughout.As I've mentioned, RISKY BUSINESS stars the great Tom Cruise in his starmaking performance as Joel Goodsen. Cruise was about 21 when he played 17-year old high-school senior Joel. Joel is a rather shy, wimpy, underconfident son of upper class parents who live in a Chicago suburb. The start of the film has Joel and his friends (including Barry and Miles, played wonderfully by Bronson Pinchot and Curtis Armstrong) pondering their futures and places in the world. Joel is a member of the Future Entrepreneurs at his school and they must essay a project where they explain how they made money.Joel's parents go on vacation and he has the house to himself. Joel has a little fun while they're away, including that iconic scene where Cruise, sans pants, dances in his folks' living room to Old Time Rock n' Roll. Also, Joel gets the number of a call girl service and gets Lana! Ah, Lana! The object of many a teenage boys fantasies. Rebecca DeMornay plays Lana and this has got to be one of the sexiest, surest performances by an actress ever in such a role! I've seen a lot of hooker roles, but many of them seem either dull or fake. DeMornay plays it very sensually, yet still exudes believability. After their encounter, Lana steals an expensive object from Joel's home and he goes after her to recover it. As it turns out, Lana is in trouble because she owes money to her pimp Guido (Joe Pantoliano in a memorably sleazy performance).Needing each other (Lana needs a place to stay and Joel needs confidence!), Joel and Lana form an initially uneasy alliance, then form the plan to turn Joel's home into a brothel. Joel enlists his friends as Johns and Lana calls up her girls to provide, the, errr, service. Along the way, Joel gets into various scrapes and trouble, but in the end learns a valuable lesson about life and how people think and operate. In the end, I'm sure he's the better for having survived it! RISKY BUSINESS is a gem of a film that in hindsight should have been an even bigger hit than it was when it came out. The performances are uniformly excellent, the dialogue is top-notch, and the mood of the film is so self-assured and focused that you know an expert filmmaker must have been behind it. That filmmaker is director Paul Brickman and he gave us an American classic. Highly recommended viewing RISKY BUSINESS! "},{"Title":"If only it happened to us all","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Risky Business is quiet a good movie, Tom's natural acting style hasn't fully surfaced yet, but his acting is still quiet respectable. When Cruise's parents go away for a while he follows the advice of a friend to get a hooker and hold a party. He gets a hooker, which is another man, gets the right hooker, has a good time, has his life thrust into a series of problems and only just manages to sort everything out. Along the way he learns some valuable lessons about the real world and what it takes to make things happen. All up, a very good movie that will hopefully find its way into my DVD collection very soon, 9.5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Wonderful satire of Reagan/Thatcher era","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is, at first sight, nothing more than a slick coming-of-age comedy. But it is much more. The values that are being pounded into Joel as a Future Enterpriser (whereby he and his schoolmates have to make and ruthlessly market a product that people will want to buy) are exactly those that he uses so successfully to turn his parents' home into a bordello for one night, grossing $8000 in the process. His actions may be seen as seedy and reprehensible, but they mirror precisely the economic values of the period - it's no coincidence that Paul Brickman made this remarkable film at a time when Reagan/Thatcher policies were leading to financial fortune for some at the expense of destitution for many. The film is a parody of 1980s business ethics - hence the title.Oh, and it's also funny (Bronson Pinchot is marvellous as Joel's geeky friend Barry), erotic (the scene on the train especially so, which is remarkable as you don't see any flesh) and with a great soundtrack (witness Joel taking his Dad's Porsche out for a spin to the pounding accompaniment of Jeff Beck's The Pump, or the instant classic status accorded to the scene where Joel dances in his underpants to Bob Seger's Old Time Rock 'n' Roll). "},{"Title":"This is one of the best 1983 film's of all time!!!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best Tom Cruise films, of all time! What I like about this film is when Joel's parents went on vacation. Suddenly, Lana (Rebecca De Mornay)arrives at Joel's home. Everything was going well, until his mother's egg disappeared from the fire mantle. The next night Joel, Lana, and two other people got high. After Lana left, Joel's dad's $40,000 Porsche went into Lake Michigan!Joel was shaken, he went to his school, and told the nurse that wanted to be away from school because, of his father's car. Then his friends said that Joel is suspended for a week, and thrown out of Future Enterprisers. Joel has an idea, he turned his home into a one night brothel to pay for the damages on his father's car.After his parents arrived, Joel made one mistake, his mother's egg cracked, and on that same night, he went out with Lana. Joel grossed approximately $8,000. I bet a life huh, kid.I give this a '9' "},{"Title":"Memorable Original Score By Tangerine Dream","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is a stylish, sexy, and cool movie. The Screenplay and direction are practically flawless, the acting impressive by (at the time) a cast of complete unknowns. The Tangerine Dream soundtrack remains one of the most atmospheric and effective original scores, setting the tone of the film perfectly. Risky Business was marketed as a sexy comedy at the time of it's release in '83. In retrospect, the film is a very cynical yet clinical look at capitalism in American society. Director Paul Brickman juxtapositions satire, tense thriller and erotic romp in this one-of-a-kind film. As it is known, this is the movie which made Tom Cruise a star. It is easy to see why here, because Cruise is excellent in his portrayal of the shy yet charismatic virginesque Joel Goodsen. Joel is a young motivated individual striving for success. His buddies are all about getting laid. Joel's concern concerning planning for his future appear to be influenced by his anal-retentive parents. Joel is quite uptight next to his partying yet equally motivated buddies. Despite the fact Joel's friends are much less handsome than Joel, they have no trouble picking up women. This this makes Joel the butt of many jokes and frustrates him him to call a prostitute named Lana(Rebecca DeMornay). When Joel finally does get laid, this creates much anxiety and many problems. After he smokes some weed and screws up, it is up to Lana the streetwise call girl to clean up the mess with her expertise on how to generate income.Risky Business is made even more memorable by superb supporting turns by Curtis Armstrong, Joe Pantoliano and of course DeMornay. The Tangerine Dream score was quite effective in setting the the mood, letting the viewer know this is much more than a comedy. Risky Business should have been nominated for all the top Oscars in '83 alongside the best that studios had to offer that year. Not only Tom Cruise's stepping stone to stardom, Risky Business is one of the Best Films of the '80's Tangerine Dream's terrific original score fits the movie's atmosphere so perfectly, you wonder if the film would have been as good without it. The Oscars missed the boat here. I was surprised to learn Tangerine Dream's original score had not been nominated for Best Original Score at the 1983 Oscars. Few modern day films can lay claim to such a fitting original score. This makes Risky Business a film unlike any other. That in itself is a monumental achievement. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and sophisticated film which transcends its genre","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business may ultimately be a well-liked film but it is now perceived by many as a dated relic, remembered more for Tom Cruise dancing to Old Time Rock and Roll than for its sharp satire, excellent dialogue, and stylish visual sensibility and use of music. Thankfully it remains a widely-praised film among critics (there is not one negative review on Rotten Tomatoes) who seem to appreciate it more than modern audiences, specifically younger modern audiences. Most insulting of all the dismissals is the suggestion that this is little more than a male fantasy flick. Paul Brickman (also responsible for writing Jonathan Demme's greatest film, Handle with Care) achieved something truly great here- he took the much-maligned, generally moronic high school sex comedy and turned it into something much more, a surprisingly effective romance with some really dark, contemplative moments, as well as a healthy dose of irony and symbolism which elevates the script to a whole new level. Moreover, this is more of a movie about 80's materialism and suburbia (and the satire here is wonderfully understated and played just right, just obvious enough for the less intelligent or less focused among us to notice but not heavy-handed at all) than about teenagers having sex. Even the large part of the film that deals with call girls, pimps, and the teen male fantasy is loaded with irony and satire. Only in its most superficial elements is Risky Business a teen sex comedy.Of course one could say that Brickman is having it both ways- Risky Business was a massive hit within the exact same capitalist system he's satirizing here, but that doesn't harm the finished result of the film itself, which is still as sharp and bitter as it always has been. I know nothing about Brickman but I assume that he's either lazy, disillusioned, or just as rich as he wants to be because his lack of a lengthy career as a director is surprising; Risky Business boasts fine cinematography but also a dark, dreamlike style full of what Dave Kehr of the Chicago Reader describes as 'sinuous camera movements and surrealistic insinuations'. Brickman's handling of tone is also superb- the movie is never too dark, never too sunny, always maintaining a tone of 'haunting, lyrical satire' to quote Dave Kehr yet again (because his capsule review says all there is to be said about the film in a short paragraph, go search for it). Also contributing to the atmosphere is the amazing Tangerine Dream score and the effective use of popular songs.I don't want to sell the film short on its superficial merits either; it you want to laugh this is a very, very funny film, and it works fine on the basic level of a comedy (though it's not anywhere near as raunchy as some fans of the genre would probably want it to be). Tom Cruise makes for an excellent lead and the supporting characters and actors are all memorable as well (who doesn't love Guido the Killer Pimp?). Risky Business is perhaps the only truly great film that can be called a 'teen sex comedy', and remains a completely worthwhile film so many years after its release. "},{"Title":"Cruise cruises a big time!","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I bought this little DVD a while ago. I knew nothing about the movie so I bought it just randomly mainly because of the cover. I have to say that I really liked this one here! First of all I like movies from the eighties and Risky Business is what it's all about man. Tom Cruise is playing a young man who isn't sure about himself and he is trying to find his place in this big world. He figures out that sometimes you just have to say 'bring it on' and stop worrying and start really living a real life. This movie captures quite well how it's like to be a teenager.The music in this film knocked me out! I mean man from the opening line it's just gets better and better. The keyboard theme in the background makes the atmosphere to this fine film. Plus it has a Phil Collins song 'in the air tonight' beautiful song if I might add. And last but not least Bruce Springsteen's 'Hungry Heart' it really fits to the themes of this movie which are cars, girls, money and getting wasted. Nine stars from me. Thanks for reading! "}{"Title":"Classic, Brilliant, and Underrated","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was surprised when I discovered that this '80's classic only has a 6.7 on the IMDb. This is very underrated, and the whole idea is brilliant. This is a movie that just about every teen will enjoy, and adults will enjoy it just as well.This movie is about a subject that every teen would love, to have the entire house to yourself while your parents are away on vacation. That is what Joel Goodsen(played by Tom Cruise in his breakthrough role) gets. While he is by himself, he realizes that not everything is all it seems when a few things happen and he is in need of money, much more than what his parents left him.This is one of my favorite movies of the '80's. This has plenty of great scenes, as well as a famous scene that is referenced in many other movies and TV shows. This has been copied many times, but never been equaled. Not only that, but the humor is also hilarious, at times uproarious.This is definitely worth watching. It is way better than the teen movies that are made these days, but this is what inspired most of the teen movies these days, so it's definitely hard to beat. "},{"Title":"Movies Like This Are Not Supposed to Be This Good","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Cruise was about to reach super-stardom by 1983 and Risky Business along with Top Gun three years later made him a cinematic icon. Cruise's parents are going out-of-town and the youngster decides that it is time to take his father's porsche out for a spin. Of course disaster strikes and now Cruise needs money and needs it fast. An elaborate plan develops to set up a brothel in his home with the help of sexy prostitute Rebecca De Mornay. What follows is a teen comedy that is so funny, dramatic, and smart that it rises above almost all films of the genre. Cruise learns quickly that he has many more prospects than he first thought and will use his skills and knowledge to go all the way to the top. Writer-director Paul Brickman accomplishes something near impossible with this film. He uses intelligence and style to tell a story that probably did not look like much on paper if the truth was known. Joe Pantoliano is priceless as a pimp who locks horns with Cruise. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"The Price Of Admission","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Teen sex comedies took a giant step forward at the same time Tom Cruise made his play for superstardom in this sly, winning film about a boy who shakes off the shackles of respectable suburban life and says What the heck, or words to that effect.Joel Goodsen (Cruise) is a high-school senior given charge of his parents' stately Glencoe, Illinois mansion while they visit a sick aunt. Prodded by his obnoxious, Harvard-bound pal Miles (Curtis Armstrong), Joel takes Dad's car out for a spin, then gets really adventurous by inviting call girl Lana (Rebecca De Mornay) over for a night of costly sin. How costly? His mother's priceless decorative egg, for starters. To make it up, Joel is forced to latch on with the world's oldest profession to cut his losses.Risky Business is an amusing charmer with a sleek underbelly that slides against the grain of the American dream. All Joel wants to do is make his parents proud by getting into Princeton. Throughout the film, Joel's lifestyle is mocked for its easy manner. Even if Miles is wrong in his advice (something Miles himself breezily admits later), the message of the movie seems to be that Joel needs to shake himself out of his comfortable rut before it becomes his tomb.I'd really appreciate it if you'd stop laying these little judgments on me while you're leaning on your daddy's $40,000 car, Lana says to him at one point, just before she sends the car into Lake Michigan.De Mornay makes the strongest impression in the film, from her unforgettable entrance standing nude in Joel's living room to her hooded, defensive manner whenever Joel presses her about his missing egg. At one point in the DVD commentary, Cruise talks about the music of Tangerine Dream as cool, yet it has a soulful, kind of haunting quality. This seems an apt description of De Mornay's performance, too, a woman who sells her favors for $300 a night but speaks forthrightly when she says Nobody owns me.Director-writer Paul Brickman gives his film a hypnotic, dreamy tone, from the opening credits where Chicago at night becomes a glittery slo-mo vision to Joel's opening dream sequence, which lays out the central premise of the film, of sex as destroyer of professional ambitions. Joel walks into a bathroom where a beautiful girl is showering, but as he follows her he finds himself at a college boards exam, where he is already three hours late.Speaking of big entrances, Joe Pantoliano shines as Guido, Lana's pimp with a velvet manner and a gun. His scenes with Joel are funny for the rage Guido doesn't express, as he keeps telling Joel he's smart and I like you, even while making ruin of the boy's life.Brickman had trouble with Warner Brothers getting the film he wanted released; in the end, the last minutes of the film were slightly altered to give Joel and Lana a happier sendoff. It's still a strong ending, as Cruise can be heard telling Brickman in the commentary; the overall message about capitalism's way of getting people to sell themselves short still stands. The bite is still there, only the fangs are a little less sharp.I like the theatrical ending better; Risky Business as is often risks being too serious for its own good. As it is, there's a lot of business in the middle section that I could do without, as Joel's problems accumulate and his angst is played out as very real. I'm more at ease with the darker material used for antic comedy, like the big hooker convention Joel winds up hosting, and his interview with the Princeton representative (Richard Masur, nicely underplaying his character's own little judgments about Joel).Oh, yeah, and there's that Bob Seger number Joel does in the living room, which takes up a minute of screen time but has come to dominate our memory of the film. It's a good little moment from a good little film, not the greatest ever made, but better than anyone had a right to expect. While dated in places, it still stands up today. "},{"Title":"The Early 1980s Fantasy","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Chicago teenager (Thomas Mapother) is looking for fun at home while his parents are away, but the situation quickly gets out of hand.Looking back now (2015), the 1980s are seen as the decade of greed and unrestrained capitalism. This may not be accurate, but it is the caricature. How interesting that this film arrived so early in the decade, promoting business and capitalism through the view of prostitution and pimping. There must be a social message here, but I am not sure what.What really stands out is how clean it all is. The pimp is a bad guy, but never really dangerous. Prostitutes are shown as fun-loving, rather than strung out on drugs or with other issues. And even the main character sees dating a prostitute as a great thing, ignoring the reality of disease and the fact his girlfriend is sleeping with his friends for money. So strange! "},{"Title":"**1/2","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unbelievable film with the admission's officer at Princeton actually being influenced by what he sees when he pays a visit to the home of the student wanting to enroll there. He tells him that his actions are not exactly Ivy League, but at the end, he is admitted. Obviously, this is totally unrealistic.Tom Cruise plays Joel from suburban Chicago, obsessed with college entrance, only to be introduced to another form of life on a dare from a friend, which leads him to utter mayhem and near ruin while his parents are away for a week or so.Rebecca De Mornay is effective as the wayward girl who finds love with Cruise, while she teaches him the rules of the sexual game and how to benefit from it financially. "},{"Title":"Not just a funny 80's movie","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of people look at Risky Business as just a funny 80's cheesy movie, but it's not! It's a great coming of age film with an extremely charismatic performance by a young Tom Cruise, which just happened to launch him into stardom.We see Tom Cruise as this insecure, everything by the books teenager and all the fantasies he has and how he reacts to certain things in his life. The depiction of Joel in this movie is the perfect representation of the male teenage mind.The only problems I have with the movie is the pacing sometimes isn't great in my opinion, sometimes the movie slows down a bit (although it didn't bore me, at all), just a small little detail and, what happened to the Porsche?!? Seriously.Risky Business has great performances, great music and touches many things that are so true in the mind of the male teenager. It's a great movie. "},{"Title":"Opportunity is the future.","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Definitely an interesting movie, a guy goes from just wanting to have sex with a hooker for the first time to creating a massive one-night whore house making 8000 dollars a night, just because of his troubles of living alone without parents for a couple of days. Some people can say the movie lacked funny parts, which is completely false, a movie like ''Risky Business'' doesn't need to be saturated with laughable scenes, it has other great qualities to it.The movie had very little character involvement, but Tom Cruise(Joel), completely carried the movie by himself here, so there wasn't a need for multiple interesting characters in this movie. Without a doubt this has to be one of the best movies for Tom Cruise, he had a well rounded, interesting character, that was kind of easy to relate to emotionally.''Risky Business'' had some memorable and even iconic moments, which gives a movie this good vibe of never really getting old, for example Joel's dance at the beginning of the film has inspired many other film makers to implement that slide out Joel performed in their movies, when it come to a musical part. "},{"Title":"Perfect representation of teenage aspirations","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a 17 year old in his last year of high school, this movie really spoke to me. The main character Joel Goodson is so easy to relate to that this movie became an all-time favorite of mine. This movie really captures the essence of teen life and shows it beautifully. In a few words, most teens are happy to be independent, desperate to be flushed with cash, and always willing to blow off steam in one way or another. Everything in this movie, from the iconic dance scene to rocking house party, really nailed how teens spend their time, making it a great film to watch if you're of that age. Not only can you see yourself in the characters, but the plot is magnificent! Very few movies (Meet the Parents comes to mind) can make you sit nervously on the edge of your seat, dreading when his parents come home, to laughing so hard that your sides hurt. Another element that I appreciate is the type of humor. Instead of making blatant, please-laugh-at-me jokes it uses more subtle comedy in which you're laughing at the situations. Tom Cruise really plays the burned-out teenager wonderfully, and Rebecca De Mornay is fantastic as the sassy yet sexy call girl. If you haven't already seen this film, please do! It's truly a classic and will leave you chuckling for as long as you remember it. "},{"Title":"A Fun Film","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is a good older teen film - yes it's funny. And no Joel (Cruise) should not do what he does in the movie but that is what creates the comedy and some of the drama in the film. Basically, if Joel did what he was suppose to do then we would not have a movie to watch.I think Tom Cruise was great in this movie - but he's gotten better over the years (IMO). And the film is worth watching for Tom Cruise's performance - and not just for his famous dancing scene in the film.Another reason to watch this movie is the story. Risky Business does have an interesting story to follow - and it's not all comedy.On a personal note I'm surprised the IMDb movie is low on this classic Tom Cruise film. Should be a bit higher (but that's just my opinion).7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Risky Choice....","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I decided to watch this movie when I found this appearing on many lists when I searched for Best adult/teen/sex comedies.The big star, recognizable supporting cast and the gratuitous nudity, and me being a Fanboy of this genre meant I had to watch this movie.The first thing that hit me was the music and the artsy starting montage, straightaway my instincts were triggered and I re-aligned my expectations for a movie where there will be more than meets the eye.The hypnotic ethereal and eerily foreboding background score, right from the opening scene told me that movie is going to have more drama and coming of age elements than I had originally expected, and probably more nudity too.The director/cinematographer were always looking at more than a teen comedy because there are many dramatic and probably deliberately artistic elements to the movie.You are under constant threats/promises which are never actually carried out.It promises you increasingly graphic nudity....but instead gives you increasingly titillating, poetic and passionate scenes with no nudity.It threatens to turn overly dramatic and tragic, but instead always promises hope and encourages us to to live a little even in despair.You expect complete character building, but the characters remains enigmas and their relationships remain a mystery throughout.It looks like its going to get rip-roaring funny, but instead keeps us smiling with one liners, and some twists and turns.I went in for epic teen sex comedy, I came out with serendipity instead.Deliberately or otherwise, this movie doesn't keep its word, and based on this fact, principally I cannot reward it with higher ratings.-s many attempts at art seem deliberate, doesn't really have any big/epic moments in any emotion.+/-s remains enigmatic and open ended throughout.+s hypnotic background score, stellar acting, captures the time and human emotions/ thoughts at that age brilliantly.Proceed with caution. "}{"Title":"Not another stupid teenager film...","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In fact, Risky Business is indeed a very smart and indeed a good film. A breath of fresh air in that miserable 'teenager genre' that became a hit in the 80s. Risky Business is a different and much better film than the conventional 'teenager' film, simply because it's smarter than them. It touches in meaningful themes such as the doubt in relation of future, which surely it's a phase that most teenagers pass through, specifically if that teenager is someone that is closing the high- school, just like Cruise's character. Doubts like what to be in the future is definitely something that all teenagers suffers. What to work at? Work only for money? For doing something great? Or simply work in something with personal value, something that you can relate for? Well, it's a theme explored in the film. But it not only talks about that. It talks also about social differences and how the life is hard for those who don't have a good family, just like in the case of De Mornay's characters, which escaped from home. She contrasts with Cruise's character, which don't has any problems with his parents or economic troubles, unlike her. The sex scenes were implied. The nudity, very brief. Not a graphic film at all, what just makes it different 'teenager' film. The acting is also miles superior if compared to other films in the genre. Cruise gives a pretty god performance to the screen, even more powerful if you counts the fact that it was his debut film. The soundtrack was typical from a 80s film. Not a fan, but some people may enjoy the beats. I guess.Anyways, it's a good film and definitely one of the best comedies from the 80s, if not the best. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Lovely Rebecca!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Cruise plays Joel Goodsen, a young man trying to please his parents, and gain entrance into a prestigious college. When his parents go away on a trip, Joel decides to break loose(on a challenge from his friend) and call an escort service, but when one shows up(Lana, played by the lovely Rebecca De Mornay) he falls in love with her, but she isn't quite as angelic as he thinks, and her ruthless associate turns Joel's life upside down, at just the wrong time...Both Cruise & De Mornay are very believable and appealing in this unusual drama/comedy which isn't always successful(tone is all over the place) but still works reasonably well. Joey Pantoliano is also good in a supporting role. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Risky Business movie Review","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Starting out as a typical erotic dream, with a specific and eventual learning experience to the hero of this story, Joel Goodsen (Cruise), a high school student, blessed with talent in business, wealth, and yet plagued with a limited capacity to act on what he'll consider risky and consequential. In life, sometimes you've just got to just say, What the f . These are wise words indeed coming from a Joel's zany friend Miles (Armstrong), although I rather say the f with it. The main point is that life is to short, and when you have even a slight shot at anything, you got to grab it by the balls, and in this case not Joel's whenever he is in private. Joel is portrayed as a character who is just restrained, no doubt his parents are responsible for that , as they mean well in their efforts to send him off to Princeton, and even so much as leaving him with the house to himself. Despite this constantly mentioned array of freedom his friends remind him he has at his disposal, Joel's only sense of fun and excitement resort from a slow dance to the magic of Old Time Rock and Roll. No much of a thrill, especially when having his own quiet time jerking off seems even less dignified. Fortunately, Mile's own stupidity leads Joel down to the right path of discovering more than just freedom, but an opportunity beyond the already displayed capabilities of his risk free behavior. The arrival of transvestite call girl, named Jackie, (one word Yikes!) gives Joel a real chance to score, and real chance to get a girl to say Oh God. The slick, and even charmingly approaching call girl Lana (Mornay) does more than take Joel's virginity, as she involves him into her array of insanity. An angry pimp, a prosperous in home brothel, and a stolen egg that top it all off, bring Joel towards discovering his talents as he risks his own future in putting things back together. The stolen egg belonging to his mother signifies her very trust for him, and the brothel, being my personally favorite scene of the film, as we viewers witness Joel show a side of himself that even he never knew. None of the business courses he had attended could have ever brought him the more than financially, but even furthermore scholastically rewards to come, all out of the very brilliance of his own persuasion and slickly witted perseverance. Anyone would consider a chance to enroll into Princeton University to be the opportunity of a lifetime, and in Joel's case it seemed like a opportunity ready to crash. As the many men and women flourished in the temporary brothel, an interviewer setup for Joel's enrollment arrives with questionable indifference, speculating more and more as he examines Joel in an interview most instructors would regard as an obvious rejection, only to end in an official enrollment to Joel's surprise. The charm of any beautiful woman can move a man to making the best choices. In the Princeton instructor's case, enough satisfaction to approve of the interview and accepting Joel as a student. Despite the fortune of Joel's risks and benefits came with deception and more bargaining. Lana's pimp, Guido (Pantiliano), witty, and convinced in the hopes that Joel has a brain to use, takes all he can from his own house, and sets up a deal, with the chance to get it all back in order to make some quick bucks. As risky and almost consequential as Joel's timing was, his furniture is returned, his parents are enthralled at his future in Princeton with little knowledge of his craziness and only the mere disappointment of a cracked glass egg, and his own chances with a woman who makes a living off the phone calls of often lonely and desperate men is how the film ends. Risky Business is interesting enough in both the comedy of its mature elements, as well as having its lead Tom Cruise portray a character lacking the stones to actually take risks, thus making the events he experiences more enthralling and more influential on his character development. At first he was careful and overly cautious, but in the time he spent with his new girl Lana, and even in the dealings of sleazy opportunist, his view of how to grab life by the balls has given him more than just a little weekend to remember, but something everyone wants, the excitement of never truly knowing how anything will turn out in our own hands. It's that very thrill that enveloped Joel, both scaring him and yet turning him into more confident human being. I was a little confused at his desire to pursue Lana, despite the possibility that she might have been the reason for two timing him towards Guido. Heck, from that very car chase, I'm starting to wonder if the whole thing was a set up to start. Nevertheless, the film's maturity, as well as the evolving development of Cruise's character make Risky Business worthy of the gamble of either liking its end result, or just plain out asking your self, What the f? "},{"Title":"The movie that made Tom Cruise a star.","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Movie stars in the beginning of their careers were already known in their early 30's. Back in those days, movie stars like Dustin Hoffman, Robert Redford, Clint Eastwood and Burt Reynolds, were their 30's when they first started acting in their first feature-length motion picture. But in 1983, an young male movie star emerged and arrived in the middle of the movie spotlight and captured our attention to the big screen. That young male movie star was, obviously, Tom Cruise. Cruise was already starting out in little movies like Losin' It and All the Right Moves. But, it was the movie, Risky Business that made him a star in the first place. The movie stars Cruise as a young Chicago teenager named Joel, who is a high-school senior, trying to get into Princeton. His best friend, Miles, provides him with advice by having Joel express his own freedom as a young man. Joel does get that opportunity when his parents leave him behind to look after the house while they spent the weekend together, leaving Joel alone in the house. Soon enough, Joel gets himself involved in a series of unfortunate events. He wasted his money on a male transvestite, who offered him advice to meet a girl named Lana. Lana is played by Rebecca De Mornay, and she and Cruise start to develop a relationship between the two of them. But, even that doesn't stop the upcoming mayhem that Joel has to face. His father's Porsche ends in Lake Michigan and wounded up getting a bill from the car dealership. Also, his mother's egg is stolen from Lana and even his house is burglarized by a pimp, Guido, who is also Lana's old boyfriend. What can Joel do now? His suggestion? Make his house into a brothel and pay the bill off on the money he gathered up. This movie has been known as simply a teenage sex comedy. It is, yes. But, there's something else to add. In the early 1980's, teenage sex films were criticized as being harsh and mean-spirited to women, treating them as pieces of meat and making the teenage boys look like jerks and studs. This movie is different from those other movies. The reason why is that Risky Business is smart, funny, and also sexy. It is smart because of the scenes showing Joel trying to solve each problem during the whole entire weekend. For example, when his father's Porsche ends up in Lake Michigan, he has to come up with the money to pay off the bill. How does he do it? He builds his own business enterprise and learns from it. To me, Joel is one of those teenagers who thinks smart and acts smart to get the job done. He is not like any other teenager in the movies that act dumb and think unintelligently about the choices he makes. He also learns from the prostitute, Lana, about business. Another theme that comes up during this entire movie is the class differences between Joel's family and Lana. Joel's family is wealthy and from the look of it, it seems that Joel is locked up inside his own self, because of his parents. Lana is also like Joel. Lana is locked up inside herself and even have to endure the pain and suffering from her pimp. It is funny in the way the movie presents the humor. Joel's problems are very funny at times and also not at all, mean-spirited. Most of these teenage movies created mean-spirited behavior amongst the characters and that kind of behavior ruins the movie-going experience, mainly because some screenwriters or the creators for those movies don't really see what teenagers are going through during this era. They don't understand that teenagers want to have good role models and not mean-spirited teenagers. The third is that the movie is sexy. It is erotic in the way that Joel fantasizes about love. In the beginning of Risky Business, he daydreams about meeting a woman in a steamy bathroom. Also, Rebecca De Mornay was really convincing and also very pretty playing her character. She teaches Joel about the meaning of decisions and how to get ahead in life, rather than waiting around for it to come to you. Risky Business is excellent, showcasing what is going in the mind of a teenage boy and showing us the innocence of growing up through our adolescent years. Tom Cruise certainly does shines as the main character. He is believable, convincing and even funny when it comes to breaking the humor throughout the movie. It is truly one of the best films of 1983. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Enterprise, But Not Free.","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Cruise is Joel Goodsen, promising young son of a well-to-do family in the Chicago suburbs. He's doing the best he can at high school in order to be admitted to Princeton, where he'll major in business administration. He hires Rebecca De Mornay, a call girl, for one night while his parents are away on vacation, and De Mornay teaches him what business is all about.Cruise isn't bad as the naive school kid, and De Mornay has got her role pinned down as the smooth young hooker. The morning after Cruise's night of ecstasy, calling himself Ralph, she fixes his breakfast and tells him the night will cost him three hundred dollars. Cruise is astounded. You're kidding, he says. Gee, Ralph, I don't believe I am, she replies coolly, sauntering past him.She sends him off to the bank to cash a bond and, while he's gone, steals his mothers expensive glass artifact worth much more. Cruise is now terrified. He manages somewhere around here to dump his father's Porsche into Lake Michigan and now owes the dealer an enormous amount of money to restore it. (Who's the U-boat commander?, the dealer asks him.) But, following an argument with her pimp, Joe Pantoliano, she returns to the suburban house with a hooker. Together they figure out a scheme to make more than enough money to pay off Cruise's mounting debts. The two girls simply invite a dozen of their friends over and turn the mansion into a whorehouse for one night. It works, too. Cruise is admitted to Princeton, has a final fling with De Mornay, and the only sin he's stuck with is a tiny crack inside his mother's expensive glass egg.It's not a masterpiece and it resembles just another teen-in-trouble movie, yet it's enjoyable to watch it once. I particularly appreciated the director's deliberate style. No flashy special effects; no instantaneous cutting; no basilar-membrane-dissolving electronic percussion music. The style suits the material. You need time to absorb the amusing moments because they're not all thrust down your throat.Joe Pantoliano is superb as the pimp. He plays it entirely straight as the frustrated but far from evil manager. De Mornay and her friends slink around and are as warm and perceptive as their experience allows. In life, people in De Mornay's profession tend to have the emotional depth of hard-boiled nurses.During the night the orgy is taking place, there is a visit by a scout from Princeton, who looks around, gets an impression of what's up, scans Cruise's academic record, and tells Cruise, Nice stats, but it's not really Ivy League material, is it? Cruise's response is comic. He slaps the scout on the knee and says, Sometimes you have to just say, 'What the f***.' And later he tells his friends with a goofy grin, It looks like University of ILLINOIS. That was a little condescending. A lot of dopes graduate from Princeton and Harvard, although the schools are hard to get into, unless you have an enormous amount of money. If he wanted a demanding education, he should have looked into the University of Chicago. And De Mornay's confession that the first night with Cruise meant a great deal to her seemed like pandering. At least they didn't wind up in love with one another, just another Pretty Woman, with the rich kid and the whore falling for each other after some comic incidents in fancy hotels and restaurants.Those are minor criticisms though, and I'm not sure everyone would recognize them as weaknesses. As a whole, it's a likable and sometimes funny divertimento. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise is Simply Wonderful","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Cruise made a name for himself in Risky Business which became an iconic movie of the 80's. It was Tom himself who kept this timeless classic alive including the improvised dancing scene in his underwear during the absence of his folks, his acting skills were flawless and terrific in his first debut film. In Risky Business, Joel Goodson is like any typical high school student who feels concerned about going to college despite his low grades and SAT scores. Unusual circumstances lead him to meet and have sex with Lana the call girl, and getting chased by her greedy pimp Guido while making a getaway in his father's Porsche. We see Joel evolving from a shy teenager to a confident entrepreneur making money with the help of friends and prostitutes. The plot, scenery, music and character development are absolutely perfect. "},{"Title":"Risky Business","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" RISKY BUSINESS was the first film to communicate the meaning of sex to me. I snuck a viewing of it fairly young, too young to fully understand the traps and pleasures sex could bring to someone inexperienced, yet inquisitive and vulnerable enough(as teenagers often are). Tom Cruise was the epitome of cool to me as a kid. I wanted to have that presence, that look, to wear Ray bans and carry myself with that kind of confidence. I wanted to have that kind of charisma, star wattage, to appear on screen and smile with all the charm to melt the hearts of practically any girl. The film itself, rises beyond just Cruise's star power, his young man really has a lot of pressure put on him. He wants so desperately to appease his wealthy parents who trust him but demand much out of him. He's given the keys to the castle so to speak, the parents leaving him all alone while they go on a momentary vacation at his aunt's. The Tangerine Dream score equates the already striking allure of the film's subject matter. Rebecca DeMornay was a vision of the perfect fantasy danger girl, a sultry, seductive prostitute who enters into Cruise's life and turns it upside down and inside out. He is just a boy before meeting her and after their two days together, he becomes a man. I think many will consider the results of the various crises which accompany his time with DeMornay rather preposterous or unrealistic, the way he somehow manages to escape certain doom(maybe this is a bit over the top, if anything his parents would've grounded him or punished him in some unsevere way). But from the perspective of a teenager, to let your parents down through nefarious behavior would be the ultimate horror..we build these terrifying scenarios of what they will do to us, but it's never as awful as we would be led to believe. Anyway, getting involved with a prostitute and finding yourself caught between her and a pimp, Cruise finds himself knee-deep in a situation he shouldn't have been in to start with. It really starts with a phone call, not being able to pay the girl after she provides you with great service, a stolen diamond egg that belongs to Cruise's mother, becoming a for-one-night-only pimp, accidentally sinking your dad's porche in the river, missing an important test, allowing your Princeton representative to see your nightly activity as a businessman, and losing all of your parents' personal belongings and furniture because you took girls away from Guido(an excellent Joe Pantoliano, rather intimidating despite his size and receding hairline). It's casting that makes this film purr--DeMornay as quite the sex kitten, Masur as Rutherford, the man who can make or break Cruise(he is a friend of Cruise's father and agrees to meet with the young man over going to Princeton), Bronson Pinchot and Curtis Armstrong as Cruise's buds(Pinchot is Cruise's partner in a business project for class and Armstrong is the one who gets Cruise in the whole mess by calling a transvestite hooker from a sex ad), and Nicholas Pryor and Janet Carroll as Cruise's suburban parents who expect much from their son regarding his future. The love on the train scene still smokes and the first sex scene between Cruise and DeMornay is really steamy(they just have that chemistry because both are beautiful people). It's that aspect about this woman who represents everything a teenage boy of 18 considers attractive and hard to resist, she looks at you with her eyes and moves across a room with little effort and it's instant and immediate awe. It's a tightrope you are willing to walk across because she casts her wicked spell and there's no turning back--you are hooked, line and sinker. DeMornay was the epitome of what I desired and longed for as a teenager..perhaps she wasn't the one you'd marry or have a long term relationship with, but she is the woman you can't get off your mind, staring at the ceiling imagining what it'd be like to grope every part of her body, ever so slowly. "},{"Title":"Every now and then say, 'What the f***'. It gives you freedom.","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business&#x85;.Every now and then say, 'What the f***'. It gives you freedom. This is one of the very first movie of Tom Cruise. The plot is pretty simple. Like all other teenage guys even Joel(Cruise) had all the normal teenage fantasies...cars, girls, money. Next, his parents left for a week, and all his fantasies came true&#x85;.All started with one call to a call girl (Lana) and he had the time of his life in the entire week&#x85;&#x85;Having a girlfriend, getting robbed multiple times, drowned his father's car in a lake, making a fortune of 8000 $ in one night (He was going to be the Future Enterpriser.), getting into Princeton college&#x85;&#x85;and a lot more&#x85;.I don't have much to write from the perspective of movie making&#x85;..the good feature being the analysis and handling of teen minds, their uncontrollable angst and fear on things they don't know is well presented&#x85;.!!! Tom Cruise with his boyish charms is impressive&#x85;.Rebecca De Mornay playing Lana acts with few expressions, but say for the role of a call girl cum seductress, it suffices&#x85;!!!! Joe Pantoliano as 'Guido the pimp' acts well in his short role&#x85;!! Recommendation  Can lay back and enjoy at least once. If you find no reason to watch it&#x85;take a look only because of Tom Cruise&#x85;.!!! "},{"Title":"Great teenage film about a boy who learns and grows up while sewing his wild oats.","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1983's Risky Business clearly has to be one of the better teen angst films of it's time as it was so common with the mid 80's teen films were made like these about coming of age and learning lessons, while most of all learning how to have fun. Set in the windy city of Chicago, Tom Cruise stars in one of his earliest roles as a bright, but yet sheltered teen named Joel Goodsen who's looking to get into an Ivy league school. Joel's a good student yet something is missing from his life the all important fun and happiness that teens want to happen to them before they reach adulthood that's the all important sex romp. So when Joel's parents decide to go out of town and take an extended vacation the house is left all to himself. And thru the idea of a friend Joel decides to check out the newspaper ads for love and fun when he sees the escort advertisements he finds a perfect match description of Lana. When Lana(Rebecca DeMornay) arrives at his door she's the perfect all American dream of the girl next door by being slim, attractive, and blond. Not only just for one night, but until his parents return from extended vacation stay Lana shows Joel the times of his life by seduction and love making! Along the way a young man feels love for the first time, while he's introduced to the seedy side of life from a call girl perspective of seeing her having been abused from her pimp. In fact Joel even shortly runs the call girl ring operation from his house making profitable earnings! Yet in the end like all teenagers after having fun and learning life lessons the hard way things return to normal yet the fun Joel achieved surely liberated him. Risky Business is a great coming of age movie that proves it's good to have fun while growing up and to sew your wild oats. The acting and performances of Cruise and DeMornay are top notch the scenes of Tom singing That old time rock n' roll in his underwear and his love making of Lana(DeMornay)on a subway train are also very memorable moments in cinema history. One of Cruise's earliest and best films. "},{"Title":"A cute movie that is fun to watch.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is very cute. Although not amazing in any sense, it is very fun and is worth a watch. The plot is entertaining, and it is quite hysterical at points. Cruise gives a wonderful performance. The classic scene of him dancing to Old Time Rock 'n' Roll is worth seeing anyway. Bottom line, see the film. It's a nice coming of the age story that will have you laughing.Only real beef is the ending. I appreciate the not-so-typical-Hollywood ending, but I was left a bit confused. I just didn't get why he would want to talk to Lana after all of that. But I suppose he was just really attracted to her. *shrugs* "}{"Title":"Still a winner after all these years","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joel Goodsen could easily be you at one point in life and some of him might still be a little bit you. Ditto Lana. A little bit restless. A little bit curious about the world. Gifted with a profitable rebellious streak that doesn't overwhelm you, yet helps you grow. Sobered by the real world's unwritten rules.That's Risky Business as I saw it. The movie holds a personal all-time record for number of times a movie has been seen in a theater by Yours Truly (I've also caught this flick on TV a time or two).Every time you view Risky Business -- if you've spared the time to see it more than once -- you're bound to pick up something you didn't during your previous viewing and you'll appreciate even more the many excellent touches you might've liked. That's the mark of a great movie.It doesn't have an Oscar-level touch nor did it ever seem promoted as Oscar material, so it was never surprising that Risky Business received no Oscar nominations and only two nominations for upper-echelon awards (see the awards and listings here at IMDb). That doesn't detract one iota from the movie, for seeing it is time and money well spent.With outstanding touches used by actor Tom Cruise, Goodsen's transformation from innocence to more worldly is funny, charming, and sobering. We see all these things reflected in his relationship with Lana, expertly played by Rebecca De Mornay.All of the characters in the supporting cast add to what we see in Goodsen's transformation and/or his relationship with Lana, the pricey call girl.The sight gags are pricelessly funny -- especially the sinking of Joel's dad's beloved Porsche. The music is deftly synced with the movie's many moods, most notably in Cruise's classic, hilarious shirt-and-underwear solo to the tune of Bob Seger's Old Time Rock and Roll. Risky Business really captures what it was like during the time it was made for teenagers heading for college, the real world or dealing with reality's slings and arrows. The whaddaya wanna do with yourself scene with Joel and his friends in a restaurant/coffee shop kinda place is a great example, for starters. Like today, the era was very much a celebration about making a buck (the consequences be damned), winning or stepping on other people to get the most toys, and ignoring the bigger picture beyond yourself.All of which sounds pretty familiar nowadays, too, it seems.I'm not so sure Hollywood has the chutzpah to make a Risky Business nowadays. Tinsel Town doesn't seem as willing to leave fissures of vulnerability in its characters despite their triumphs the way Risky Business does. Today's Hollywood might very well sell out Joel and Lana in some over-the-top, powder-puff way rather than giving us a feeling of Geez, that used to be me and some of it still is.You're likely to find Risky Business characters' feelings and the movie's viewpoint provide a unique perspective on what was then (if you survived the early 1980s with some of your sanity intact) and what's happening in the world now (sanity optional). And you'll still get a darn good, well-timed laugh. "},{"Title":"at the top of the teen flicks of the 80's","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that this movie was great because it still had the rawness of the other teen flicks when it comes to the nudity and language but the thing but it made you think at the same time about life. The music is really good in this movie and it flows great with the use of shots. To me this is the best teen movie of the 80's with a really close second to the breakfast club. "},{"Title":"A special coming of age film","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Risky Business is one of those films that speaks to young teenagers beginning the transition to adulthood.  It captures the joy, anxiousness, recklessness and ultimate redemption that everyone goes through in life.Tom Cruise (himself only 20 at the time) is perfect as Joel Goodson (nice last name, huh?) who finally decides to shake up his mundane senior year of school in a Chicago north shore suburb when his parents go on vacation. Of course there is always a cost to full using that kind of freedom but this movie doesn't sugar coat Joel's decisions.  It does speak the to risk taker in all of us and it's a great metaphor for saying What the f**k.  Risky Business was and still is a seminal movie for me. "},{"Title":"What can't you like about this movie?","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How are people missing the fact that this is one of the best coming-of-age comedies ever made?  Forget 80's time capsule or the novelty of seeing a young Tom Cruise ... Paul Brickman's ode to teen angst is a far superior to its contemporaries and copycats.Hidden under what appears to be a breezy teen comedy is a stylistically amazing movie with so many tiny, perfect details that each viewing reveals something different.  The atmosphere, music, symbolism and irony that radiate throughout satire American ideas of materialism, mediocrity, success and achievement.  As a fearful conformist, Joel had no chance of achieving his ambition of going to Princeton, but after finally saying What the f*** and turning his back on the ideals of his parents (and ultimately society) he not only achieves the dream, but realizes it's not even the most important thing in life.Funny.  Touching.  Superior to any John Hughes film (though I liked most of those too).  Such a shame Brickman hasn't directed more films. "},{"Title":"Ferris Bueller as a pimp...who could ask for more?","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Remember the first time you saw the movie Ferris Bueller's Day Off? Remember what a badass he was? Not anymore. Joel Goodson could beat Bueller to a pulp. Here is this goodie two shoes who is looking at Princeton U. One day, a friend tells him to loosen up a bit. He brings over a call girl, and she calls her friends, and before you know it, Joel is in a heap of trouble with the school, his parents, and even a pimp named Guido. While the film is grossly unrealistic (like Bueller), it offers a great message to those in high school, particularly juniors and seniors who are about to enter the Real World. Basically, it says that you need to take risks once and awhile to get anything accomplished in life. A great movie that is on my Must See list for teens. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, here we go.  Risky Business is probably one of the coolest movies I've seen.  Tom Cruise plays Joel, high school student whose parents go out of town and he gets in some Risky Business.  He hires a hooker and gets in a lot of crap.  It is very funny to see how Joel gets through this.  Tom Cruise is, as almost always, wonderful.  This movie also has a great soundtrack, and if you like T.C. then you will love Risky Business.  P.S.  Tom Cruise is sooooo cute in this! I've also seen this movie 20 times, so at least see it for yourself once. "},{"Title":"A must see, own, and laugh","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the best Cruise films to date.  How does a Princeton bound teen find himself in such a mess?  Consider pressure from parents, his peers, desire to succeed, and his urges.  You decide. but for me, all of these and his capital motives makes this caper a must see, own, and if you can, laugh out loud.  "},{"Title":"Nice surprise","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was annoyed that I missed the first ten minutes, as the film turned out to be a nice surprise. It doesn't seem that dated and manages to avoid becoming too corny or cliched. Not many belly laughs, but it put a smile on my face most of the way through and Tom Cruise shows something of what made him a star.I will have to watch it again to see the beginning!7/10 "},{"Title":"the music is incredible","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Cruise and Tangerine Dream make this movie.  The soundtrack is so surreal and otherworldly, setting the movie's seriousness factor head and shoulders above any other teen angst 80's movie.  Tom Cruise plays a convincing preppy, wanna-be ivy league son, and an equally convincing pimp. This movie is so surreal, funny, and moving, it ranks as my favorite teen movie of all time.  Go see it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Uniquely surreal comedy/coming of age piece","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What makes this film special and noteworthy are two things the outstanding surreal cinematography and the equally dreamy score by Tangerine Dream. If these two things were absent from this film, it would probably be categorized in the same breath as Losin' It or Making The Grade. However these two elements lend great personality to a film that benefits from it tremendously. Nice job. "}{"Title":"I know it sounds corny-but this movie gives me chills","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time at 2 am in the morning alone.  The music and the chemistry between Joel and Lana gave the chills as I watched it. It is such a smart and sexy movie, a movie that requires thought but not too much.  There is one particular sex scene on the train between Joel and Lana that really stands out.  There is also an added bonus to this movie- seeing Tom Cruise dance in his undies. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate 80s Teen Movie","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the ultimate 80s teen coming of age movie.  Risky Business has aged well because of its use of universal middle class teen issues and imagery. Ideal son, (Tom Cruise), has his parents go away for the weekend, giving him the opportunity to explore some of his locked up desires.  His exploration starts off innocently enough by joyriding in his father's sportscar but quickly snowballs out of control when he becomes involved with a hooker & her pimp. Some key scenes involve Cruise & Rebecca DeMornay making love on the El; abuse of the father's sportscar throughout the Chicago night-life; the cold mother's priceless crystal egg; and the struggle to restore normalcy to his life before his parents return.  Another solidifying force in Risky Business is the excellent instrumental soundtrack provided by Tangerine Dream which fits perfect to many of the dreamlike sequences. Also on the under-rated soundtrack is The Pump by Jeff Beck which in itself may capture the ultimate 80s/teen/pop/rock/instrumental feeling.  "},{"Title":"Good storyline and great cinematography","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the 80's I watched this film as a 14 year old and it was definitely a must see - a classic adventure of teenage rebellion.   The movie still held up well as I watched it again 16 years later.Plot summary  Ambitious (and mildly annoying) rich white boy meets stunning call girl who shows him how to live a little, and not listen overly much to his success-crazed parents.Some of the soundtrack doesn't hold up - part of it is cheesy 80's. Tangerine Dream's exit is a classic electronic music piece but not everyone will get into it.  But there's also some blues and rock thrown in.  I guess it depends on whether or not you like 80's music.This film has some great camera work - watch the lighting, how the actors are placed, subtle visual themes played over the course of the movie (especially the final few scenes, which I didn't understand at 14 but I sure do now).Personally I can't stand Tom Cruise but the movie's good enough to overcome my distaste for him.Directing  7/10 Cinematography  8/10 Story  6/10 Acting 6/10 Overall  7/10 or three stars out of four "},{"Title":"A good 80's film","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Risky Business is a very entertaining movie. Tom Cruise is very good, I liked this movie as a whole. My favorite part is where Tom Cruise borrows his dad's Porsche (without his permission of course), and forgets to put it in park. Since the keys are in the car, he tries to stop it himself from rolling down the hill and into a lake. This is really funny, and the car stops rolling right on the dock. Then all of a sudden it comes crashing down into the water! It was funny, but a little predictable. The rest of the movie was just as funny, it was cool seeing Tom getting out of these impossible situations.My rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Time of your life, Kid?","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great flick. Laughs all the way thru. Great one-liners, Joel, get off the baby sitter Porsche, there is no substitute. Looks like the University of Illinois! She's what all you young boys on the North Shore want and the infamous, Sometimes you just gotta say, 'What the F**k!' and don't forget Guido! "},{"Title":"Parts are funny!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Parts of the movie are funny...but some are predictable.  All and all its 6/10.  Worth seeing once. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you just gotta....","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Use it and learn by it in your teens, resee it and remember it in your 20., resee it and smile in your 30., understand it and laugh in your 40. Why? Because that's life....   "},{"Title":"Sometimes You Just Gotta Say....","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those perfect movies that you can watch 100 times and still enjoy. It's got everything a young Tom Cruise, a sexy Rebecca DeMornay, a nasty Joe Pantigliano, and great shots of Chicago. Curtis Armstrong is the perfect funny guy foil to Cruise, and the parents are a scream. The dialogue is smart and snappy. Although my favorite scenes take place on the El (Chicago's elevated train), I must say that the only time you could REALLY do that is early morning, after rush hour. Much more atmospheric this way. Hearing the Tangerine Dream score in my head as I type this...ahhhh...what great scenes those are. And it's true. Sometimes you just gotta say (you know the line...)  "},{"Title":"Night Shift","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business, the film that launched actor Tom Cruise to super-stardom, is a giddy bit of Hollywood wish-fulfilment. Cruise plays Joel Goodsen (good son, get it), a rich, white, soon-to-be Princeton graduate who has the family home to himself whilst his parents are out of town. While they're away Joel falls in love with a prostitute, turns his home into a whorehouse, makes lots of money, sells sex and learns to value consumer objects. The film ends with our fantasy couple &#x96; literally a prostitute and some future wall street hotshot &#x96; discussing their romance in terms of money.Directed by Paul Brickman, the film is stylish (much better looking than the many teen movies it influenced), is awash with moody pop-art visuals and features an excellent score by Tangerine Dreams. The film's original, downbeat ending was removed by studios, who implemented something far more conventional. Nevertheless, even before this enforced climax, all of Brickman's aims at satire &#x96; he conflates entrepreneurial spirits and prostitution, the film hinges on dreams of sexual and fiscal power etc &#x96; are overrun by the film's strong, seductive fantasy aspects. While Brickman's later films more successfully blend fantasy and critique, Risky Business functions more as a ode to 1980s greed, business (it's in the title, and there's little risk involved), Reaganism and aspirations to excess.And yet the film clearly aims at satire. Brickman paints Regan-era definitions of success as a tension between American dreams and the Faustian commitments required to achieve them. He has Joel regard Ivy League colleges (and monetary creature conforms) as being shallow, portrays relationships as being increasingly commodified, and sketches Joel's socially oblivious bourgeois parents as a couple of goof-balls overly concerned about cracks in crystal eggs. Joel's buddies are themselves perpetually discussing gross earnings, college degrees and dollar signs. It was great the way her mind worked, Joel later says of his prostitute/sweetheart. No guilt, no doubts, no fear. Just this shameless pursuit of immediate material gratification. What a capitalist! So the film is merciless in its equating of free enterprise students (Joel and his buddies take Future Enterprisers classes) and Joel's own extra-curricular skills at gaming the system (much bribing, exploitation and theft), all of which blur the lines between entrepreneur and pimp. What neuters this somewhat is Brickman's tone (with a little Brechtian distance, some of the film's ironic one-liners would work better), which is too straight-faced, too seductive, the director ignoring the plights of the prostitutes and barely questioning the fairy-tale relationship between his golden hooker and lucky prince. When Joel wins during the film's climax it feels less like a mockery of the American Dream than a form of ideological reinforcement. Dreams do come true, you perv. You too can have a pet hooker!Beyond this, the film crashes adolescent male fantasies into nightmares, masturbatory sex fantasies on one hand, and much guilt and fears of disappointment on the other. It was released in the wake of right-wing economist Arthur Laffer's famous napkin sketch, in which he proclaimed that slashing tax rates on the rich would spur a supply side bonanza of economic growth for one and all. So instead of America's wealthiest paying 70 percent or more to the Treasury as they did in the 1960s and 1970s (it was even higher, 90 percent, under Eisenhower in the 1950s), the rich saw Reagan reduce their marginal tax rates to about 25 percent. This line of trickle down thinking, in which everyone is magically privy to more and more wealth, would continue through the decades. With the support of Treasury Secretary Larry Summers and other economic advisers, President Clinton would sign the Gramm-Leach-Bliley bill, removing restrictions that separated commercial and investment banks, a Depression-era rule that had stopped Wall Street from gambling with depositors' savings. This repeal opened the floodgates for Wall Street speculation as the United States shifted further and further from a country that made things into a country that made things up, often by using exotic financial products to shift money around whilst bankers took big cuts. Flash forward a decade and Risky Business is remade during the run up to another financial meltdown. This time the lucky kid's on the fast track to a political office and the girl of his dreams is a willing porno actress.Incidentally, Risky Business (1983) strongly resembles Night Shift (1982), a similar satire released a year before, in which morgue attendants and stockbrokers turn a mortuary into a whorehouse. Oliver Stone's morality tale, Wall Street, would be released some years later.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Ferris Bueller meets existentialism","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is, in my opinion, along the same lines as Ferris Bueller's Day Off, only deeper, more emotional, and very existential. Just as the theme of Ferris Bueller was that life might pass you buy if you don't stop to smell the roses, the theme of Risky Business is, as stated by the dude from Revenge of the Nerds, sometimes you just have to say 'What the f*%#!'. This film goes deeper, however, as it enters the realm of strong sexual longings that anyone of the late teens/early 20s knows all too well, as well as the pressures of parents and of society to succeed get into a good college, impress the man, make your parents dreams a reality, and wear a white collar for the rest of your life. Risky Business asks is it really worth it to sacrifice the experience of life (in this case, the surge of excitement, bittersweet memories, and longing of the late teens/early 20s) just to be the best you can be? The haunting soundtrack by Tangerine Dream, one of my favorite bands, amplifies the bittersweet, reminiscent atmosphere excellently, especially 'Love on a Real Train', which accompanies one of the most haunting and bittersweet scenes in the film and is arguably the most well-known Tangerine Dream track ever, and for good reason.Like 'The Breakfast Club', this is one of the 80s teen coming-of-age flicks which retains its distinct 80s flavor and relevance to the era as well as being utterly timeless. A masterpiece. "}{"Title":"When the parents are away, the boy will play..............","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whilst Joel's parents are away he hires a call girl named Lana to keep him entertained, but as money and car trouble problems rear their unwanted heads, the odd couple come up with a plan to make some cash working from Joel's luscious home.Tom Cruise in tighty whitey underpants propelled him to super stardom then ?, well not quite, that would be doing Risky Business a big disservice, for it's a teen sex comedy that has a bit of brains to match those shiny skivvies of Tom lad. At times it's funny very much so, and yet it's also at times a tad bonkers, sexual therapy and capitalist fortitude's come crashing together to make a quite an intriguing coupling. Opening with a steamy dream that our boy soon to be man Joel is having, this lays the foundation for the whole point of the film, it is the key to the core of Risky Business' satirical seriousness, as far as 80s films go, Risky Business is very much on the money.But that is the problem in going back to the film now, its impact has long since vanished, the only thing remaining would seem to be Tom Cruise's grin here on overdrive with great exuberance. Does any newcomers to the film care to analyse its heart beat?, many now i feel just simply expect a teen sex comedy played purely for laughs, and with that in mind Risky Business doesn't come up to scratch with any other genre piece outside of the 80s, but for it's time it surely was one of the key films from that particular decade, you just gotta wanna have the urge to see it is all. At the least one should see it for the beauty that is Rebecca De Mornay Lana, and to catch Joe Pantoliano having fun as a mad dog pimp, oh and then there is Tom Cruise, a star was born, and then some.7/10 "},{"Title":"Ferris Buehler's Day Off with Tom Cruise","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite Tom Cruise movie, he has the best character that he ever played. In 1983 this was original but by todays standards it lacks any special qualities that would make it stand out. The plot is simplistic A suburban Chicago teenager's parents leave on vacation, and he cuts loose. An unauthorized trip in his father's Porsche means a sudden need for lots of money, which he raises in a creative way. But this is very unbelievable A hooker as beautiful a DeMornay wouldn't just show up and give you the kind of greeting Joel gets. Then become your girlfriend. The jealous pimp wouldn't steal all your household belongings and then sell them back to you to wipe out all your profits from the house party. The Porsche dumped into the lake wouldn't have fish come out with the water, after all the windows were up, that's why he couldn't get in and stop the locked car. The college recruiter from Princeton changing his mind after a night at Joel's probably wouldn't happen.This is a feel good movie that like all feel good movies it puts a smile on your face. For a newer version of this type of movie try The Girl Next Door "},{"Title":"I knew that The Girl Next Door wasn't that original","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ah, the famous sex teen comedy Risky Business. Tom Cruise in his tighty whities! Dancing to Rock-N-Roll, ah, so cute, so cute. Who would've know that he would become so big after that? I don't know if anybody else would've believed it either at the time. Funny how things work out. So onto the movie, Risky Business is just another sex teen comedy, true. But in some ways it worked. I wasn't that wild about The Girl Next Door, but for some reason I kinda liked this movie. It is practically the same plot, which is strange. Maybe I was just in one of those moods to give anything a chance, I don't know. But I seriously would recommend this film to lovers of The Girl Next Door, or just movie buff's in general.7/10 "},{"Title":"Time of your life...","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Cruise stars in the film that catapulted him into superstardom..Cruise plays a high school senior whose parents go away for the weekend..His friend (Armstrong) tells him to go for it and have a good time.. have a party get a woman..although reluctant Cruise gives in eventually. He takes his dad's porsche for a ride and calls an escort service after being goaded by Armstrong. This does not go well..But Cruise tries again..and this time it changes his life ..Lana (DeMornay)shows up at his door and shows him a new reality..she is tired of the abuse she is getting from her pimp so she talks her way into Cruise's house. In need of some money, from a hilarious mishap..Joel turns his house into a bordello..after a good night Joel thinks all will go back to normal but he gets a rude awakening in a suprising ending.. A very entertaining movie..has some dated moments but the music, and performances by Cruise and DeMornay make that a non factor.. Features one of the most erotic love scenes ever filmed.. On a scale of one to ten...8 "},{"Title":"The wages of sin are a place at Princeton and Rebecca de Mornay in your bed.","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is about a teenage boy who falls in love with a prostitute. This was a theme which may well have raised some eyebrows in 1983, although, as Tom Cruise was actually 21 at the time, the film was spared the fate which befell all those Traci Lords films from around the same time.The teenager in question is Joel Goodsen, the son of a wealthy Chicago family who is left at home when his parents go away on holiday. The name Goodsen was presumably chosen as a pun, but young Joel does not turn out to be quite such a good son as his parents had imagined. Almost the first thing he does, egged on by his cocky friend Miles, is to ring up an escort agency to order the services of a hooker. As the law does not recognise contracts tainted by immorality, prostitutes cannot sue their clients over unpaid bills for services rendered, so I always assumed that they insist that the price be agreed and the money handed over before any sexual activity takes place. In this case, however, it is only after Joel has spent a night of passion with the lovely Lana that she informs him that he owes her $300 dollars, far more than he can afford. I won't go into all the complications of the plot which follow on from this point, but they involve the theft of a valuable ornament belonging to Joel's mother, his trying to rescue Lana from her killer pimp Guido and his accidentally driving his father's Porsche into Lake Michigan. As he has been specifically warned not to drive this car, he desperately needs funds to pay for the repairs before his parents get back, and comes up with the idea of turning the family home into a brothel where Lana and her friends can entertain his classmates.Joel is a member of Future Enterprisers, a scheme for young people to learn the ways of the commercial world by starting up their own mini-businesses. He claims his brothel enterprise as his entry in the scheme, stating that he has made his money by dealing in human fulfilment. These words give a clue as to the original idea behind the film, which seems to have been conceived as a curious hybrid, a mixture of teenage sex comedy and satire on the capitalist mentality of the yuppie eighties. (Think Porky's meets Wall Street). Paul Brickman's original idea was to end the film on a downbeat note, showing the adverse consequences of Joel's irresponsible behaviour. Unfortunately, this ending proved unpopular with the test audience, and so it was changed to bring the film into line with the conventions of the teenage comedy. Joel is accepted by Princeton (despite having an unspectacular academic record), Lana becomes his steady girlfriend, presumably on the understanding that she will give up her former line of work, and he avoids getting into serious trouble with his parents, other than having to pay for the ornament which has been recovered slightly damaged. Even Guido the killer pimp proves to be less dangerous than that description might suggest; his method of dealing with those who cross him is not murder or GBH but simply stealing their furniture.This was Tom Cruise's first starring role, but he does not give any real hint that he would go on to become a major Hollywood name. Joel comes across as an irritatingly smug and cocksure young man, and in his pretty boy phase of the mid-eighties few could do cocksure better than Cruise. (See Cocktail for a performance even more irritating than this one). Although Cruise was not actually a member of the Brat Pack of the eighties, he had a similar screen persona to some of the Brat Packers.The message of the film seems to be (to quote Miles) Every now and then say, 'What the heck'. 'What the heck' gives you freedom. Freedom brings opportunity. Opportunity makes your future. (I have substituted heck for Miles' rather earthier expletive). This message was presumably originally intended satirically, but the change of ending has robbed the film of any satirical integrity it might have possessed. The film in its present form does not enlighten us as to the mentality behind greed is good, the dot.com boom and bust or the Enron affair. Rather, it ends up as a smug, self-satisfied film which celebrates America's capitalist culture rather than satirises it. The wages of sin are not death but a place at an Ivy League college and Rebecca de Mornay in your bed. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Average school boy fantasy","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very average, typical school boy fantasy which, due to its success, may have been responsible for inspiring many other films of its type. Popularity has to be credited to the sexy leads. Spunky (and very young) Cruise and hot, hot De Mornay (débutant) make a good pair, and youthful audiences will be quite happy to ogle them for 99 minutes.Brickman's predictable script is just one long wet dream, and it fails to inspire due to its shallow subject, sex. When Joel Goodsen (Cruise) is quoted as saying that prostitution is human fulfilment, then you know where writer/director Brickman's mind is.None of the cast do anything more than look good, and in the end the best thing for me was the score from Tangerine Dream, which includes some original and some previously recorded material. The soundtrack also includes some cool rock tracks like Old Time Rock'n'Roll, In the Air Tonight and After the Fall, as well as the classic blues tune Mannish Boy (I'm a Man).Produced by John Avnet (Sommersby director) and Steve Tisch.Friday, January 10, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure.","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now here's a handful of ridiculous cheese that still manages to entertain, like it or not.We've got Tom Cruise in his breakthrough role, with all of his famed mannerisms, such as the toothpaste smile, already in full use. We've got all the splendor of the worst Eighties gear.Add the then-promising Rebecca De Mornay as Cruise's good-bad love interest, a laughable plot-line about college boy Cruise losing it at home while his parents are away, the tackiest tunes of the decade, and a bottom line so imperialistic and right-wing that it's on the verge of being repulsive.Yet, there's no denying that Risky Business is entertaining all the way. The plot runs along smoothly, always leaving the viewer to eagerly anticipate for the next twist.It is all incredibly dated and corny, but let's not be fooled by that. Let us enjoy Risky Business for what it's worth. This was Eighties at its most brilliantly disgusting. "},{"Title":"Unfair to parents? No ...","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The lead review expresses some distaste for how the parents are portrayed, a view with which I must take issue.The basic story (teenage boy has misadventures while his parents are away) resonated very strongly with me because during the '70s, on several separate occasions when our parents were away, my brother and I hosted week-long, sustained parties that were only a little smaller and more restrained - and with only the hookers missing. We grew up in the Chicago suburbs where Risky Business was filmed, where such parties, while by no means common, most definitely occurred.My mother, bless her, could have supplied the line uttered by Joel's mother, because each time, as she and my father departed, Mom would say, in the same tone as Joel's mom, We trust you, dear.Joel Goodson's parents weren't portrayed as stupid or naive, simply trusting. They trusted their son - with good reason - and there was only the smallest evidence that anything untoward had happened in their absence. The same was true in the case of my brother and me.My only regret about Risky Business is that it was not released with the original, darker ending, which would have added considerable resonance to the story which, in the end, was about the loss of innocence. "},{"Title":"A landmark film for Tom Cruise, but just OK by today's standards for good movies.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My wife was surprised last night when I told her I had never seen Risky Business.  After all, as popular as it was, and as many times as it must have been shown on TV, how could I have missed it?  Just did, so that's why I bought the DVD a few months ago, it seems like a good movie to own, and it is, for its place in movie history, as Tom Cruise's main launching pad into boxoffice stardom. And last night, nursing a bad sinus infection caught during a cross-country motorcycle ride, coincidentally to Chicago, I finally watched it in its entirety.Risky Business reminds me of several other films, like American Graffitti, Ferris Buehler's Day Off, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, and more recently, American Pie.  They all deal with high school boys struggling with what to do with their lives, with graduation and college imminent. In Risky Business Joel (Cruise) is the good kid of model parents in a wealthy Chicago suburb. He would never think of violating family rules, or hiring a hooker, until mom and dad leave town and one of his friends goads him into trouble. The film is preposterous enough that we are not expected to take it seriously. A hooker as beautiful a DeMornay wouldn't just show up and give you the kind of greeting Joel gets. Then become your girlfriend. The jealous pimp wouldn't steal all your household belongings and then sell them back to you to wipe out all your profits from the house party. The Porsche dumped into the lake wouldn't have fish come out with the water, after all the windows were up, that's why he couldn't get in and stop the locked car. The college recruiter from Princeton changing his mind after a night at Joel's.But none of that matters. Cruise and DeMornay are the reasons to enjoy this film. It has no more message than does Ferris Buehler, but both of them fall into the category of escapist entertainment.  Of the two, I think Ferris is a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Tom's Charm","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is mostly known for the Old Time Rock N' Roll scene and the fact that it is the first time most people saw Tom Cruise.  Both are good reasons to see this teen comedy with dramatic overtones.Tom plays Joel Goodson, who is soon in over his head, as he contacts and spends the evening with a gold-digging call girl named Lana.  When he cannot pay for services rendered, Lana lifts an expensive object from Joel's house, and the movie takes off.  The actors are all very good.  Curtis Armstrong and Bronson Pinchot stand out as Joel's friends and Joe Pantoliano makes a great pimp. This movie is essential for all male high schoolers, as it contains about a thousand fantasties, but because its also about growing up, girls and adventure in a Chicago suburb (Ferris Bueller might be living across the street).  More thumbs up for the non-Hollywood,non-traditional ending.   "}{"Title":"The era of good, wholesome fun was definitely over...","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's sad to think that RISKY BUSINESS is the film that turned TOM CRUISE into a household name almost overnight--and simply because everyone under 35 who went to see it recognized their own fantasies being played out by a guy who was the antithesis of Andy Hardy.Well, almost everybody. Not everyone fantasizes about having his parents go away for the week-end so he can hire hookers to spice up his rather inexperienced sex life--and yet, that's the premise that put this film over the top at the box-office.While TOM CRUISE and REBECCA DeMORNAY do respectable enough jobs in their unbelievable roles, it's just a teen sex comedy with one thing on its mind and it gets pretty tiresome after the first thirty minutes have gone by with everyone concentrating on either sex or money.True, it's probably a pretty accurate portrait of how trashy American culture has gotten over the years and how youth is wasted on the very young--but the storytelling is never judgmental no matter how boorish the behavior is and there's no lesson in this for anyone to absorb. Get away with it if you can, seems to be the moral philosophy of the screenplay. In short, it doesn't say a lot about suburban America's middle class cultural values.Not only does it present teen behavior in the worst possible way, but the blissfully ignorant parenting leaves much to be desired. In fact, the most unbelievable aspect of the story is the way the trusting parents react upon their return.Summing up Pretty dismal comedy no matter how you look at it. "},{"Title":"Sublime Breasts","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What the !@#$, was exactly what I said when I saw this for the first time on cable (cinemax) in 1984. I was in the 8th grade and completely disconnected from the suburban life style. In 1984 I was rockin the sounds of RUN DMC, wearing kangols,British walkers,shell toe addidas and sharpening my skillz on the mic in the bathroom mirror. But this flick was cool all the way through. A teenager's dream of sex and $$$. But only in Hollywood can one live out this fantasy. 10/10 easy. "},{"Title":"Risky Business is one of the best films of the 80's... Period.","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just wanted to chime in on what I believe is an underrated masterpiece of The Eighties... recently homaged by the less-than-stellar Girl Next Door. Tom Cruise as yup-and-comer Joel Goodson in Paul Brickman's finest film, turns in a star-making performance as he meanders through the trials and tribulations of puberty, desires for success as an adult, and an ever-changing notion of what it is to be faithful to one's own ideals as they are assaulted by the system we call Capitalism. Whew! Did ya get all that? Risky Business tells the story of do-gooder Joel (hence the last name 'Goodson', get it?) and how he spends time alone in his parents home while they are away on vacation. Without spoiling the film (god forbid), it's alright to say that Joel becomes a capitalist of his own after losing his virginity to prostitute Rebecca DeMornay (a time capsule installment for this beauty!) and opens a brothel in his home...The antagonist, played by Jimmy The Pants Pantoliano, provides great antagonism as Guido, the killer pimp. I don't want to say what the outcome of the film is, but Joel, pushed and pulled by his parents, his best friend, Guido, a Princeton College scout and others, is you, me and all of us males in between at the precious and precocious age of 16. It's a magic gem of a film with a lot on it's mind, most of it fully realized by Brickman, who should step up to bat more often... Where are you Paul Brickman? where's your next film?? Rent This Film! "},{"Title":"The Movie song & story","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" the story of the movie was very wonderful i really love the song used in the movie specially when tom cruise makes love to her on the train. and the funny thing is how he gets cheated by that girl and once he comes after school to find his whole house empty. really brings back old memories from the 80's.by the way i love how Tom Cruise at the start of the movie dances with his Shirt,Undies & socks pretending to be singing a rock song. really enjoyed the movie and would mind watching it on and on.finally i love the way how he manages to buy his own items stolen from his house and replace them before his parents get home. sad to see that no movies like this come out today. "},{"Title":"Far Fetched, But Fun","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never really knew what this movie was about before I actually watched it. Of course I knew the famous scene of Tom Cruise dancing to Old Time Rock and Roll, but for some reason I never really wondered about what the plot for Risky Business really was.The idea of it is kind of weird. A high school kid involved with prostitutes while using his house for a one night, all out, sex explosion is a pretty far fetched concept to follow through with. And this film is, very much, far fetched in so many ways that I don't really want to take the time to list them all. The character's personalities come off as a bit too fake in this movie. They whimsically go through actions as if they have no repercussions. I know that the theme of this movie is sometimes not to give a heck, so some of that is okay, but they seem to take it way past any sort of reality.All in all I thought this movie was a decent watch. You just really have to throw reality out the window to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved risky business!  I am a major tom cruise fan and I've got just about all of his movies.  I would have to say that my favorite part of the movie is seeing tom dancing around to a great song in his underwear!  What legs! I love it. If you were brought up in the 80's generation, i would recommend this movie.   "},{"Title":"above average coming of age movie","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has often been compared to The Graduate and it is easy to see why. In my opinion though, this movie is better, hands down. It's a Porky's with intelligence and wit--and yes, depth too. Rebecca DeMornay as the call girl Cruise befriends (and ultimately becomes business partners with) is sympathetic without becoming a stereotype of the whore with a heart of gold, and Cruise as the bright but naive Joel Goodson mixes just the right amount of sex appeal with pathos and innocence.  Cruise fans will be interested in seeing the star in his first major role (and the one that made him a star). One of the first of the genre of intelligent teen movies (continued by John Hughes with such hits as Sixteen Candles and Ferris Bueller's Day Off) that became popular in the mid-1980's. Destined to be a minor classic. "},{"Title":"College The Final Frontier","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ranks high in its genre, 80's teen angst. Its almost The Graduate with a few call girls. There is Joel Goodson, the would-be college boy who is nervous about his future because his board scores aren't like his other suburban friends 1500's. One week his parents go away and taking his friends advice of saying, What the ****? He starts in with liquor, music, dad's car, and ladies. It's a great depiction of the good student with a little free time and a lot of oat sowing to do before the real world beckons him. Tom Cruise does a good job as the pretentious and idealistic Joel, learning love from the hooker Rebecca De Moirnay, and getting into trouble. I know its a very relative subject for seniors gearing up for college, so its accomplishes it mission as a message film. Overall its **1/2 , doing well in its category, but not appealing to all. "},{"Title":"This movie goes to extremes Night Shift couldn't!","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you thought Night Shift was a big deal, Risky Business should be passed on as a sequel. But Risky Business is a different story. Here you have a Chicago teenager named Joel(Tom Cruise) who has the house to himself while his parents are gone for the week. He gets down on Old time Rock 'n Roll by Bob Seger, a true classic scene there. Then he and a friend decided to have a girlfriend stay for the night. The first one turn out to be a cross-dresser. Then he meets Lana(Rebecca DeMornay) who he hooks up. and thats where things get way out of hand. First, she picks his parents house as a brothel. Second, her former pimp stalks her and it's up to Joel and his friend to stop him. Third, the business is for Joel's further education, which is effective, just not recommended. The second great scene would be the train scene. Letting all the passengers out so they can do their own business. This movie is indeed mysterious, yet it was fun at the same time. I enjoyed it! 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Blackhearted Social Commentary w/Lots of Hot Sex","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If Nietzche had a sense of humor (forget The Gay Science), liked girls (remember The Gay Science), lived to be about 200 and became a director, Risky Business is the film he might have made. Beautiful to the point of decadent and unburdened by that bourgeois affectation called conscience, Risky Business makes the extremely disturbing argument that we live in a corrupt, hypocritical society and the only way to survive is the abandonment of morality. That's a creepy and depressing message. Is this a creepy movie? No, it's actually rather charming. Is this a depressing movie? No, it's actually lots of fun. It's the perversity of Risky Business that makes it so enduring. Well, that and Tom Cruise dancing in his underwear.Speaking of Cruise, he's as stiff and bland as ever in this film, and he's paired with Rebecca DeMornay, who looks like a rodent. But through the miracle of lighting and soft-focus photography, the camera transforms these two unremarkable people into matinée idols. They do lots of sleazy, illegal, dangerous things. Some more moralistic film maker might have them pay for their crimes, or set their nefarious exploits to some kind of twangy, dissonant soundtrack. In Risky Business, our hero Joel and his hooker girlfriend don't suffer for their sins, and they commit their various atrocities to the lively, burbly proto-electronica of Tangerine Dream. And there's no ironic distance between the film and its characters -- we are expected to identify completely with these two soulless strivers, and we do. Risky Business is genuinely decadent art.If you're interested in plot, it's pretty screwball/teen sex comedy -- teenaged boy (Cruise) seeks sex, finds it and winds up learning a life lesson as well (although it's about money, not love). There are fun set pieces, like the car chase with Guido the Killer Pimp, the visit from the Princeton recruiter and Cruise pleading with a granite-faced school nurse to excuse him from class. But there are problems, too. I can forgive Risky Business for its rancid ideology. I can't forgive it for making Tom Cruise such a gigantic star that they have to craft films around his grinning, boring invulnerability (see Rain Man and Vanilla Sky, in which he condescends to be human). And the movie elevated Old Time Rock and Roll, Bob Seger's ode to curmudgeonly close-mindedness, from a minor annoyance to a plague on our culture. It's a perverse tribute to this film's strength that it could make such a crappy song into a near-standard. Damn the filmmakers. "}{"Title":"I think most of Risky Business was another fantasy of Joel's.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the same way that the opening with the babysitter was a fantasy, I think that most of the movie, from Lana's entrance, was one extended fantasy, and the trick is to figure out what really happened. Joel is a worrier, with a fixation on getting into Princton. He may have had a party while his parents were gone (or not), & the Princeton rep may have showed up while his friends were there (or not). Lana is probably real, a girl from a lower socio-economic class; Guido might have been her boyfriend, or just Joel's paranoid creation. It really changes things when you take all that into consideration. I really wonder how Joel & Lana ended up. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably my favorite teen drama/comedy. What makes a movie great is it's rewatchability and worthiness to own both of which I would rate tops for Risky Business. Sure the movie is clichéd in its plot, but without a doubt what pushes it to the top of the ranks is the music by Tangerine Dream lifting a decent movie into a period piece of history. If you want to be whisked away to what the 80's felt like delve into the music, the settings, the people, the clothes, and the culture captured in the movie. Particularly good are DeMornay and Pantaliano portraying the shadier walks of lust, greed, and the world's oldest profession. Tom Cruise helps make the film more identifiable with sort of the struggles of high school and what every guy at some point in his life at least entertains the thought of.....worth owning imo. "},{"Title":"A young man's life goes from bad to worse in '80s film.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" For a kid who has nightmares about making mistakes and not getting into college, Tom Cruise sure gets into a lot of trouble in Risky Business, one of his star-making films. Cruise, then just 21, still with his original nose and chin, appears with a lot of other youngsters who went onto careers with varying degrees of success Rebecca DeMornay, Curtis Armstrong, Bronson Pinchot, Shera Danese, Megan Mullaley and others. Cruise plays Joel Goodsen, who is basically just that until his parents take a trip. Joel's troubles begin when his friend phones a call girl for him over his objections. She's not his type, but she knows who is, and passes him the phone number of one Lana (DeMornay). Besides ripping him off, Lana becomes like the man who came to dinner. Before Joel knows it, he has an unhappy relationship with her pimp, rolled his father's $40,000 car into Lake Michigan (in a hilarious scene) and is flunking subjects. Desperate for money to get the car fixed, he and Lana go into partnership, and Joel suggests to his friends that they could use some sex ed before college. In the midst of his hook-up party, an ivy league college admissions officer (Richard Masur) shows up for an interview.This is a very funny film that includes the oft-imitated Old Time Rock 'n' Roll sequence and pays homage in its way to the end of the age of innocence and the beginning of American greed in the '80s.There's a hot sex scene on a train and lots of good music, plus a good performance by Cruise and the rest of the cast. No matter how you feel about Tom Cruise, you have to give him credit he's managed to stay on top for 30 years. "},{"Title":"Very Risky and Lots of Fun","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Introducing Tom Cruise. I read one of the comments which stated this is one of the best films of the 80s, and I would concur. This was one of the first movies where a little lite erotic was introduced to the mainstream (scene as DeMornay comes through the back door with the leaves blowing, and the train ride with Cruise and DeMornay).Cruise stays in his element in the movie, keeps his friends there and that makes the movie come to life. Good chemistry between Cruise and DeMornay, but I would say that almost any male of that genre would have good chemistry with Rebecca, the rest would be up to Rebecca. (One of the most alluring females in a role I have ever seen-wow!)So, hats off to the pair and the pairing.My perception is that Joel Goodsen (Cruises' character) needed to keep those University of Illinois sunglasses. "},{"Title":"Risking is a part of life.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story follows Joel (Tom Cruise), a teenager who is left alone at home, when his parents go to a trip for a few days. Following his friend's advice, he decides to seize the moment; so one night he calls Lana (Rebecca De Mornay), a prostitute, and they spend the night together. But in the morning, things get out of hand when he doesn't have enough money to pay Lana, and specially later when he gets his father's Porche drowned. It was then that he gets in to a risky business&#133; Although 'Risky Business' is basically a teen movie, there are two things in this movie that separate it from other similar movies the chemistry between Tom Cruise and Rebecca De Mornay and its perfect score.While the movie has an overall interesting direction and the story & acting are good, it is the soundtrack that makes 'Risky Business' superior to other movies in its genre. The one scene that I like most is when Joel & Lana are in the train, toward the end of the movie and it plays 'In the Air Tonight'. It is a beautiful song and it matches the scene so perfectly that even after multiple viewing it still has an impact on you.'Risky Business' is an overall good movie with some truly funny moments, a solid performance by Tom Cruise, and an amazing score. The movie may not consider a masterpiece, but it is the closest thing to a masterpiece a teen movie can get.10/10 "},{"Title":"A film rarely equaled before or since","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the apex of film-making in the early 80s. Tom Cruise's star turn as Joel in a high class Chicago neighborhood has easily stood the test of time. The characters in this film are far more complex upon further review. Cruise's high schooler, Joel, can be seen as a naive kid shown the ways of the world by the street smart Lona (rebecca Dimorna, in easily her best role). However, in scenes that build character, you can tell he holds her in a sort of contempt, a fairly judgmental position. At the same time, Lona is insecure enough with her life that she jumps on the opportunity to find cracks in Joel's seemingly perfect life. In fact, Joel, as evident through his fantasies in the beginning, is an insecure high school kid, just another one who needs to be in a high speed chase with a pimp to pull out the confidence he needs. This movie has comedy supplied by Booger from Revenge of the nerds (in fact an amazing entourage of accomplished supporting actors) and a wonderful, almost transcendent, score by Tangerine Dream. There are a number of memorable, no classic scenes, many of them better than the culturally famous scene of Cruise rocking out to Bob Seger in his tighty whities. While it reminisces of Hoffman in the graduate at times, I can say honestly that this is a far superior movie in almost every way, with all respect due to that truly great film. If you like complex coming of age stories, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Possibly, the greatest teen film to ever come out","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ....or at least one of the bests. Risky Business is about a Chicago graduate who has to keep responsibility to the house after his parents leave out of town. Quickly things get out of control after he invites a sexy prostitute to his house. This movie made Tom Cruise become a star and later come out with films like Top Gun, Mission Impossible, and Jerry Maguire. All the actors did really well especially Cruise and Pantoliano. The movie is very funny and there were a lot of memorable scenes like the Tom Cruise dancing scene, the train ride, or the party held in his house. Overall, an excellent movie and is possibly the greatest teen film ever made.Hedeen's Outlook 9.5/10 **** A "},{"Title":"A different kind of coming of age story","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I'm sure we're all aware of what the greatest legacy this movie left to the world inevitably was &#150; that's right, that short but sweet sequence where a young Tom Cruise dances round his parents' living room to 'Old Time Rock n Roll' wearing nothing but his shirt and underpants. A humble little scene that's long since managed to earn itself a place amongst the most fondly remembered movie moments of all time (it's been parodied on God knows how many occasions). And, why shouldn't it? It's well-shot, funny, engaging and really captures that lightly rebellious urge that all of us felt and wanted to unleash at some point at that age. It also stands out as one of the few entirely light-hearted scenes in a film that, in spite of its reputation for being the racy teenage comedy of its decade, constitutes a very peculiar mix of feelings and attitudes overall. Perhaps the most remarkable thing about 'Risky Business' is, amidst all the high school banter and risqué situations, just how downbeat and ambiguous and it manages to be. No, this definitely isn't your average adolescent romp - even the would-be feel-good moments have an air of sombreness attached, and it leaves its viewers not entirely sure what to make of the way of things turn out.In some ways it serves as quite an appropriate reflection of the constant unease our young protagonist feels &#150; torn between securing a prosperous position in his academic future and going out and living it up in his youth, Joel gets more than he bargained for when his parents head out of town for a brief period, leaving him with the house to himself. One thing leads to another, and it isn't long before he finds himself sucked into the lucrative world of pimps and prostitutes, no less when one such young call girl named Lana comes to him seeking refuge from her domineering 'manager'. It sets itself up nicely for the perfect blending of outrageous comedy and human drama, but in practice isn't overwhelmingly successful &#150; a lot of the time, the two approaches seem to be imposing on each other rather than working together effectively. The serious pathos, especially those concerning Lana's difficult past, go a little more understated than they really should, while the sense of humour is, for the most part, irritatingly tame. The real laugh-out-loud moments are few and far between (that said, the ones that are there hit the spot with the right precision, including quite possibly the funniest sight gag involving a flooded car you'll ever get to feast your eyes upon). And, like many movies put together in the 1980s, its age can't help but show a little &#150; the archaic train sequences being the biggest betrayers here, particularly during the opening credits.In spite of these weaknesses, 'Risky Business' still holds true as quite a unique and fascinating piece of viewing, mainly because, like I said, it takes a surprisingly sober slant on its subject matter. People always seem to remember its true appeal as lying in the fact that it allows its central character to live out a situation that real teens can only dream of, but it has a lot more value than just as a male adolescent indulgence fantasy. What distinguishes 'Risky Business' from other flicks in its field is that whole underlying sense it embodies of an innocence slipping away, in some ways for good and others for bad. Joel starts out as a naïve and good-intentioned kid who can't so much as microwave his own frozen dinner, and is happy just to use his time of parental liberation following bold but harmless pursuits (which leads us onto the whole dancing around in your shirt and underwear thing). But his experiences with Lana and her friends cause him to gradually wisen up to the world around him &#150; and the film, perhaps more effectively than anything else, really captures that uneasy feeling of 'no going back'. What this movie is really about is growing up and learning to get by in a materialistic and dog-eat-dog world where compromises must sometimes be made, and in that sense there's something undeniably sad and wistful about it. What keeps it from becoming too tart for its own good is the natural charisma it has in its hero Joel &#150; one of Tom Cruise's earliest roles, and still one of his most memorable to this day, he remains accessible and amiable to us no matter what he goes through. That it avoids having to establish a firm moral standpoint on the whole prostitution issue will cause it to lose favour with a few of its viewers, but in contrasting the differing perspectives of sheltered, well-off kids like Joel and Miles with those who've had it considerably less easy, like Lana, it does well enough.Don't approach 'Risky Business' expecting an all-out laugh-riot, because that's unlikely to be what you'll get. But as a coming of age story about a high school student at a crossroad in his life, it's a flawed yet likable, taut and absorbing experience.And that's why more than just that underwear scene has survived this long.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Best value for money -)","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" (Never, ever attempt to watch Risky Business right after Minority Report! Well, I did that, and it's really weird seeing two Tom Cruise's so close, so different...)Of course this movie cannot deserve an excellency rating, fairly enough. And though, I think that if we kind of value for money rate it, where what you get are the smiles, the laughs, the nostalgic dreams; and what you pay is the plot, the synopsis, really, really trivial, well, then this movie would be one of the best ever!Maybe the movie today is more worth than it was at its time, because watching it we also plunge into part of the fashion, music, cars of those years. And this is a plus. "},{"Title":"The Gambler. (spoilers)","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Risky Business' is one of those more memorable teen 80s movies terribly borrowed upon for the recent comedy, 'The Girl Next Door.' Tom Cruise marked his early entrance into super-stardom as do-gooder teen, Joel Goodson, who has always been scared to take a risk. That is, until his trusting parents leave him alone for the week while they're out of town and his buddy Miles (my 80s favorite, Curtis Armstrong) convinces him to seize the day, or as he so eloquently puts it sometimes you just gotta say what the f... if you can't say it, you can't do it. Only, good boy Joel needs a lot of coaxing at first.A joke phone call for an escort service by Miles is when Joel meets the seductive Lana (Rebecca Demornay's in her second feature film), a high class prostitute who is about to both free Joel from the rules, but also get him into a lot of trouble in the meantime, everything from fleeing a gun-toting pimp (Joe Pantoliano) to a Porche in Lake Michigan.Despite how awfully naive Tom Cruise's boyish character, Joel, can be at times, this is one of those teen movies that has long survived the decade, and yet, stands apart from most that we might remember (because many were comedies, anyways, whereas this is a mix of several genres). Plus, the appeal also largely comes from this being the ultimate boyhood fantasy--to break the rules and survive every disaster afterwards, to not only come out the hero in the rough, but to get the girl at the same time. Great cast with many familiar 80s actors like Bronson Pinchot, Kevin Anderson (Miles From Home) and Raphael Sbarge as Joel's friends, plus Richard Masur as the Princeton admissions officer. Plus, great supporting soundtrack by Tangerine Dream, which, with their usual great mix of synthesizers, xylophones, and pan flutes, adds to the mood so perfectly.Worth a Saturday night viewing for the 80s fan in you. "}{"Title":"Nostalgia","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's my personal opinion that Risky Business is the best coming of age film ever. The soundtrack really gave it something extra, and I am love those 1980s comedies set in Chicago. No biased there, considering I'm from Chicago! A few others include Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off. There was something about the way those films were shot with grainy film that made it Chicago look almost surreal. Getting back to Risky Business, this teenage sex comedy is far superior to what we see today, such as American Pie and Road Trip. The film is so smart in the way it portrays teenage angst. I have personal affections for this film because I also got into Princeton with grades that were below Princeton standards. However, I don't think I ever became a pimp. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise stars as the good son who's been good too long...","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...And does so to the extreme in Risky Business. 1983 was really only the tip of the iceberg in terms of a storm of raunchy teen-sex romps released throughout the late-70s and early-80s. Released amidst those countless, braindead comedies, Risky Business had shown through them all like a ray of light piercing the darkness, going on to earn rave reviews and rocketed its young star, Tom Cruise, into super-stardom; this was solidified by his role in Top Gun three years later in 1986.Risky Business is a classic example of 80s nostalgia. It's been copied more or less over the years, most notably with this year's The Girl Next Door, but I dismiss those comparisons with a wave of the hand. Little did Cruise know that when he danced around in his underpants in his parent's living room, that he was making one classic scene that has yet to be topped.This is the first film that I really liked Tom Cruise in after viewing his performance in Top Gun. Like that film, Risky Business is a movie that can be seen hundreds of times over and over again and still maintain a drastic hold of your attention until the credits begin to roll.As I look back to 1983 when Risky Business was released, I can't help but wonder just how truly great this movie is. As my one line summary says, Cruise stars as Joel, the good son who's been good too long. When his parents leave him home by himself, he goes on the suggestion of his friend Miles (Curtis Armstrong) to let himself have a little fun while his parents are away. So one night he gets the urge to call up a sexy prostitute named Lana (Rebecca De Mornay) and things soon get risky following their first encounter...I cannot find enough praise for Risky Business, as a lot has already been said about it. What I can say is that even though it was released in '83 (two years before I was born), I can't help but wonder how this movie does kind of mirror today's times and at the same time, capture what life in 1983 must have been like.Movies that sometimes also act as time capsules are amongst some of the best of their kind. Whenever a movie captures the essence, or the atmosphere of a particular era, it's bound to become a classic and be praised in the years following its release for its ingenuity and craftsmanship.P.S Did I also mention that Risky Business is also a wannabe action flick? No, I don't think that I did. This movie does have one brilliant and well-executed car chase between Joel in his dad's Porsche and Guido, the Killer Pimp (played by Joe Pantoliano).10/10 "},{"Title":"TEEN VERSION OF PRETTY WOMAN","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cruise at 20 in this film catapulted his stardom, still has that baby facehandsome image. This sex comedy  came after the funny Fast Time atRidgemont High, which rates better in my opinion. It's simple sex comedyCruise plays Joel Goodson, a rich high school teen having a week by himselfwhile parents away for the week. WHADDA WEEK! Tom Cruise did fine actingjob nominated for Globe Award for this movie, beginning good things to comefor Cruise. It was a nice throwback early 80's sentiment but RISKY sincePresident Reagan was bringing patriotism image since everything was being inimported losing American manufacturing jobs, wink, wink, (jorge dubya similar  role as prez. now). We need comedy when economy goes in down spin.Throughout 20th century, Hollywood provided our anesthetic to numb our painhow bad things really are. Back then, was long lines at the gas pump. Anyway,  this is a worthy movie to RISK  watching. 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"I like an old time a rock n roll!!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a blast of fun, and sexuality. Once the movie came out it made all the other eighties movies practically look like copy cats, such as Ferris Beullers Day Off, it has the same ending a guy running back home so he won't get in big trouble by his parents. It makes other films of the eighties look terrible, and it makes itself look great. This all american/ eighties comedy will have you loving, and doving. It'll keep you entertained by the second, and it also showes obviously that this kid turned his life around in 2 seconds. A great movie ten out of ten, don't miss this if you like the eighties, or america. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Strange that such a poor story can be such a great movie! Fantastic music, beautiful shots, and good actors. It was a pleasure to watch this movie! The artistic style of this movie did remember me to The Graduate from 1967.  "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise and his breakthrough","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a nice film. Tom Cruise does a good job and Rebecca DeMornay is lovely. The story is simple. Cruise plays Joel, a boy who has to work hard to go to Princeton. His parents go on a little trip and a friend of Joel sends a callgirl to his house. Then a lot of things go wrong. Some go right as well.With funny moments and a couple of very famous scenes, also seen in lots of parodies this is a film you will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good teen flick","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of Cruise's first films, his acting is surprisingly good. Not quite natural yet, but still pretty good. The basic story is quite funny and the whole cast pulls it off quite nicely. The music works beautifully and the whole thing comes together well. Tom Cruise dancing around in his underwear has become an icon. Pretty good flick and well worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant,but not Tom Cruises best.Risky business is the story of Joel,a college student who has been good all his ife and realisessometimes you just have to say what the heck and have fun. While Joels parents are away,he decides to rent a hooker,after his dads car goes into a lake,he decides to rent his house as a brothel to earn money to get it fixed.It all ends badly when is house is burgled the next morning thought.Risky business is a great comedy even if it is dated by todays standards.To me in opinion this is Toms breakthrough role. I have seen better films with him in but this is great,and even today he doesn't seem to be slowing down yet. I would reccomend this to anyone,it is brilliant.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Funny, amiable and well done","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the most noteworthy element of Risky Business is its style.  The movie starts with a great opening shot of Chicago at night.  Then it cuts to a close-up of Tom Cruise, staring into the camera with sunglasses propped downward--John Lennon-style--and a cigarette hanging out his mouth.  And I like the unique way the scene was handled where his parents were leaving to the airport, and we watch the entire scene through his eyes--a great point of view shot.  Plus, the musical score is brilliant and fits the darkly comic mood of each scene perfectly.  We're also stricken with great use of Phil Collin's song--I forgot the title--in the train sequence.  And of course the film contains a line that I will always remember and abide by  Sometimes you just have to say 'What the f***.'The comedy is appealing and funny, and done with good timing.  Curtis Armstrong--of Revenge of the Nerds fame--is likable as Cruise's partner in crime.  And so is Bronson Pinchot and my favorite underrated actor Joe Pantoliano, who should've become a household name with his portrayal of Guido the Pimp.  Even though I wouldn't regard this as one of the funniest films ever made and the pinnacle of all teen movies--though it's a masterpiece compared to some of the teen flicks in recent years--it's a fun, feel-good movie that celebrates the good things about adolescence--though you have to suffer dirty consequences to get some of those good things.  The story is predictable and implausible at times, but it's not meant to be an Oscar winner.  Besides, it's fun to see Tom Cruise as sort of a geek...LOL. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a truly great film.  An art piece.  It is a blockbuster hit, that has so much great coming of age subtlety to it.see it.  love it.  sleep with it.  curl up next to it.you WILL like it. "}{"Title":"New American graffiti","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  * * * * (4 out of 5)Risky BusinessDirected by Paul Brickman, 1983Tom Cruise's major commercial and artistic breakthrough is an intelligent and smooth comedy and a benchmark for 80s teen flicks.  The work of writer/director Paul Brickman, who does an absolutely excellent job, Risky Business is also dark, sexy and tentative compared to most other Hollywood films from that time.See past the goofy movie poster (and DVD casing), and the movie is a pure delight.Cruise is brilliant; totally believable as both the confused and innocent rich kid, and then later on as the matured and wiser young adult.   Puzzling Brickman would wait seven years before directing his next movie (Men Don't Leave, 1990). "},{"Title":"Crass in some ways, almost sweet in others","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In theory, it's a great idea for a black comedy a school-kid calls a prostitute while his parents are away, and ends up running a brothel. But in truth 'Risky Business' is not so comic (the pace is too slow), and not even very black the hookers are so sweet that they don't even ask for the money beforehand, and even their pimp gets up to nothing worse than stealing a bit of furniture. In fact, films like 'American Pie', which may be thought of as more modern equivalent of this 1980s movie, are (for good or bad) massively more vulgar and direct when it comes to presenting sex. What they have in common is a certain kind of teenage-wish-fulfilment vibe. This film, as befits its age, also features a capitalist morality and the oddly unattractive (to contemporary eyes) fashions of its times. The soundtrack, however, is more 1960s than 1980s, for reasons that are hard to fathom. Add in some fairly wooden acting, and the fact that a certain sort of teenage boy (such as those in this movie) is not the easiest type of character for others to sympathise with, and the result is more tiresome than fun or telling. But it's odd how a film about prostitution can make one feel nostalgic for a gentler age of cinema than the one we have now. "},{"Title":"Tom cruises road to millions","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I expected much more than what i had saw and felt that the film could have gone a lot long than it's 95 minutes running time. I did enjoy watching the movie, but it did easily show that this was a cheap budget film and felt that many of the scenes were too short and could have added a lot more too it. Rebecca De Mornay was absolutely terrible and feel that they could have got a much better actress to play the role of what was a prostitute.I did enjoy the dancing scene which played the song (old time rock and roll) was a very catchy piece and shows that this scene has influenced comedy films to take the mickey out of it and feel that it will live long in the memory of future film generations. This starts Tom cruise on the road to super stardom and mega millions which shows that he is more of a star than any other type of acting, and it is a pity that Paul Brickman the director of this movie has not gone on to make more films. "},{"Title":"Who changed the ending?","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, isn't it wonderful to be a rich teenager, having your parents on a vacation, leaving you a big house, a car and all the money you can spend? Isn't it nice to have a friend who convinces you to call up a prostitute with whom you fall in love after you spent the wild night together? And after you've been robbed, car chased and after your dad's car ends up in a lake, there is still a good chance everything will be fine, with no serious consequences! And it does! Hey! You even get a chance to go to Princeton! You think I'm joking, right? It may sound disappointing, but this movie is a joke, it's no more than a teenage sex fantasy film, trying to have a moral message in the background, but fails to afford one in the end. But who wants moral messages in a teenage movies anyway, right? "},{"Title":"Don't view this as an 80's time capsule, its a tribute to passing youth","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whatever else you might think about this flick, its interesting to look at the two leads today, almost 20 years on. De Mornay sadly could play Cruise's grandmother in a remake and no-one would ponder the casting! Tom looks a BIT older, Rebecca de Mornay has seen out two lifetimes by comparison.So much to like and admire in this film - inarguably Cruise's emergence as a superstar. Although, YES it might be referred to as an eighties time-capsule it is way more than the sum of its parts. This is an ode to youth, to sexual awakening...an introduction to the REAL world. Cruise is brilliant as Joel, the sheltered college boy, awoken from his comfort-zone by sexy prostitute Mornay. The plot is secondary as we surf Joel's new-found emotions and for those viewers 40 plus, a recollection of just what it was all about. Terrific contribution from Tangerine Dream too - they have a habit of lifting films into the stratosphere. (NEAR DARK ?)Oh yeah, one of the fondly remembered flicks of the 80's! And dear old Guido? "},{"Title":"Bad example","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Movie depicting young man loosing control and gets away with it,thus setting a bad example for many immature minded people who watch this.Very good performance by Cruise and De Morney although the movie needs better cinematography,screenplay and directing.Promotes prostitution more than discourages it thus giving the movie a strong cult following for those who like said lifestyle.Comes out average at best but Cruise/De Morney fans will love it...... "},{"Title":"Cardboard","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joel is supposedly the good son - straight-laced, dull but an average guy with implied moral values that erode throughout the film.Initially, you get the impression that he needs to let loose a little, but of course things get out of hand.The overly-trusting parents are cardboard morons, his wacky friends show more personality in one line than he can muster throughout the movie - no, dancing around in your BVDs does NOT constitute a personality- and Chewbacca De Mornay's hooker character is not quite ugly or crusty enough to be remotely believable.Yeah, I realize Risky Business is trying to be over-the-top, but watching a really boring Tom Cruise character crumble into moral decay after a long sequence of idiotic events doesn't do much for me. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my all time must see classics. Paul Brickman should do a remake of this one.I rent the DVD every year around the Fall of the season (something about falling leaves). Every actor in this film contributed greatly to this film. But the two most memorable for me were Cruise and Demornay. The chemistry they had together in this movie was palpable.Tom Cruise gets my vote for ALL TIME FAVORITE MALE ACTOR. I was a high school graduate and remember seeing this film at the theater that summer. The 80's was definitely a great decade. "},{"Title":"Sometimes ya just gotta say ...what the f***!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  RISKY BUSINESS (1983) ***1/2 Tom Cruise, Rebecca DeMornay, Bronson Pinchot, Joe Pantoliano, Nicholas Pryor, Richard Masur, Curtis Armstrong.  The Graduate for the Eighties high school senior Joel Goodsen (Cruise in his star-making icon role) faces some heavy obstacles finals, getting into Princeton, virginity and a week with the house to himself in suburban Chicago when his folks take a vacation solution - hire call girl Lana (DeMornay as the savvy and realistic voice of reason) and develop more problems. Namely dunking his dad's Porsche (there is no substitute) in Lake Michigan and throwing a party with hookers to pay for the damages, natch!  Very funny, sly and dead-on satire of having it all in blahsville and nearly getting away with it all.  Made Ray Bans gazillions and coined the key phrase for all life on this planet Some times you gotta say What The F***!   Best scene the train ride; Oh Yeah!! "},{"Title":"far fetched teen comedy.","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cruise stars as a horny,brainy teenager about to embark on college and when his parents are out for the weekend, he hires a prostitute who rips him off. He sinks a car and decides to turn his house into a pad for his friends to have sex. The prostitute's hot headed pimp steps in and Cruise has to make everything work before the parents come home. I dont think the movie is funny or very good. The pacing is slow and I think this is really overrated. It's the type of stupid movie that makes a star out of someone such as Cruise. *1/2 "}{"Title":"De Mornay's character ruins the film","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most disappointing thing about this film is Lana, the character that Rebecca De Mornay portrays.  I have no idea why anyone would be attracted to her for any reason other than her body, because everything else about her is utterly bland and boring.  She doesn't seem to have too many thoughts in her head, all she really seems to think is that people shouldn't be judged by how much education they have--which is a fine thought, but she doesn't have many others.  She never really seems happy, or sad for that matter, mostly just indifferent throughout the entire movie, even when she's having sex with Cruise.  Except for when she's getting angry at her old boss, she doesn't seem to have any kind of personality whatsoever.  Altogether I really have no idea why Tom Cruise's character is interested in Lana beyond her usefulness as a sex object.  And because Lana is supposed to be the catalyst that causes Cruise's character transformation, it makes the whole story much less effective because I have no idea why or how such a robot could ever have such an effect on Cruise.Besides that, the movie is reasonably interesting and entertaining.  The whole what the f**k theme is fun, but the movie would've been much more fun if De Mornay's character had a lot more depth. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but still pretty good","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie at times is very cool, but other times just so-so. Curtis Armstrong is pretty funny. The Score is good, but a lot of times makes the movie seem like melodrama. There's also some steamy sex scenes in the movie. All in all uneven, but still very cool at times. I give Risky Business **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Pretty darn risky!!!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A college bound kid has his  parents go away for the weekend and as soon as they're gone he gets into Risky business with a prostitute.Often very funny comedy starring a young Tom Cruise is really risky in parts but is really funny.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Style without substance","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was like one big commercial that starts out promising enough with his friends bringing an element of fun to the movie (namely Curtis Armstrong). Once the smut started the fun oddly disappeared and the movie was ironically tedious and boring to me. The only highlight of the film for me is when Joel (Cruise) drinks a whiskey and coke and gets blitzed which is a precursor and serves as a context to the famous underwear dance. Perhaps I should have just watched the trailer or a youtube clip of this scene since there was no other reason to watch this overrated stinker which seemed to never end. This movie was way over-hyped. "},{"Title":"A surreal failure","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Putting a surreal twist on a teen comedy sounds like an interesting idea right? Well I thought it would turn out pretty good, but after watching Risky Business I realized that it's not quite as good of an idea as you would think, at least not in this case. Risky Business stars Tom Cruise as Joel Goodsen, a brainy teen who hopes to go into business one day. But those aspirations are put in jeopardy when his parents go out of town for a week and Joel decides to live a little. He invites a prostitute to his home and, when her charge ends up being more than he thought, Joel can't pay her and she ends up stealing a prized possession of his mother's. Joel then has to track her down, only to find out that her pimp now has what he wants, so Joel must come up with some way to get it back, while also going to school. It's an incredibly strange film where nothing feels natural and the whole plot feels forced. It's not what you'd expect which, in this case, isn't a good thing.What director Paul Brickman is trying to accomplish here is giving a dream like surrealist quality to a teen comedy through the music and camera angles. I'll admit it's an interesting idea and I commend Brickman on his bravery to do something different with a genre we all thought we knew like the back of our hands. Unfortunately, the result of this bravery was a failure. Rather than creating something fascinatingly unique, the style of this film comes off as shallow and pretentious. It tries to hard as it crams its seemingly acute sense of style down our throats. The idea gets old quick and it makes for an obnoxious film that has no sincereness to it and only feels like someone trying to hard.One of the biggest elements employed to achieve the film's surrealism is subduing all the characters to a highly unnatural and almost catatonic state of interaction with one another. Given the urgency of the situation the characters find themselves in you would think the reactions would be a little more concerned and a little more hasty. Instead, we find Tom Cruise having breakfast and being friends with the girl who might have just ruined his entire future. It makes no sense and there are many moments of forced interaction that destroy an otherwise creative storyline.Simply put, Risky Business is just an awful film. It really tried hard to do something different, but it went overboard and made a totally unbelievable and lifeless film. The unrelenting style just beats you over the head, the characters are soulless, the music is weird, and the film just sucks. Given the thought that went into the film before it was made, I would say that it could have been very good. Sadly, it falls as flat as is possibly could. "},{"Title":"Why We Like Tom Cruise.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hollywood today is pretentiously inclined to tow the line behind what proves respectably artful and uncoaxingly appealing.A morally defined guy boundaried into tempestuous temptations and we don't have to wonder why we like Tom Cruise.The movie majored in a big landing of Tom Cruise, and with who Tom Cruise happens to be.Great casting all the way around and through and through. And artfully made by everyone involved.The title can and is seen as more than symbolic of individuals being who they are shining as a star from a monumental first of lead Acting that fits who the individual actually is, but that has garnered so much unqualified trust, the labors imposed on Tom Cruise to fill characterizations that are not him is sloppy business.Character Acting, Typecasting, Identity Matched Acting...not all interchangeable skillful talents automatically.Worth a workaholic load of quality qualifications of those in the business of making movies to make sense of what has happened too much after a first of a star making movie, and some essential labor to justify the money making that major motion pictures has seated itself in place with.Risky Business.Pivotally positioned movie.Will be a Classic forever.One that also makes for missing Tom Cruise a lot when not where he is with this one.Tom T.wgadstar@gmail.com "},{"Title":"Great 80's Feel, With Universal Teenage Emotions","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies from the 1980's, as well as one of the most underrated. Although it has a very specific early 80's feel, especially the preppy clothes and the social commentary (greed is good had not quite become the mantra yet, but it was on its way), the basic coming of age story - the dutiful child with demanding parents, the angst and insecurity about the future, the weird combination of both fascination with and embarrassment over your budding sexual self (Joel, get off the babysitter!),are universal teenage emotions and experiences. Joel Goodson's(played by a fresh-faced Tom Cruise)parents leave for a week at Aunt Tootie's, leaving him the family's nice suburban Chicago home all to himself. His best friend challenges him to, just once, say what the f#@%k, and take a chance on something in his life. Before Joel knows it, he is having sex with the beautiful call girl Lana on his living room stairs. After she steals his mother's precious crystal egg from the house, he chases her down and comes face to face with Guido the killer pimp. Soon, Lana is hiding from Guido (played hysterically by Joe Pantoliano)in Joel's house. Joel quickly becomes unglued from his good-boy, upper middle class,future enterprisers life as he accidentally dumps his father's Porsche into Lake Michigan, falls behind on his studies, and misses his mid-terms because he has to get the aforementioned car fixed (his encounter with the school nurse is funny and his desperation after he is punished for threatening her is very palpable and is well-played by Cruise). Not to fear, though, as Joel, with Lana's guidance, becomes an enterpriser all right and begins to operate a brothel out of his house. Throw in a shaky college interview with a Princeton recruiter who comes to the brothel, er house, another encounter with Guido, and a rush to get things back to normal before the folks get home, and Joel has packed quite a bit of mayhem into one week. But, it's quite a ride. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"De Mornay saves so-so 80's teen comedy.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  80's teen comedy in the mode of Ferris Bueller's Day Off, etc...highlighted by steamy love scenes between Tom Cruise and Rebecca De Mornay.  This movie made both actors stars despite the fact that there is virtually no chemistry between them.  More time is spent on Tom Crusie's fluffy comedic situations than the meaty dramatic tension De Mornay brings to her role and that is a shame.  There is much more to this hooker than a heart of gold and I would have liked to learn more about her but we are limited by the film.  Despite these drawbacks a little does go a long way and we witnesses a great actress literally make a so-so teen sex comedy into something much more important.  Though not quite rising to greatness any high school student about to graduate and pondering his future should see this film.    "},{"Title":"Risky Business","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Social satire about an upper middle class youth, played by a young Cruise, who turns his home into a brothel while his parents are on vacation. It started off okay, but quickly fell off when it ran out borrowing from The  Graduate. The film had great potential; Cruise shows great poise and director Brickman showed moments of youthful rebellion, but altogether, it's muddled.  "},{"Title":"Get Real","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film when I was 29, just having become a father and not near the stage of identifying with Joel's clueless parents. The movie chronicled Joel's stepping off into shenanigans with loads of potential consequences. ***Spoiler Alert*** Things I took issue at the time included disbelief that this kid didn't get savagely beat up by pimps and thugs, that this teen-ager managed to get a fortune in car repairs made to his parent's Porche and that his parents were assumed not to discover the damage done to their car. I allowed that his getting accepted to the ivy league school after the home-brothel stunt was the movies main gag. Things I take issue with today include parents leaving their home and Porche in the care of a teen-ager in the first place. Yes, I will take mini-vacations as my kids are starting college&#133;yes, I will kick the grown kids out until I return and lock the house in the meantime. Get real&#133;.. "}{"Title":"Degrading example of consequence-free irresponsibility","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would recommend against seeing this film, so I don't feel bad about including spoilers in this review.  But, just so you're aware... SPOILER ALERT!! I can enjoy Pulp Fiction as art.  I appreciate A Clockwork Orange, which has far more explicit nudity, _and_ violence, than this film.  I appreciate those films because they mean something; the artists who created them were aiming toward something more significant than feel-good light comedy. My best guess is that this film wanted to explore teen angst.  If that was its goal, however, it failed, as the perspective it gives us is hopelessly lopsided and fails to engage sufficiently (even as parody or contrast) with reality. The overall message seems to be be willing to cut loose once in a while. That's a fine message, when cut loose is defined well.  This film portrays cutting loose as utter irresponsibility that is blind to consequences. (Although Joel thinks he won't get into Princeton (a bad consequence of his actions), he does (an unreasonable, good consequence).  So what is the film really saying here?)  That is hardly a worthy message.I would recommend either The Breakfast Club or Dirty Dancing over this film, as each of them 1) confronts the same/similar issues as Risky Business, without so many of the mindless, cliched, feel-goodisms, and 2) significantly explores something relevant to human life in such a way as to arrive at some sort of conclusion. If you want to watch this film just to see a young Tom Cruise...well, consider yourself warned.  There are many other, better movies on which you can spend your time. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Risky Business is one of the 1980s' iconic movies. That doesn't say much for the 1980s. It's a movie with a main plot that's scarcely believable with all the events surrounding that main plot even more ludicrous. It's a comedy-drama woefully short on comedy and it doesn't do much better in the drama department. There's the famous scene with Tom Cruise and Old Time Rock and Roll. It's that scene more than anything else which people seem to remember all these years later. Everybody seems to forget the rest of the movie rather stinks.Cruise plays Joel Goodsen, a suburban Chicago teen whose parents are away on a trip. Joel orders up a hooker out of a newspaper advertisement. Apparently you can do that sort of thing in suburban Chicago. Who knew? Anyhow the lovely Lana, played by Rebecca De Mornay, shows Joel the time of his life. Unfortunately Joel doesn't have the money to pay for his dream night and while he goes to the bank to scrounge up some cash Lana steals his mother's precious crystal egg. Things go downhill from there, both for Joel and the movie. There's a slimy pimp with a temper and a gun, more hookers and an expensive car going for a swim. Somewhere along the way Joel and Lana kinda sorta maybe fall in love. Lana needs money to get away from killer pimp Guido. He just had to be named Guido didn't he? Joel needs a whole lot of money to clean up the mess he's made of his comfortable suburban life before his parents get back. The fresh-faced teen and the friendly neighborhood hooker come up with an interesting, and of course risky, business plan to solve their problems.So yeah, this movie is stupid on all kinds of levels. You could forgive that if it was at least entertaining but it's not. When the one thing people remember about a movie is the star dancing in his underwear that should tell you something. There's not much else memorable here. Cruise and De Mornay work well together and Joe Pantoliano has some good moments as the villainous Guido. The lead performers make the best out of this that they can. It's their efforts and charisma which save the movie from being truly wretched. They can make the movie bearable but they can't make it good. The story is largely absurd. It's one stupid, nonsensical thing after another. Entertainment value is sorely lacking, there's not much here to keep you engaged in the proceedings. The whole thing is rather dull. If people loved this movie when it first came out I hope for their sake they don't watch it again. They'll be left wondering what in the world they were thinking. Some movies age like a fine wine. This movie ages like a moldy crust of bread. "},{"Title":"Think of it as American Pie.............. but in the 80's","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" For Tom Cruises debut, this really rocks. In todays world, Tom Cruise has become an envy and supper star around the world, but he began his stardom career in a low budget, half descent teen drama/comedy.The film revolves around a 17 year old teenager called Joel Goodson, who's parents are rich and wealthy and well of. Joel has all his teenage fantasy's- cars and girls. But one day when Joels parents go away for a weekend holiday, his fantasy's come true. Crashing his dads Porsche and inviting prostitutes all happen when they leave.Worth watching, enjoyable and funny teen comedy. Tom Cruise really does sour in his fanatical debut. "},{"Title":"Fighting Above Your Weight","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie almost feels like a Kubrick film. Note the use of wide-angle lenses and traveling steadicam shots that recall The Shining. The result is an almost godlike perspective on teenagehood. Ferris Bueller's Day Off gets the consolation prize in this category.Cruise would later appear in an adult sex movie directed by Kubrick. I'm a huge fan of Kubrick's; still, I think history will regard Risky Business as the better of the two films. Worth studying. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm old-fashioned...","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"16 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe I'm old-fashioned, but I remember the days when the subtleties of courtship constituted romance and adventure!Watching this film has given me more perspective than I wanted into the doings of teens these days, my 16 year old grandson Percy keeps house for me while I am away, and although I trust him, I must launder my bed linens for fear of his having turned my home into a weekend brothel as the character in this film did! While Mr. Cruise's antics may seem fun or what all the cool kids are doing, please think twice about soiling your elders' bed linens with VDs and crabs, your parents and grandparents do not deserve that sort of embarrassment! Explaining to my practitioner about my mysterious itch down there was humiliating enough, but now my husband wonders...Curse Hollywood for making it cool for youngsters to pay for sex on grandma's bed! "},{"Title":"Definitely not a John Hughes Film!","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Alan Brickman wrote and directed this film which made Tom Cruise a star and a household name. The scene in which he dances and sings in the house is probably the one we remember the most. His former wife Nicole Kidman enacted it out when she hosted Saturday Night Live when they were still married. Anyway, the plot is simple. A teenage man is left alone while his parents go off to visit a sick Aunt for a week. They trust him which is foolish. His friends played by the wonderful underused Curtis Armstrong and Bronson Pinchot keep him company. They suggest hiring a prostitute to come to the house. First, they meet Jackie who is not what they were looking for. Second, Jackie recommends Lana to come over. Lana is played by Rebecca DeMornay who herself becomes an accomplished actress but not the star or household name as Tom Cruise. She plays the young prostitute who befriends Tom's character, Joel, but screws with him as well. Anyway, her friends meet his friends and he becomes quite an entrepreneur and impresses the Princeton recruiter played by Richard Masur. "},{"Title":"Fun but no classic","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A preppy high schooler (Tom Cruise) is left alone in his parents huge mansion while they go on holiday. This new found independence leads him to throw caution to the wind and just say 'what the f**k'. He proceeds to take out his parents beloved Porsche and becomes involved with a call girl ( Rebbeca De Mornay) which inevitably leads to nothing but trouble.This film can be shelved alongside such 80's classics as 'The Breakfast Club' and 'Ferris Buellers Day Off'. However, unlike the aforementioned two, it is not as accomplished, with a weaker script and and less intriguing characters. A young Tom Cruise and Rebecca De Mornay both play there parts very competently and Joe Pantoliano is extremely good as the pimp, however, this does not make up for very dull parts of the film that drag on and have little humor. There a couple of laugh out loud moments but overall it does not have a great deal of spark and has not stood the test of time well, looking as it does fairly dated. On the positive side, if you get a few mates round, crack open some beers and get into the 80's groove, then your sure to enjoy this. Even if just to take the mickey out of the cheesy 80's fashion and somewhat corny lines. "},{"Title":"There is an upside to being a bad actor in America","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The upside to being a bad actor, in America, is that that the movie industry is structured as a business. And like any business there is a product they want to sell to you. In order to sell the product they need advertising, and this is where the star-system steps in. In order to sell a movie to the American target audience you need a typical American looking leading actor, which will be quoted like a commodity(this quote will determine the further use of him to endorse another product). And this explains why a not so good looking, next door looking guy like Tom Cruise, who can't act, gets the lead in movies. He is backed up in his performance by other, talented, not next-door material actors, but with strong personality(in this case Bronson Pinchot, Curtis Armstrong and Joe Pantoliano). The American movie business calls them comic relief characters, but in fact that means they are not destined to make it big in the business. Well, the only comic thing I find about all that is that luck (because the way you look is destiny) can put a bad actor on top of the pyramid. Only in America. "},{"Title":"Better Ending","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"16 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie explain to me why American culture considered to be like rock eroding from Chinese water torture. Stupid American kid fool around with hooker, he get what he deserve! He lucky he only get house ripped off, he still have his privates!Midget actor Tom Cruise make lousy stripper, I laugh at his tighty-whiteys. Girl who play hooker look too young to be crack user. Hookers not look like that, not ones teenage boy can afford. Pimp chase him, threaten him,it serve him right! He an idiot!Why I supposed to care if parents find out? Then they can cane him hard with stick, teach brat a lesson! Good American solution to problem He throw orgy, charge money! More hooker-girls too pretty to make sex with pimply high school boys! Better ending is he get caught, see how long smirk lasts in prison bathroom! "},{"Title":"Think you will like Sigmund Freud? Think again.","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that I never understood, perhaps because I am an openly gay adult. Why should Truman Capote be converted into a fussy British intelligence-Air Force-spy? He spies you all over the place the memorable stair scene with a Savanah-look-alike is a contender of the best F/X I have seen. Thsi is not Dumbo over Shangri-La or Bacon over Ver Meer. This is a really hot-blooded bimbo of a movie. You should leave it open and keep it in the closet if you will ever can. The syntax of the movie is happy a guy, Tom Cruise, invites people to start a business in a Andy Warhol-turnaround into Truman Capote disaster, Cruise sets his Alaskan marvels and start a career as a pimp or prostitute. He is not a male prostitute though he has one or two girlfriends who pose as accomplices so they can accomplish their risky business. Not a fake though the cinematography is acceptable, and his solo in-his-underwear scene is for a gay male who is not in the closet, respectable. "}{"Title":"Kind of dated movie","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kind of dated'80s sort of comedy movie.It was cute then.High point is TC dropping his pants, and dancing.He was still cute back then.This movie was Tom Cruise's claim to fame, probably still is. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie RISKY Business lack of almost everything. I saw it because a lot of people said that it was a good, perfect movie but they are so wrong.I mean just the description and all that fantasy seems so stupid. Then his parents left and all that it was not original. Then about the part where he was doing it was so stupid and pathetic. Why did they make such a pathetic film.I think his first film was so wrong, it just wrong. Then when they were having the party why the police wasn't there? Then all his stuff was gone in just a few hours when truly it takes more than a few hours to packed all of those things. Then he was paying back, like all that stuffed really coop in that small truck. The movie wasn't fun, nor dramatic, nor anything. There wasn't any soul. "},{"Title":"Tom-foolery","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Conveniently suburban prostitute, well-groomed, teeth intact? False. Primary ignorance, nothing primordial, except the sludge of wasted minutes irretrievably spent.Pennies in a fountain were at least wishes and not pimply teenage fantasy.Except for the water,They don't float, just watered-down, horny whitebread tomfoolery.Pancreatic, fumiliar scentiment. Redundant.How do you chasm truth? You meek it; that's all. I curse the day I ever met that 8-fingered freak. The over-sized spoon; the baseball cap - it tells you he can't possibly understand.This is your body. (dancing badly in soiled briefs and sunglasses)This is your tombstone. (STDs and philanthropic abortions)White picket fence hides herpes, lesions, erosion in the cloth of memory. Nothing is actual, clownish caricatures trump reason, reality. Let them rot with syphilis, so I can pretend I learned anything. "}]