[{"Title":"an epic film with something for everyone","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"82 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Right Stuff is terrific exciting, complex, funny, crammed with memorable scenes, unforgettable lines, and wonderful actors (many of whom went on to become big stars).A classic shot shows a test pilot on horseback coming over a ridge stopping to look at a new rocket-plane, steadying his nervous horse as it edges past the flames coming out the back. The test pilot is the twentieth century's cowboy tough, laconic, independent, fearless.The Right Stuff tells two parallel stories the (often fatal) exploits of the early test pilots and Mercury astronauts, with intersecting storylines. The movie never takes itself too seriously. Witness general crawling on the floor to plug in the projector, the sounds of the locusts when the press surrounds the astronauts (Yeager called them locusts initially), the Halleluiah Chorus during the press conference, the enema scene, Sheppard needing to take a leak in the suit, Johnson trying to deal with a housewife. Yet underneath all the fun that is poked at the astronauts we see respect for real men doing a scary, important job.This film has all the excitement of Top Gun, but is longer, better, just as high-tech exciting, and much funnier. (A washroom scene rivals Meg Ryan's famous restaurant scene...the audience laughed so hard we all missed Cooper's next line!).And some wonderful lines Cooper's response to Who's the best pilot you ever saw?, O.K. You can be Gus, The Military owes me, Read'em and weep, Hey Ridley, you got any Beemans?, I go to church too., Everything is A-OK, Our Germans are better than their Germans, What are you two pudknockers going to have?, and, said with regret and frustration test pilots!To those who have seen it, here's a challenge that will enable you to appreciate the excellent writing, the workmanship and planning that went into the script. View the movie again and see how many times the screenwriter and director took the trouble to set up a later event or comment with an earlier reference. Here are three examples Cooper dropping a tiny toy space capsule into Grissum's drink (foreshadowing), Copper reading Life magazine before the publisher enters the movie (to make sure we viewers know that Life magazine exits), Yeager bumping his elbow on a limb of a cactus tree as he walks into Pancho's at the beginning of the movie (I never noticed this the first few times I watched the movie, but surely this tiny action was deliberate.) I count a dozen more examples. Send me ones you find.If you haven't seen The Right Stuff, I strongly recommend you rent the DVD. -RS  "},{"Title":"the film does praise Yeager (response to mrbisco)","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"74 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"   I have to correct mrbsico for not paying attention to the very things he comments on.  It's not that he turned down the opportunity to apply to be an astronaut, it's that Chuck Yeager wasn't allowed to apply. When seraching for astronauts Harry Shearer's character praises Yeager as the ace of aces, but goes on to say that he doesn't fit the profile of the type of man Washington is looking for because he never went to college. This was a true pre-requisite which the Mercury Program had.  Also, the scene at the end where Yeager crashes his NF-104 doesn't bring him down, it glorifies him. Gordo Cooper even comments that he gets on the cover of magazines, gets a free car, free lunches all across America, a free home with all the furnishings and loads of money and I ain't even been up there yet. He's famous because he's an astronaut alone - not because of anything he's done.  Kaufman cuts back and forth between the scene where Cooper is with Yeager's flight in the desert for reason. Yeager's almost alone with no media around, out in the desert attempting a record which won't put him on Life Magazine's cover. He's trying to set a record because that's what he's made of. He has The Right Stuff; which is something Cooper reazlies as we cut back to the reception and Gordo is asked by the reporters who the best pilot he ever saw was.  Yeager may have crashed his plane in his last flight of the movie, but he emerges as a fearless man ever up for the challenge. And that he's not doing any of it for fame or fortune (although in real life the real Yeager cashed in with TV ads and a best-selling autobiography after both the book and the movie were released!!).  That's what's rare about this movie for Hollywood to have made. Films are almost never about measuring a man's inner desires, but rather his being able to win the fight at the end. Yeager in contrast doesn't win the flight record at the film's end, but he is still the hero. This is because he dares to do what we never would. And even after his plane crashes he walks out of the gulf of fire and smoke with a severely burned face as if he will be back; you can't keep him down.  This is why as the rescuer driving the ambulance as he sees Yeager's figure walking out of the fire in the distance asks, Is that a man?, Jack Ridley replies, You're damn right it is!. Ridley isn't merely remarking that it's a man over there, he is commenting that in our world Yeager is one of the few true men.  This film is not about the space program. That is merely a pretext to explore the type of men who have what it takes to volunteer for dangerous missions - even in times of peace. It's about men who have The Right Stuff - and of all those men whom we see in the movie it is Yeager who shines about all others. "},{"Title":"Pushing the Envelope of Space!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"64 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  'The Right Stuff' is one of the most glorious adventure films ever made, a story of incredible heroism, poignant romance, gripping drama, and broad humor...and amazingly, it has actually happened within our lifetimes!This is a tale of test pilots, 'pushing the envelope', proving the sound barrier couldn't constrain mankind's reach for space. Leading the way is plain-speaking Chuck Yeager (portrayed by Sam Shepard with Gary Cooper-like charm), a Beeman's gum-chewing cowboy with a passion for his feisty wife (the beautiful Barbara Hershey), and hot planes. Not even a broken rib could hold him back when an opportunity to fly the X-1 was offered. His record-breaking flight could fill a movie by itself...and this is just the BEGINNING of the story!Jumping ahead a few years, Yeager is joined by a new breed of test pilots, whose total love of flight challenges their relationships, and is the true measure of how they define themselves. Among them are 'Gordo' Cooper (Dennis Quaid), a hot dog jet jockey with an unhappy wife (Pamela Reed, giving an exceptional performance); and Gus Grissom (Fred Ward, in his breakthrough role), coarse and direct, and anxious for his shot at the fastest jets.The entire world changes when the Russians launch Sputnik, in 1957. As the American space program struggles to 'catch up', the government realizes that American men will have to go into space, and President Eisenhower wants 'educated' test pilots to fill this role. Yeager is out (he never completed college), but Cooper and Grissom, and many others, compete for spots in the New Frontier.These pilots, from all services, are weeded down to seven men, dubbed 'Astronauts', and the Mercury Space Program is born! Along with Cooper and Grissom, the story focuses on Navy pilot Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), laconic and prone to ethnic humor; and Marine John Glenn (perfectly cast Ed Harris), a 'boy scout' of unimpeachable morals, who loyally supports an impaired wife (sensitively portrayed by Mary Jo Deschanel). Working under the glare of the world press, the seven gradually come to respect one another, and embark on an epic adventure, full of triumph and tragedy!Meanwhile, Chuck Yeager, snubbed by NASA, continues to test new generations of jets, pushing the 'envelope', until, in a climactic scene, he achieves the threshold of space, himself. The flight is a near disaster, resulting in a horrendous crash, but the image of the burned but undefeated pilot, walking proudly away from the wreckage, is an unforgettable image of courage, and truly defines 'The Right Stuff'!This is a REMARKABLE film in every way, and is director Philip Kaufman's masterpiece. Lushly scored by Tom Conti (who won an Oscar for the Tchaikovsky-inspired music), the film soars, both on earth and in space!If you believe the Age of Heroes is past, watch 'The Right Stuff', and you might change your mind! This is a film to treasure!  "},{"Title":"The Right Stuff That Is Exactly What This Film Has","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"70 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Outstanding film from 1983 that was honored with four Academy Awards and is often called the second-best film of the 1980s behind only Scorsese's Raging Bull. The movie is a 190-plus minute extravaganza which honors the U.S. Mercury 7 Astronauts. The all-star cast includes Sam Shepard (as Chuck Yeager in an Oscar-nominated role of a lifetime), Ed Harris (John Glenn), Scott Glenn (Alan Shepard), Fred Ward (Gus Grissom), Lance Henriksen (Walter Schirra), Dennis Quaid (Gordon Cooper), and Donald Moffat (Lyndon Baines Johnson). The film is solid in so many respects. It is meticulous and tries to go for drama and humor and succeeds in everything it wants to do. Veronica Cartwright, Barbara Hershey, Pamela Reed, Kathy Baker, and Mary Jo Deschanel are also along for the ride as several of the wives who attempt to keep their heads about them while they fear that their husbands are losing theirs. The Right Stuff is a historical lesson told in a way that is so clever and convincing that few will find fault with anything when it comes to the story-telling. Writer-director Philip Kaufman easily does the best work of his career with this masterpiece. Look for Cincinnati Bengal Hall-of-Famer Anthony Munoz in a cameo appearance. Arguably the best film of the 1980s and should have been the Best Picture Oscar winner over Terms of Endearment in 1983. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"far out in space, for the first time...","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"44 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I always loved anything connected to science fact and science fiction and this movie is no exception.I already owned the Laserdisc version of it, but the DVD is even better.I love this movie, but I must consider the interest of the public and I honestly cannot say that this is one for the vast public.The theme alone is a difficult one and deals with the history of the Space Age, as it began from an American perspective, and by telling the story of the astronauts involved in the Mercury project.Being very long, it might not fit the modern view of a quick-fix movie. This one has to be watched as if your were watching JFK or Gettysburg, therefore with the outmost attention.It has spectacular recreations of the actual launches, combined with more private moments, involving the astronauts, their loved ones and those who trained them.This is not Science Fiction and it is not an Adventure movie, this is truly a history lesson about how the Space Race got started, how, with whom and why.It is a very thoroughly researched movie, although it is not to be confused with a documentary. It is an intelligent movie, with good dialogues, good character recreations, with humor and moments of sadness and tragedy. The heroism of the first astronauts is not represented by their fabulous deeds, but rather by the sacrifices they had to make, in order to be successful.If you can bare to sit in front of your TV for 3 hours and 15 minutes without unnecessary interruptions, then this documentation may make it clear why men and women risk so much in going where no one has gone before.But, as I stated before, this is not an easy going movie and is reserved for all those who want to enjoy a good movie in peace.I would recommend its showing in every school of the United States, and why not, also throughout the world. Many children would then really appreciate what the conquest of space is all about.  "},{"Title":"Real Heroes, And An Era That Went By All Too Fast","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" An interesting insight into the United States' space program, beginning with the exploits of fighter pilot Chuck Yeager (Sam Shephard) and concluding with the dramatic flights of the first astronauts.Those astronauts - the Mercury 7 pilots - are a varied group of aviators and they are all pretty interesting guys. John Glenn (Ed Harris) gets favorable treatment in here among the group. Gordon Cooper might be the wildest with the cocky and humorous Dennis Quaid playing him. Overall, it's a good cast including not just the fliers but their wives. I also enjoyed Scott Glenn as Alan Shepard and Barbara Hershey as Yeager's wife.Yeager's feats were perhaps the most interesting and they set a fast tone to this 3-hour film as we witness him breaking several sound-barrier records prior to the formation of the astronaut team. Then we are treated to a long-but-interesting segment of how those first astronauts were trained.The only unnecessary and ludicrous parts of this film were the ones on Lyndon Johnson, where they made him into a total fool. It was as if the screen writers had a personal vendetta against him, to make him look almost like a cartoon figure. And the bit with the Australian Aborigines smacks too much of Hollywood's love affair with tribal religions. I sincerely doubt some sparks from a fire on earth could be seen miles and miles above in space.At any rate, this was an informative look at a period in our history than came-and-went way too fast. Sad to say, most people know very little about those first astronauts, who were true heroes. At least this film gives them their due, as well as to Yeager, who deserved this tribute, too "},{"Title":"Just about every element ties together well creating a nearly perfect movie","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff takes place during the Cold War when America was trying its hardest in technological advancements to beat the Russians. The movie first starts out with Chuck Yeager(Sam Shepard) attempting to break the sound barrier. The movie continues with other story lines as professional pilots desperately try to get into the NASA space program, become the first Americans into space, and try to break some kind of record that will beat what the Russians had. The other real life people that this movie follows are Alan Shepard(Scott Glenn), Gordon Cooper(Dennis Quaid), John Glenn(Ed Harris), Gus Grissom(Fred Ward), and of course, their families.The running time is very long at 3 hours plus, but it goes by very quickly. The first couple of hours go by as if they were 25 minutes, and the last hour is thrilling, as well as inspiring. There are several plot elements that really make this movie phenomenal. There is plenty of excitement as you see what the skilled pilots try to accomplish, there is plenty of humor, the cast is nearly perfect, and the score adds plenty of effect to the film. The result is a phenomenal, nearly perfect film, being one of the best films of the 1980's.The plot is very interesting, as you see the lives of the pilots, the status of the American Government desperately trying to overcome the Russians with advanced technology, and the difficulties in trying to accomplish these difficulties. This is well worth your time, and it is a great movie. "},{"Title":"A good humoured, patriotic telling of the men behind the space programme","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Following the breaking of the sound barrier by pilot Chuck Yeager, the next barrier was space.  With the Russians and America in a race to see who can get there first and be highest, quickest and longest in space, a group of pilots are selected to become the first men in space for America.I have had this film for many years and have only seen it twice now &#150; I always get put off by having to find three + hours free to watch it!  However I am a fool as whenever I do watch it the time flies by easily.  Such is the appeal of the film that everything works and only the odd scene at the end drags a little.  The story skips through the space programme focusing as much on the flights as it does on the men and their families.  It also manages to be very light hearted and good humoured, which succeeds in making it easy and fun to watch.  The history being told may not be well known by all (I'm too young to remember and am also in the UK), but it is well told and becomes more a story of the men whose courage made it happen rather than a history lesson.Given that so much hinges on the men being interesting and likeable characters it was important to have a good cast, and the ensemble assembled here really put in good work to bring the names to life (although how close to their real personalities they are I cannot say).  Taking one as an example, Fred Ward manages to be funny but also has to convey the more difficult side as he is forced to live with blame for the outcome of his mission.  Shepard represents the `unsung' pilots left behind in the sky who put the space programme in motion in the first place, and he does it well with a real sense that he has a lot of men behind him.  Glenn, Harris, Quaid Henriksen, Frank and Paulin all do sterling work to varying degrees.  However even minor roles are played by faces who do well &#150; Hershey is good and carries the role of `the women behind the men' really well.  Moffat is funny as Lyndon Johnson and Goldblum and Shearer are hilarious with their running jokes.The film is very flag waving &#150; but the good humour stopped that aspect of it sticking in my throat. It is a very enjoyable and accomplished film.  Not only does it manage to inform and entertain but it also paints a very good picture of the men who started and ran the space programme and the effect the risks had on them and their families.  All this and it still makes me laugh out loud!  Three hours simply flies by. "},{"Title":"Kaufman's Crowning Achievement","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" An incredibly under-rated director, Philip Kaufman adapted Tom Wolfe's best-selling tale of the Mercury astronauts in 1983 and, since that time, he has been unable to top himself (he came very very close with Unbearable... and Quills, but The Right Stuff is very much out of their league).Why? The Right Stuff is a perfect blend of intelligence and wit and action. At just three hours long, it occasionally feels too short. The audience comes to know the characters through terrific performances by Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Sam Shepard, and Fred Willard and Kaufman's deft pen (which, no doubt, Wolfe's novel helped guide). We are sad when the story ends; we want more. It's rare that a movie creates such an inviting and intriguing world that, after three hours, we still do not want to leave.This movie is absolutely one of a kind. Its critical patriotism shows that films can show their love of country without wandering into nationalistic or jingoistic propaganda. It is very rare that a film this indebted to America and American history can be so ambivalent.That, in my mind, is a positive rather than a negative. The filmmaker and actors understand that the Space Race was not a simple process; they understand that heroes have a dark side.They all refuse to let the heroism cover the unsavory aspects of a person's life and, simultaneously, they do not let those aspects darken their contribution to mankind.The Right Stuff is really an amazing filmic experience. It's an expert adaptation, an expert recreation of the early US Space Program, and an expert entertainment. Apollo 13 wanted so very much to be the Right Stuff. It's not; nothing will ever beat the Right Stuff. "},{"Title":"A movie that is as straight forward as the story it tells","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  `The Right Stuff' is the story of the original Mercury 7 astronauts and their journey through the fledgling NASA program and eventually into space.  It is well-written and well-acted, featuring a veritable `Who's Who' of then slightly unknown actors such as Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Sam Shepard, Scott Glenn and Lance Henriksen.  While it had an over three hour running time, and I actually had to get up to turn over the DVD because of its length, the pacing was such that I never once considered that any particular scene should have been shortened.  One thing I particularly enjoyed about the film was the introduction of Chuck Yeager (Shepard) and his contribution to history by breaking the sound barrier, and then the periodic simultaneous comparison of the accomplishments of the astronauts and the Air Force and civilian test pilots, as well as exhibiting their eventual mutual respect.If I had to point out any kind of glaring fault, it would have to be that they focused on some astronauts more than others &#150; obviously concentrating heavily on the bigger names, and glossing over the `lesser-known' ones.  An example would be Walter Schirra (Henriksen) &#150; his name is mentioned a couple of times, and he probably had a tenth of the screen time of the others.  Plainly, with an already three hour running time not everyone could have equal time, so this is certainly a mild criticism.  `The Right Stuff' isn't profound or exceptional, but it is certainly a good and interesting film.--Shelly  "}{"Title":"History Is Made Of This Stuff","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It was wonderful to see again this 1983 gem. Just as I remembered plus those unexpected surprises that time puts in evidence. Kim Stanley for instance. A few minutes on the screen, a peripheral character but I took her with me and here I am, thinking about her. The starry role jet pilots played and that new breed tha astronauts getting the all American treatment, becoming overnight celebrities. Ed Harris is extraordinary as John Glenn. He becomes a sort of leader with some TV experience and we never ask why. Ed Harris's performance explains it all without ever actually saying it. Dennis Quaid is irresistible as Gordo Cooper. You believe every one of his thoughts, specially the ones he never reveals. In spite of the film's length, I wished the film would not end. I haven't had that wish very often. The Right Stuff is the real thing. "},{"Title":"long but lean, heroic but very knowing, visually gorgeous and well-acted","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not sure why I put off, or just didn't get around, to seeing the Right Stuff. I could take my pick, but really I was never made to sit down by my parents or in school or other to watch it, and... screw the excuses, I wasn't sure about a 193 minute movie about astronauts as a kid. But now having seen it it's quite clear I was missing something fairly excellent in the cannon of the Bio-pic. It's one of those true compelling 20th century stories, and the filmmaker Philip Kaufman cares about all of these real guys so much that it moves right over into the cinematic treatment of the characters. And more impressively considering its ensemble there's almost a key character to the mix with Chuck Yeagher, the first man to break the sound barrier who never got into NASA with all the other go-for-broke test pilots, but did taste that rush up to the sky just once - and what a rush.This is film-making of a superlative caliber. It is such a story that is told extraordinarily because of how it takes itself seriously as a historical document, but never so much so as to get in a great joke - the kind of natural joking that people do, such as the few quips done by Yeagher in the cockpit to whoever was listening after breaking the sound barrier, which actually happened - or some sliver of satire to the mix. It pleases both as an emotional experience, one of those rousing and inspiring tales, and also at times intellectual. We see the lives of these guys, of Yeagher, Shepard, Glenn, Cooper, Grissom, and their wives too. The Right Stuff is a very human story, told with an approximate awe for the subject matter and an attitude that says we can be epic, but we can also point out the flaws that come around in human nature. There were so many obstacles that could have come, and sometimes did, for the folks at NASA, the scientists as well as the handful that were picked to do missions up into space in direct competition with America's foe the Russians, that all the astronauts could sometimes do would be to joke or give a hard-lined measure. We see some expected things like a big press conference, but we also see things that ring so true that they feel so real as minor events, like when the scientists are showing the astronauts the pod without a window or proper escape hatch and they all band together to put pressure on them to do it right or else the press will hear all hell (the wording in this scene is very good). The veneer of pure heroism is shown for what it is, as something of not always a tricky thing; the film was criticized by some of the original astronauts for the depiction of Gus Grissom (if only because Grissom had passed on in tragedy and couldn't do it himself), but his story of going into space, and the aftermath with his wife, is important to show for the story the film's trying to tell.That's one of the remarkable things in the Right Stuff, which is giving as much equal time and depth as possible to these guys, and their wives at other times. We see Dennis Quaid's cocky pilot saying he's the best their is, and then another where he suddenly becomes like 12 years old in front of the female doctor as she speaks/laughs with his wife behind doors. We see Ed Harris' John Glenn as the supposed spokesperson of the group, the Dudley Do-Right as it were, but then the slightest bit of uncertainty - not to mention a really well told drama with his wife, who was a stutterer, and stood up against being pressured by Vice President Johnson. Little details all add up in the film, and even the ones that don't entirely work (i.e. the cut-aways to the aborigines during Glenn's flight up in space) still carry some worth as far as being filmed wonderfully or with a strange quality that makes it fun to watch - any other director might take out the crucial detail of Alan Shepard urinating in his suit before the very first successful launch of a US man into space, but it's left in, and stronger for it. And as far as just details with the characters go, all you need to see is the kind of simple but very strong representation of death in the man in the black suit and hat who has to pay call to those who've lost their husbands or fathers up in the sky. And, thankfully for such a long running time, we're given several moments in terms of the power of cinematic technique, of showing us the subjective perspective of what those who orbit the Earth see and the views outside the windows at so many countless miles up in the atmosphere. Basically any scene with Chuck Yeagher is one of these, especially early on but then also towards the end with his absolutely stunning bittersweet moment of going up to the sky and, well, nearly dying in a last-minute jump from the plane into flames. Kaufman takes the audience into these moments, and even just quiet or interesting ones with the actors, and imbues it all with just enough importance to level off the occasional goofiness he allows his character or in the choice of edits (watch as the chimps, being spin around in that big circular thing are cut with Glenn spinning around). That it's also one of those outstanding ensembles helps a great deal too.It's exciting and refreshingly bittersweet Hollywood cinema, and at the least of the must-see pictures of 1983. "},{"Title":"Historical Drama, at it's best.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Here was a director and a writer who knew that they had a real story that needed a minimum amount of added-on work to make a fine movie. The time passing early on being marked by the fighter-jets evolution was very subtle. The haunting looks back at Edwards Air Force Base and Chuck Yeager's career seemed to ground the movie and remind you where all these heroes came from... and that there were MORE heroes waiting. Sam Shepard's portrayal of Mr. Yeager was particularly good, and I enjoy watching this film... every October 14th.  "},{"Title":" You're Damn Right It Is!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Over there-Is that a Man?You're damn right it is!My favorite line from one of my favorite movies. Sam Shepherd defiantly walking accross the floor of the desert with half of his face burned off, having just crashed his jet is one hell of an image. The embodiment of human bravery caught on film. I understand the arguments against this movie-but I don't buy em. Great show!!  Great Job to all of the men and women who risk it all every day! "},{"Title":"Warning for short-version DVD","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As an aviation buff, this is one of my favorite movies. Besides telling the story of the Mercury program in a humorous, tounge-in-cheek way, it also features some very breath-taking flying scenes, that are right on the spot. But I want to warn you, that Warner Bros Video has issued this film on DVD in a shortened version. The original version is 193 minutes, while this DVD version is only 153 minutes. Among the missing 20 minutes are a few of the best scenes of the original movie. "},{"Title":"The Best Picture of 1983","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This picture was selected as Best Picture of its year by 2 of the best movie reviewers in recent memory, Siskel & Ebert.  They both chose this film because it showed how things get done in America.This is one of my favorite films.  If you remember the space race (and not fantasize you do like some other reviewers on this page) and the Mercury astronauts were your heroes too, then watching this movie is like going home again.As for the younger crowd?  Watching this true story will be a lot of fun, and there are a lot of laughs.  But more importantly, it will give you a look into a time when your country actually tried to do important things not b/c they were easy, as President Kennedy said, but b/c they were hard. A concept so sadly lacking these days.Watch everyone, and enjoy.  It's quite a ride, and it all really happened. "},{"Title":"Is That A Man?  Yeah You're Damn Right It Is","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff is a bold and ambitious movie, based upon Tom Wolfe's novel of the same name. It's storyline depicts a very important part of history, namely, the cold war between the U.S. and Russia. We were competing with Russia for decades over which country could hold the title of biggest superpower. The Americans versus the Commies. The threat of nuclear war between the two countries was always tangible.The Right Stuff is a most entertaining and informative history lesson. A chronicle of the Mercury 7 program which propelled the first Americans into space. Pilot Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard) basically started it all as the man who first risked his life towards this journey by breaking the sound barrier with his Glamorous Glennis X-1. Russia upped the ante with Sputnik soon after.The early Yeager flight sequence where he surpasses the speed of sound is nothing short of breathtaking. Caleb Deshanel's cinematography and sfx accompanying this and other airborne dramatizations depicted here are unparalleled to anything I've seen in a movie before or since. They will have you on the edge of your seat.The first act of The Right Stuff is mostly Yeager's story. But in addition to learning about this American legend, this portion of the film allows the viewer to get into the psyche of the test pilot. Each time you go on up in a hurtling piece of machinery to try topping the record you set previously could be your last. Risky and Dangerous, but for these guys it's a way of life, and they wouldn't have it any other way.Yeager's groundbreaking flights set the blueprint for America's journey into space. From here we see test pilots from all over competing with each other to become the first in history to go where no man has gone before. These scenes are insightful, funny, and allow the viewer to be introduced to the personalities behind the men who would make up the Mercury 7 program.From here, the viewer gets exposed to the behind-the-scenes politics during this pivotal point in history, showing the relationships these men have with their concerned wives as well as satirizing the prying, sometimes inconsiderate news media once the astronauts are introduced to the press. The human element and satire depicted in these scenes are still truthful and relevant by today's standards.These pilots are competitive and naturally find differences with one another. But they eventually learn to look past their egos, realizing they're all in this together. They eventually come to terms with the fact they are now America's spokespersons, and learn to respect and admire one another along their journey.The cast is outstanding. Scott Glenn, Dennis Quaid, Ed Harris, and Fred Ward all give top-notch performances as Alan Shepherd, Gordo Cooper, John Glenn, and Gus Grissom. Acclaimed musician turned actor Levon Helm delivers one of the best lines in Movie History. Tom Conti's winning and inspirational score ties this historical epic together, which deservedly won an Academy Award for best original score.The running time is slightly over 3 hours, but is never boring and seems most appropriate in retrospect to tell this epic story.The fact that Terms of Endearment won best picture over The Right Stuff at the 1983 Oscars is a travesty. The Right Stuff is a timeless classic which will always retain it's power and glory, and serves as a historical time capsule to teach future generations of moviegoers what heroism and bravery are all about. "},{"Title":"Great film about great achievement","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I believe this film was underrated on it's original release. What a pity. It's a brilliantly delivered story of the men and women who contributed to the greatest historical event in my lifetime. Probably the greatest since Columbus, nearly 500 years earlier. It tells very much a human story of the people and families of those involved. The test pilots from the early jet age, the very real risks that they took and the selection of the few to enter the space programme. I was upset to discover that the great Chuck Yeager was not chosen because he was not of the officer class or education standard. Something like that as far as I can recall. I always thought that this attitude was a peculiarity of British class snobbery. Disappointing that it happened in the United States. This film has the very best actors, writing, everything. If you haven't seen it PLEASE DO! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Such a Cool Film","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's got everything, including length! It's full of actors who later became famous for other roles. It's more or less accurate historically. It takes its time to develop the story with countless dirty, amusing, moving details. I just love it and can't imagine why few people seem to have even heard of it. I suppose it's a guy film.An overriding theme depicted in many wonderful ways is the transition of authentic heroes of the sort exemplified by Yaeger and other unsung test pilots, to astronauts -- creatures of the media, no braver than other pilots (although just as highly skilled) but marketed as such for the pleasure of politicians and the bureaucracy of NASA in the race for space. These astronauts cooperate with this mischaracterization since it fits well their monumental egos, but the director makes clear in myriad,nuanced ways (like during the fan dance in the Astrodome) that deep inside they know they are shams in comparison to those slogging away at Edwards without media attention and unearned perks. "},{"Title":"This movie tested my endurance and helped me break a record.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I really liked this movie sixteen years ago.  I was an ideal audience, partly because I built models of fighters and carriers, flew model rockets, and was eager to see lots of military hardware.  But the real reason is that I was 14 years old.This movie comprehends life at about the level of a 14-year-old.  Watching it again as an adult was painful.  After every visual cliche, after every scene of buffoonery (almost innumerable) I told myself it would get better, that the scenes of space flight were coming.  But there was nothing but more weak dialog, trite phrases and ... even the shot framing was corny.And that dreadful score.  Bill Conti really reached a new level of inappropriateness (beyond his previous best misunderstanding of theme, style and sentiment with For Your Eyes Only).  Here we have a movie about individualists, talented, flashy egotists.  Maybe an appropriate musical representation would be an exciting solo instrument against orchestra, in other words a concerto.  For no conceivable reason, however, Conti takes the theme of a very famous concerto ... and plays it with full orchestra only, minus the fireworks of the violin part.  So there is no symbolism of the one against the many, just a vaguely joyous melody.  And then just to make sure we know it's really Bill Conti's score, and not Pete Tchaikovsky, he changes two notes.Conti has done some straightforwardly uplifting music (especially towards the beginning of his career), but this is simply cheap proud and happy music.  And why Mars, Bringer of War by Holst in yet another film?  Finlandia is just as universally known to musicians, and would have made more sense as music of overcoming (gravity, technical troubles).The obnoxious Foreign Man character in the meetings was supposed to be Werner von Braun, ex-Nazi rocket-team leader.  The man was a genius, and he was cunning, imaginative and by most accounts impressive.  If, for lack of time, he could not be shown rounded, he could at least have been characterized as formidable, secretive, dangerous.  That's just as simple.LBJ was loquacious and persuasive, not a yeller or a whiner and not such a carnival barker in public.  I dislike the man and his decisions, but why make him into a plain old jackass when he was an effective and charismatic user of people?Surely Harris and Shepard knew this was a bad script.  They make the absolute best out of the meager diet they were fed.  And under such obvious direction Smile when the light goes across, Look up after a second, React with surprise and so on, making the actors seem like puppets sometimes.I suppose Jeff Goldblum had to take what he could get in those days, but it's still disappointing to have to sit through his gags (literally).The wives seem to be thrown in to get females into the theater.  The point their characters make didn't even need them on the screen to be made.  The men could have confessed, maybe in a bar scene, to the marital woe and guilt that plagued them as a result of their chosen career.  And shaved off a good half-an-hour in the process.  The wives contributed almost nothing else to the story. Drag without lift.It won for Best Editing.  Could have been Most Editing.  When objects fly in the movie, they are seen this way here it comes (from the left), there it goes (to the left), here it comes (from below), there it goes (off the bottom), now it wobbles (to show how fast it's going), the dials on the instrument panel turn, then out the front window, now where did it go?, now it's coming right at you, and last just the vapor trail seen from the ground.  This sequence occurs almost edit-for-edit whenever something goes more than 55mph, and it's dull.Before I saw it again on DVD, I would have given it an 8 from my fond memories.  I have to give it a 4, alongside such cinematic triumphs as Dirty Dancing and Creepshow 2.By the way, the NASA logo shown throughout was not used until the mid-60's.  Am I wrong to be so bothered by that?  When the movie is about NASA, I don't think so.And as for the record  Never before have I sweated with embarrassment all the way through a movie. "}{"Title":"Fun flick that's long on legend, short on truth","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Take a series of events that by themselves stir the imagination and the soul, romanticize and embellish them in a novel by a pop-culture author, then take that novel and give it the Hollywood treatment, and you end up with something that's long on legend, short on truth, but who cares? It features historic people and airplanes, excellent cinematography, a gang of stellar actors and even acceptable model and special effects work.Unlike Tom Wolf's novel, the movie ignores the Navy's Pax River and gives all the glory to Edwards AFB and the Zoomies. The CAF's FIFI, the last flying B-29, has a major role as the X-1's mothership, as well as a privately-owned F-104 Starfighter out of Mojave as the plane that almost killed Chuck Yeager. The real General Yeager has a bit role as a crusty old prospector doing bartender duty at the watering hole the Edwards pilots hang out in. The scene where Harry Shearer and Jeff Goldblum, playing two NASA flunkies, are bad-mouthing Yeager because he has no college degree, all while the real Yeager, playing the bartender, is standing in back of them listening in, is precious.While the plot and action centers on Yeager and the original seven Mercury astronauts, two actresses are worth watching Veronica Cartwright does her usual great job as Betty Grissom (I want to have lunch with Jackie!!) and the ever-versatile and talented Pamela Reed as Gordon Cooper's long-suffering wife, Trudy, who has some of the best lines in the movie (referring to the macho Edwards test pilots, But they sure are handy assholes.).A bit of tragic trivia Jane Dornacker, the talented actress, comedienne and musician who uglied up to play Nurse Murch in the hilarious sperm count scene, later a traffic reporter in New York City for WNBC radio, was killed when her helicopter lost its tail rotor, narrowly missed a pier and crashed into the Hudson River. At the time of the crash she was live on the air, and her screams Hit the water! Hit the water were heard by literally thousands of stunned New York commuters. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining and Inspirational Movie","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Right Stuff is a terrific story about America entering the space age. Based on true events from Chuck Yeager breaking the sound barrier to the 7 Mercury astronauts, the film assembled an excellent cast including Sam Shepard, Ed Harris, Scott Glenn, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward, Barbara Hershey, Veronica Cartwright, etc., to pay tribute to those who paved the way for America to be at the top of the pyramid.It is a long movie, but never a dull moment.  Though quite a bit of artistic licensing is carried out(so I am told), the movie showed events that were very true, such as Yeager breaking his ribs before his supersonic flight, and his friend fixing him a door handle by cutting off a section of a broom stick handle; the rigorous training the astronauts go through; Russians taking the lead going into space, Allan Shepard's prayer before liftoff; Pancho's restaurant burning down; John Glenn's risky re-entry, etc.The movie doesn't just portray space flight.  It portrays the lives of these astronauts, the tremendous risk they've taken, how they and their spouses cope with their profession, how the public perceives them, and of course the administrators, the politicians and the scientists.  Characters in this movie are not impeccable people.  They each have their own set of problems. Yet the imperfection, true to life or not, gives these heroes a human touch that is believable, which also makes a stronger statement that they are larger than life.  Today people hardly think about what they went through to get us this far.There is beautiful cinematography in this movie, with historical footage that blends in seamlessly.  And the music score truly inspires at moments, such as when John Glenn's Friendship 7 blasts into space, and when Yeager takes the NF-104 Starfighter up for a spin.  There is also light-hearted humor that provides some very entertaining moments, and a slight satire of the space race that is sure to offend a number of people.I strongly disagree with some reviewers' assertion that the movie portrays Gus Grissom as a coward.  In real life, Grissom went through much scrutiny he did not deserve, because of the blown hatch and the lost capsule. Watch it carefully and pay attention to the dialogue.  The movie is extremely sympathetic towards Grissom, through his dialogue with his wife in which he could not understand why no one believed him; through the words of Yeager ...old Gus did all right...; through Cooper's re-affirming touch on Grissom's shoulder while talking to reporters; and through the closing monologue that mentioned Grissom's death in the Apollo 1 fire.In conclusion, this movie is an ode to those heroes that truly had the right stuff.  It is both entertaining and inspiring.  My advice to some viewers is - don't get too hung up on the satire, or historical inaccuracies.By the way, look for the real Chuck Yeager in the bar scenes.  "},{"Title":"One subtle thing I loved about this movie","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Throughout the movie were clever references to the ultimate goal of America's space program  The moon.  It's seen repeatedly in newsreel shots of the X-1, again with the song Faraway Places in the soundtrack, and ultimately with the wry reference via the stripper doing her fan dance to Debussy's Clair de Lune.  Philip Kaufman, God bless you. "},{"Title":"There was a demon that lived in the air. They said whoever challenged him would die.","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In April 1959, NASA unveiled the Mercury Seven, an elite selection of fighter pilots who would become the first Americans to reach Outer space. With the Soviet Union seemingly always one step ahead in the Space Race, the US government was determined to keep up with their rival's achievements, occasionally displaying a recklessness that could easily have ended in disaster. In theory, however acute their flying skills, these astronauts were not supposed to do anything; they were expected simply to sit there, unable to observe their surroundings and incapable of controlling the movements of their space capsule &#150; their mere presence in space was superfluous, and existed only to provide symbolic confirmation that an American had reached such a perceived milestone. For all the gruelling physical assessments in which the astronauts took part, do they really differ all that much from the test chimpanzees that preceded them? Does one possess the right stuff simply because they were one of the fortunate men who were chosen?In 1979, Thomas Wolfe published The Right Stuff, a non-fiction book exploring the beginnings of the American space programme, compiled through extensive research and interviews with test-pilots, astronauts and their wives. William Goldman initially penned a screenplay adaptation, but later distanced himself from the project after creative differences arose between himself and director Philip Kaufman, who ultimately received full writing credit. Over an epic three hours, 'The Right Stuff (1983)' charts the United States' experiments with rocket-powered aircraft, and the attempts to break the sound barrier, and, more substantially, Project Mercury, which first placed America astronauts into space as an entire nation watched. Goldman had originally wished to excise test-pilot Chuck Yeager, on which Wolfe spends considerable time, from the film adaptation, but Kaufman knowingly recognised that Yeager's involvement solidified the story's primary theme &#150; that the right stuff wasn't merely restricted to the highly-paid astronauts idolised by the media, but also included the humble high-achievers who regularly risked their lives for the thrill of the flight.It's obvious that Kaufman believed the film's true hero to be Chuck Yeager, as well as the dozens of anonymous test pilots whose photographs once lined the wall at the Happy Bottom Riding Club. Whereas the Mercury 7 received unprecedented media attention and extensive sponsorship, sometimes without haven't even been up yet, the true professionals like Yeager &#150; who was excluded from the space programme simply on the basis of their college credentials &#150; accepted meagre wages and faced a 51% likelihood of dying on the job. Yeager's history-making 1947 flight, in which he successfully broke the sound-barrier in level flight, was treated with the utmost military secrecy, and yet, later in the film, each astronaut's return to earth is greeted by a chorus of public celebration here, Kaufman cleverly toys with archival footage, seemingly placing his actors alongside US Presidents, in a technique predating Robert Zemeckis' 'Forrest Gump (1994)'. Of course, the astronauts themselves were still a courageous bunch, and Yeager admiringly muses that it takes a special kind of man to volunteer for a suicide mission, especially one that's on TV.'The Right Stuff' is a massively-entertaining piece of film-making, supplemented by its marvellous realism and a subtle element of political satire. The high-speed aerial maneuvers, a meticulous mixture of stunt-work and scaled models, are absolutely breathless in their intensity; the subsequent space sequences then replace adrenaline with breathtaking beauty, most memorably in John Glenn's 1962 orbit of the Earth in Friendship 7, during which mysterious fireflies are observed dancing about his capsule. Kaufman's screenplay also has some fun at the expense of American politicians, most notably President Eisenhower and then-vice-President Lyndon B. Johnson, both of whom are portrayed almost as comical caricatures. The film's major players, a veritable melting-pot of future stars, all deliver exceptional performances, particularly Ed Harris, Scott Glenn, Sam Shepard and Dennis Quaid, though considerably uneven attention is given to certain Mercury 7 astronauts over others &#150; did Lance Henriksen, as Wally Schirra, even have any lines? A thrilling and inspirational historical drama, 'The Right Stuff' hardly puts a foot wrong, and is a film very worthy of its out-of-this-world subject matter. "},{"Title":"The Right Stuff has all the right stuff!","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is a masterpiece on a multitude of different levels. I admire the fact that this is not a rushed movie, for starters. The pace is very deliberate, allowing the viewing audience to digest what the director is showing us at a perfect pace. The casting of this movie is quite exceptional, starting with the ace of aces, Chuck Yeager, portrayed by Sam Shepard. Shepard IS Yeager, and his performance is brilliant. The 7 Mercury astronauts come across as REAL pilots/astronauts, not actors trying to portray the roles. Most notably is Ed Harris as John Glenn - most definitely the finest acting turn in his career.The musical score of The Right Stuff is so brilliant it garnered a much deserved Oscar. I DO wish they could have told the story of all 6 space flights (Deke Slayton was grounded if you recall), but that would have put the movie at 4 hours+ - probably not a good idea from a box office standpoint. If you ever have a chance to read the book by Tom Wolfe I strongly recommend you do, for it too is exceptional.In closing, if you are a fan of the space race against the Russians and and can appreciate the trials and tribulations of what went on regarding the Mercury Program and the first sound barrier flight, I urge to to watch this incredible movie! You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Still my favorite movie to date","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" So few movies have been able to mix great cinematic entertainment with a swelling pride in being an American, and none that I know of so well as The Right Stuff. Humor, drama, and adventure coupled with great acting bring Tom Wolf's great(fairly accurate)book to life, depicting America in the space race. I am still amazed that the producers were able to secure so much young (at the time) acting talent for one picture - its a who's who of up and coming stars. Sam Shepard is great as Chuck Yeager, but a young Dennis Quaid's performance as Gordo Cooper steals many of the best scenes. Seeing Sam Shepard emerge from the X-15 wreckage and hearing the line - Is that a man? give me chills. If pessimists, liberal media, and the anti-military crowd have got you feeling down, nothing will lift your spirits quicker than watching this great movie. "},{"Title":"More than just an historical drama","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff is more than just an historical drama about the Mercury Seven. It gets into their personal lives their successes, failures, flaws, fears, disappointments, and relationships. It explores how seven men dealt with suddenly being in the media spotlight, and how one dealt with suddenly being out of the spotlight.The film opens in 1947. Test pilot Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard) was the first man to break the speed of sound and live to tell about it, after several died trying. Within ten years, he was virtually forgotten, replaced by America's Mercury Astronauts (the Mercury Seven), the first seven Americans to enter outer space.John Glenn (Ed Harris is perfectly cast) was a moral, conservative man who insisted the Mercury Seven were role models and should act like them. Gordon Hot Dog Cooper (Dennis Quaid), a cowboy who called himself the best pilot he ever saw, knew he was in the company of greatness with the others.The movie also examines the stress the Eisenhower administration was under to beat the Soviets into space, adding archival footage of Yuri Gagarin's first trip into space.At 3 hours and 13 minutes, The Right Stuff is a long movie, but the pace is quick enough to keep most people interested, and the story is told with humor and heart.Rating note despite the PG rating, the F-word is used more than once. The movie was made before the advent of PG13, which this film would be rated today. Recommended for 11 and up. "},{"Title":"Epic movie","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I realized how truly ignorant I am to great, classic movies of past decades, when I finally saw The Right Stuff for the first time. 20 years after its release. This movie is powerful, real, funny, inspiring, emotionally gripping, and it just makes you feel good. It has that human quality so many movies lack; instead of focusing on a sappy love story (Titanic, Pearl Harbor) or expensive special effects, it aims for the heart and soul. And it works. Ed Harris carries the film as John Glenn, the brave boy-next-door astronaut who has a heart of gold you can't resist. Scott Glenn also shines as Alan Shepard, an intense and brave man. I must say, I felt Yeager's presence in this film was somewhat stifled. Throughout the movie, you get pulled into the characters' visions and hopes - to be the first humans in space. As they overcome their personality differences, to become a true team and make something happen, you almost wish you could be them. At least, that's how I felt. These guys were just so brave and down-to-earth. The leading cast chemistry is classic. This is an incredible, important movie and I'm so glad I finally got around to seeing it.  "},{"Title":"Rambunctious adventure/drama based on real events.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  My dad doesn't just hate this movie.  He hates the whole IDEA of this movie, as well as the book it was based on.  A World War II veteran who contentedly swallowed the LIFE magazine account of NASA's space program hook, line and sinker, it offends him mightily to entertain the notion that the men (and occasional women) who participated in it might have been real people, with fears and flaws and foibles.  Nope, my dad thinks the original seven Mercury astronauts are Heroes with a capital 'H', fearless, square-jawed and true; family men who went to church every Sunday and never ever cussed.  That's the LIFE magazine version and by God he's stickin' to it!For the rest of us, this movie is a kick.  An epic take on Tom Wolfe's marvelous book by writer/director Philip Kaufman, it's a rollercoaster ride of gut-wrenching aerial and orbital derring-do, pungent satire, quiet human moments and stirring patriotism.  Because what Wolfe and Kaufman appreciated, and so effectively convey in their respective portrayals of actual events, is that it takes MORE courage to do things when you're scared, when you know you're only 'Spam in a can' and there isn't much you can do to keep from getting blown up, and that you better just grit your teeth and hang on because SOMEBODY's got to do it, and you're that somebody.Real heroes in this world are guys like these astronauts, and guys like my dad, fighting in the war.  They knew they could get killed, but they did it anyway.  That's real guts.  That's what The Right Stuff is all about.   "},{"Title":"An inspirational movie about the beginnings of the American Space Program","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A terrific adaptation of Tom Wolfe's book of the same title, this movie reminds viewers just how dangerous and daunting spaceflight's beginnings were. From Chuck Yeager breaking the sound barrier to the first American manned space flight, Philip Kaufman masterfully tells of the challenges and decisions the American space program faced. The competition between the Mercury Seven astronauts to be the first in space is told with humor and insight. Even measured by today's computer generated special effects, the flights of experimental planes and Mercury capsules are suspenseful and exhilarating. A top notch cast brings these historic figures to life. Fans of the film Apollo 13 who were too young to see this film in the theaters will enjoy this film just as much. "}{"Title":"I enjoyed the film immensely and consider it a classic","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I really loved The Right Stuff.  The story line seemed true to form and I felt like I was getting a glimpse into the 'real' world of life for astronauts and test pilots back in the 50s and 60s.  When watching Apollo 13, which also stars Ed Harris, there was a real continuity in the movie that made the two movies complement each other nicely.The Right Stuff also was a great vehicle for actors like Ed Harris, Fred Ward, Scott Glen,Sam Shepard and Dennis Quaid who have all gone on to do amazing work. The casting for this movie was superb. The main actors and supporting cast told a very interesting story with truth and poignancy that made it believable all the way through. I would and still do highly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"The Stuff of Dreams","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw `The Right Stuff' at the tender age of 10, alone in a giant theater on a rainy Sunday afternoon. I consider it one of my great all time film experiences, perhaps the first moment I comprehended how much I actually loved film & what a part of my life it truly was & is. Seriously. I honestly remember mulling over this epiphany as a pre-teen, sitting comfortably in a sparsely-filled movie house, completely enthralled with not only my independence as a lone audience member, but also by my enthrallment over this strange story with an astronaut's mentality at its center. I was a slightly strange kid. But, it's a slightly strange movie.`The Right Stuff' no longer holds the appeal for me as it once did. How could it?? I'm older, more discerning & critical of film, but also more knowledgeable about the history represented through this story. I know that most of it is fiction. I can argue all day & night about film's responsibility to be historically accurate (my philosophy more or less boils down to, `well...it depends.' Nice, eh? Years of schooling helped me come up with that one). I guess in the case of The Right Stuff, I take the inaccuracy personally. The astronauts were heroes of mine as a kid and when I was old enough to understand the actual depth of their stories, I guess I just came to love the real-life drama over the spiritual, and fictional, context Kauffman presents them in here. Just a few historical notesa) The `fireflies' John Glenn saw from his capsule window was actually urine emptying from his catheter into space. The effect was duplicated time & again by the astronauts that followed. Why the film would want to juxtapose this event with the tribal fire of the Aborigines is beyond me.b) There simply was not as much doubt about Gus Grissom's splashdown snafu investigation as was portrayed. Even though Fred Ward is great in the role, it makes appear as if Grissom was a brute, which he wasn't. He was a very well respected engineer amongst the NASA staff & kept himself highly involved in the development of the capsule. The film represents this in an off-the-cuff remark about having a window & explosive hatch (get ready for the irony folks!). In fact, NASA was so impressed with Grissom, even after losing his capsule, that he was granted the first spot in the Gemini program as well as the Apollo program in which he died in a fire. Anyone who's familiar with the Apollo 1 story knows that he was tirelessly in the process of testing the capsule's equipment when the fire broke out. c) Gordon Cooper & Grissom & Yeager were never at Edwards Air Force Base together at the same time. The timelines are completely out of whack. In fact, Pancho Barnes' Happy Bottom club had burnt down long before Cooper was ever there. More than that, Barnes was a good friend of Cooper's family & he had known her since a child. The film shows her berating him for his cockiness. Didn't happen, at least not there. d) Sally Rand, whose famous fan dance is recreated here, was really, really old by the time the astronauts are shown watching her show. She did, however perform this routine well past her prime in actual life, but wouldn't have looked nearly as good as she does here. e) The astronauts not represented in depth here (Carpenter, Slayton & Shirra) also had fascinating stories. Too bad they're given so little time here. f) Why isn't Kennedy, a huge supporter of the space program, represented at all?? The political figures that are here (LBJ, Ike, nameless others) are completely clownish and cartoony. The press corps seems entirely robotic.I know I'm leaving out some major stuff, but that's good enough for now. So, yes, I am not such a hard case that I can't still enjoy `The Right Stuff' for its entertainment value, and it even manages to get a few things correct (e.g., the testing sequences & press conference scene are great & Glenn did actually scold Shepherd & the others for their carousing). For pure accuracy, nothing has yet come close to `Apollo 13' in my opinion (`From Earth to the Moon' was excellent, but didn't convey the professionalism in quite as interesting a manner). `The Right Stuff' is, indeed, an epic. It's a brilliant piece of storytelling, albeit with some laughable earnest dialogue, but welcome comedic relief. It's even a nice metaphor for American ingenuity, ruggedness & spirit too. I still respect and accept the film on those levels. But every time I see it, I am transported back to an old theater in 1983 where I watched it in earnest, feeling like an adult, and quickly realize once again that I will always love it for that cherished day.  "},{"Title":"The Best American Film of the Past 25 Years","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Many are quick to announce a particular film as important but are reluctant to consider why they stand by such a film. For me, even though there are other films that people would adamantly admit are much better I can not think of a better one in the past 25 years than THE RIGHT STUFF. Now, let me give you three reasons why (much of what I will say has already been said by Roger Ebert but I cannot word it any better).1.) Very few movies do a better job referring to the topic of heroism and courage (two important American topics). In the beginning of the movie we see a cowboy riding through the desert as he stumbles across the X-1 plane(the first plane to break the sound barrier). By the end of the movie the seven Mercury astronauts are cheered for what they have done. Those two images say everything about the movie because they show that what we perceive as heroism has changed. The original American heroes (cowboys) were loners. The heroes of today are team players who act as public-relations people where the one or two spokesmen are the ones credited for their efforts. The fact that this movie does a great job demonstrating that our ideals have changed (no necessarily for the better or worse) is testament to how such a great American film this is.2.) The movie manages to do a lot without going off track. It manages to be a comedy, an action-adventure film, a social and political commentary, a docu-drama, and a satire. The fact that this movie is able to do so much while, at the same time, pull it off is an incredible feat.3.) The movie also showcases a lot of talent; Sam Shepard, Ed Harris, Fred Ward, Dennis Quaid, Barbara Hershey, Pamela Reed, J.P. Ryan, Kim Stanley, Veronica Cartwright all give some of their best performances to date. Even some of the best films of all time have two or three standout performances. THE RIGHT STUFF has several times that number. I think that by my three reasons I have justified why THE RIGHT STUFF is the best American film of the past 25 years. "},{"Title":"No bucks, no Buck Rogers","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Philip Kaufman directed a number of excellent films (The Wanderers, Invasion of the Body Snatchers etc), but The Right Stuff remains his most ambitious.An astronaut epic which charts the early days of space travel, the film offers an eclectic blend of comedy, satire, romance, drama and nail-biting flying sequences. Like Kafuman's The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid, Kaufman demythologises his subject even as he celebrates the power of myth.And so as Stuff progresses, Kaufman will replace the horses, cowboys and frontiersmen of the Old West, with stone chiselled test pilots, the new heroes of the jet-engine age. Chief among these men is Chuck Yeager (Sam Shephard), a hotshot pilot who battles the sound barrier and rides rockets like a deity. People worship Chuck. A loner with an ejection seat, Yeager tames the monsters of the sky. Some of the film's most exciting moments involve Yeager pushing man and machine to their limits in an attempt to break the sound barrier. Others have him blasting skyward as he sets altitude records, kissing vacuum with trembling nose cones.After Yeager comes a new wave of sky jockeys; the world's first astronauts, each of them fixated on breaking records and expanding frontiers. Glory hounds, they fly to be the top dog. To get their names in the history books. Nothing else matters. What the film thus does is mirror this competitive, testosterone fuelled drive for domination - and so the violent, masculinist ethos that conquered the Wild West - with the relationship that existed between the Soviet Union and America at the time. The space race, in other words, is turned into a silly bit of macho posturing in which countries line up like schoolboys to see who can jump the furthest.The great irony of the film, though, is that the egotistical astronauts, so mythologized by history and the media, are largely interchangeable. They're dispensable objects, puppets dangled in front of cameras by politicians in order to inject nobility and heroism into what is really a billion dollar pissing contest. Like the heroes of most Kaufman films, they're castrated but don't know it.Even more ironic is the fact that the astronauts - neutered, space age house wives - have very little to do and largely supervise machines. The true pioneers, the true boundary pushes of the space race, aren't the men in the capsules, but the scientists who build and design the machines. And the even greater irony is that American's back-room geniuses were heavily comprised of Germans and Russians (Our Germans are better than their Germans! one NASA technician yells). In other words, the enemy put us in space in more ways than one.Throw in the fact that Kaufman portrays the entire space race as a giant bit of spectacle, the astronauts showbiz men at the mercy of mommy (Request permission to relieve bladder), money and the media (No bucks, no Buck Rogers!), and you have one deliciously irreverent film. Of course this tone has angered many people, some finding the film historically inaccurate and insulting to the men and women of the space programme, but sacrilege is the point. The Right Stuff needs to be viewed as one of those counterculture films from the 1970s (many of which Kaufman himself directed) which somehow managed to slip through the cracks and be released in the early 80s. It celebrates the heroism of those with the right stuff, but also points out that what we perceive as being the right stuff is often nothing more than a load of hot air. For this reason, Kaufman's admiration seems to linger almost entirely on the figure of Chuck Yeager, whom he mythologizes and treats as a symbol for a type of noble legend now long lost. There was a demon that lived in the air, our narrator says early in the film. They said whoever challenged him would die. Chuck lived by his own code, and when he danced in the sky, the demons trembled.8.9/10 &#x96; A kind of large scale version of Kaufman's own, very underrated The Wanderers. The film has remarkable scope, but it's also a very small picture, very single-minded in the way it focuses on the changing nature of heroism (the difference between what is heroic and what the public is bent into believing is heroic) and reduces all its characters, be they pilots, politicians or scientists, to cocky posers. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"A stunning, soaring epic. Magnificent in the purest sense of the word.","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The film is about the test pilots who were involved in high-speed aeronautical research at Edwards Air Force Base as well as those selected to be astronauts for Project Mercury, the United States' first attempt at manned spaceflight.The Right Stuff is a reasonably factual account of the Mercury programme extremely well made, and not too noble to take some satirical sideswipes at the bizarre aspects of the US space programme, while remaining respectful of these heroes of a new frontier. The film won several Academy Awards, and was nominated for the 1984 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation. "},{"Title":"What The Hell Does Astronaut Mean Anyway ?","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Following the first successful supersonic flight, the US government embarks on Project Mercury, an ambitious programme of space exploration, and sets about finding and training the right men to be America's first astronauts.Based on Tom Wolfe's non-fiction book, this is a fantastic account of the origins of NASA from Chuck Yeager breaking the sound barrier in 1948 to Gordo Cooper orbiting the earth twenty-two times in 1963. What makes it so good is that it very sensibly doesn't try to change what happened. Too many movies based on actual events change things for whatever reason, but real life is crazy and silly enough not to have to. So, yes, Yeager did break his ribs and couldn't close his aircraft door, yes, John Glenn did see fireflies in outer space, yes, many of the chief scientists on both sides were German (most from the V-2 Rocket project), yes, Cooper fell asleep on the launchpad, yes Lyndon Johnson really was like that. Why make stuff up when truth is stranger than fiction ? Kaufman takes all the juiciest, funniest and most dramatic bits from this incredible endeavour and turns in a film which is a great ensemble piece, an incredible historical document, and an evocative depiction of the wonder and majesty of the exploration of outer space. When Glenn orbits in Friendship 7 and cries little tears of light reflected on his helmet, the movie reaches its most sublime moment, a triumphant distillation of what mankind is capable of. Just as dazzling is the technical artistry which went into the making of this film, invisibly mixing up footage shot twenty years apart, recreating not only the period but incredibly detailed events within it, using visual effects in the most creative way. The big cast is simply one of the best I've ever seen in any movie ever, with Harris, Glenn, Moffat and Reed all just outstanding, but absolutely everybody is good in this (Goldblum and Shearer are a very funny double act). Everything else - music, design, photography, editing, wardrobe - is seamlessly integrated into this incredible story, and Kaufman pulls the very best out his army of people. I find long pictures often drag and are self-indulgent, and anything that comes out at three hours had better be up to Kurosawa standards or I usually want to rip it to shreds (Reds, JFK, most movies by Richard Attenborough). This is different though; both the story and the treatment deserve the long running time, and the end result is a brilliant film which, if nothing else, reminds us what we can achieve. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS SPIRTUAL","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Make no mistake about it, this movie is not about the space program.  The Mercury program provides a nice plot vehicle for a good movie, but that is not what the movie is about.  This movie is about pilots, and the way we think and operate. With the evolution of technology man was able to reach outer space.  This film puts across the point that despite the abilities of technology,it is always limited to the abilities and courage of the pilot. If you are a pilot and have not seen this movie it is imperative that you buy it immediately.  The final scenes of the film will make you proud to be a member of the brotherhood that possesses The Right Stuff "},{"Title":"Great movie, yet unlike the great book","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" **Warning Spoilers ahead**While laid up with appendicitis in 1984, I had time to read Tom Wolfe's book after having already seen this great movie.Surprises Pancho's Bar was hardly mentioned in the book, yet made a centerpiece of the flick. Its destruction marked the end of the test pilot being at the top of the heap, to be replaced by the astronaut. Nice imagery.John Glenn was disliked by the rest of the astronauts in the book. Case closed. In the movie, he eventually gains their admiration. Not sure why Kaufman took that tack, not sure it added anything to the story.Another surprise was that this movie did not make Sam Shepard a star. Ed Harris, Scott Glenn, and Dennis Quaid were propelled into leading roles, while Shepard went on to costardom in movies like The Pelican Brief and Steel Magnolias. More's the pity, this guy deserves better.All in all, the book and the movie both stand up to being experienced over and over. Oh, and if you want more detail about the stars that John Glenn saw outside his capsule, Wolfe's hilarious explanation will amaze you. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally goofy, but very entertaining","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is, in many ways, a very strange movie.  One the one hand it deals with a very serious topic, which it seems to take very seriously.  It has the overall look and feel of a drama (or even a melodrama).  And yet, there are so many goofy moments in the movie that one wonders whether they were meant to be funny or not.There was the odd, stilted dialogue, especially among the fliers and their families, as they discuss (or as the case my be, don't discuss) what it means to have the right stuff of the title.  There are the customarily nerdy performances of Jeff Goldblum and Harry Shearer in small roles as NASA recruiters.  There is the truly over-the-top performance of Donald Moffat as Vice President Lyndon Johnson (who was a pretty over-the-top character in real life, now that I think of it).  There are the German rocket scientists, the gaunt black-clad Angel-of-Death-type minister (Royal Dano) who turns up whenever a flyer gets killed, and the throng of reporters who chase after the astronauts and their families, literally barking like a pack of dogs as they pry into the most intimate parts of their lives for the sake of another human interest story.Even so, this movie was very entertaining.  The story itself is fascinating, and the cast was great.  Standouts include Sam Shepard, Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Fred Ward, Dennis Quaid, Veronica Cartwright, Pamela Reed, Kathy Baker, Barabara Hershey, Mary Jo Deschanel, Lance Henriksen, Levon Helm, and General Chuck Yeager himself in a cameo!  It perhaps worth mentioning that most of these actors were relative unknowns when this movie came out in 1983.All in all, this is a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Awesome. One of those movies that I can see time and again, yet each time I enjoy it as much as the first time I saw it. Fantastic cast, great music, brilliant script. Just the right combination of drama and humour - the sequence during which Al Shepard (played wonderfully by Scott Glenn) wants to relieve himself sitting atop Freedom 7, whilst the film cuts to images of the fire hose, the pouring coffee, the water cooler etc. is one of my all time favourites.My only real criticism of the movie is the treatment of Grissom and the explosive hatch incident - the movie leaves it looking like it was Grissom's fault - but it has by now been well documented that it was indeed a malfunction. "}{"Title":"All the Right moves","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is truly breathtaking. Director-screenwriter Phillip Kaufman has done an amazing job in his adaptation of Tom Wolfe's classic book. The movie works at mocking, and paying tribute to, the space program. The entire thing feels real, even in it's broadest moments...usually involving Donald Moffat as LBJ, or Harry Shearer and Jeff Goldblum as a comical pair of recruiters.The cast is just sensational...one of the finest ever assembled. Among the standouts are Sam Shepard, who's beautifully understated and three-dimensional as the legendary Chuck Yeager. Fred Ward is dramatically the most powerful, as the ill-fated Gus Grissom. And Dennis Quaid steals the movie as the gung-ho Gordo Cooper. The movie ends with his space flight, and it's the finest sequence in the movie.The Right Stuff is a stunning epic...a one of a kind experience (and superior to Apollo 13). The only disappointing aspect is that Kaufman did not receive Oscar nominations for either his script or his direction! "},{"Title":"An overlooked gem of an epic.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It doesn't spend as much time in space as Apollo 13 or 2001A Space Odyssey, but, with apologies to Tom Hanks, The Right Stuff might darn-well be the most entertaining space film ever made.  Don't let it's 3-hour plus running time scare you, this ain't The Deer Hunter.  It's a frenetically-paced, fun-as-all-hell story about people, mainly 7 astronauts picked to beat the Russkies in the Space Program.  Yes, it's about space, but it's more about people, from Chuck Yeager to John Glenn.  The film moves, but takes it's sweet time getting to where it's going.  The pacing is not slow, but takes its time to develop naturally, so it doesn't feel forced, nor does it lag.  Like Goodfellas or Short Cuts (also tremendous films) it doesn't have a plot per se, but a long chain of events that make us care about the real-life characters. The Right Stuff is only one of the very few truly great films of the '80s, and it deserves much more attention than it generally gets.  "},{"Title":"An Achievement in Film","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Who is the greatest pilot you ever saw Mr. Cooper, asks a wormy reporter in the best film of 1983, The Right Stuff. Mr. Cooper(Dennis Quaid) goes on to describe a place in the high desert of California named Edwards Air Force Base, where he once saw one man live up to that title. And so the story begins.  Philip Kaufman's Oscar-winning picture tells the story of How the Future Began.  But it also tells the story of eight brave men all seeking the fortune and glory the the airways provide.  These men, seven astronauts and one forgotten American Legend all are portrayed in spectacular fashion by an all star cast.  Ed Harris as John Glenn and Scott Glenn as the first american in space, Alan Shepard give great performances as the rest of the cast did.  However, the best performance in this film is by playwright Sam Shepard.  As one of the most important and inspiring men of the twentieth century, Shepard made Gen. Chuck Yeager an American hero once more.  He was the first man to break the sound barrier, and yet until this film came out, very few appreciated what he had done.  Yeager, who did not become an astronaut because he had not gone to college starts a humble man thrust upon the world.  The final shot of him shows Gen. Yeager as a proud, strong individual who not only endured hardship, struggle and near death, but became the greatest pilot anyone ever saw. "},{"Title":"My all time favourite","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I actually own on video.  I must have seen it almost 50 times and still see it as a monumental piece of work about the beginning of the space age. It follows the book very closely and together with the biography of Chuck Yeager it gives a perfect few on those days of flying in unproven aircraft and the heavy toll in human lives it cost. Especially for people who once were tested for the Airforce it gives a hilarious view on the crazy tests concocted by the white coats.  This film shows that there will always be people to take that extra step to prove to themselves and others that limits are only things thought up by the less daring human species. For people who love flying it is a certain must ! "},{"Title":"24 kt schlock","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In the opening, we see some suits trying to hire a test pilot to fly the X-15 to break the sound barrier. In a bar, in front of a loud mouth bimbo. A top secret program. Chuck Yeager says, fine, he'll do it. They say, see you tomorrow. And the next day, Yeager hops in a plane he's never flown before, without any instructions, and off he goes to Mach 1.Now, what's wrong with this picture, class? Answer Everything. It's not historically accurate, and it's not even plausible. This is history according to Philip Kaufman. This sets the tone for The Right Stuff. Clearly, the director ain't gonna sweat the details, historic or scientific. I'll leave it to others to catalogue the long list of historical inaccuracies in this movie. The best reason to watch The Right Stuff is to see Chuck Yeager serve the actor playing Scott Crossfield his steak dinner for breaking Mach 2. Chuck Yeager is a class act, a natural pilot and a great human being. Read his memoirs. They say the reason he didn't get chosen to be a pilot was because they wanted only college graduates. But I think the real reason Yeager didn't get it was because they couldn't afford to lose such a great American hero. Also, born in 1923, he would have been in his 40s during the program.Let's face it, these astronauts had to be expendable; like stock car racers, the real excitement was because they might die. And that's why John Glenn wasn't allowed in the Apollo program; he wasn't expendable, anymore.The actors playing the astronauts and they're wives did a fine job, considering we had seen the real ones on TV. But most of the other acting was cheesy, which I blame on the directing style, which interjected too much forced humor into the middle section. Harry Shearer, I love ya, but you and Jeff Goldblum ham it up too much. And why must the press by portrayed as a pack of laughing hyenas and jackals?You shouldn't mistake this movie for historical fact. Just look at the trivia section to see how much is bull, including Yeager's flight at the end. I hope it will at least get people interested in exploring the events through the internet, books and documentaries. One of the worst parts of the movie is the nasty insinuations about Gus Grissom, which are not borne out by historical fact. Sure, a Hollywood movie is for entertainment purposes only, but this is a cheap shot. This movie could have been a great historical epic, but it falls far short. When you are dealing with history, especially within living memory, the acting should be much better than this, more realistic and believable. It should feel real, and as powerful as the events it portrays. Sadly, with all the exaggeration, it just doesn't feel genuine. Certainly, this is not American patriotic propaganda, especially considering how unflattering it is. I don't see the space program as an American thing, but as a great accomplishment by humans, something all of us can be proud of, regardless of nationality. On the other hand, did they really have to put Russian music over the scene after the astronauts say they are tired of being beaten by the Russians, and we see them in their space suits walking down a corridor? I like Tchaikovsky as much as the next guy. But the Russians seeing this now must find it hilarious that the soundtrack should use a blatant knock off of Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto as patriotic background music for the American space program!The music soundtrack is surprisingly weak, what with the Tchaikovsky ripoff, followed by an even less subtle ripoff of Holst's The Planets, hardly an original concept for a movie about space. But there is also an original theme by Bill Conti that is quite good. Yet there is no flow or unity to the development of the music, just patches of this theme or that dropped into the picture. After watching this, see the first episode of Quantum Leap, if you can; it is actually better done than the movie. Also consider reading Packing for Mars, by Mary Roach, and Riding Rockets, by Mike Mulane.Sadly, the more you know about the real story, the worse The Right Stuff -- the movie -- looks. I am not in the least surprised this didn't win the Academy Award for best picture; the pros can tell schlock when they see it. The movie construction is just plain sloppy, with tons of continuity errors and a mishmash soundtrack that is mostly Russian and British inspired. If NASA had been as sloppy as this movie, most of the space flights would have crashed and burned. The movie is not as great as many here say. I suppose it is still worth watching once, especially the early scenes with Chuck Yeager playing the bartender, and eavesdropping as the suits badmouth Chuck Yeager! But it is sad that the movie has come to replace reality in the minds of so many viewers. And for that reason, I recommend against watching The Right Stuff. "},{"Title":"Tremendous telling of the beginnings of the space program.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. It starts with test pilot Chuck Yeager(Sam Shepard)and some of his accomplishments; and then right on through the trials and tribulations of picking the original seven Mercury astronauts and the final Mercury mission.Great NASA footage integrated into this meaty Philip Kaufman epic. A better than average ensemble cast. The best performances coming from Ed Harris as John Glenn; Scott Glenn as Alan Shepard; Dennis Quaid as 'Gordo' Cooper and Fred Ward as 'Gus' Grissom. Barbara Hershey was eye catching as Glennis Yeager and Donald Moffat was down right funny as the egotistical Vice President Lyndon Johnson.How truthful the characters are portrayed may be of question. But the sometimes odd personalities brings humor to what could be a very long and boring systematic movie. THE RIGHT STUFF is interesting, patriotic and empowering. Classified Do Not Miss!  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As a space buff, pilot, and actor, I may be biased toward the film, but it seems to me that Philip Kaufman does a brilliant job at bringing Tom Wolfe's non-fiction book to life. The interactions among the test pilots who will become the most celebrated astronauts in history is worth the time in itself. His energy in filmmaking provides a rhythm that pulses with the crazy beat of life that won't be contained. But there is so much more to recommend in this sassy history of the space program. Almost nothing is taken seriously by Kaufman in this space race story, but you are so drawn in, for example, to the myth of Chuck Yeager, played with laconic stoicism by the perfectly-cast Sam Shepard, that you genuinely grieve for him when he is rejected by NASA. I could go on and on but let me just say that there is one scene you must pay particular attention to. Early on, when the Washington dimwits come to Edwards looking for test pilots, the man serving them drinks as they are discussing how Yeager doesn't fit the profile is General Yeager himself in a sneaky and profound cameo appearance. It gives me goosebumps everytime I see it. There is another heartbreaking scene toward the end that is so profound and yet never a word is spoken. It involves a stripper, astronauts in the Astrodome, and Yeager in the hottest plane of the time. Janet Maslin panned the music but she was wrong, folks. The themes composed by Bill Conti are both stirring and mysterious. The special effects show our planet in ways you have probably never seen, yet are grabbed right from real life. I cannot say enough about this film. Rent it and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Nice film about the beginnings of the US space program with a long star cast and spectacular images","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This story broadly painted deals with the beginnings of the US space career and the first seven Mercury astronauts , being based on Tom Wolf's nonfiction novel . The space began when Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard who played legendary pilot , is actually afraid of flying) broke the sound barrier and scorching Mach 2 and following to other aviation pioneers , the Mercury mission with 7 astronauts , the suicide squadron who volunteer for astronaut training is formed by a motley cast (Fred Ward , Dennis Quaid , Lance Henriksen , Ed Harris , Scott Glenn and Scott Paulin) , showing that no one had a clue how to run a space program or how to select volunteers to be in it. It was after the Soviets successfully launched the Sputnik satellite in 1959, that the U.S. redoubled its efforts to surpass at their trail of glory in the sky . Electrifying film with credible interpretations but overlong and oddly uninvolving , based on Tom Wolfe's ambitious book about the history of the U.S. Space program , it reads like a novel . However , Tom Wolfe, was unhappy with the film because he felt it made too many changes to the book. William Goldman, the original screenwriter before he left the project also disliked it because he didn't like the way Philip Kaufman portrayed Chuck Yeager as the only hero in the film, while the rest of the astronauts only got lucky and didn't match up to him in any way. The film has that same fictional quality ; furthermore is thrilling , imaginative , rowdy and overlong -at more than three hours , including unnecessary material - all at once . The picture attempts hardly to tell the tale of human beings as well as the space conquest . The movie tries to narrate parallel stories , though it never quite successfully integrate them . It covers the breaking of the sound barrier by Chuck Yeager -Sam Shepard- as a test pilot of the old breed , giving a nice and charming performance . It provides an all-star-cast who bolster a fine movie with special mention to Ed Harris playing John Glen who subsequently was running for President . The main cast is perfectly completed by known secondaries as Barbara Hershey , Pamela Reed , Veronica Cartwright , Kathy Baker , David Clennon , Scott Wilson , Jeff Goldblum , Royal Dano , Donald Moffat among others . Special effects work and production design by Geoffrey Kirkland is spectacular and could hardly be bettered ; however , some moments relies heavily from stock-shots . Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Caleb Deschanel , the role of Annie Glenn was the first film role for his wife , Mary Jo Deschanel . Imaginative and evocative musical score composed and conducted by Bill Conti . The film's music temp track consisted of music from Holst's The Planets, Henry Mancini's score for The White Dawn and various other classical pieces which were favorites of Director 'Philip Kaufman'. Right stuff results to be Philip Kaufman's one of the most successful films . He's a good filmmaker and little prolific who left some great moments in histories that not be forgotten , giving enough inspired images to make linger in the memory such as happens in Right stuff . Kaufman realized a Western Great Northfield Minnessota Raid, a youthful tale as The Wanderers, Sci-Fi  as Invasion body snatchersand two sexual stories Unbearable lightness of being and Henry and June. "},{"Title":"Epic retelling of how the Space Age began.....","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Beginning in the searing heart of the California dessert in the early 1950's,The Right Stuff is the inspirational,moving and thrilling story of how the space age began.Based on the book by Tom Wolfe and directed by Philip Kaufman,this thrust many actors who were on the brink of fame out into the spotlight.Ed Harris as NASA legend Colonel John Glenn,Dennis Quaid as cocky fly boy Gordo Cooper,Sam Shepard as the fastest man alive,the breaker of the sound barrier Chuck Yeager and Scott Glenn as Alan Sheperd sitting in the space capsule,equally desperate to make history by being the first man in space but also needing to urinate badly.The film was looked upon favourably by the Acadamy,winning well deserved Oscars including one for Bill Conti's exhilarating score.Washington DC April 9th 1959,the seven men chosen as the Mercury seven Astronauts Gus Grissom(Fred Ward),Gordon Cooper(Dennis Quaid),Deke Slayton(Scott Paulin),John Glenn(Ed Harris),Scott Carpenter(Charles Frank)Alan Sheperd(Scott Glenn)and Wally Schirra(Lance Henriksen)are presented to the press and the American public at a press conference where their every word is just lapped up.A new breed of hero is born on this day and everything they and their families do is big news.We see them going through the intensive training to see how if they can cope with the intense stresses of going into outer space.We see how they insist on control over the capsule and it's instruments,better safety procedures and understanding of how the capsule works as opposed to just being so called lab rats under the control of the NASA scientists.Intercut with this is the story of Chuck Yeager(Sam Shepard)breaking the sound barrier and not getting public recognition for it in case the Russians should get hold of this information.And yet it's common knowledge about the Astronauts and the start of the space programme(this proved a big mistake after Russia launched Sputnik and then later had the honour of putting the first man in space).The film studies who is the greater hero the unrecognised hundreds of test pilots risking their lives daily?or the astronauts who take the next step in aviation surrounded by huge amounts of attention?.It also looks at the stresses of the Mercury Seven wives who have put up with the dangers of their loved ones being in the navy,marine corp and being test pilots.And now they too want the attention and praise that their husbands are receiving,to make up for all those years of fear and worry on their part.As well as featuring breathtaking aerial sequences and photography it's filled with fine performance.As well as the leads there's Barbra Hershey as Chuck's wife Glennis,Kim Stanley as tough talking Pancho Barnes who owns the bar that is a test pilot favourite,Mary Jo Deschanel as John Glenns shy wife Annie and Veronica Cartwright as Betty Grissom(wife of the ill fate Gus).The Right Stuff is a history lesson that's never dull and is a fascinating look at seven men who became the pioneers of a job which is as routine now as driving a bus but back then was a whole different ballgame,a must see. "},{"Title":"An interesting comment on a certain 1968 space film.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The really interesting thing about The Right Stuff is the sequence where Chuck Yeager takes his Starfighter (very telling) to the edge of the space.Compare this sequence to 2001's Dave Bowman taking his spacecraft to the edge of . . . whatever. The filming styles in the two sequences, the tumbling, spinning sensation and freakish views, are remarkably similar and I think the TRS production is making that exact point.Yeager, unlike Bowman, never makes it into space--witness space and stars just within his grasp, then slipping away--but in the end, he's portrayed as an indomitable and winning man. The Starfighter sequence in The Right Stuff mimics 2001's Stargate to describe what REAL flight is all about human struggle. "}{"Title":"not the book","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film, which pops up so often these days on cable, is pretty good, but the book is my favorite book of all time, so the film, in my opinion, could not match up. If you haven't read the book, it's almost impossible to explain how Tom Wolfe's writing style could not really be translated into film adequately (e.g. Bonfire of the Vanities). Wolfe's chapter introducing Yeager is a work of art unto itself and it simply can't be translated properly into any other medium. The movie does some things with Yeager that are puzzling -- but since Yeager himself was STANDING RIGHT THERE, it's hard to complain too much about that. Yeager's punching out and nearly being fried on his way down get the simplistic cinematic treatment -- read Wolfe's description for brilliant writing about this event. Also, Wolfe touches upon a lot of the other test pilots who were involved in the early years of the space program, many of whom -- Pete Conrad in particular -- didn't make the Mercury 7, but went on to be successful Gemini and Apollo astronauts. Even the ending of the film, describing Gordon Cooper's flight, is given short-shrift -- Wolfe describes how he had a hairy re-entry, but nailed in perfectly and therefore perfectly completed the circle with Yeager and the brotherhood of airline pilots who now talk like Yeager and Cooper when things stack up a little. The film makes it look as if Cooper flew off into space and had a great flight and that was that. His return was at least as tricky as Glenn's.  "},{"Title":"The last in a long line?","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Is it any wonder that The Right Stuff is at least in the conversation for best film of the 1980's? This work is arguably the last in a long line of big, sweeping epics Hollywood produced beginning in the 1950's. Some of the greatest films in Hollywood history come from this genre, and I truly believe that The Right Stuff should be considered as such.With it's compelling plot, it's acceptable level of twisting to make history fit the feel of the film, it's ability to lead viewers to a conclusion without being didactic, and it's large cast of talented players, this film certainly needs to be lauded with that same level of cinematic achievement given to works like Lawrence of Arabia, Patton, or Spartacus. "},{"Title":"An outstanding underated film","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I knew I had to see it, and when I saw it, it became one of my favorites. Everything feels very real in this movie, and it reallylets you feel the anxiety of those 7 astronauts. Sam Shephard, who played Chuck Yeager also did an excellent job, and is a very underated actor. The cast is great and includes Dennis Quaid, Ed Harris(Appolo 13, The Abyss), Scott Glenn(The Silence Of The Lambs, Urban Cowboy), Fred Ward(Silkwood, Tremors), Veronica Cartwright(Alien, The Witches Of Eastwick), and an appearence by Jeff Goldblum before he made it big. If you liked movies like Apollo 13, this is a must see. ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Has most of the Right Stuff!!!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a great movie that actually gets better with re-viewing.  I am old enough to remember when the Russians put up Sputnik.  This country was gripped in national paranoia and fear.  I can relate to the Jeff Goldblum and Harry Shearer characters running to deliver the latest bad news.I seem to be the only person that has a problem with some large sections of the movie, though.  The fast-forward button of my VCR makes this an even greater movie, because I can just blitz right through most of the tedious Chuck Yeager - Edwards Air Force Base scenes.  Don't get me wrong, I love and respect Yeager and his accomplishments.  I just don't get the relevance here!  Also, what is so heroic about taking a multi-million dollar government plane without authorization, and then destroying it in pursuit of some obscure record?  Surely, this is more Hollywood than fact.  My screen was so drenched in testosterone that I really never saw whether or not he broke the record.My other spoiler is the scene of Aborigines around their fire.  Yeah, I get the counterpoint between the ultra-tech and the ultra-primitive, but again, who needs it?  But this movie has so much of the Right Stuff that these details don't matter much.  Gems include Shepard urinating in his spacesuit, Grissom's hatch-blowing debacle, and John and Annie Glenn stonewalling Lyndon Johnson.I hope that young folks watching this great movie can get some idea of that time and of these men and their pioneering efforts.  The movie is truly at its best when tuning in on these seven special young men. "},{"Title":"Flying & drinking and drinking & driving - what's left that's right?","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Philip Kaufman (Rising Sun, Unbearable lightness of being, Quills) and cinematographer Caleb Deschanel (saviour of the waster 'The Natural' one year later) produce an aesthetically perfect film, but also clearly aim at the box-office with an epic story about 8 (eight) fly-boys and the home-front portrayed patriotically with a shameless propagandistic score. The best quote in this film is 'Our Germans are better than their Germans' - referring to the fear of each others scientific and aeronautic progression and the escalating arms race in the cold war.It takes off with the era in which test-pilots were constantly going after the supposed demon that lives in the thin air (mach 1), and develops into a docu-style epic.  The escalating race of the astronauts against their Russian colleagues is embedded in a much more nostalgic story (about Yeager) with a subtle difference in cinematic tone.  It is not as action-packed as you might expect; instead the subtle humour and ironic cinematic statements more than make up for that loss in entertainment value AND make it perfectly possible for both sexes to appreciate.  Flying & drinking and drinking & driving (Tom Woolf's vision) has unfortunately not been incorporated in the screenplay.  Pushing the outside of the envelope HAS if the public opinion isn't behind these aeronautic icons, how can NASA raise enough funds to finance this devastating space race?  No bucks no Buck Rogers.This is one of my favourite films, and not because the sound and music are so rousing, but because of the epic proportions of the story which has undoubtedly more sense of reality than e.g. the terribly myopic Top Gun (1986, Scott), and is not concerned with filling screen time with a dumb love story.  It IS among others concerned with Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard), the heroic loner who is not in the race for the money, no sir!  He's in it for honour!  Doesn't that make us feel good?  Yes it does, and nobody can prevent me from seeing it for the tenth time.  Glory, glory, hallelujaaaaAAAHHRRGG!  You might think that theme would have become dated, because the cold-war has come to an end.  Surprisingly, that aesthetic docu-style keeps it fresh and the film seems to be too short everytime I see it.Also see The Red Stuff (1999) a dutch documentary about Russian astronauts in the same era.  And, oh, yeah, that 'Apollo 13' (1995, Howard) is crap.10 points out of 10 -) "},{"Title":"Faithful to the book and a great movie too","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I lived through the period of the space war - I was just 11 when Alan Shepard flew his sub-orbital flight.  I watch this movie every  time it comes on TV.  Great writing, acting, filmography, and it is reasonably faithful to the book.  Tom Wolfe's novel focussed on the American Space program as a form of single warrior combat with the Russians, and the movie does depict that, although it's hard to pick that out as the theme of the movie, whereas you can't miss it in the book.However, as both entertainment and history, the movie is a solid hit.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies a movie full of patriotism, fact, fiction and humor, combined with exquisite photography and sumptuous music that lifts and ennobles our feelings towards this country.  From Sam Shepard's stoic performance as Chuck Yeager to the laid back Gordon Cooper, goofily portrayed by Dennis Quaid--not to mention the stellar performance by Ed Harris as John Glenn, this movie reaches new cinematic heights.  while much of the novel is either condensed, fictionalized or outright excised, there is a feeling of righteousness that permeates the picture, magnificently directed by Philip Kaufman.  This is one of the greatest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films of the 20th century","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It is almost impossible to give enough praise to The Right Stuff. Not only does it draw heart pumping excitement from the now largely forgotten early stages of the space race, it spells out terribly touching family stories within the grand historical legends of the day. Beginning with the X plane program efforts to bust open the sound barrier, we are introduced to the mystery of Chuck Yeager, zen cowboy of the skies who seems to seek the dance with death in the sky. In somewhat maudlin familial terrestrial dances, Yeager's wife, accurately or not, feeds his fascination with the reckless and wild blue yonder. Sam Shepard and Barbara Hershey truly satisfy in this prologue to the larger film which centers around the now slightly remembered Mercury 7 astronauts.The rest of the long and detailed (in sometimes minute and hysterical detail) drama flings us into the early stages of the space race, and Red Scare of Sputnik (I for one do not intend to go to sleep by the light of a communist moon, LBJ). The development of the Mercury program becomes the focus of the film, and is as informative as it is utterly entertaining.The cast is spectacular. Ed Harris, Scott Glenn, Fred Ward, Dennis Quaid, and more, coupled with a fabulous Pamela Reed, Veronica Cartwright, and other women (and men) just too numerous and great to mention round out a cast which own every bit of scene and dialogue. There is even a walk on by Chuck Yeager himself. It is one of the finest ensembles in the history of film.The historical accuracies of the development of the early space program, and it's real special effects (which are tremendous), are so fascinating as to make major space geeks out of any young viewer, and will revive the youthful star spangled urges of even the most jaded adult. This film is a treasure of both craft and curiosity, and barely got made. It will leave you staring both into your own potential as a human being, and at the skies above, and you will be the better for having seen it. Absolutely EVERYONE should see this film. "},{"Title":"Looking up...","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" October 14, 1947.Charles Elwood Chuck Yeager flies the experimental X-1 at Mach 1 at an altitude of 45,000 feet (13,700 m) becoming the first pilot (at 24) to travel faster than sound.And this great man flew with two broken ribs, since he fell off a horse two nights before the flight.In 1953 he breaks another record.After that men start looking higher up.Space should be conquered next.In 1957 we hear news from the Soviet Union.That year happens the launch of the Sputnik satellite.The Space Race against USSR begins.A group of men are gathered to form the Mercury 7 program.Those brave seven men are Scott Carpenter, Gordon Cooper, John Glenn, Gus Grissom, Wally Schirra, Alan Shepard and Deke Slayton.The Right Stuff (1983) is directed by the great director Philip Kaufman.It's based on the 1979 book by Tom Wolfe.Sam Shepard is great portraying Chuck Yeager.Yeager himself is seen in the movie as Fred, the bartender at Pancho's.Barbara Hershey is also great playing his wife Glennis Yeager.Scott Glenn is very good playing Alan Shepard.And so is Kathy Baker as Louise Shepard.Ed Harris does a terrific job portraying the great astronaut John Glenn.On October 29, 1998, Glenn (b.1921) actually lifted off for a second space flight, thus becoming the oldest person ever to go into space.The astronaut Gordon Cooper is played by the brilliant Dennis Quaid.The part of Gus Grissom is played by Fred Ward.Lance Henriksen portrays Wally Schirra.Rock musician (drummer for The Band) Levon Helm is Jack Ridley/Narrator.Donald Moffat plays the president Lyndon B. Johnson.Robert Beer plays the president Dwight D. Eisenhower.Scott Wilson plays Scott Crossfield.William Russ is Slick Goodlin.Jeff Goldblum plays Recruiter.And so does Harry Shearer.In archive footage we see people like Ed Sullivan, John F. Kennedy, Nikita Khrushchev and Yuri Gagarin.Bill Conti is behind the music.It's been 40 years since Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walked on the moon, while Michael Collins orbited the moon.This is a fascinating film telling the true events on first space travels.And it makes you care about those amazing persons that went up there.It looks amazing when Cooper goes to space.It all looks so breathtaking.You feel like wanting to be up there yourself. "},{"Title":"Good film, with my favourite scene","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Stylish, epic, human, great theme and well made...but the scene that does it for me is the Cross-cutting sequence between the celebrity astronauts being entertained by a fan dancer in Texas, whilst in anonymity, Chuck Yaeger takes up the experimental plane  from a USAF base in desertsville, near nowhere.  He tries for the altitude record, and flames out, plummeting to the ground, battling to recover.  Is he dead?, what is that figure in the distance over by the plume of smoke?  yep he's alive, he is a hero...he has the right stuff!   Cue music.  Nice! "}{"Title":"MASSIVELY Overrated!","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Purports to be the story of the original 7 Mercury astronauts and events leading up to that program. Unfortunately all these highly skilled, and intelligent, if overly confident and rough hewn people with the right stuff are portrayed as nothing but coagulated silly quirks and anecdotes. It didn't have to be a documentary, but it's about 90% fluff to 10% history. If you want to watch people with this much of the wrong stuff, the flight scenes in Top Gun are more exciting.The Pilots are all puffy inflatable stereotypes with no evidence of skill or brains beyond our being told it's true. The wives' story is a sappy soap opera of the most simplistic order. Interesting folks like Pancho Barnes are invisible. All government and NASA employees are bumbling idiots. It all just plain feels dumb and phony. Stuff as enormously complex and technical as faster than sound flight, and space travel could have provided a hefty dose of much needed interest for the non-brain-dead, but there's NO SCIENCE OR HISTORY ALLOWED HERE!Great cast. Some good scenes and performances. Dashes of amusing dialog.No explanations. Barely a skin-deep look into the characters. History dumbed down to anecdotes. If the people involved in the reality were as 2 dimensional and brainless as portrayed, we'd still be trying to break the sound barrier today. It just felt like an overlong comment about the space race being a publicity stunt with massive egoed pilots acting as public front men.A lot of reviews I've read refer a lot to the book, which I haven't read, and my 2 decade-apart viewings of this film don't incline me to read. My own research into some of the people and events portrayed made it highly evident that very little historical accuracy comes into this production. This entire 3 hour monstrosity equates to perhaps 20 minutes of the vastly superior Apollo 13.Disappointing when I was young. Even more disappointing viewing it now. "},{"Title":"not bad, but not great","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Way over-rated. I'm glad I saw it, but it should not be nearly as popular as it is. What bothered me the most were those times when a good or great actor's acting was poor. This shows sloppy directing. One example is when John Glen(Ed Harris) was in a centrifuge. They didn't do anything to make his skin fly back so Harris tried to fake it by stretching his lips. Either that or he was acting like he was in pain (or maybe he really was!). Awful. There were plenty of other moments where I could tell the bad acting was the fault of the director, and I just wanted to find Kaufman and smack him one. This movie wasn't all bad, but I can't figure out why it is so popular and why it is rated 8.0 on the IMDB. "},{"Title":"A Quality Beyond Macho","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Based upon the book by Tom Wolfe, the subject matter and thematic content is 'a pooch that can't be screwed' in the words of that venerable old ace pilot Chuck Yeager as played by Sam Shepherd. I actually would have preferred seeing John Travolta play Yeager because of the undeniable physical resemblance and Travolta's well documented love of flying, but real life Yeager's cameo in the film is amusing and one can say makes up for the missed call about Travolta. This film is a fascinating exposition of the Western Ethos, which, among other things, asserts that you can figure it out and do something about it and that there is paradise on the other side of The New Frontier should you be willing to risk life and limb and accept this mission. This film is very interesting to compare with THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN and of course, Kurosawa's internationally acclaimed SEVEN SAMURAI. While it would be presumptuous of me to claim it has the stature of the Kurosawa masterpiece, it deals with similar issues of bravery, duty and the willingness to sacrifice for values and ideals that are larger than oneself.Having read the book, I was somewhat disappointed that all six missions were not presented in a telescoping and accelerated manner, as the book was an excellent breakdown of different salient points of the Space Program in its embryonic beginnings. Scott Carpenter's mission was important to the film because he was actually doing experiments in the manner of a Space Scientist. He got so involved in his experiments he missed his landing site by over a hundred miles. Or was it a malfunction of the automatic stabilizer? Hmmnnn...? Wally Schirra's mission which was composed of maneuvering tests got more thoroughly into the actual mechanics of how one would pilot a craft in space and would have been interesting to see on film. A shame these missions were omitted. That being said, one cannot argue against the spell cast upon the viewer by the picaresque and elegiac flow of scenes and the compelling and at times rousing musical score of Bill Conti.Since I lived through the events of the Mercury program and remember vividly John Glenn's conversationally homey way of sharing his experience with all the world, the film has a great sense of resonance with me. Until the moon landing, it was probably the greatest reality show of its day. Ed Harris captures the force of the Glenn persona perfectly. Scott Glenn also gives us a fully colored, multi-layered Alan Shepard. The rest of the crew from Fred Ward as Gus Grissom to Scott Paulin as Deke Slayton to Lance Heriksen as Wally Schirra and Pamela Reed playing Trudy Cooper with Dennis Quaid as her husband Gordon Cooper to all the rest of the astronauts' wives and Barbara Hersey as Glennis Yeager as well as Kim Stanley as Poncho Barnes round out an ensemble that makes this more a character driven story in spite of its technological trappings and gravitas.But make no mistake, despite all the humor and memorable quotes by the truckload, this is a film that casts technology in an almost religious light and posits test pilots as members of a priesthood inevitably prone to spawn martyrs. Like the single combat warriors of a bygone age that Wolfe compares them to, or the samurai of more recent times, it appears that they live by a code as binding as the Bushido. Something unspoken and unwritten that has to be lived to be fully understood. Sam Shepard plays Chuck Yeager as a combination of Wyatt Earp, Abe Lincoln and Daniel Boone. He is all that the Western Heroic Mythos is about. The willingness to handle deadly force, the careful judiciousness of a humble servant of the people just doing his duty, the restless spirit of a frontiersmen anxious to play a part in a pioneering vision. Whether this is actually Chuck Yeager or not, it is still an attractive and charismatic portrayal.The last scenes say it all. While not as stirring as it was in the book, the scene involving Chuck Yeager's reach for the edge of Space, while the public relations machine all about LBJ grinds and dances around the Mercury Seven, still nails down that quality beyond macho that you find in a good parent, a good teacher, a good scientist or artist or inventor or a skilled expert at his trade having the time of his or her life against all odds. When the narrator who started this whole thing comes back in to wrap it all up the way Mark Twain would, we have a sense that we may have finally gotten a glimpse of people, warts and all, who truly have the - What was that question again? How many times did Gordon Cooper orbit the Earth? I think he went twenty-two times around, didn't he? "},{"Title":"Terrific stuff!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  A terrific picture, a forgotten classic of the 80s. The film was quite an education for me, not knowing enough about the American space program in its infancy and the race to beat Russia. The film might not be intricately accurate but it does tell us the important facts. The film is about 2 American technological achievements - Breaking the sound barrier and sending a man into space. One must admire the bravery, putting themselves in extreme danger just to achieve such feats.The film's centerpiece is the characters, they are written extremely well, we care for each of them. I liked all of them, each one had their own characteristics. The direction by Kaufman is simply astounding, he got stuck in with the characters and gave them life. I wasn't too impressed with the framing of shots, I wish the entire panavision could've been used more effectively. Kaufman's screenplay is superb, a marvellous job!The acting is excellent, everyone gave it their best. Overall, The Right Stuff is excellent! See it in wide-screen.  "},{"Title":"The Right Stuff for 1983","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Way too long at over 3 hours. (But not unusual in 1983.)Sexist - wives are just stammering fools, sitting and fretting at home while their husbands go do heroic stuff. (But not unusual in 1983.)'Real heroes' with The Right Stuff sit in a plane or spaceship, flip some switches, and watch the nice scenery go by. Get glory and accolades if they live. And get immortalized if they die. 'Real heroes' also get their own Hollywood movie. (Not an unusual notion even today and certainly not in 1983.)Too much American patriotism bullshit. (But again, not unusual in 1983.)Altogether a worthy performance for 1983, but mostly puke-worthy today. "},{"Title":"The Right Cast For The Right Stuff","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" For many people The Right Stuff is considered to be one of the greatest films of all time, and certainly of the 80's. And while it's most definitely a good film, I find it hard to call it one of the all-time greats. The cast from top to bottom is great, and everyone fits their role perfectly. The visual effects and cinematography for a 1983 film are astounding. In fact many aspects of the film are Oscar worthy, but the main thing I think the film is lacking is direction and editing.Yep I said it, the Oscar winning editing for The Right Stuff is dreadful. And I think the directing is at best average. The film has no focus. It goes from being Sam Shepard centric, to a media satire, to a government propaganda film, and finally to an American classic all within the 190 minute runtime. The reason I say that the editing is trash is due to the near 45 minutes to begin the film that don't really impact the story at all. If you want to set up Shepard's character as the greatest pilot on the earth all you need is a few scenes of his glory with a few of the astronauts praising him. Instead you get 45 straight minutes of Shepard and then almost a 2 hour gap without a scene with him. To me that's just awkward film making.With that being said once the team of astronauts is assembled and we get introduced to Ed Harris' character the film becomes really good. I really enjoyed watching each of the characters go through their struggles both inside the space suit and outside. It was cool seeing a young Dennis Quaid alongside a few other Hollywood future stars. There are many classic scenes along with several Oscar worthy acted scenes, but I do wish the film would have took each of the characters missions and combined them to a more team centric story. I know this film is based on a book but I don't think being entirely faithful to a book is the way to go.The film is not bad at all, it's truly a really solid film but I don't see the classic status that many people (smarter than me) give it. Perhaps I'm missing the point of it but otherwise it's a fun watch. You just have to be prepared to set aside 3 hours of your time, and perhaps at least an hour too much, if you wish to witness the beginning of the space race.+Ed Harris & entire classic cast +When the team is together +Effects & cinematography for it's time -An hour should be shaved off -Individual stories are interesting but perhaps unnecessary -So why was Shepard's character important? 7.0/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still worth watching","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this movie almost 30 years ago and remember I liked it. Saw it today and was a quite disappointed. The Right Stuff suffers from a number of faults. First of all Most of the humour elements are really just not working. Many politicians, most administrators, both military and civilian, and definitely ze German Rokketmn were serious, intelligent and dedicated people. Not semi-idiots. And, I doubt that the pilots and astronauts really were that laconic. What aboutcivilians stumbling seasick on a flat top flight deck? Never! Thyen the heavy handed twists Like always showing the press people with the sound of locusts and/or rattlesnakes? Please &#x85; stop! All these minor annoying elements together really damages the film. Then there are certain scenes that could be shortened or removed, like the briefing room- scenes (A clerk is shown running through the corridors with breaking news of soviet shots while people are watching soviet newsreels about the same event. Logical?) On the other hand, there are manyshort glimpses that really need better explaining 50-60 years on. Like who was the landlady? (A forgotten legend). Other issues are more serious. Did Grissom freak out and blow the hatch? The movie suggests this, but if NASA really doubted Grissom he would not have been in the Apollo- project. And, so on &#x85; On the upside Production, props and locations still make this a beautiful, beautiful movie to watch, there is a lot of very good acting, and, most important The Right Stuff still captures the MAGIC of early space exploration, a time when dreams came true. So The Right Stuff is still worth watching, but maybe someone can make a fan edit, closer to the (brilliant) book and historical facts. Cutting down the silliness and removing loose ends, while getting down to the core of the story will make this slightlyfaded movie great again. (sorry about any errors, English is not my native language) "},{"Title":"The Stuff that dreams are made on ...","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff is really one of a kind ! From the first minutes, we're embarked in a world that no other movies made us discover before, a world that belonged to books or Sci-Fi &#x85; and that gets more inspiring when true ! I watched this film with constantly fascinated eyes, admiring first the unsung heroes of the conquest of space, those who made the thing thinkable  test pilots. Interestingly, there's a first feel that would belong more to the Conquest of the West than Space. Even those pilots act like modern cowboys, trying to domesticate a savage beast made of air, physical laws, and high probabilities of death, with no other glory than a photography on the wall of the local town's bar, a beast called 'sound barrier', aka Mach 1, a cooler sounding name.And ones' deaths were others' inspirations until history chose Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard), the central character as the winner of Mach 1. When he finally 'pierces the sky', we are plunged into another dimension. The visions are so dazzling we understand that Yeager's motive is a quest of the unknown, as an admirable refusal of being trapped into a disabling human condition. Ego is not the motive, but still, he was the pioneer who paved the way to a series of individual performances that outdated Mach 1 first, then Mach 2.It's like The Right Stuff followed the rhythm of history. Now, it's time for the newcomers, among them, the young and cocky Gordon Cooper (Dennis Quaid) whose private joke with his wife is to ask her who the greatest pilot she ever saw is, a joke saying a lot about the pride inhabiting these men's hearts. But the film less denounces the ego than glorifies it as one men's greatest virtues  courage, at a time where kids still dreamed of being pilots, or fire fighters, of conquering the stars instead of being ones. And the movie also provides a nice touch by showing these men as little boys from their wives' point of view, wives whose courage was to live with the idea of becoming widows at any day.And one day, a curious little bird named 'Sputnik' started to tweet around the Earth, inspiring one of the funniest scenes I didn't expect from a drama, featuring the President Eisenhower, a priceless Johnson, a German scientist, and two recruiters creating an improbable and hilarious duo with Jeff Goldblum and Harry Shearer. Beyond the comic relief element and a deliberate intention to keep the movie in an enjoyable mood, this shows how America was still very late on the space program department. The screening of the possible astronauts with acrobats footage was hilarious, not to mention the series of rocket test failures with the last little one as the icing of the cake.But the Americans got one thing right, dominating the world is dominating its environment, and space was to men what the Mediterranean Sea was to Romans, is it a hazard that the program following the 'sputnik' episode was named Mercury ? The Mercury program is the core of the movie, seven men -another magic- are recruited, among them, the clean-cut John Glenn (Ed Harris) and the scene-stealing Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn). And this time, the country needed heroes, faces, models... and they got the casting goddamn right.The general mood was friendly and cheerful, punctuated with some thrilling and intense parts. Among them, the hatch blowing incident with Gus Grissom (Fred Ward) followed by his poignant breakdown after his wife's egoistical comments. Another touching moment was Glenn's solidarity with his stuttering wife who didn't want to meet the President. More than pilots, they were also husbands, ordinary men for extraordinary missions. And as Yeager pointed out to a skeptical fellow, you can send an ape to space, he doesn't know he can die. The pilots form a group whose solidarity is the element that would drive their force, a force symbolized by the iconic walking in astronauts' suits in slow motion.But again, they're beaten by a certain Gagarin guy. The depiction of the Russians is more of a running gag, but it's also the pivotal point before the final act, simply epic. And what deserves to be mentioned among the characters, the story, the beauty of the script full of so many one-liners such as  No bucks, no Buck Rogers, My name is Jose Jimenez, there is Bill Conti's score, a music that would resonate as a hearty fanfare and inspiring homage to human spirit and determination.What a finale ! Our men went to space, touched the divine light. When asked who the greatest pilot he ever saw was, Cooper wanted to say Chuck, until he knew the point was to make people share their dreams. Chuck's dreams was not fame, but personal accomplishment, and he had a last word to say, a last exploit which almost cost his life, flying so high until he could perceive the stars ... the best encouragement to transcend our limits.Conti's score deeply touched my heart, especially the final part with the violins, like The Right Stuff Final Bell. Yeager walking with confidence, his head half burned under a mist of dust is the iconic incarnation of human spirit's triumph.Apollo's program is coming, the test pilots era is over, but Chuck Yeager still got the right stuff, the cowboy got it! Some men just don't need to be made heroes or legends ...The film closes a perfect story arc with Gordon Cooper, who indeed becomes the greatest pilot the world ever saw for one last flight &#x85;The Right Stuff is not just a captivating three-hour film with an undeniable pedagogic value and an exhilarating and inspirational entertainment, it's a complete film and one of the best of the 80's &#x85; "},{"Title":"The Age of Heroes.","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" the Right Stuff is the story of Project Mercury or rather it's the story of the men in Project Mercury and the man who led them there. On Oct 14th 1947 Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier by going Mach one. he became the fastest man alive. That breakthrough led to eventually man going into space. When the Russians launch Sputnik suddenly no one was laughing anymore the race was on to send the man into space first. Project Mercury was created with that one goal in mind and they found seven great men and brave souls to be the first Project Mercury AstronaugtsAlan ShepardGus GrissomJohn GlennDeke SlaytonScott carpenterWally SchirraGordon CooperThese men trained for Project Mercury together and dealt with all of the insanity that followed the announcement. They became Heroes on a large scale order never seen before and a feeding frenzy occurred whenever they did something. The most popular one was John Glenn played here in a star making role by Ed Harris Harris gives a low key subtle performance and it pays off big. Scott Glenn and Fred Ward as Alan Shepard and Gus Grissom also do a incredibly fine job letting Shaprard and Grissom shine thru. The film does a superb job interwining Yeager's story with theirs and showing us this is where we were. THIS movie is how we got from there to the moon and back again and how it all began. great film full of insights into men who became heroes for all the wrong reasons but became legends for all the right reasons. "},{"Title":"Number two on my list of my top ten movies of all time!","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" We watched this movie on blue ray tonight. Even though we have watched and enjoyed it so many times, we noticed new aspects and felt that same swell of pride in times and events that have become history. Watching this movie and even reading the book always makes me think how much I wish I would have paid more attention when the events were happening. I guess we were busy living our lives. So many of the men who are portrayed in The Right Stuff have since passed on. But watching them in the forties, fifties and sixties brings back so many memories of what it was like to live in Central Florida at the time near Cocoa Beach, Cape Canaveral, Patrick AFB and Martin-Marietta. Fun to watch the scenes filmed there or made to look like Cocoa Beach in the fifties and sixties. Better than the book and, in my opinion, one of the best movies ever made. "}{"Title":"Heroes who put America on top in space race","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The American transition from top dog in high-speed flight tests to second and last in manned space missions was complex, protracted, gut wrenching and heroic. This 1983 movie of that story (and how the US gained the upper hand in outer space) is a classic. Because it's virtually two stories, interconnected, and is so complicated, it runs three hours. Although it won four Academy Awards, we might as well declare at the outset that the subject isn't popular with everybody. For each roomful of aerospace nuts (I'm one) an unknown number of citizens out there never thought much about the space race, except perhaps that it would be a good one to win. Director/writer Philip Kaufman, working from Tom Wolfe's eponymous bestseller, itself brilliantly evocative, would none the less have faced daunting decisions before shooting a foot of film. Covering the tale adequately, convincingly and entertainingly was always going to be a big ask. Yet Kaufman sails over all three hurdles. Adequately, by stripping down an enormous body of detail to its nuts and bolts, like a jet or rocket engine, and presenting the rudiments in readily digestible form. Convincingly includes giving characterization to astronauts previously regarded by the public as fearless, dedicated and supremely capable, but lacking personality. Entertainingly is much easier done when their characters have been highlighted, and the remainder attained through much witty dialog and the trail of gung ho experiences the astronauts lived through. The bridging character between the early jet and rocket plane test pilots and the original Mercury 7 astronauts is Chuck Yeager, ex-combat fighter ace, first man to break the sound barrier, and also to exceed Mach 2. To the uninitiated, the latter is about 650 yards a second at 40,000 feet. Kaufman doesn't even bother telling viewers that the Bell X1 designed for these tasks was a rocket plane, but the aerial shots should satisfy the cognoscenti and bring ordinary souls to the tip of their living room sofas. Intones an off-screen voice, in the opening seconds, There was a demon that lived in the air, and it was an invisible barrier at the speed of sound that would make planes buffet wildly before crunching them to earth. The fatal crash was known in test pilot argot as buying the farm or auguring in, euphemisms for what happened when a spin became an irreversible shortcut to the cemetery. Every production team faced with masses of data has to sift it through ever-finer sieves, and Kaufman and co. took on the difficult task of showing audiences a three-way spin. This is known to pilots and engineers as inertia coupling, when a supersonic test plane loses all purchase on the thin air around it at high altitude and simply turns into hurtling metal. That happens to Yeager, reportedly the first test pilot to experience and survive when an aircraft spins wildly on all three axes---pitch, yaw and roll. The film's special effects are tremendous. Those who have viewed actual footage of Yeager recovering aerodynamic stability close to earth after descending from on high like an autumn leaf battered in the breeze will applaud The Right Stuff. Likewise Yeager's subsequently controversial altitude record attempt in an NF-104, a special version of the Starfighter, which Lockheed's esign genius Clarence (Kelly) Johnson fitted with a tail-mounted rocket to help carry the bird 20 miles above sea level. The hydrogen peroxide thrusters at 104,000 feet weren't strong enough to point the nose down again. The one-oh-four, credited in a stall with the aerodynamics of a set of keys, fell out of the sky. Yeager eventually ejected, but was seriously injured. Interlaced with all this for most of the picture is the selection, training and some of the missions of America's first astronauts, wonderfully told. Dennis Quaid stars here as Gordon Cooper, Ed Harris as John Glenn, Fred Ward as Gus Grissom, Scott Glenn as Alan Shepard. Actor Sam Shepard (no relation to the astronaut) plays up the sometimes unconventional side of the Yeager personality to good effect, and Barbara Hershey as wife Glennis evinces an in-tune empathy. Never more so than on a wild night ride on horses, with viewers in little wonder about the prize if he, self-proclaimed half jack rabbit, can catch up to her, his attractive spouse. The other side, of course, was the possibility of early, sudden, violent death and the effect on the wives of that ever-present prospect. As Gen. Yeager said quietly to me, in an interview years ago, it was tough on them, because they never knew when their husband's remains were going to come home in a box. The astronauts and test pilots were, of course, some of America's finest men of enormous skills, fast brains, lightning reflexes, and unfailing courage. And another quality,succinctly alluded to several times by Quaid as astronaut Cooper. Who's the greatest pilot you ever saw? Who's the greatest pilot you ever saw? You're looking at him! "},{"Title":"Good Stuff, good stuff","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I'd like to think that there will never be another space race. the Cold War has long been over, and if the Russia teamed up with NASA, we would reach Mars a lot faster. When Spunik went up in 1957, the Russian programme, was way ahead of the US programme. This is the story about how they caught up, about the first Americans who went into space. The Right Stuff is a highly enjoyable motion picture, but it is a little shy of great. Its competence is inconsistent, but the acting is solid throughout, Though not a heavy drama, when it wants to the film can get fairly tense, but also funny too. At one point, the film almost crosses the line past science to science fiction. It's too bad that the special effects are as equally primitive as the space craft that took John Glenn and Allan Shepard into space. The scenes is space could have looked a bit more convincing I think. This was 1983, If Stanley Kubrick could generate a time warp for 2001 fifteen years earlier (which was before Computers were desktop sized) I don't see why The Right Stuff was so incapable. It was probably a director's choice, after all this isn't a science fiction/fantasy.As far as space movies go, this is the smartest, and I think many latter films including Space Cowboys and Apollo Thirteen owe a little to this one. I know there is room for improvement (more than a little) but The Right Stuff is definitely right enough to be worth your time "},{"Title":"Superb film","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I have always thought that the race to space was a fascinating event and time in history, but I never realized it could be told in such a fun and entertaining film such as this. The Right Stuff proves to be a superb film, with one fun and fascinating scene after another. I don't think there's a single dull scene in the film. Every moment is used wisely either for great character development or to tell interesting facts about the true story. Some of the film's best scenes include Yeager's breaking of the sound barrier at the beginning or his need to urinate after waiting so long in the rocket. Great lines such as Sounds dangerous...count me in, also make this great. Sam Sheppard, Dennis Quaid, Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, and others make an excellent cast and are perfect for their roles. The Right Stuff is an amazing film, accurate, and has something for just about everyone. It's fun and full of history. Nearly perfect.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Movie That Does It All Right","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" As a general rule, any movie that exceeds three hours in length starts to lose points with me. If you can't tell the story in that amount of time I figure there's something wrong. The Right Stuff is most certainly the exception that proves the rule. It does absolutely everything right, and manages to weave together elements that few movies manage. It's fast-paced (in spite of the three and a quarter hour running length), it's funny, it's entertaining and - most important in this kind of movie - it's informative. You end it feeling that you've learned from it.This is the story of America's first astronauts - the seven men picked for the Mercury program - but it goes beyond even that. It begins in the immediate post-World War II era as new aircraft were being developed and test pilots were coming along to fly them. Foremost among that group was Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepherd) who became the first man to break the sound barrier and then kept breaking all the records for height, speed, etc. In a way, this movie is a kind of tribute to him. Once the space race started, the test pilots faded away and the astronauts became the ones everyone was interested in. Yeager couldn't get into the astronaut program because he wasn't a college graduate, but the movie both begins and (almost) ends with his story (and the real Chuck Yeager has a cameo - albeit as a different character.) Holding the movie together, though, are the Mercury seven, and especially the four whose stories are most important. There's Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn) - first in space, but totally overshadowed by the eloquent, fair-haired and publicity savvy John Glenn (Ed Harris.) Balancing them are Gus Grissom (Fred Ward) - the tragic figure here, blamed for the failure of his mission into space (and, although only mentioned briefly in the movie, it's worth noting that he also died tragically in a fire during a test run on an Apollo spacecraft) - and Gordon Cooper (Dennis Quaid) the brash, young and arrogant (in a likable sort of way) one of the bunch. These four play perfectly off each other. Their wives also are well cast, with most of the attention being on Glennis Yeager (Barbara Hershey), Betty Grissom (Veronica Cartwright), Trudy Cooper (Pamela Reed) and Annie Glenn (Mary Jo Deschanel). They portray the challenges of being the behind the scenes supportive wife, sacrificing everything for the husband's careers and not always getting back what they deserve. There's also a hilarious performance from Donald Moffat as Lyndon B. Johnson.The movie revolves around competition that between Yeager and his main rival Scott Crossfield (Scott Wilson) for the speed records; that between Air Force, Marines and Navy as the best pilots are sought out for the astronaut program; that between all those who seek the seven spots; that between the seven who are chosen for who will be first in space; that between the seven and the scientists, who would really prefer to send up a chimpanzee; that between the US and the USSR. It also amply demonstrates the bond that the original seven eventually formed with each other. Do not let the three plus hours turn you away from this. The time literally flies by. You won't be sorry you watched it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Yeager acting on movie","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Apparently, not many people noticed that the man serving drinks at Pancho's (at one time, to the actor playing Yeager) is actually General Yeager himself.The man appears only for a few seconds, but the face, and the smile, cannot be mistaken.I don't know if Yeager has appeared on other films.By the way, Yeager did not have a good opinion on at least some of the astronauts; on one of his books (perhaps Yeager) he presents Neil Armstrong in a less than favorable light.I do not think this is a sour grapes attitude (as some people seem to think). Yeager not only flew during WWII (he shoot five German fighters on a single mission), but he also served in Vietnam (127 missions). I he did not enter the astronaut program is because he did not want to. "},{"Title":"Macho Men in Space","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This big, sprawling film about astronauts preparing for space travel was supposed to be THE film event of 1983 until it promptly bombed at the box office.Too bad its reputation is tainted by its initial performance, because it's an enthralling and dazzling movie. Episodic in structure, it meticulously details the training, in-fighting, politics and personal lives of the seven men who first ventured into the great beyond as part of America's space program. The macho cast is led by Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward and, notably, Sam Shepard as Chuck Yeager, who received credit for breaking the sound barrier but bitterly saw the real glory go to these other pioneers. Barbara Hershey provides the film with some much-welcome estrogen.The film feels both rambling and focused all at the same time. It covers a lot of ground but never overstays its welcome. A wonderful movie and one of my favorites from the 1980s.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Punching A Hole In The Sky","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Like the U.S. space program it dramatizes, The Right Stuff is a film of audacious overreach that succeeds precisely because it pays no mind to earthbound limitations, namely that making a three-hour-plus long movie with no central character, romance, or conflict is a bad idea.Yes, there is the overarching theme of a space race between the United States and the Soviet Union. I do not intend to go to sleep by the light of a communist moon, is how Lyndon Johnson (Donald Moffat) puts it. But politics takes a back seat for the most part, as the movie examines what it means to have the right stuff.Director Philip Kaufman presents us with a two-ring circus and challenges us to pay attention. In one are the Mercury 7 astronauts, America's first men into space between 1961-1963, presented warts and all, some cheating on their wives while others cynically tell the media what they want to hear. In the other are the test pilots who came before, breaking the sound barrier and raising the gauntlet for the exploration of space, led by a man of few words named Chuck Yeager (San Shepard) who only wants his $283 a month and a stick of gum before riding a rocket to glory or death.You can't really tell people about heroes anymore without boring them or incurring their resentment. Kaufman wisely makes his case with Letterman-ish snark, playing against the Life magazine myth of the Mercury astronauts even as he adds to the astronauts' legend by telling the truth. There have been complaints, for instance, about the unflattering details presented in this film about the astronauts' training and selection process, involving isolation chambers and sperm motility tests. Kaufman uses this to make a point, however, that the astronauts did more than just risk their lives, they gave up any claim to comfort and dignity.Famously a flop in theaters when released in late 1983, The Right Stuff found new life on cable TV, which is why I'm convinced the movie stands as tall as it does today. The same episodic, whimsical, yet epic quality that made it such a hard sell in theaters brought it new life as people tuned into it unexpectedly on television and allowed its dense brilliance to unspool before them. I still think of Alan Shepard up in his space capsule whenever I am struggling with my bladder, and there's a scene just as wry or as powerful every few minutes for those who pay attention just a little.Cinematographer Caleb Deschanel has shot more memorable frames in movies like Being There and Passion Of The Christ, but The Right Stuff presents probably his finest cinematic showcase, boring in on a hundred moments big and small. The editing team behind Kaufman give him the license to do bold things by keeping focus and not allowing anything to drag out very long, staying alive to history's every beat. What's next, Ridley? we hear Yeager ask after another flight, and immediately we're watching impressionistic shots of Star City, Russia, looking like a vision of Hell as Sputnik is launched and America is put on notice.So many great actors in so many defining roles, it's hard keeping track. Scott Glenn is terrific as the terse Alan Shepard, yet he's in a movie where the other two big parts are filled by a guy named Shepard and another actor playing a character named Glenn. Even smaller parts shine brightly, like Moffat, Royal Dano as a spectral minister, and Harry Shearer and Jeff Goldblum as government emissaries assigned to make the astronaut casting call.The film's not perfect. It makes too much of astronaut Gus Grissom's problems during his splashdown, and overlooks another Mercury astronaut, Wally Schirra, almost entirely. But even the oddest detours, like one to an aborigine camp in Australia, have a knack for paying off.You are looking at a whole new ballgame, says astronaut Gordon Cooper (Dennis Quaid) at one point, and he seems to be speaking both for the Mercury astronauts and the movie we're watching. The Right Stuff is exactly that. "},{"Title":"The real American heroes","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Chuck Yeager didn't believe in The Right Stuff, even though he had it in spades. A military hero and a top test pilot, he was truly the stuff heroes are made of. Sam Sheppard's portrayal of him in this film may have been exaggerated a bit, but he still was head and shoulders above the rest.Just like Yeager, the Mercury Seven also had The Right Stuff. They went up every time not knowing whether or not they would be blown up and not come home - some didn't. They were there in the beginning; long before Disney made Florida famous, and long before the space program was turned over to scientists. These were military pilots and they borough America into the space age.Anyone who want to know what real heroes are made of and the history of our space program during the Mercury Program should invest the time in seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Entertaining and Provocative Look at 1950's Space Program","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff is not just a movie about astronauts and pilots. It is as much about the American government and its role in creating America's image to its citizens and the rest of the world as it is about Yeager's triumphant flight in the X-1. The film captures a unique age in the history of our republic. In the 1950's, the US boasted being one of the most important heroes among the allied forces that defeated the axis powers during WWII. The optimism for the American ideal was just about as fanatical as its ever been. And that fanaticism was manifested in the US's new Space program and personified by the original seven Mercury astronauts.Near the beginning of the movie, two astronaut recruiters are about to show films to then-president Dwight Eisenhauer. But when the recruiters turn on the projector, nothing happens. Someone from the president's cabinet then gets down on his hands and knees, finds the plug and sparks life back into the projector. This is the kind of humor that permeates much of The Right Stuff. But it is more than just humor. It is a kind of behind-the-scenes mayhem that recurs throughout the movie that in some way, the beginning of the US space program was possibly the blind leading the blind. NASA often publicizes its space program as if the general public is like a 3rd grade class being shown the Declaration of Independence. The space program is supposed to inspire awe and wonder, but God forbid, if anyone on the outside really knew what was going on... This movie, in many ways, brings down the curtain hiding the man pretending to be Oz, and in this case Oz is the American government's space program.The Soviet Union had been our allies during WWII. Now that alliance had become adversarial as each side began an arms race and a space race to prove the technological superiority of each side. The USSR launched sputnik, the first man-made object ever to be launched into outer space. The US government decides to counter sputnik by launching its own space program. The story centers mainly around seven men who are chosen as the best able-bodied individuals to represent the US as astronauts in forthcoming space missions. Chosen from a large pool of test pilots, the seven men (and their families) become celebrities overnight. And it appears that the seven astronauts are not just physically superior individuals. They appear as stereotypical models of the ideal American male.However, the movie does not begin with the astronauts. The movie begins in 1947 when an unknown test pilot on a secret mission fights the demon, the nickname given by pilots to the dangers that are encountered when trying to break the sound barrier. The unknown test pilot is Chuck Yeager, and his flight is still recorded in the history books as one of the most important flights in aviation history. The first segment of the movie chronicles Chuck Yeager's historic flight. But the irony of the rest of the film is that Yeager is very unlike the seven Mercury astronauts. Yeager is portrayed as somewhat of a loner, not a college graduate, a bit of an outsider, and a man without the movie star looks or charms. Yeager never became an astronaut, and the film implies that he might have fit very well into the space program but his image did not suit the ideal of the American male and he may have been excluded on that basis.The story then moves into the space program. So many interesting themes run through the movie. The trials and errors of the technology. The politics, the image-making where agenda and propaganda are fused with the space program. Humor runs rampant through the story as well with the antics of the pilots, their loves, their prejudices, even their self-righteousness upon occasion. At one point, Ed Harris as John Glenn says I'm talking about keeping our pants zipped and our wicks dry around here! The pilots were thought of as celebrities, when in reality they are merely human beings with special gifts.The Right Stuff is a very special movie about a very interesting time in America. It was a great time, an optimistic time, but also a maddening time, because it was also during the McCarthy witch-hunts. Kaufman and the cast and crew have made a film that brings out the humanity of the men behind the space program. And when we realize that they were human beings with all the fallibility that that entails, then we realize they really did have the right stuff to be able to do what they did. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff accomplishes everything it sets out to do. I cannot think of another movie off the top of my head that can meet the same claim, but there are others, few and far between. What's so great about this film? Without getting into too much detail, it goes over the top - and succeeds. Batman (1989) did the same, as did Dr. Strangelove (1964). From the dramatic monologues and heroic score, The Right Stuff pays tribute to an equally dramatic and heroic period in our history.I must admit that this statement is of minimal scientific value - there is no formula that makes the early days of the space program heroic or whatever. It's simply the historical perception that seems to have attached itself over time to the era. Director Phil Kaufman used this notion to the fullest extent - it is apparent in the recurring and very catchy techno/orchestral score, the cinematography, and the stellar personalities of the main characters (Gordo Cooper, John Glenn, and Chuck Yeager). While the most romantic aspects of the test pilots and astronauts, space flight, and the dangers they faced are indeed overdramaticized (in a bombastic way - even the masturb... the sperm collection scene is made into an inspirational sequence), the men still seem human. No GQ/or boy-band good looks here; just mortal guys accomplishing incredible tasks.The Right Stuff does not falter in any respect, at least none that I can see. No scene drags out for too long, the dialogue is witty and interesting, and the editing is without error. It is a historical movie, of course, but The Right Stuff is filmed in such a unique manner that no other movie is similar to it, with the exception of From the Earth to the Moon (1998 TV). Some of the greatest movies have become dated, either through dead giveaways (hairstyles, special effects, soundtrack songs, etc) to the more subtle (editing, that old feel, etc). 2001 A Space Odyssey and Patton (1970) come to mind. The Right Stuff deftly escapes these trappings and easily could have been released today in 2005. "}{"Title":"Amazing because it was real","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff is a wonderful movie, and it made me realize how different things were in the era, long before Vietnam, Watergate, and 9-11. It was a time of hopes, dreams, and triumphs, when men literally flew by the seats of their pants. In this 21st century, we never hear of any program that operates like this. The period from 1947 to the early 1960s was a fantastic time. Perhaps there was more imagination and spirit then. Disney released a set of programs that were produced in the 1950s that depicted quite accurately how man would operate in space. They detailed how to get to the moon and Mars. I marveled at how these were accurately calculated, years before real space missions were accomplished. The Right Stuff covers such history, beginning with Chuck Yeager's breaking of the sound barrier in 1947. He did it not for money or glory, but simply because he wanted to. Certainly, with broken ribs and a lot of pain, it was an even more difficult task, but he accomplished it nonetheless.After seeing this film, you understand exactly what the Right Stuff is. Like mountain climbers who do it because it's there, or paratroopers who jump because they can't think of a better way down, there is a quality to the bravest who do something because they feel they have to. This film beautifully demonstrates that.I recommend this film for all to see. It is a beautiful positive, beyond space tragedies like the shuttle accidents. It is so well filmed and finely acted, I almost felt that I was there with them. "},{"Title":"Keeps the Right tone almost all the way","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film does a great job of showing this band of heros and potential heros in an honest and forthright way, without unnecessarily glamorizing them. The tone is great, but slips into humor/parody during the section on the actual Mercury 7 astronauts. The first half of the film emphasizes Chuck Yeager and the other test pilots and accurately depicts the dangers they faced in a believable way. The section on the Mercury 7 is not as strong, yet is still outstanding. It is very faithful to the tone of the Tom Wolfe book, which is a good thing in this case since it gives such a great flavor to the story in general and the dialog in particular. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Movie","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Right Stuff is the best creating of light on a screen ever.  The cast is dead on.  Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward, and Scott Glenn all seem to embody their roles so much that its hard to separate the actor from the characters.  Every little thing seems to be worked out and planned beautifully.  Kaufman doesn't waste a single minute of screen time.  A movie that puts recent movies to shame.   "},{"Title":"Heroes for cynics","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie reminds us of when military men used to be heroes to our nation. Although this has become much less prevalent in the years since Vietnam, I was moved when watching this movie again to think of my father and how he grew up worshiping these men. They are portrayed here as humans, with flaws, but men of courage and honor. Although we are too aware of history, anyone can still look at the Mercury astronauts, and military test pilots and be struck by their willingness to sacrifice themselves for our benefit.The film itself is lush. Kaufman vividly depicts the macho atmosphere in which these men, and their hapless wives, live. The scenes of flight and space travel are riveting. The performances by all the actors are compelling. Although I wouldn't rely on the accuracy of this history, it does serve to make the actual events seem more real than a dry retelling. "},{"Title":"Epic hi-tech, fun, spectacular, political satire","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Right Stuff works on many levels. Although it is a feel-good flag-waver, the movie does not take itself too seriously. The satire of politicians, journalists, and the whole astronauts-are-heroes public adulation is hilarious. While poking fun at the astronauts, the movie manages to make us see that they were daring men, willing to go through strenuous training for a undeniably dangerous task.In parallel with the space program, the movie follows the test pilots performing equally dangerous and heroic missions out of the public eye. The action sequences are dramatic and exciting, and Glenn's flight is poetry on the screen.Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, and Sam Shepard give memorable performances, and you will recognize many others who went on to big movie roles.The Right Stuff is one of my all-time favorite movies. I loved the music, the humor, the high-tech, the space...everything! See it.  "},{"Title":"These men had the 'Right Stuff', in more ways than one","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw 'The Right Stuff' after having seen 'Apollo 13' and, having read Jim Lovell's book, I knew the men had to go through a lot just to be chosen as astronauts.  This film shows you how much.  However, although it is a serious film, there are enough light-hearted moments to stop it getting tedious.I class certain films as 'old friends'.  These are films I can watch at any time, without getting tired of them.  They hold my attention all the way through.  'The Right Stuff' joined the list of 'old friends' the first time I saw it.  I recommend this film to everybody. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It captures the spirit and grandeur of the early US space program through superb filmmaking.  Great characters, great adventure, and great filmmaking.   A Classic!!! "},{"Title":"A great film biopic about great Americans","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Every scene, every line, every shot, every frame seems as right today as when this film was released. A classic of writing, direction, acting, and effects. One of the few great movies to follow a great book -- on its own terms. Funny, stirring, exciting, poignant......whatever else anyone could want -- it's here. "},{"Title":"Excellent docu-drama on America's early spaceflight programme","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The Right Stuff has been lauded as possibly the best space movie ever. I'm not sure that's right, since there's precious few seconds of this film that actually take place in space.Instead, it's really a character study of the people involved in the incredibly risky business of taking America's first steps in manned space flight. There are a few action sequences, mostly involving Chuck Yeager, who could have been on the Mercury programme but for his lack of a college education. But this film is really about the people.Yeager, in the shape of Sam Shepard, provides the early focus of the film, and also illustrates the way that Edwards AFB, and its collection of experimental aircraft, proved an irresistible magnet for the hot-shots of the time - many of whom paid the ultimate price for their bravado. Then, NASA starts hunting for potential astronauts - 'spam in a can', as the job is ironically described.From this point on, the film concentrates on Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), Gordie Cooper (Dennis Quaid) and John Glenn (Ed Harris), with Gus Grissom (Fred Ward) getting a look-in. The astronauts are built up as heroes by the film, albeit flawed heroes; there's some reference to extra-marital affairs, but without going into detail, probably because most of the people involved were still alive. But there's also quite a lot of humour, too, with the 'enema' scene notable in bringing them down a notch or two.The whole episode has been romanticised, but not in a heavy-handed fashion. Some of the other reviews have criticised it for being too gung-ho, for being too rabidly patriotic, and for not portraying the Russian efforts. Such criticisms aren't valid. Firstly, the film is set when the Cold War was at its height, and success in space was seen as a vital battle in that war. It's portrayed as gung-ho because, quite simply, it was. As for not portraying the Russian programme, that would be a strange thing to do in a film which is so clearly focussed on the people involved in the American effort.To be taken with a fair-sized pinch of salt, but definitely recommended - over three hours long, but the time simply passed, without the film ever seeming to be stretched too thin. "},{"Title":"Engrossing","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of my favourite movies but it is not perfect but that has more to do with the book on which it is based. Tom Wolfe doesn't seem to be sure about whether he wants to write about breaking the sound barrier or the early days of the space program which makes it somewhat bi-polar. I tend to view it as two movies in one and can separate and appreciate both aspects.On the whole it is very well executed and certainly the desert scenes bring a realism to the early test pilot days.I am not sure about some of the acting in the astronaut sequences. I find Dennis Quaid to be especially irritating but don't know whether he is playing character to type, or over-hamming it. I thought his role could have been throttled back somewhat. I also thought the character of Lyndon Johnson was also a bit over-cooked although quite entertaining. My favourite line is when he asks Werner von Braun whether or not 'we can beat the Ruskies?' to which WVB replies 'of course, our Germans are better than their Germans'. Classic.Highly recommended and makes a good companion piece to Apollo 13 and From the Earth to the Moon. "}{"Title":"Awesome film","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I caught this movie on one of the movie channels again the other night, and realized how much I love this movie. I am a flight/space buff so of course it appeals to me. But aside from that, the acting, special effects, story line, everything is good to the point of making it a good film. It has just the right mix of seriousness and comic relief to make it enjoyable to watch and entertaining as well. The movie shows how pitifully far behind the Russians we were in the space race, yet we somehow managed to catch up.The one issue I have with the movie is how it portrays Gus Grissom being at fault for blowing the hatch to his capsule, while in actuality NASA concluded that he was correct. The astronauts had to punch a large switch with the side of their closed fist to blow the hatch, leaving tell-tale bruising on their hands. Grissom never had any bruising on his hand so could not have blown the hatch himself.However, this is one of those movies which I've seen several times, but every time it comes on again I'll want to sit and watch the whole thing. "},{"Title":" A demon lives at that speed, many have approached it and died ","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" In the years following World War II, the two world powers were the Soviet Union and the United States of America. Due to distrust, suspicion or international fear, they became Cold-War adversaries. Each blamed the other for ever escalation tensions. This included the Space Race. In 1957, the Soviets shocked the U.S. with their successful launch of Sputnic into outer space. Fear the Russians could threaten America with their control of the sky, the US inaugurated a crash program to first challenge the Soviets, then surpass them with the creation of NASA. Knowing virtually nothing about how to run a Space Program, American Officials, assembled what they believed to be a fledgling space program which included the selection of the most skilled, courageous and certainly the most adventurous team ever gathered. Beginning with men like Chuck Yaeger (Sam Shepard) who broke the sound barrier, the most qualified individuals became known as the Freedom Seven, Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward, Lance Henriksen as Wally Schirra. The basis for this film is Tom Wolf's novel which became Philip Kaufman's film.  The Right Stuff  which has become synonymous with the Very Best. The movie begins with Chuck Yeager and his momentous supersonic flights and covers the Freedom Seven and their efforts to be more than just 'Spam in a can.' The high drama of America's early failures, to the inner dissensions between the scientists and the elite pilots. A marvelous collection of both triumphs and early tragedies. The end result is nothing short of a Classic space story. **** "},{"Title":"The Actually Right Stuff","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff is an excellent telling of the story of America's first spacemen, the seven Mercury Astronauts. The movie portrays its era well, showing the near panic reaction to Russia's launch of Sputnik, as well as other period events. The visuals are great.The performances, especially those of the several members of the seven the movie chooses to to concentrate on, are also spot on. Ed Harris is terrific as John Glenn, Scott Glenn does justice to Alan Shepherd, Fred Ward portrays Gus Grissom dramatically well, and Dennis Quaid provides an easily likable Gordon Cooper. All of the actresses in the roles of the astronaut's wives do a terrific job as well.The story is told fairly chronologically, and even though we know what is going to happen, an adequate amount of suspense is served up. This movie is a good and wholesome primer for any youngster interested in the history of the space program, departing from actual history only enough to maintain dramatic cohesion.I have given only nine stars due to what I feel is the unnecessary inclusion of the story of aviation pioneer Chuck Yeager. With all due respect to Yeager, his story is such that it deserves its own movie and really has no place here. Nor does the rather silly scene of the Australian Aborigines during the Glenn spaceflight. Removal of these instances of padding would have perhaps rendered a shorter and tighter telling of the real story here space exploration.Those issues aside, the Right Stuff is a truly enjoyable experience and worth watching for everyone. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I didn't fully appreciate this film until about 5 years after its release. I had recorded it from cable and one day sat down to watch it--I can't believe what I had missed. This film is about our great heroes who pioneered space travel. However, the film doesn't completely deify them, as they were indeed humans with flaws.The cast is outstanding--Ed Harris looks eerily like John Glenn. I particularly liked Sam Shepard as Chuck Yeager--he is the real hero of the film. He is stoic, low-key and stuck in California while the American press were fawning over the Mercury astronauts. You know what else I love? I love the casting of Levon Helm as Shepard's fellow Air Force officer (and the narrator). I'm really curious how that came about since Helm wasn't in any previous films (sort of like the inspired casting of Steven Van Zandt as Silvio in The Sopranos). Helm, for those of you who don't know, was the drummer in The Band. I loved the humor in the film--especially the portrayal of one of the Left's icons LBJ. I remember going back and reading the New York Times review on this film and the female reviewer went absolutely ballistic that such a lion of liberalism like LBJ being lampooned (I don't remember her being as offended at the much more common, negative depictions of Ronald Reagan). She was also upset that the press was depicted as a locust-like swarm.This film is timeless and it's unfortunate that it didn't do better at the box office. The score by Bill Conti was incredibly uplifting and without doubt worth the Oscar. I cannot say enough good things about this film. More kids should be introduced to this film rather than the trash out there which shows our military heroes as Nazi-sympathizers (the ridiculous American Beauty) or films that glorify 1960's radicals (Panther et al.). "},{"Title":"So cheesy it could only have been made in the 80s.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This was an entertaining movie don't get me wrong.  But man, it was almost like an after school special in its lack of real drama and good guy jingoism.  There were so many pointless scenes and exchanges they could've trimmed half an hour off of it or used that time to create some actual dramatic tension.  Apparently all seven of the original astronauts were all cut from the same Good Ol' Boy cloth, just from different corners of it. But the actors were engaging and the flight sequences entertaining, that's what saves it. "},{"Title":"A Comment on the Movie Without the Revisionist Historical Comments","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It is revisionist history, of the worst order, to look from a late-90s/early 2000s perspective and comment ONLY on the reaction to the launching of Sputnik as the entire basis for a review of this movie. This movie begins with the effort to break the sound barrier, something the Soviets, the British, the French and other countries were attempting to do after WWII. From that basis, we get a glimpse into the psyche of men who flew to push the edge of the envelope. These men were the Christopher Columbuses of their age. They ventured into the unknown with absolutely NO guarantee of either success or their survival.Once Yeager broke the sound barrier, jets became faster and went higher but the ultimate was to go into space. The New Frontier as JFK thought of it. At its heart, this movie is about the Mercury space program and the race to put men into orbit and fulfill JFK's, and America's, dream of putting a man on the moon. While the men ARE definitely macho; having met Chuck Yeager and Alan Shepard in person, as well as other astronauts, and having been an aviator in the Navy, I can speak with first-hand knowledge that the portrayal of these men is dead on, but incomplete because it does not show the human side we all have, also. Is some of it posturing to cover up any fears and anxiety? Absolutely! But, it's also the mechanisms developed to allow them to boldly go where no man has gone before. Sputnik's launch was another anxiety moment for America because it was our Cold War adversary, the Soviet Union, that launched it. Additionally, it was also recognized that putting a satellite into space would lead to where we are today. Spy satellites orbiting alongside defense satellites orbiting alongside commercial satellites. Peaceful means with defense needs. Sputnik's launch made all this possible and refusing to recognize that the Soviet Union's intent was not peaceful is to attempt to rewrite history without acknowledging the facts in evidence both then and now.The Right Stuff shows some of the warts of Mercury program. America was feeling its way at that time. Were all the tests done on the astronauts necessary? No. But, did they glean the wheat from the chaff? Yes. Was it a perfect process? Absolutely not, but we did, overall, select some tremendous leaders to lead our way into space. They also became some great business and political leaders; that cannot be denied regardless of political stripe.Egos aside, this movie is a good look at the heroism exhibited daily by the Mercury astronauts. Who else could we get to ride on top of an unproven rocket like the Atlas for the first orbit of the earth by an American? Gus Grissom is seen as the hard luck person he ultimately ended up being; however, don't question the man's competency or his heroism. He died in service to his country and was one of the smartest men in the space program.Historically, this movie is fairly accurate. It shows LBJ's ego accurately. It shows the heroism and bravery of our astronauts. It shows the fears America was feeling at that time regarding the Cold War, the Soviet Union and our place in the post-WWII world. It shows the successes and the failures of the space program in its infancy. It definitely shows the brave men who led our country into space. Is it perfect? Absolutely not, but if you want a good overview that will ignite your desire to learn more about our space program, this movie will definitely do it. It is about the quintessential American desire to be the best...to go farther and faster than any human being alive! "},{"Title":"Irritatingly historically inaccurate","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I finally got around to watching this oldie. I was very disappointed. The story takes unnecessary liberties with history. Yes, Hollywood always does that, but in this case it almost amounts to inexcusable character assassination. Portraying Grissom as a coward is disgraceful. Suggesting that Yeager crashed while on an illegal flight is idiotic. Suggesting the Yeager did not work hard to support the space program is stupid. The depiction of Lyndon Johnson as a little baby is itself childish. Like the man or hate the man, he was no baby. The nude dancer near the end is pointless trash. The movie is shot through with this kind of stuff, and it only detracts from the true story. What a shame.The acting saves the film. All the actors do a really good job.If you don't mind a fictional account that is based on history but actually misrepresents it for no particular purpose, this film is OK because so much of what happens in it happened in real life, too. "},{"Title":"great when I was a kid, not so great now","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  What a difference two decades make!  When I saw this in the theater as a kid, it was the best movie in the world.  Fighter jets! Test pilots! Rockets! Astronauts!  I just saw it again for the first time, and I know you can't relive that boyhood wonder, but there's nothing much in the movie to take its place.  The acting by such a great cast, especially Fred Ward, Sam Shepard, Ed Harris, Harry Shearer, etc., keeps the movie from sinking like a swamped space capsule in the ocean.  So much of the dialogue that's boiled down to the essence by Tom Wolfe in his book comes across as hammy and staged, even taking into consideration the squareness and the optimism of the time period.  Only the sincerity of the actors' perfomances make you even try to swallow it. But the main disappointment is how low the humor is--all that's missing are snare shots and wolf whistles with the gags that only distract from the excitement of the subject matter.  Shearer and Jeff Goldblum are great in their smaller roles, but what are their characters even doing in the movie?  I was plain embarrassed by the goofy stuff.  I 'm thankful, though, that the movie wasn't made now, otherwise in addition there'd be fart gags and scatological humor to boot. "},{"Title":"Not Just a Clever Name.","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff. The name alone will make anyone want to go see this. It uses enough generic pronouns and adjectives to sucker the viewer into watching this. I bet that many people had no idea it was about aviation and space travel. Is it bad to have an unclear title? Of course not. As long as it sounds good and fits in with the story. The Right Stuff fits so well with the story because that is what it is about and what it has.The Right Stuff is generally said to be the second best film of the 1980s only behind Raging Bull. I disagree, only because there were other movies that I thought were better. But I do think that The Right Stuff is one of the true great American films that achieves the status of excellence.The Right Stuff follows a group of pilots over a course of several years and their journeys as astronauts. Right off the bat, the filming of the flying is done to a high calibre. We get a first- person look during some of the missions that's intense and beautiful. This stuff happens in many different parts of the movie that can make any movie ignoramus like those particular scenes. Yes the flying sequences are first-rate, it is the character development that really makes this stand above other movies of its kind. We get to know and like some of the pilots. The first one we get to know is Chuck Yeager (Shepard) who lives a peaceful life and perseveres to break the sound barrier. He lacks a college degree, so he is not chosen to be an astronaut like some other pilots he knows. Seven pilots are chosen to compete with Russia's space program and they and their families are written very well. Alan Shepard and Gordon Cooper (Glenn, Quaid) are my favourite characters though. All their wives don't want them to go out on suicide-missions and become widows, but the men love what they do. The media attracts them, making them international superstars who believe they have  the right stuff. The men eat it up and think they are super-humans. As the movie goes on, their egos get to them and there are malfunctions with the rockets. These serve as symbols reflecting their personalities. Eventually, they get better and everything becomes a success. Hallelujah! The Right Stuff is an avant-garde, patriotic film. So cheesy how everything is overcome and they defend the honour of one's country. But I can't really say that's a bad thing. The only real flaw I can give this would be that at 193 minutes, it is dragged out. I know that it wanted to reflect the years the actual people spent and keep anticipation, but it just got a little old after a while. That is the only reason I'm giving it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Epic adventure about the Original Seven Mercury Astronauts! )","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A movie can't get much better than with this cast depicting these great Americans! Even the name scheme works - Ed Harris plays John Glenn; Scott Glenn plays Alan Shepard; Sam Shepard plays Chuck Yeager; and, Scott Wilson plays Scott Crossfield!?!? Pretty cool! )Although not one of the 'Original Seven,' the movie gives much credit to Chuck Yeager for his speed records and contributions to flight. The movie does the same for Scott Crossfield, also not one of the original seven, for his record as the first man to fly at Mach 2 (twice the speed of sound).I grew up after the period in which this movie takes place, but, as a child, I did follow NASA's space program throughout the late 1960s and all through the 1970s; so, to me, this is a very exciting and groundbreaking, fact-based film.The movie follows Alan Shepard, the first American in space (Russian Yuri Gagarin was the first person in space); Donald Deke Slayton, NASA's first Chief of the Astronaut Office; Virgil Ivan Gus Grissom, the second American in space and first American to fly in space twice; John Glenn, the first American to orbit the earth in the Friendship 7; Scott Carpenter, the second American to orbit the earth; Wally Schirra, Commander of Apollo 7; and, Gordon Cooper, who manned the longest and final Mercury spaceflight in 1963.I could go on and on about how detailed and informational this exciting film is, but, it's best to experience it for yourself. Anyone who likes speedy and exhilarating thrill-rides about awesome flying machinery that began America's space program...this is for you! ) "}{"Title":"An Epic Adventure","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" By flying higher and faster than any other man had ever dared before, Chuck Yeager set the pace for a new breed of hero. Those that had just one thing in common...The biggest issue this film has is its length, coming in at over three hours. That may deter a lot of people from actually sitting down and watching it, which is unfortunate, because every minute is great. It could probably be cut down (and probably has been for television), but there is nothing that makes the run time seem too long.The plot, the emotion, the acting... all great. The story is more or less familiar to a lot of people, but it is an important story to tell, how Yeager breaking the sound barrier directly affected the space program. And such a great cast Ed Harris, Lance Henriksen, Jeff Goldblum. Wow. "},{"Title":"Good movie with a sense of history and humor","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Ever since watching Apollo land on the Moon, I have been fascinated by the space race. This movie which documents well the earlier era I was too The humor of the movie keeps what would be otherwise a dry history move well. The discrepancies in technical history (planes on the carrier deck that didn't enter service for many years after the events portrayed, for example) can easily be overlooked as using what is available for the look to be good. The one thing I found the most amusing part is that as Jeff Gooldblum and Harry Shearer are at Panchos Shearer is discussing how unsuitable Yeager would be as Chuck Yeager, playing Fred the bartender, offers him whiskey. Good inside humor if you can recognize the true historical figures amongst the fiction. "},{"Title":"Our Germans are better than their Germans.","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The Right Stuff was my favorite movie when I was a kid. I wanted to be an astronaut. I loved outer space, I wanted to go there. A movie about men who were just like me, wanted to go into outer space really appealed to me. The Right Stuff, based on the book by Tom Wolfe, tells the story of America's early space program, concentrating mostly on the Mercury 7. The movie first tells the story of Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard) breaking the sound barrier, reminding viewers the traveling into space first had to start here on the ground. The recruitment and training process required to find our first astronauts is well told here, especially highlighting the rivalry between Air Force test pilots and the Navel airmen who landed their ships on air craft carriers. At the time, it had to have been scary, but looking back, the movie's most amusing moment is the montage showing all the rockets blowing up, with the ultimate insult coming when the capsule atop one rocket is the only thing that takes off, going splat on the tarmac below. We meet Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), John Glenn (Ed Harris), Gordon Cooper (Dennis Quaid), Gus Grissom (Fred Ward), Deke Slayton (Scott Paulin), Scott Carpenter (Charles Frank), and Wally Shirra (Lance Henrikson) as they train to go into space, and for the select few, actually get there. The movie does not tell the complete story of the space program, instead ending with John Glenn's mission orbiting the Earth. There are funny moments, especially by Harry Shearer and Jeff Goldblum as NASA recruiters who have a tough time adjusting to an aircraft carrier and practical jokes had by the astronauts. There are trying moments, as the stress of going into space finally get to the men. But mostly, The Right Stuff is inspiring. Men who's job was to try out new, dangerous flying machines were the ones asked to be the first to try out a new, dangerous rocket machine that would take not only the men, but the hopes of entire country into outer space. In this 4 year old, before Challenger, watching this movie wanted me to go into space even more. I had the right stuff. I would be willing to risk it all to go where no one had gone before. And now that we've had another space tragedy, space is no longer a destination that we Americans covet, but there was once a time that only our national heroes would go into space, because only they had the right stuff. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Easily the best movie I've had the pleasure of watching. The film is cast beautifully and the characters are at times hilarious. If you are going to spend $15 on a DVD and you haven't got this gem be sure to pick it up on your next visit to the video store. You will thank me! "},{"Title":"This film has it all!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Drama, action, humor, substance, and style.  This film has it all.  OK, so the screenplay/direction take some liberties with historical fact, but this film truly captures the spirit.  Yeager and the seven Mercury astronauts got what they so richly deserved, a sincere and engrossing, but never trite homage to their incredible heroism.  The Right Stuff proves that true stories, when properly told, can be as artful and dramatic as the finest contrived plots.  What single aspect of this film stands out most in my mind; the main cast gave perhaps the single, finest ensemble performance in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  A wonderful film that chronicles the history of the Mercury space program. Excellent, superb, magnificent. One of the best films ever made. Need I say more ??See this film. You will not be disappointed. This is one of the top 10 best films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Fear","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Blazing the trail is harder than following one, but it can be ten times as fun.That anonymous quote easily sums up The Right Stuff, an expansive story of the Cold War and the space program up to the mid-1960s.  Fortunately, the movie is not Capitalism vs. Communism, but relies on the power of its performers to carry the story.  The editing is amazing!  The first two hours flow along like they were 15 minutes and the replication of the time periods is almost authentic.  Unfortunately, it still feels as though it runs overlong.The Mercury 7 astronauts are interesting in their minute ways, but it is Chuck Yeager that holds our attention all the way through.  Maybe because he knows that all glory is fleeting.  He is neither obsessive nor arrogant, but isn't a coward.  Considering the reliability factor of most of the equipment in that timeframe, it's incredible most of these men are still alive.Overall, a phenomenal film that translates superbly from Tom Wolfe's novel.  4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Probably the best astronaut's movie yet","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie with its unique mixture of seriousness and satirical tone is one of my all-time favorites, deftly mixing precise character studies with broad strokes painting a real epic as the result.Judging from the comments it goes over some people's heads but if you haven't seen it yet and have any interest in the topic then get out and rent it or buy the DVD! "},{"Title":"visionary","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The amazing thing when you watch this film is that it feels like it was made in the last few years and it was actually made 20 years ago! I remember at the time thinking how original it was, and I don't think it was fully appreciated at the time. I nearly didn't see it at all because the trailer they made for it was so bad. I don't know about how factual it really was, but as film entertainment it's almost faultless. It perfectly captures the spirit of the pioneer and the incredible bravery, and it also shows up the pomposity of certain people and situations and this gives the film a wonderful humanitarian quality. Watching it is an amazing life-affirming experience. (10/10) "},{"Title":"If Grissom were alive, would he have been slammed so?","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As the STM (Software Task Manager) on the Data Acquisition Team for the first Space Shuttle flights at Marshal Space Flight Center, I was in a position to distinguish between some of the fancy in this movie.  But that's understandable, since it was meant as a tribute to those space jockeys, not a documentary.  What I objected to, since my son was a national Merit Scholar at Grissom High School in Huntsville (not the death town, the space town), was the vilification of someone who himself was a hero to many of us.  The courage that it took for him to go up was made even more obvious by the panic that the movie showed him in later.  This should have been shown to be an example of the feelings of ALL the astronauts, not just Grissom.  There actually was some alleged connection between the dimes he took up and the blown hatch, but it was not made in the movie.  And so what if the capsule sunk, the guy was saved!!!!!   this is just one more example of the black-and-white world HOllywood must make, despite the glorious color of the film.  All those wives weren't either perfect or harpy, we all have mixes of the various shades of grey in our personalities.  The acting was superb, I thought, except for Dennis Quaid playing Dennis Quaid as usual.  Scott Glenn has always been underrated, and I wish he was seen more in movies, even today 20 years later.  Other commenters have mentioned the factual errors, but the movie never went deeply enough into WHY we don't have unmanned space flight.  We've just lost another seven astronauts, thanks to NASA and the U.S. Government's miserliness.  To think those astronauts TRUSTED that they would be flying a well-maintained safe shuttle!!  The movie shows you how thin the margin of error is, as failure after failure begets the space mission.  I worked on the first Columbia shuttle flights,  and metal fatigue isn't something that can be relieved with an overhaul.  How many of you are driving 20 year old cars?  at a fraction of the risk?  See the Right Stuff and you'll grieve even more for the lives that didn't have to be lost, for the space flights that really didn't have to be manned except for the fickle public's need for 'glamour'.  I liked it and will continue to re-view it as the investigation into the latest senseless, preventable tragedy progresses. "}{"Title":"Fun movie, but not too real","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Not exactly the Right Stuff is this film. But as an aviation buff, I watched it with unbridled enthusiasm. It's fun and exciting, even if it does ten to lead a viewer into the realm of 'History as Hollywood sees it.' I liked much of the patriotic theme and heroic portrayals, but the saddest part is how Gus Grissom was portrayed. He deserved much better, as did the other three pilots who were hardly given more than background roles. Carpenter, Schirra and Slayton were all pretty much also-rans in this film and the Yeager role is too 'cowboyish,' with the ever-present leather jacket and drawl. He was actually a very cautions, methodical pilot, to which he attributes his long and successful career and survival. I felt a rush of patriotism from watching this film, but after reading several books and seeing documentaries, I began to see it in a different light. Just enjoy it, but don't take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"A film which can only truly be seen in letterbox.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Well, John Glenn recently landed again. This time, in a wholly different spacecraft. Regardless, one of the many movie channels decided to remind us all of how it was by showing this marvelous film in it's original widescreen format. I was overjoyed, and I convinced my five roommates to watch it, too. I was pleased to see that once again I have introduced my friends to yet another fabulous piece of cinema. Only this time, it was over two hours long, in letterbox, and with a powerhouse cast! "},{"Title":"Great actors Great characters","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's the story of the experimental pilots who would become the original Mercury 7 astronauts. It starts right after the war as these pilots push to the edge of the envelope in the Californian high desert. When the Russians launch, the government scrambles to catch up. Other military pilots join to push open the ultimate envelope.This could have been a dry historical account of what happened. However these are not just simple history book figures. These are complex human beings played by some of the great actors of that era; Sam Shepard, Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, and Fred Ward. Tom Wolfe's novel lays out the groundwork for this humanist story. The risk for the movie is the vast number of characters getting lost in the masses. The brilliance of this movie is that each actor creates his own unique performance. "},{"Title":"They Sure Did.","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Philip Kaufman's soaring adaptation of Tom Wolfe's biographical account of the space program, starting with Chuck Yeager's(played by Sam Shepherd) breaking the sound barrier, to the Mercury 7, the first American astronauts(played by Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward, Scott Glenn, Lance Henriksen, and others) to go into outer space. Film details the process of selection and training involved in preparing the astronauts for flight, as well as focusing on how they handle the media and each other. They are portrayed as real men, not cardboard cutouts, which is refreshing.A very well directed, written, and acted film is truly inspiring in how it portrays the successes and failures of these brave men, and the women in their lives. Though over three hours, it doesn't drag much, and is a most satisfying true story. "},{"Title":"One of the finest movies to come out of its era","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Is that a man? asks the pilot of a rescue plane headed towards the crash site of Chuck Yeager's attempt to reach the edge of space in a Lockheed NF-104A. An outline of a man appears on the horizon, blurred by heat and mirage, his face bloody and burned, walking at pace with his helmet in his hand. Yeager's good friend Jack Ridley sits in the passenger seat, having seen Yeager conquer several near-suicidal flight records, including the first to break the sound barrier. Ridley smiles. You're damn right it is!. The Right Stuff, adapted from Tom Wolfe's best-selling account of the test-pilots in the Mercury Space Program, shows what it takes to be a man; to have the 'right stuff' inhabited by these fearless men, who were the only ones crazy enough to risk everything, on live TV, to beat the Russians in the space race.Besides the many fascinating and frequently hilarious vignettes involving the test pilots - played by a stellar cast of Dennis Quaid, Ed Harris, Fred Ward, Charles Frank, Lance Henriksen, Scott Glenn and Scott Paulin - the movie's real ace-in-the-hole is the juxtaposition of this story with that of Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard), a man thought of by his peers to be the finest pilot in the world. Played stoically by an Oscar- nominated Sam Shepard, he is brooding, dusty, a true man's man, but without the college degree needed to join the space program. He is the polar opposite of the 'hot dog's' of the Mercury Program, and when he is not off chasing his wild wife Glennis (Barbara Hershey), he is making sure he is still the fastest man in the world.Even at over 3 hours, the movie is packed with great and memorable scenes. Director Philip Kaufman managed to retain Wolfe's skill for absurd humour, so we get to see the President crawling on the floor to plug in a projector, two astronauts' slow walk to the bathroom following an enema, and a hilarious moment involving humming and sperm samples. It has an observational aesthetic that America conquered in the 1970's, made even better by some amazing aviation and space travel scenes, easily more exciting than the CGI-laden movies we get nowadays. It's often called the second-best movie of the 1980's behind Raging Bull (1980), and, although I don't necessarily agree with that statement (Blue Velvet (1986), anyone?), it's one of the finest movies to come out of it's era, feeling almost classical despite being modern. Like Shepard's Chuck Yeager, The Right Stuff seems old before its time, encompassing wisdom and poignancy with ease.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) The RIght Stuff (1983)","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" If you're into aviation and the outer space program, then this movie is for you. Chronicling the lives of the early pioneers of jet planes, the NASA Mercury astronauts, and the space race, The Right Stuff tells the story of the lives of these men, and what exactly fuels them to take on life-threatening missions to propel humans into the final frontier.But this movie is not a documentary, and doesn't play out as such. It's a dramatized account based on the book by Tom Wolfe. We begin by witnessing Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard) breaking the sound barrier - Mach 1, in the record breaking X-1 plane. The movie then takes on two diverse acts, those of the pilots in competition to become the fastest men alive, and the other which shows the space race pioneers, NASA's 7 Mercury astronauts in Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), John Glenn (Ed Harris), Gordon Cooper (Dennis Quaid), Gus Grissom (Fred Ward), Deke Slayton (Scott Paulin), Scott Carpenter (Charles Frank) and Wally Schirra (Lance Henriksen).While their missions are different, their character traits are similar. To always beat the competition and set new records. They are pilots, so the usual stereotypical cocky arrogant attitudes come into play. What makes them special, is that they got the unexplainable Right Stuff, to have what it takes to push the envelope. Their wives are also put under a minor spotlight, as they band together and wring their hands while awaiting news of their husbands safe arrival from their missions. Bear in mind that these are the first manned space missions (though very simple), and in those days, the astronauts traveled alone, not in teams in flight.If you'd enjoy Apollo 13, then this movie treads on almost the same ground. Except that there is no single, gripping death in your face moment as played out as in the Ron Howard movie. We see how politics comes into play in events that help boost national pride, and how the Americans and Russians outplay each other by constantly going one up against each other. We also experience how the pilots deal with being the it person for the moment - you're the hero now, but after the next mission by someone else, you'll soon be forgotten.It's a drama based on real events, enough to engage you for a good three hours to experience the one-up-manship between pilots and the nations engaged in the space race.This Code 1 DVD is full of facts and figures for the aviation/NASA buff, with information ranging from cast and production, to the individual pilot bios and the NASA time-line on the Mercury program. "},{"Title":"I saw Yuri Gagarin's grave in Red Square.","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Based on Tom Wolfe's novel, The Right Stuff shows the lives and occupations of the astronauts involved in America's space race with the Soviet Union. Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard), Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), John Glenn (Ed Harris), Gordon Cooper (Fred Ward), and Gus Grissom (Dennis Quaid) all see fit to do their jobs, while occasionally taking the time to goof off and do things with their families. Their missions can range from exhilarating to dangerous, but they always see themselves as having a duty to their country.Sometimes it's hard to believe how far we've come, and at the same time wonder why modern missions never seem to work; every famous mission since Apollo 11 seems to have had something go wrong. Apollo 13 had its famous disaster, the Challenger blew up, the mission in early 2003 blew up, and there was just a mission this year that had a snafu. Maybe all astronauts since Apollo 11 were too busy watching I Dream of Jeannie, and thus assumed that being an astronaut would enable them to own a beautiful genie (no offense to IDOJ; I love that show).Oh, yes, and I saw Yuri Gagarin's grave in Red Square, also the final resting place of Vladimir Lenin, John Reed, and some other famous people like that. I guess that you could say that the USSR beat us to space with Sputnik and then was the first country to send a person into space, but then we beat them to the moon, so it's a fair trade-off. And anyway, China sent someone into space two years ago, so everyone gets a part in this. "},{"Title":"Kudos to the filmmaker, shame on the 2003 DVD releasing company.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I do not fault the filmmaker for minor conceptual and factual flaws in this film. Performances by everyone involved in the film project more than make up for them. But in my opinion, there was one unforgivable factual omission specific to the 2003 DVD release. And while I've given a 10 on the movie, I'm tempted to give the DVD releasing company a zero.Dialogue within the film appears to discredit Virgil I. Gus Grissom's statement that he did not blow the hatch cover when the Liberty Bell 7 space capsule splashed down. When the film was first released, it made sense to include this controversy and the filmmakers themselves cannot be held at fault for doing so. But in 1999, 38 years after the splashdown and 4 years before the DVD release, Wilhelm Aerospace Engineering helped salvage the Liberty Bell 7 from its watery grave 15,000 feet beneath the sea. And while no one can say for sure what caused the hatch to blow, their website includes a photograph of the undisturbed hatch cover trigger, proving conclusively that Grissom was not at fault ... that, as Grissom said at the time, it must have been a technical glitch.Because the DVD was released 4 years after Grissom's vindication, this fact should have been mentioned either prior to the film or immediately afterward so as not to cast any aspersions on the bravery of this great astronaut, who later gave his life during the tragic 1967 Apollo fire (along with his colleagues, Edward White and Roger Chaffee). And, it would have also served as a belated apology for aspersions cast in the film itself and in previous releases of the film on home video. "},{"Title":"super","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Missed this one when it came out years ago and finally caught up with on TMC in letterbox (the only way to see it). What with a super cast, great script and direction, and terrific cinematography it lives up to its high reputation, and I find it inexplicable that it was not a popular hit. A great look at the inside, nitty-gritty, human aspect of America's race into space. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I remember going to see this movie on it's release in the Odeon Leicester Square. There couldn't have been more than about 20 people there but it didn't matter because I got so wrapped in this film.It is so good because it is such a fantastic story of the courage of these pilots, the support from their wives and the desperate race to beat the Russians into space. A script which never drags, is full of humour and pulls great performances from some of the young actors of the day - Sheperd, Glenn, Quaid, Hershey, Ward, Harris....the list goes on.Add to this the superb cinematography and sound...what sound! I have just ventured in to the world of DVD and now have Chuck Yaeger breaking the sound barrier in my living room. My neighbours may never speak to me again.......... "}{"Title":"The Right Stuff?--You Betcha!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Tom Wolfe wrote a terrific book and this movie does nothing but improve on it. A masterful take on the original Mercury program. Seen it a dozen times...keeps getting better. Funny as hell in some parts, flag-wavin' patriotic at others and entertaining from start to finish. Like the Wolfe book, which it follows pretty closely, it provides you with a truckload of information about the astronauts and the program that NASA didn't want revealed in the midst of the Cold War. So you're getting an education the easy way. It seems that just about the entire cast had their first major breakthrough on Right Stuff. Remarkable acting by all concerned parties. Donald Moffat (I hate to single any ONE actor out in this movie for special attention) does a turn as LBJ that belongs in the Satire Hall Of Fame. The editing is perfect. This movie is around 3 hours long and it just flies by. Great use of archival footage from NASA. It's an epic film that never feels like an epic film. Great moviemaking.( And I'm waiting for someone to make a film out of Wolfe's A Man In Full. If James Garner is reading this...there's an Oscar with your name on it, Jim. Get the part!!!) And by all means, let the kids watch Right Stuff with you. This is what they mean by a movie the whole family can love. Just start it early enough to get 'em to bed on time.  "},{"Title":"Read the book then see the movie or the other way around","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Laurel to Philip Kaufman for being true to the great book by Tom Wolfe. One of the best conversions from a book into a movie I've ever seen. Excellent, both exciting, entertaining and educative. Among my top five of all time. "},{"Title":"A film about men.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The movie, The Right Stuff, like the book is more about male behavior among other men such as constant competitiveness, earning respect among peers, showing who's more competent, who maintains an even strain in the face of adversity, who has The Right Stuff. It also shows that among these male traits there is also a bond, a willingness and need to work together for the common goal, to push your competition to achieve more than he may realize he is capable.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining and informative history of the Space Race","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is terrific!  I loved it when I first saw it and I still enjoy it.  The history presented in The Right Stuff is rather accurate by Hollywood standards, and almost every minute is entertaining.  This movie should be viewed by students to give them some appreciation of the bravery, technology and political BS that had to be overcome to explore space.The Mercury Astronauts are presented as hot shots and dare-devils. This is probably accurate.  Normal people don't sit on top of several tons of highly explosive propellant and get launched into space.  Thank Goodness It took a special breed of men to risk it all and start the journey to the moon.I enjoyed Sam Shepard's portrayal of Chuck Yeager.  Yeager is one of the best and most capable pilots of all time.  Breaking the sound barrier took skill and incredible bravery.  Many men paid the ultimate price trying to break the sound barrier.Fred Ward portrays a gritty Guss Grissom.  Dennis Quaid also stands out as Scott Carpenter.  However, Ed Harris plays John Glenn to perfection. Harris' character comes across as almost naive and honest to a fault.  This seems to track with what I've read about John Glenn.The Right Stuff and Apollo 13 are the best historically based space movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Excellent story of the space programs original Mercury astronauts, & the race to the moon during the Cold War.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In my opinion, one of the best movies of the last 20 years. Very well-made, entertaining, & educational as well.  A must for anyone who enjoys a good, intelligent movie, whether you have an interest in space, politics, modern history, or whatever!! I have seen it several times (I teach American History & show in class every year), and am always entertained, never bored. I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"The birth of the fledgling American space program","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie.  I am never disappointed in the acting, the writing (from the brilliant Tom Wolfe novel), or technology.  The film is basically historically accurate, with some interesting interpretive film making involving John Glenn and his first flight and other tidbits.  If I happen across this film on a movie channel, from whatever point it is at, I watch it until the end. "},{"Title":"This movie has the Right Stuff","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is simply great. The cast is superb.The docu-drama of the challenges faced by the United States in breaking the sound barrier and then the astronaut selection process.If you like 'flying' movies this one is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"This, and no other, is the best film of the 80s.","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I enjoyed Raging Bull, dubbed by many as best of the 80s, but sorry Marty, this is the best. Creative and impressive in virtually every scene, capturing a time and a place as thoroughly as Kubrick could in ersatz documentary style. The film is simply huge (though not done on a huge budget) and I bemoan Philip Kaufman's film-making choices since. The only major flaw is Kaufman's obvious adoration of his temp (music) score. Bill Conti's heroic theme is virtually note-for-note from a Tchaikovsky violin concerto, but at least he was allowed to try a theme. There's also the over-used music from Holst's The Planets and Handel's Messiah (hey, Phil, it was funny the first 600 times someone used it back in the 30s). "},{"Title":"The best film ever?","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Quite possibly the best film ever - certainly the best space film ever. An all-star cast, good special effects and a brilliant story drive the film along.  Like I say, the best film ever made? "},{"Title":"This is one of the best","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is one of the best out there, I've rented the movie so many times I ended up just buying the video.  I love the segue of how they start in the beginning with how we broke the sound barrier to the advent of the space program.  The direction of the film was incredible too.  Take the time to rent this legendary film, you'll be happy you did! "}{"Title":"A wonderful movie. Take it!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  A wonderful movie that shows the saga of heroes that began the construction of the history of western space conquest in parallel with aces that never went to space in despite of their skills, like Chuck Yeager. It also deals with the problem of  crew's management and the role of the government in the space exploration. All movie is well done, with brilliant actors (attention on Ed Harris as John Glenn) and a long sleepless story.   "},{"Title":"The pioneership that created heroes","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  So, This movie is my absolute favorite of all time. It manages to both be educating and entertaining, mixing great special effects and  great dialogue. A must see "},{"Title":"Great family film except for profanity","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is a terrific film, well-made, beautiful to watch, with absolutely great characterization by the stellar cast, and wonderful historical details - they get it right on the sets and in the backgrounds. We thought some of the minor characters were marvelous, like the way the petulant VP Johnson was played, or the sensitivity between Glenn and his wife about her speech impediment. And I love the film's pacing - it doesn't lead to a single Hollywood climax, but tells many interwoven stories, each with their own trajectories.Just a note of caution for parents, however - while this is a very worthwhile film to watch together as a family, be aware that the language is not what you'd expect from a PG movie these days. There is a lot of profanity (all appropriate in context, but present nonetheless), including words absent from PG's today. Just be aware. "},{"Title":"slow moving excessively patriotic story of the birth of space flight","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" SPOILERS Throughout history there are men who achieve the incredible. From those ancient sailors who travelled to new worlds, through to the scientist who discovers the cure for a major disease, heroes are all around us. In 1983's The Right Stuff, we are told the story of some of those heroes who led America into the future of space exploration.In the 1950s and early 1960s, pilots chances of living and dying were ridiculously slim. Living their lives on a day to day basis, these men struggled to achieve great things. Eight men in particular forged an amazing future. Starting with Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard), the first man to break the sound barrier, America tried to lead the way in aviation history. Then, after Russian success, America gathered it's seven greatest astronauts as it attempted to become the most powerful nation in space.As far as casts go, The Right Stuff is very impressive. With sturdy performances by Shepard, Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid, Jeff Goldblum and others, it contains some of the more solid actors of the time. Shepard in particular stands out as the leader into a new age who finds himself sticking to an area of transport that is no longer in the limelight. A look of regret occasionally passes over his face as he witnesses former acquaintances advancing the world of space flight.The key to this film however is it's script. Based on the book by Tom Wolfe, it ignores parts of the story as it focuses it's attention on space and ignores pieces about plane advancements. It briefly flicks back to Yeager, but at times only to see him stand up for his astronaut friends.As a result of sticking to most of Wolfe's book though, the film does have it's problems. Feeling at times to be stomach churning patriotic and infuriating, it features far too many pictures of the American flag. Whilst no one would deny America's right to be proud of it's achievements, the flags are just too excessive and unnecessary. Also, this feeling of comradary is equally sickening as people support each other with words of encouragement throughout. Still, if events unfolded like that, who are we to complain.As a telling of the history of the space race, The Right Stuff, is an enjoyable enough film. It features solid performances, and it can be very entertaining. At the same time though, it does sometimes feel far too sentimental and patriotic, and this in itself is not always the best of ideas. "},{"Title":"THE BEST film of the 1980s -- perhaps of all time!","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw The Right Stuff at a preview screening a month before its release in 1983; it received a standing ovation, the only one I've ever experienced in a movie theater.I just bought a DVD player, and The Right Stuff was the first DVD I bought. In my opinion, the film is a masterpiece for all time. It skillfully surfs waves of emotion, from personal drama to intelligent laughs to moments of terror and tension, and achieves a perfect balance. It does so, of course, by means of the remarkable craftsmanship of writer/director Philip Kaufman and his assemblage of incredible talents both in front of and behind the camera. But what really makes this film work is its honesty towards its subject matter; it shows these characters with all their foibles and without condescension, and yet reminds us constantly of the sheer above-and-beyond heroism that these everyday men achieved.P.S. Ron Howard's Apollo 13 is close on this film's heels, from a quality standpoint; I consider it practically a sequel. "},{"Title":"Starting to show its age?","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I finally watching this movie last night -- I guess I'm about 17 years late. Anyhow, in general, I felt a bit disappointed with it and I think the reason is that it is showing its age.  I can see how it would strike a resonant nerve in the heyday of the Reagan 80's.  It obviously would have served as a good education vehicle in that time.  But, with the advent of cable channels such as The History Channel and The Learning Channel, we have plenty of excellent resources that do a better job of explaining the history of America's space program.Compared to these cable channel programs, this movie pales in comparison as a source of information.  As a source of entertainment, it struck me as something akin to Top-Gun in Space.  I know lots of folks also liked Top-Gun, but I found it (and this) movie to be too overboard on the rah-rah hero worship.  Understand that I have the utmost respect for the men who led us into space -- they are indeed heros.  But, what they did speaks for itself.  It is not necessary to attempt to turn their accomplishments into near-mythical ones.  The characters were generally one-dimensional. Possibly the best insight this movie provided was a glimpse into what the wives of these men had to endure at the time.  That, to me, was the most interesting part(s) of the film.My father was a career Air Force pilot and, consequently, I have always loved stories about airplanes, space flight, and the history of these.  So I expected to really enjoy this movie.  Unfortunately, I got little out of it. "},{"Title":"overrated NASA puffery.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The first hour is painfully slow except for the exploits of Chuck Yeager.The enema scene, is one of the most sadistic and vulgar scenes ever captured on film. I cannot believe that the Lovelace Clinic in Albuquerque actually had these men go up two floors in an elevator packed with people.The book at least had the saving grace of Tom Wolfe's graceful writing style. "},{"Title":"Contextual Considerations","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  How do machiavellian-type leaders get peace-loving and peace-living people to change quickly to a combative, or at least highly defensive, mode?  First by telling them they're being attacked, and then by denouncing the pacifists for their lack of patriotism. This time-honed technique has proved effective over many years.   Of course, it helps when there's a particular incident of condition to use as a springboard.In The Right Stuff, an interesting occurrence took place in the launching of the Russian 'Sputnik.  When a Pentagon defense advisor was asked for his interpretation of the incident, he responded with grave trepidation and warnings of dire security consequences.There's no denying this expert's sincerity in his reaction, nor is this to suggest that he had anything but a people's best interests at heart.  Still, he was in the business of security and defense, as were his fellow committee members, and that's the way they apparently tended to see things.Who can blame them?  Isn't that rather what human nature's about?  When one's a carpenter holding a hammer, doesn't everything begin to look like a nail?  To a surgeon holding a scalpel, doesn't everything start taking on a surgical point of view?For that matter, aren't leaders selected (at least subconciously) for their street-saaviness?  Isn't that why the latter candidates tend to win out over the more intellectual types--because the more hard-nosed give the promise of offering the populous more protection?It is any wonder the pilot-astronauts portrayed here all tend to look and act alike--strutting around like mini-John Waynes, talking tough and acting a bit on the arrogant side?  There was no hint in this enactment that any alternative reactions were possible to the Sputnik incident.  However, at the other end of the response scale was at least an option of pleasure and even elation over a genuine technological advancement for humankind--plus an opportunity to convey hearty congratulations to one's planet brothers for their fine achievement.  Then at the middle of the scale was an option for a more detached and noncommital observation, within a kind of neutral terrain.Wasn't it interesting that the reaction chosen by the committee, which trickled down to the constituency at large, was essentially fear-based?  Wasn't it one thing to pursue the space program for the betterment of the world family, yet another to be motivated merely to beat the Russians.In retrospect, the space-age scenario as depicted by The Right Stuff appears to be less empowered by more enlightened humanistic principles as by more primitive impulses. "},{"Title":"One of the top five movies I have ever seen!","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I am a movie fanatic and this movie is one of my all time favorites. I loved how this movie had several themes going on The best pilot did not have a college degree so he could not be considered for the project. (Yeager) All the tests they gave without having any idea which were really needed since no one had been in space before. There were some very funny scenes and suspense and emotions. One of my favorite scenes was when they all had a big bar-b-que celebration and with all the activities going on, each one of the team looks at each other and communicate without saying a word. I have seen this move at least 20 times and could watch it again tonight and enjoy it once more. "},{"Title":"This is how a 3 hour+ movie should be like!","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Never really understood why some people are treating astronauts like real life heroes but after watching The Right Stuff I always get a better sense and understanding of it!This has always really been one of my favorite movies to watch and one that I'm literally always in the mood for. And this is quite an accomplishment for a movie that is well over 3 hours long! It's just simply one that never drags or starts to become uninteresting at any point, due to the incredible diversity in its story and with its many characters.I think the biggest reason why this movie works out so well is due to how it finds a perfect balance, with basically everything in it. You could really say that the movie is being very heroic and patriotic but at the same time it also shows all of the flaws of the characters and how things went very wrong at times, due to human error or even sheer stupidity at times. The movie is balanced like this with about everything! The movie is a serious one and of course based on true stories but yet it is being brought as great entertainment, with also plenty of comical situations in it. The movie is never too dramatic or heavy but also never too goofy or comical. It's a real pleasant balance that works out oh so well for this movie.It's really great how this movie is telling an important true historical story, by telling it in a mostly very entertaining way. I believe that because of this, this movie works out 10 times better and more interesting, as it would had, had it been done as a complete serious and very straightforward 3 hour+ historical epic. It also gives The Right Stuff so much re-playability value to it! It's truly a movie you can watch over and over again and get grabbed by it every time.It's still really a respectful movie toward the first astronauts, as well as to the test-pilots of the '40's/'50's, who pretty much were the predecessors of the first astronauts and did lots of important and dangerously groundbreaking stuff to get the first space program off the ground.It's equally paying attention to most of the first astronauts, as well as to test-pilot Chuck Yeager. It's hard to say who plays the lead role of this movie really, since there is not one main character, that it constantly follows, throughout the entire movie. It also follows the stories of the women behind the men, who of course were just as important and had to endure a lot.Basically all of the characters are really likable ones because they are portrayed like real humans, each with their own flaws and needs. It was refreshing to see real men as astronauts for a change. Men who enjoyed having a drink, the night before they had to go up into space, as opposed to all of the generic and serious scientists they are blasting off into space now days. It makes me respect the earliest astronauts all the more because they were just common men, who volunteered to do some not so very common things and constantly risked their own lives to get the job done. True pioneers of our time and also true heroes in my opinion.It's also great to see them getting played by some great and well known actors, who all suit their roles very well and also often really look like the person they are playing. It's really an all-star cast, with people such as Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Sam Shepard, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward, Veronica Cartwright, Pamela Reed, Lance Henriksen, Donald Moffat and Jeff Goldblum involved but it never feels like a celebrity overkill, since everyone suits their roles so extremely well.It's such a great written and fine told movie, not only by its actors but also really by its director Philip Kaufman, who directed the movie with a lot of eye for detail. I also really loved how I really couldn't tell when the movie was using real archive footage or footage shot specifically for the movie. It adds so much realism to the movie and its overall feeling and effectiveness.Something that also deserves special attention is the wonderful musical score by Bill Conti. It also earned him an Oscar and the movie won 3 more, while it got also nominated for 4 others, including best picture. This truly is how all historical, 3 hour+ long movies, should be like!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Deserves a spot in the top 250!  I can only think of 15 seconds of this film that is shy of greatness.","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Unfortunately, those fifteen seconds come during the last 15 seconds of the film when there's a cheesy bit of completely unnecessary narration. The film would have benefited from written information to convey what Kaufman was trying to say. The rest of the film is a 10. In the future, I will stop this film with Yeager walking, battered and bruised in the desert. The last bit of narration is just completely out of place. It's cheesy, and it's takes away from all the successful character development of the film. If the film sets any character apart, it's Yeager. The ending contradicts those efforts, and makes the last 5 minutes of the film a bit anti-climactic.Now, for the rest of it.What an EPIC movie! It's three hours of pure entertainment. The music, the overall sound, that character development, the superb pacing of the three hours; to say this film is awesome might be an understatement.I respect James L. Brooks' Terms of Endearment. It's his best film, but I'm not quite sure how it beat-out Kaufman's The Right Stuff for best picture honors for 1983. It must have been close, and that last fifteen seconds of narration in TRS might have helped.The film did win Oscars for sound and score. The way Conti's score is seamlessly woven into the film is amazing.There is a great amount of detail in the visuals and the period, and the film stands up to this day without any indication of being made in 1983. If we weren't familiar with the actors - it could have been released a month ago - and without a doubt it would have been the best film of 2011.The Right Stuff does for the American space race what Das Boot did for submariners. This film basically writes the book for this subject matter. The audience roots for nearly every character in the film. The pre-cold-war undertones are rightfully downplayed to concentrate the films' focus on those involved and their gripping heroism and humanity.The film is as much of a visual feast as it is a treat for the auditory senses. All the flight sequences show the strength of Kaufman's direction as he maintains a degree of realism and minimization that doesn't detract from the film at all. Instead of unrealistic shots of models or modern-day-CGI - we get an extremely artistic and personal take of the cockpit. It's not what's going on outside of the cockpit - it's what's going on inside. And even when Kaufman ventures outside of that cockpit - it comes off as dreamlike/out-of-this-world. In that way, the film draws more from Kubrick films like CLockwork Orange, and 2001, and sends the audience into sensory over-drive.93/100You'll like this if you liked JFK, The Great Escape, Apollo 13, and The King's Speech. If you don't like this - someone needs to check your pulse.Some have criticized that the film didn't flesh-out every character. In this aspect it's a strength not a weakness. We only get to know 4 of the astronauts on the cover, and the films' better for it!There can be times when a films length can be a distraction, but this is the fastest 3 hours and fifteen minutes in Hollywood history. This is an extremely tight film considering the number of characters, and the years and subjects covered. "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Philip Kaufmann's film version of The Right Stuff is a movie marvel, a classic and a throbbing paean to the greatness of America. Brilliantly produced by Alan Ladd Jr thru his Ladd Company (which was supposed to be like Dreamworks and Imagine are today) the film is cast with remarkable actors in an ensemble that deserves our most respectful applause. Dennis Quaid is simply magnificent as Gordon Cooper and has one of the greatest fade-outs in movie history, Quaid deserved a Best Supporting Oscar. Sam Shepard is terrific as Chuck Yeager and so are Scott Glenn, and Barbara Hershey and one of the truly great actresses Kim Stanley. Ed Harris is superb as John Glenn. The entire supporting cast is pitch perfect.I love this movie but it got clobbered at the Oscars by the emotional favorite Terms of Endearment. In the rear view mirror of movie History, The Right Stuff was the best movie of that year and one of the best movies of all time. For me it is my favorite movie, and wow what a score....I could listen to it forever.David Barra Los Angeles "},{"Title":"Great stuff.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I got to see the last hour and a half of this movie and I thought that it was great. The acting was super and the drama was incredible. It was about astronauts who go into space and there is some conflict. I liked how John Glenn flew around the earth and it looked so beautiful. I think that was fun to fly around in space. I tried to imagine being vibrated for hours like in the movie. At first it would feel pretty good but after a while it might be nauseating.This was an excellent movie because it had a lot of moments where the viewer would hold their breath and hope for the best. Then POP! There goes the scene into a completely different place. This is good stuff so go rent it. "},{"Title":"An impressive job at a tough adaptation, but what got lost in translation was really the whole reason the book got written - so unfortunately, i have to do one of those compared to the book revie","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" There is so much detail in Tom Wolfe's nonfiction book about the first Americans in space - and its written in such a sprawling discussional way that i'm very impressed that any screenwriter was able to turn it into a narrative film. But if we judge this film compared to what we expect from narrative films, then it would be found pretty wanting.All the characters which are developed so fully in the book are presented here only so scantly, as skeletons of their real selves - with the expection of All-American John Glenn and Gordo Cooper. Any real emotions the astronauts were depicted in the book as having - any bitterness of feeling towards each other, internal jealousies which made the whole thing interesting have been conveniently omitted, leaving us with an almost wholly idolatory piece of jingoistic patriotism. Wolfe's book was ironic and often sarcastic, though always realistic about the impressiveness of the life of a fighter jock - this tone was all that kept the book from being an exercise in practiced naivety. All that's gone, so this is what the movie becomes - a rather untruthful, naive and superficial look at the first US astronauts.The only theme here is that they all stuck together and respected each other - never mind the fact that they weren't really a group at all, but what Kurt Vonnegut has called a granfalloon - a sort of false group people pretend to be a part of. There was always this pretense that they were a gang - but really they were individuals. What mattered was who got to space first, or who outdid the others at what they got to do in space.In truth, it is not a narrative film - the only message to be got from the film is in the comparison of the plot of the astronauts to the parallel plot of the fighter jock Chuck Yeager, the man who break the sound barrier - who REALLY had The Right Stuff. This was the hidden message of the book, and it doesn't really come through in the movie.I do recommend this to fans of the Tom Wolfe book, and fans of history - because since this was before the age of computer mock-ups (only just), there is quite a bit of real historical footage used, which alone is worth the price of admission. Footage of the real ticker-tape parades in New York, lots of real launch footage, people watching real launches, real footage of the famous launch stuff-ups and, best of all, the REAL Jose Jiminez gag footage. Big props to the filmmakers for finding all this stuff.3/5 "},{"Title":"Nice but very wrong movie.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie, as such, is very well done in most respects, and certainly deserves the awards that it had won. In short, chances are very good that it will entertain you if you don't know it already. But just to make this extra clear it is historically so wrong that the IMDB goofs-section might well explode if you logged all the errors. This movie does not depict history as it happened, by no means. It takes the feel of that timeframe and a couple of specific related sub-topics, and then mixes them together in a way that the result tries to leave the impression that this what it was like. This movie wants to look realistic, but it doesn't want to be realistic, let alone show reality. So don't let yourself get fooled into taking it for real, simply let yourself get entertained. "},{"Title":"Phil Kaufman's Personal Take","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Okay, here's the inside story. Bill Goldman wrote the original script. It was gutted by the director who had a personal thing about Yeager being the real hero and the Mercury 7 being Spam in a can. Yeager is portrayed as larger than life, but so where the guys strapped to rockets that frequently blew up. Kaufman had a thing about Gus Grissom being a coward. Gus was anything but. These guys were real human beings made of the same stuff as you and I. They weren't the perfect specimens trotted out by Life Magazines. If you bought into that you were fooled.  However, saying that, Kaufman denigrates them into publicity vehicles. The story deserves to be re-made by somebody who wanted to show a little respect, instead of insinuating his cross-eyed version of history on the public.  Good cinematography, fine acting - this movie got several careers off the dime (especially Scott Glenn). I knew Phil and he was the most opinionated person I've ever met.  In the movie biz that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Phil Kaufman's Personal Take","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Okay, here's the inside story. Bill Goldman wrote the original script. It was gutted by the director who had a personal thing about Yeager being the real hero and the Mercury 7 being Spam in a can. Yeager is portrayed as larger than life, but so where the guys strapped to rockets that frequently blew up. Kaufman had a thing about Gus Grissom being a coward. Gus was anything but. These guys were real human beings made of the same stuff as you and I. They weren't the perfect specimens trotted out by Life Magazines. If you bought into that you were fooled.  However, saying that, Kaufman denigrates them into publicity vehicles. The story deserves to be re-made by somebody who wanted to show a little respect, instead of insinuating his cross-eyed version of history on the public.  Good cinematography, fine acting - this movie got several careers off the dime (especially Scott Glenn). I knew Phil and he was the most opinionated person I've ever met.  In the movie biz that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Quite good, but at times slow.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As good as this movie is, it has its share of problems. One is that it moves slower in places then it could have. Another is its pitiful portrayal of the other side. I realize that this is a movie about the American space program, but give credit where credit is due. The Russians get something like a minute of film time, and the designer Korolev does not look anything like he actually did, and actually neither did Von Braun. If this movie attempted to be very accurate, it doesn't do it too well. But it.s still a good movie all in all. "},{"Title":"Movie Masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Director Phil Kaufmann and Producer Alan Ladd brought to the screen a movie masterpiece in The Right Stuff. Starring Sam Shephard and a roster of great actors such as Ed Harris, Charles Frank, Barbara Hershey a truly ensemble cast. Two cast members stand out the superb Kim Stanley one of the great all time actresses and Dennis Quaid who is memorable as Gordon Cooper. The ending is one of the best ever of all time. I also want to mention the thrilling score of the film. Memorable!I love this movie and as a Veteran of our Armed Forces, the greatest in the World, it is a paen to Aemrica and to the valor of the American Military!. Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!This Movie should have won the Academy Award, not its competitor Terms of Endearment. "},{"Title":"Was this a movie about Astronauts or about slamming Chuck Yeager?","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  There were parts of this film I enjoyed, but I found myself puzzled about the Chuck Yeager stuff.They spend half the film building him up.  Then they make him out to be a little less then that by having him not volunteer for the space program.  Then when Cooper is interviewed he is about to name Yeager as the greatest pilot he's seen, then names himself.Finally the film finishes with Yeager experiencing a spectacular failure and Cooper a success.Just a little odd, I felt.  I gave it a 6 due to a few great scenes.  I do not recommend the film, tho.  It's over three hours long and kinda poofs out in the final act.  Actually, it never really gets going, it just sorta plods along.  Not that it's boring, it's just didn't seem to have 'IT'. "}{"Title":"Overcooked but palatable","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The story of the first Americans in space during the early 60's. These men truly are heroes, but this movie unfairly personifies the arrogance and self-righteousness of American society in these courageous, confident men. As we watch it, it's as if we're supposed to cheer out for their cocky and bullying behavior(the ugly American). Definitely contrived to appeal to Americans' sense of patriotism and to polarize the audience(Russia, US government, and the press - villains vs. astronauts - nice guys). This prevailing attitude throughout the film, and being that most of these men were still alive in 1983 and are still alive now(we know them), and that this is based on real events in recent history, makes it overdone. But that's entertainment.Conversely, it's well directed(aside from the above) and acted. The effects are well done. It is long but paced well and keeps your interest except for a few short scenes.Any fly boy will love it for it's pride value and the wild, blue yonder; hardheaded American patriots will love it too.Disclaimer FYI I don't live in America, but my heart still does. "},{"Title":"Technically proficient; creatively deficient","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This is the interrelated story of Chuck Yeager and the Mercury Seven astronauts, each pioneers in conquering the skies. The film spans sixteen years, from Yeager breaking the sound barrier in 1947 to Gordon Cooper being launched into orbit in 1963.The film has a running time of about three and a quarter hours, so there's plenty of time to delve into the history of the 'space race'. Unfortunately, I found that the film dragged quite a bit.My main problem with the film is with the characters. Forget the fact that they are based on real people; the film presents them in a way that borders on caricature. The heroism of these folks is exaggerated to the point of cartoonishness. I get that they're fearless and cocky but every time Dennis Quaid's Gordo Cooper starts grinning like an idiot I just want to punch him in the face. To his credit, Kaufman does try to show the astronauts as human beings every once in a while but those efforts are overshadowed by the excessive bravado of every other scene. Since I actively disliked the characters it was hard for me to care about what happened to any of them. As a result, the three and a quarter hours crawled by.For the most part the actors can't be faulted, though. They do the best they can with a script that just isn't very good. Besides the aforementioned problems with character the film tries to do too much. It would have been much better to leave Yeager out of it and focus on the space program. Also, there's the odd circumstance that there aren't really a lot of tense situations in the film, despite the fact that it's based around the exploits of these death-defying men. Most of the comic relief falls flat as well. I can't really think of anything that the script does well except stick reasonably close to the facts.From a technical standpoint the film is well done, though. Kaufman does a good job of integrating the aerial footage into the film, much of which rivals today's special effects. He even inserts some of the actors into existing footage, predating similar techniques in Forrest Gump by more than a decade. Generally, he has a keen eye for direction and the cinematography is also above average. As for audio, the film won a couple of Oscars for Best Sound and Best Sound Effects Editing. Bill Conti's score also won an Oscar though I thought that it was decent but unexceptional.If you can stand the characters then you may enjoy the film more than I have. It certainly doesn't feel 25 years old, so viewers shouldn't be put off by that. "},{"Title":"Wild Blue Yonder . . .","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I've read Wolfe's book twice and seen this a dozen times, and although I enjoy the exciting story and the comedic interludes, there's something about both the book and the film that leaves me dissatisfied. And the book and the film are two rather different things, so I guess I'll try to ignore the book except to say that I can appreciate Wolfe's adoration of these guys, who are good-natured doers, not thinkers. But I wish he hadn't taken gratuitous swipes at liberals. Wolfe describes the immense popularity of the astronauts in the early 60s, due to the fact that they put their lives on the line, and contrasts it with the contemporary admiration of the Kennedys because, after all, THAT was based on movie-star good looks. Kennedy of course was assassinated, as were Lincoln and McKinley, and others like Reagan and Teddy Roosevelt were wounded, and numerous others were shot at. Being an astronaut or president seems to be a dangerous business, and there's no need for discriminating between them on the basis of their political attitudes.That said, the film still baffles me. I love seeing the planes and rockets blasting through space, backed up by an reverential and triumphant score. But the movie rather oversimplifies the things that are reported in the book and renders them almost childish. I'll give two examples of the sort of thing I mean, both involving John Glenn (Ed Harris).At the first public presentation of the astronauts, the press ask them nudnik questions like, Do you go to church regularly? Scott Glenn replies, As far as church is concerned -- I attend regularly, and he grins broadly, obviously lying. The others follow the same tack until we get to John Glenn, who launches into an enthusiastic and sincere speech ending in a peroration to American values. In the book, the others are aghast. Glenn has been an object of sport throughout the training period, an earnest dull man. But in the film, as Glenn is warming to his task, Gordo Cooper (Dennis Quaid) smiling at the audience says, I don't believe this. If the remark was in the book it would definitely have been aimed at Glenn's speech. In the film it's not clear whether he's talking about Glenn or about the size and stupidity of the audience. At any rate Cooper too winds up giving a patriotic 100 percent American speech, which did not happen. It leaves a viewer feeling that the writers and the director were worried that too much cynicism (which the astronauts had in abundance) would alienate Middle America, so they took the edge out of the scene.Later, when Glenn discovers that the others have acquired groupies, he gets into an argument, and almost a fistfight, with Shepherd. While the astronauts argue about whether they should keep their pants zipped, Gus Grissom (Fred Ward) stops them by shouting that their enemy isn't other astronauts, it's a monkey. Everybody stops fighting and turns to Grissom for an explanation. He explains that their real enemy is the chimp that the suits want to send into space first. The others agree with him and now form a solidary group. But that's no way to stop a fight! It leaves the zipper issue hanging, so to speak. What ABOUT those succulent numbers down at the bar? As an attempt to manipulate the audience the scene simply doesn't work, anymore than it would work with two testosterone-ridden pilots whose blood was up. And there's more manipulation still, which I'll mention only briefly. The families are leaving a party after having met for the first time. Cooper's wife amiably greets Glenn's wife, who doesn't reply but simply stares back until Glenn puts his arm around her and guides her away. Well -- she seems pretty snooty to me, says Cooper's wife, and Cooper adds, Maybe she thinks she's too good for the Air Force, or something like that. In the next scene it's revealed that Glenn's wife has a speech impediment that embarrasses her when she talks to strangers. Let's face facts. Glenn has had years of marriage to get used to handling these kinds of situations, and the best he can do is to hustle his wife away without any explanation? All he has to do is say, My wife has a slight stutter with people she doesn't know well. Excuse us.The scene towards the end, when the astronauts are being feted in Texas, is a laugh a minute in the book. An entire gymnasium filled with loud good old boys drinking bourbon out of plastic glasses and pounding each other on the back and Sally Rand up there on the stage doing her fan dance. I saw the ancient Sally Rand in Las Vegas about the time this story takes place and it was embarrassing. Here, she is a beautiful young lady dancing gracefully to Clair de Lune, while the assembled astronauts smile proudly at one another and then gaze up towards the sky. What could have been a fine scene, bursting with irony, turns into sentimental slop. I still watch it sometimes when it's on TV, but it still frustrates me too. It pushes the envelope and comes THAT close, but in the end it screws the pooch. "},{"Title":"High hopes","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It's easy to see why such high hopes were pinned on The Right Stuff - a passionate writer-director in Philip Kaufman, a talented cast, and famous source material courtesy of Tom Wolfe - and it's easy to see why it was a costly flop. Although the space race, told from the American side, may seem a stirring subject, a box-office winner, The Right Stuff fails to negotiate its way through an episodic plot and a dissipated focus. Spanning nearly twenty years from when Chuck Yeager (Sam Shepard) broke the sound barrier to the astronauts' first trips into orbit, the film lacks an audience-friendly shape, and there is no natural climax. Indeed, the whole film feels like a first act.The true first act - or is it the prologue? - depicts Yeager's granite-like determination to become the first man to break the sound barrier. Here, and in the flying sequences that follow, the film is at its best and most confident. Bill Conti's heroic score accompanies the beautifully-edited sequences of airborne endeavour. After this, Yeager takes a back seat, and the rest of the film is given over to the seven men with 'the right stuff' - among them Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Dennis Quaid and Fred Ward - and the race to get them into space before the Russians manage it with one of theirs.The Right Stuff is a strange beast, a really curious experience. It's an absolute pleasure to look at, very expertly produced by Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff, who also gave us Rocky (1976) and Raging Bull (1980), and it's well played by its bright cast, many of whom were in the relative infancy of their careers. The technical achievements of this film won four Oscars, including Best Editing and Best Sound.Kaufman, though, directs in an uncertain tone. Is his point to critique the American space program, and to make a mockery of the contradictions between political machinations and personal pressure? Or is he, rather, celebrating the courage and vision of these far-from-everyday heroes? It's strange to find, for example, Sam Shepard (astonishingly handsome, no matter that he hardly ages a day from beginning to end) in the same film as Jeff Goldblum's slapstick official, the latter the subject of a running joke as he repeatedly hurries along the corridor and bursts into the meeting to break news that the attendees already know. On top of that, the wives undoubtedly suffer, and yet it seems as if the film is siding more with the men, joking around in the bar, oblivious to their ladies' distress.The result of all this is that it never digs far enough below the surface to uncover any real truths. And for a three-hour film which takes in such a great many events, that's ultimately insubstantial, impressive and entertaining though it may be.  "},{"Title":"Good, but may be too long","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In the year of &#145;Return of the Jedi' there was also a realistic and true movie about space. This movie is about the Mercury space program and events that lead to that. A true story that looks terrific, sounds wonderful and is funny, exciting and dramatic. It plays over three hours and therefore it is a little long, but you will never be really bored.We start with Yeager (Sam Shepard), still considered as the best pilot that ever lived and the first person faster than the speed of sound. Where he is the central figure of the first part of the movie, seven others are the central figures of the second half. Both parts are connected, a little, by the airbase where Yeager breaks his speed records and where some of the members of the seven are located for a while as well.Planes go faster and faster and then the race for space can begin. We have a funny scene in the White House where the President and some others discuss what kind of people should be send to space. Test pilots is what they decide and we go back to the airbase. Yeager is not selected because he is from a poor family. Seven others are selected, not all from that airbase, including Gordon Cooper (Dennis Quaid), Gus Grissom (Fred Ward), John Glenn (Ed Harris) and Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn). The movie shows these four the most. The other three are Deke Slayton (Scott Paulin), Malcolm Scott Carpenter (Charles Frank) and Walter Martin Schirra (Lance Henriksen). The Mercury space program was about to begin.We see their training, how they wait before one of them can go up, how the Soviet Union wins the race for space, how they eventually do go up. Between these events we see Yeager, realizing that it could have been him. He has the best moments in the movie, including his last scene.May be Yeager was not really needed in this movie, although I think he is the best thing the movie has to offer. To make the story complete it probably is essential to start with him, and now and then come back to him. It is one of the reasons the movie is longer, but again, I guess it was necessary to handle things this way. Director Philip Kaufman has made a great movie about some very important events. "},{"Title":"Geez, I remember all this","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Good film, although I betcha the book would be much better, not to mention more accurate. The flying sequences were exciting and realistic looking, but I suspect the pilots would never fly an experimental craft until it would go no farther and then bail out. Seemed a tad foolhardy. Good dialogue and interplay between characters made for a interesting, easy to watch picture. Lyndon's fit in the car was a howl. "},{"Title":"The Right Stuff","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I saw the image of this film featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, the only clue to what it involved was space, but I was going to watch it regardless, from director Philip Kaufman (Quills). Basically this is the true story starting in the late 1940's where the U.S. Air Force are trying to get through what has become known as the Sound Barrier climbing as high as a jet plane can. After many fails, pilot Chuck Yeager (Oscar nominated Sam Shepard) finally proves it can be done, and preparations get underway for a rocket to do the same thing, but actually leave the atmosphere of Earth completely. About ten years later, while the U.S. Space program are still trying to perfect a rocket, they are also looking for suitable pilots with the right stuff to become official astronauts. There are seven men chosen to be the Mercury 7 missions to space, they are Navy pilot Alan Shepard (Scott Glenn), marine John Glenn (Ed Harris), new pilots Gordon 'Gordo' Cooper (Dennis Quaid) and Virgil 'Gus' Grissom (Fred Ward), Wally Schirra (Lance Henriksen), Scott Carpenter (Charles Frank) and Deke Slayton (Scott Paulin). Eventually, with some final modifications, the first rocket is ready for the space race mission, and even knowing the risks involves we see the first pilot successfully launched into space. The next pilot to go into space is not as successful as the rocket burns up not long after launch, and the escape pod is very fortunate to have worked despite the heat problem. The next mission isn't just a mission into space, but with Glenn as the astronaut inside, they are trying to prove a rocket can survive a whole day in space, and it works. The final mission with Cooper as astronaut is to prove that the rocket can stay together in space while travelling a whole rotation of the Earth, and this also succeeds, and proved to be the final space mission with only one astronaut. Before the space missions are of course the training scenes, but more seen in between are the social lives of certain pilots turned astronauts as they discuss the risks and complications with each other, friends, and the family, which makes for some emotional scenes. Also starring Falling Down's Barbara Hershey as Glennis Yeager, Kim Stanley as Pancho Barnes, Alien's Veronica Cartwright as Betty Grissom, Bean's Pamela Reed as Trudy Cooper, Donald Moffat as Lyndon B. Johnson, Levon Helm as Jack Ridley / Narrator, Jeff Goldblum as Recruiter, Harry Shearer as Recruiter and Edward Scissorhands' O-Lan Jones as Girl at Pancho's. The acting talent with such big names that back then weren't as big is impressive, the special effects in and out of space are dazzling, and you really feel yourself in the space scenes, a fitting tribute to true American heroes, and a great historical drama. It won the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Film Editing, Best Music for Bill Conti and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography and Best Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. It was number 19 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Very good! "},{"Title":"Too long...","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The history of the first space mission of the US and of the first men that took part in those flights. From the first supersonic jets to the first spaceships that were orbiting the Earth.The best things about The right stuff is the spectacular photography and all those sequences of the flights that really transmit that sensation of speed and the lack of control while. And now what I didn't like about it the slow rhythm, some parts of the story that look rather unnecessary and make the movie so long (p.e. all the sequences at the beginning, with the test pilots). More than 140 minutes for a movie with no big surprises it's quite excessive.*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly dated and overall, a disappointment.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Perhaps I expected too much from the special edition DVD of this movie, having only previously seen snippets of it on TV. Although the cast performances were superlative, the script seemed at times contrived and simplistic. Occasionally the movie was dull and surprisingly, the SPX involving the Bell X-1 were less than good. The model looked like a model, not like a state of the art aircraft which could (just) exceed the speed of sound. The direction wasn't that great, either, with some strange camera angles which just didn't jell.Worth watching again in parts but overall, not a movie I'd recommend to anyone unless they were a fan of a main cast member. "},{"Title":"Comments without the political diatribe","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  one of my favorites, despite the historical inaccuracies.  The commentator who went into his political diatribe against the Cold War mentality of the space race, can save it for a Slate.com bbs.  The Blame America Theory of the Cold War is old and hackneyed and nobody buys it anymore.  The idea of Soviet expansionism was proven with the files released after the fall of the USSR.  The space race was a necessary endeavour, both for the future of mankind and to establish the eventual decline of Soviet-style totalitarianism.  The film shows that though the Russians got there first, they soon fell behind and lost the prize... much as they did on the international political/economic front.  Sorry, but the astronauts (and the test pilots) were heroes, as were the soldiers and politicians who fought against a world going down the path to socialist dictatorship. "}{"Title":"Insects in space?","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Some people will be annoyed by the caricature-like depiction of certain people here, most notably the cartoonishly cranky Lyndon Johnson that is offered to us here. The movie has a solid dose of humour which usually works quite well. However, critics of TRS need to understand that this is a movie. If they want a serious portrayal of NASA's early space programme they ought to seek out a documentary. Since when does Hollywood tell the truth about anything? Anyone (gullible enough) who still expects historic events in movies to be accurate and realistic just needs to watch Gandhi, Reds, or Malcolm X and they'll be reminded that Tinseltown never cared about facts. There are only two aims Hollywood films have to entertain and to spread left-wing propaganda. But since TRS hasn't got that much to do with politics, there is almost no liberal BS here, so what's the problem? Certainly, some of the astronauts seem exaggeratedly goofy (Quaid) but as long as the material is funny that's perfectly acceptable.What I do object to is the totally unnecessary and utterly cretinous Glenn-sees-Aborigine-made-lights-while-in-orbit sequence. That kind of metaphysical baloney has no place in a movie that celebrates scientific achievement. Or did John Glenn take some LSD before lift-off? So indigenous Australians can do magic, huh? If that's the case, then why did they let the English roll over them with such ease? Another example of bird-brained Western minds finding spirituality in primitive and far-away cultures. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I expected a lot from this film; a good ensemble cast (albeit with no major stars) telling the story of the early space race, an area of history in which I've always been interested. Perhaps this was my downfall I know enough about this time to remove any suspense from the plot, while not having been alive at the time, I fail to appreciate the emotional aspect the film tries to tap into.Taking this into account, however, this film still fails to deliver on every level. It falls into the difficult position of trying to compromise between telling the factual story and creating a good narrative. To this end they sacrifice historical accuracy and any sort of emotional depth; meaning they fail on both counts.The true failing of this film is that they're telling the wrong story. The real heroes aren't the astronauts, they were just incredibly brave men doing a job a monkey could do. In fact, did do. The real heroes are the men who created the technology and built the machines that got them up there, which was a truly magnificent feat, cruelly forgotten in this telling.Of course, I have nothing against an unashamed hero film, but only for the sake of pure entertainment. I n this case we don't even get to figure out who the real hero is, all seven of the Mercury astronauts, as well as Chuck Yeagger, are pushed forward, yet three of them have barely a line of dialogue, and their particular achievements are overlooked. The characters just aren't defined clearly enough and they lack depth or emotional resonance.If you want to see how this film would have been better made, watch Apollo 13. "},{"Title":"Hollywood hatchet job","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is the worst. Gus Grissom was one of the greatest astronauts we had. Respected by everyone at Nasa. He was so highly respected that Nasa picked him among all the other astronauts to command both the first Gemini and first Apollo missions. Several people who were high up in management at Nasa during Apollo even admit that had he lived, Gus Grissom would have been the first man to step on the moon. Even his fellow astronauts when asked to give a peer review of their fellow astronauts ranked Grissom #1. Yet in this film he is shown to be a screw up and coward. Anyone who knows anything about the space program during the 60s can see how poor and extremely inaccurate this film is.  "},{"Title":"What a Pathetic Juvenile Film","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I checked this 1983 film from my public library thinking it might be intended for adults. After all it won Academy Awards.What a pathetic film. I actually had respect for the Mercury Astro-Nuts when a kid. I even used a launch as an excuse to no go to high school.This film if correct certainly burst my bubble. These adult fly jocks seem about as mature as a 17 year old and a hot rod.The poor grammar and less than intelligent boys banter just left me cold. Could these men really be that bad, really? I suppose in 1983 they needed to keep the kids believing the astro-Nuts were just plain speaking, gutsy, bully boys. In any other life time they'd be fighting Huns.An terrible film and I wonder about the Academy Awards now, and exactly by what standards they award these worthless things.I guess I now know why some of the more intelligent of the Hollywood crowd failed to accept theirs. "},{"Title":"An absolutely terrible movie.........","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  about as boring as it's possible to be......I think John Glenn's actual space flight didn't last as long as it was dragged out for in this overrated, tepid ,sleep inducing spectacle......the astronauts may have had the right stuff........but this movie was stuffed full of something else..... "},{"Title":"Absolute tedium","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  People raved about this film and so I settled down to watch it on DVD last week.  Jeez, what a shocker - I don't think I've ever been so bored in my entire life.  I loved Apollo 13 and I can cope with films that aren't action-based  but per-leaze..... "},{"Title":"Split-personality film parading three separate attitudes.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a whimsical look at the Mercury Astronauts, a canonizing look at Chuck Yeager ... and a caricatured look at almost everyone else. Although humorous sometimes, it proves too long with too much fatuous symbolism and too much Yeager hagiography.Also there is excessive movieland distortion, especially with Yeager and various time frames. Occasionally, romanticizing can work as it did in Arthur Penn's Bonnie and Clyde (1967), but Sam Shepard is a playwright trying to be an actor. He has no presence and he is wooden with a monotone voice. His howling at the moon in one scene proves embarrassing and his penchant for chawing gum most unsightly. I now understand why my elementary-school teachers made the students they caught in class chewing their cud, as they delicately described it, stick it on their nose. I would liked to have done that to Sam.  "},{"Title":"Ewwwwwe Gag Me With A SpewMoon!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It takes real skill and, daring and, a level of sophistication totally unknown to me to take anything as interesting and, dynamically action packed as the US space program and, distill it down to the searingly boring mindlessly plodding long winded un-interesting, over blown and lack luster thing the Right Stuff is from beginning to that prayed for moment when the last ending credit rolls off the screen.If you look at my movie comments you will find rarely to I totally pan a movie for being bad.  Basically I feel I will talk only about those movies that uplift me and what I consider junk or dreck hey somebody else might like it so who am I do deny them their pleasure.  BUT the with this movie The Right Stuff no this is profoundly different.  I grew up on the space program I was all of like 10 years old when man landed on the moon.  I loved NASA.  I stayed up morning noon and night watching the moon launches on TV sometimes with my mothers permission some times without.  I take my Man on the Moon history seriously.  The moon shots of the 60's inspired me I enjoyed them as a moment of high adventure and drama that for a few brief moments in the time of man on earth brought us all together as on people.  The moon shots were totally cool.  For the reasons specified above how dare they make such a nasty banal movie about the American Space Program that is so dry and so painfully devoid of any excitement.I have never hated a movie more than this one.  I am lucky I did not get to see it when it played on the big screen.  I rented it as a video and, still felt cheated having forked out 2 dollars to see that dreck.  The producers of the Right Stuff should play the viewer to watch it.  The armed services and, CIA should use the right stuff to ware down the resistance of enemies of the United States by making them watch it again and, again.  I am not kidding after the fourth time watching the right stuff were I a criminal I would be spilling secrets right and, left talking like a magpie.Since I feel I must be balanced even The Right Stuff has one redeeming value and to be fair I must share it with you.  The right stuff did show you some behind the scenes stuff about how one becomes an astronought at that time that was interesting.You could also always buy this movie as a gag gift or a special something for that person in your life you have to buy a gift because it's expected and, yet you love having him or her.  Buy that person you love to hate a copy of the Right Stuff I am sure they will never forget that act of kindness. <EG>  "},{"Title":"Ewwwwwe Gag Me With A SpewMoon!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  It takes real skill and, daring and, a level of sophistication totally unknown to me to take anything as interesting and, dynamically action packed as the US space program and, distill it down to the searingly boring mindlessly plodding long winded un-interesting, over blown and lack luster thing the Right Stuff is from beginning to that prayed for moment when the last ending credit rolls off the screen.If you look at my movie comments you will find rarely to I totally pan a movie for being bad.  Basically I feel I will talk only about those movies that uplift me and what I consider junk or dreck hey somebody else might like it so who am I do deny them their pleasure.  BUT the with this movie The Right Stuff no this is profoundly different.  I grew up on the space program I was all of like 10 years old when man landed on the moon.  I loved NASA.  I stayed up morning noon and night watching the moon launches on TV sometimes with my mothers permission some times without.  I take my Man on the Moon history seriously.  The moon shots of the 60's inspired me I enjoyed them as a moment of high adventure and drama that for a few brief moments in the time of man on earth brought us all together as on people.  The moon shots were totally cool.  For the reasons specified above how dare they make such a nasty banal movie about the American Space Program that is so dry and so painfully devoid of any excitement.I have never hated a movie more than this one.  I am lucky I did not get to see it when it played on the big screen.  I rented it as a video and, still felt cheated having forked out 2 dollars to see that dreck.  The producers of the Right Stuff should play the viewer to watch it.  The armed services and, CIA should use the right stuff to ware down the resistance of enemies of the United States by making them watch it again and, again.  I am not kidding after the fourth time watching the right stuff were I a criminal I would be spilling secrets right and, left talking like a magpie.Since I feel I must be balanced even The Right Stuff has one redeeming value and to be fair I must share it with you.  The right stuff did show you some behind the scenes stuff about how one becomes an astronought at that time that was interesting.You could also always buy this movie as a gag gift or a special something for that person in your life you have to buy a gift because it's expected and, yet you love having him or her.  Buy that person you love to hate a copy of the Right Stuff I am sure they will never forget that act of kindness. <EG>  "},{"Title":"What a mess","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I took me 2 hours to figure out what this movie was about The first act having Chuck Yeager breaking the sound barrier and the last scene of him trashing his jet had NOTHING to do with the main plot. If the movie started in the presidential office's discussion on the Soviet's space achievement, this would cut all those needless and confusing subplots and half of the boring characters.It tried too hard to build all 7 astronauts in a movie with equal status and forgot to tell the story. If they wanted to make a adventure movie out of it, they should pick one or two; if not, they should make it into a documentary.If anyone wants to see a good space adventure and human achievement film, try 2001 A Space Odessey. "}]