[{"Title":"Just a funny & simple Neil Simon-esque movie","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe the reviews from these Roger Ebert wannabes that tear it down; it wasn't supposed to make a statement or have a sound plot --- it's a COMEDY, you idiots!  The numerous one-liners in this movie are priceless, and if you can't appreciate how enjoyable it is, you've gotten way too serious about movies, folks.  Its humor has withstood the test of time and it's a solid 7 of 10.  This is one of Williams and Matthau's funniest and well worth your time.  Would you believe that I never noticed that Robin flashed his genitals in the hospital scene until my wife saw it for the first time and pointed it out --- women have a heckuva radar for those things! "},{"Title":"Funniest dumb movie of all time.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is classic Robin Williams! The plot is full of holes and overall it's fairly pointless, but this movie makes me laugh and grin no matter how many times I watch it. The best scenes take place in a snowy New England forest, and the movie does an awesome job of capturing the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Unjustly overlooked a very funny movie","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Survivors was unjustly overlooked. It's a very funny and original comedy featuring one of Robin Williams' most inventive performances. It's a chance to see Williams at his most volatile and daring, before he adapted his persona to bland family movies like Patch Adams. He has an excellent foil here in Walter Matthau. Check it out. "},{"Title":"A superb comedy","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When you come across one of those moments in life when you really need to catch hold of a spark of brilliance you should hold onto it and glow warmly in its presence. This film is one of those moments. It sparks and creates a wonderful mix of tragic characters interacting in a modern world, confused and not sure about their place, shattered by stupid events that happen around them to place them together. Robin Williams decent into understandable weakness provides cream for your coffee &#150; sacked by a parrot, driving the same car as all his fellow corporate colleagues he blunders into a world he only read about and slipped and scrawled crashing into a frightened world where the big cesspool awaits. Walter in a parallel world falls lower and lower creating empathic moments trying to get by in a simple world where his daughter strolls in his shadow in adolescence. This film contains some superb dialogue and creative comedy that charm the watcher. Robin is sublime and Walter makes sense where there is none. Jack is colossal as a nemesis and indefatigable in his pursuit until his humanity appears on the floor of a wood cabin when all the characters come together. Do not listen to those who believe this is poor, they have not watched and wondered at the connections. Brilliance and eclectic! "},{"Title":"someone's gotta survive...I think","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Survivors is characteristic of Robin Williams's movies before Good Morning, Vietnam innocuously silly. In this case, he and Walter Matthau join up after surviving a robbery, and Williams becomes a survivalist. The whole thing is pretty goofy - maybe even pointless - but some of the gags make up for that. I will say that it's not the funniest movie for either star by a long shot; both have done far better than this. But, it's the sort of movie that you sit around in your underwear and watch; it does a respectable job showing both stars' talents. Good for a few laughs.Shooting a man's gun. Ha! "},{"Title":"Great film on several levels...","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What a great film!!! A true sleeper! Foremost, I think this film works on a comedic level mainly because Matthau and Williams play off each other so well. Williams plays his comedy in that typically frenzied style of his, injecting a good dose of physical humor to boot(pardon the pun). Matthau plays more of a straight man, but with his own style of deadpan humor figured in. Vigard's daughter character has her moments as well, her facial expressions(especially during the staircase scene) are very funny.This film also works as a commentary on the early Eighties scene, touching upon a number of issues faced by American society. This is the real reason why I believe this film is such a great movie, it gives a funny glimpse at what was happening in America on many different fronts. It covers topics such as losing your job, job hunting, and that interesting social-economic phenomena, unemployment compensation. It sheds light upon big corporate America's lack of allegiance towards its employees, a concept that was just beginning to take hold of the employment scene at the time. I'm sure that just about everyone(in middle class America at least) can relate to what Matthau's character experiences in the job montage sequence in the film. It also shows examples of the ever changing face of American society, such as the Spanish immigrant trying to collect unemployment and the Indian clerk Matthau encounters upon his application for unemployment, touching an issue that has gained tremendous momentum at the present day. It also covers the concept of Americans becoming so disenfranchised with their own society that they are driven to para-military lifestyles, which William's character explores through several really funny moments--you shot my gun!!. It also examines America's never ending fascination with guns.The film also covers ground on relationships,(as all good films do) mainly between the two main characters and the ways they try to help each other through their personal woes. Matthau helps Williams on a more direct level, but Williams helps Matthau's character in the sense that his antics help to distract Matthau from his own unemployment dilemma. Also covered, to a lesser degree, is the relationship between Williams and his fiancée, which underlines the balance between devotion and sensibility. The scene between Reed's character and his wife is both funny and insightful as well.Finally, the film's comedy itself is a very good blend of slapstick that will make you howl(the staircase scene!!) as well as the verbal aspects of well written comedy(police station,phone booth to name a few). Matthau and Williams are constantly playing off each other quite humorously. This film has several catchy lines, I find myself and my brother recalling them from time to time for a really good laugh--Tell young Kojack what he done and ...you've got the technique down. So, these are the reasons why I believe this film deserves a good look, it provides a rather serious look at American done in a very funny way. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but not bad either...","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Survivors is not the Best film of any of the casts' careers, but I found it pretty funny for the most part. Matthau's  sticks to his grouchy old man routine and Williams to his manic everyman. The rest of the cast is OK. There is a little social commentary which is a little dated by now, but still. I liked it. "},{"Title":"This film is hilarious","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I gave it a 8 , and my wife thought it was a 6. Then this film must be a 7.  If you have ever been hit by hard luck, one can relate with these characters.  Robin Williams, when he was at his funniest, performs this rambling nonsense.  Especially when he tells the events of the robbery to his fiancee, does a tv counterpoint (ie there would be no criminals if there were no victims, unless the criminals robbed other criminals, but I am diluting here) and acts out a gun battle.  Walter Matthau plays the crabby straight guy who tries to fix events.  Small role for Jerry Reed, watch the gas station scene; it's funny.  Comedy is so hard to do, it's an art, much easier to make a horror film or action movie, but to get comedy right you have too hit a groove.  This film does it! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Comedy!","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't BELIEVE that so many have given this a low rating! I guess that you have to be a member of the gun culture, (as I am), and understand all the inside jokes based on the clichés of the debate on guns to truly appreciate this film.I love this film even though its message is ultimately anti-gun.This is BRILLIANT writing, and solid casting! Endless great one-liners. Like; I will not allow this man to dangle for your delight! Shoot for the boombox. Without music, they lose the will to fight! The root cause of crime, is CRIMINALS! It's great chicken, kid! Time out. I brought the wrong ammo! And many others.We got survival condos, a talking parrot, a hit man who gives cigarettes to trees! And more! I would honestly give this an eight instead of a ten, but wanted to up the average. "},{"Title":"Well, silly me, I got the wrong bullets...","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite being from 1983, then I will say that The Survivors actually still holds its ground today, and can still be watched as a movie that was filmed recently.The story is about Sonny (played by Walther Matthau) who lost his gas station in an accident after 12 years of running it, and also the story of Donald (played by Robin Williams) who was fired from his upscale corporate job by a parrot nonetheless. The paths intertwine when they are at the same diner when a would-be robber attempts to rob the establishment.Storywise, then The Survivors is fairly straight forward and simple. The story doesn't really require much from the audience. But what makes the movie work is the on screen charisma of both Walther Matthau and Robin Williams, and when put together they are like fire and ice.While this is a comedy, then it is not the type of comedy that will have you laying down with cramps from laughing. The comedy here is more subtle and indirect.There are some great one liners throughout the movie. And while this is a comedy, then it should be said that the movie does present a rather colorful take on the American rights to bear arms.If you haven't already seen The Survivors, then take note that it is well worth spending an hour an a half on. "}{"Title":"Starts Off Funny But Deteriorates As It Goes","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Young upper management executive Donald (Williams) gets canned as part of a restructuring. With his mind occupied by he quite accidentally leaves a sizable gasoline spill outside a petrol station/auto shop just before its crotchety old proprietor Sonny (Mathau) tosses a stale cancer stick. After that Sonny no longer owns a petrol station/auto shop. Neither man really sees the other or knows what really happened.These suddenly desperate sadsacks converge on the local unemployment office whilst Jack (Reed) - one other more desperate yet decidedly more volatile individual is also there. At a nearby diner, while Donald and Sonny are sulking after a miserable day at the mercy of the federal bureaucracy, Jack shows up with a loaded gun and tries to rob the place. Jack has been pushed too far which results in his pushing Donald and Sonny too far. They foil the robbery but Donald is shot. Jack easily orchestrates his getaway.Becoming cause celebres for their daring good in the incident will doesn't help Donald or Sonny. The media ridicules them. Worse, Jack gets their names from the news reports and goes hunting after them as Sonny struggles through odd jobs and Donald alienates his fiancé by going to live at a survivalist camp. Tracking Donald to the camp by threatening Sonny, Jack is determined to finally silence both of the odd couple friends. Donald - exhilarated by the whole experience craves a final confrontation.The film starts quite well to hook the viewer but most of the truly funny material is to be found at the beginning. By the middle it lags and lingers as gaping plot holes remain. The final thirty minutes are mostly unwatchable in the run-up to a nonsensical conclusion. They appeared to be looking for absolutely anything with which they could fashion a satisfactory conclusion for the final cut. "},{"Title":"One of those films","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a prime example of one of those extremely fair/mediocre films that comes on late night TV sometimes that i just cant not watch at least a little of. Don't get me wrong its far from a perfect film, heck, its far from a good film but i just find elements of it fun to watch. Robin Williams and Walter Matthau are two, for very interesting reasons, recently out of people that get mixed up together when the diner that they are both at gets robbed by Jerry Reed. From that the movie proceeds to tell the tale of these Survivors. As i stated before the plot is extremely week and the pay-off is sub-standard but there are definite funny lines and scenes. Here are some examples.I place a high value on human life...20,000 dollars minimum.Blasphmy! You will smoke a turd in hell for that!I left my green card in my other pants.In conclusion, give this movie a try. But don't expect greatness. "},{"Title":"Has some funny parts, but never really comes together","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first heard of a movie starring both Walter Matthau and Robin Williams, I thought I have got to see this movie since I think both men are very funny. Unfortunately, one plus one doesn't exactly equal two in this case.Robin Williams and Walter Matthau are two men who get let go from their jobs due to a poor economy. Williams then decides that society is simply falling apart beyond repair and joins a reclusive militant society in snowy Vermont. Matthau gets dragged into Williams' life by something of a side plot regarding Jerry Reed, who robs a diner when Williams and Matthau are both there and Matthau sees Reed's face, leading Reed to chase after the men.There are some funny moments and the film is certainly quite watchable, but the plot is too unfocused and fragmented. "},{"Title":"you're fired....  Possible spoilers","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll fore-go the plot summary and rantings of the usual Hollywood critic and cut straight to what this movie is all about...Comedy with a capital C. From the very beginning of the movie when Donald Quinelle(Robin Williams) is fired by a parrot (A. Parrot). It appears as though the economy has gone into the toilet and society is coming undone like a cheap suit as we later hear Donald say. Walter Matthau is excellent as Williams' straight man in this movie that precedes Falling Down by about a decade. Where the main character in Falling Down makes us feel sorry for him because of his misfortune, The Survivors, namely Robin Williams and Walter Matthau as Soony Paluso, doesn't get our sympathy because we know they're going to get through their trials as they have good humor and good friendship. The movie deals with real issues like unemployment and a failing economy. There is even a subplot that involves a militia movement that feeds on the fears that Donald Quinelle is experiencing. It is all done in fun, as Donald and Sonny run from the bad guy (Jerry Reed) who is not the hit man he makes himself out to be.I saw this movie when it was originally released in '83 with some friends of mine and now 22 years later, we still quote this movie. It is definitely a hidden treasure and why it didn't get great reviews is a mystery to me. There is one scene that may have been a detriment to the success of this film, although I cannot imagine why...In the first act,When Donald is in his hospital bed and gown recovering from the robber's gunshot wound, there is a brief instant when he is watching the news editorial on the hospital TV regarding his own dumbluck, he turns his backside toward the television and shows his backside to the TV. We don't see his bare backside, however, as he returns to his original position in the hospital bed, Donald reveals a little more of himself under his hospital gown than we bargain for. I think that one got by the editor, but the sack is there for all to see. Not a big deal, but should have been caught by someone other than us, the audience. I highly recommend renting The Survivors. I bought it on VHS about five years ago after looking for it for several years, and I still watch it once in a while, particularly when I need a good laugh because it seems like the world is coming apart like a cheap suit at times. "},{"Title":"decent film with some laughs","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie because I liked the advertisement on the box at the video store and because it had Robin Williams, one of my (and probably milllions of other peoples) my favorite actors.  Basically, two random guys become unemployed and than witness a robbery.  They both end up in the mountains in Vermont awaiting a showdown with the robber.  Mathau is also funny at times.  All in all, a decent film. "},{"Title":"Purposeless comedy.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is another one of those rambling, pointless mid-1980's comedies that keep going on and on, without having anything to say, and without caring if the viewer is still amused or interested. The teaming of Matthau and Williams may appear promising, but it doesn't pay off, and the film is scarcely funny. Halfway through, the thin script has run completely out of steam, and there is nothing for the viewer to expect...apart from the redeeming THE END, of course. "},{"Title":"Hilarious but slightly misguided spoof of survivalists","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In THE SURVIVORS, Robin Williams and Walter Matthau team up to take on a professional hit-man, at least at first. This film actually makes fun of survivalists which, while relying heavily on stereotypes, is still quite funny. The story, though, is predicated on a series of coincidences which makes the whole thing seem set up to make a point. And while things never get preachy, there are a few moments that might have you rolling your eyes a bit, but then it returns to the laughs. Even though this is one of Robin Williams' lesser comedies, he and Walter Matthau make a fine comic team who play nicely off of the other. There isn't too much in the way of character building, but I didn't honestly expect too much of that in this type of movie. The pacing is pretty good, keeping things moving along at a nice clip, until the final act which was a bit bloated. It isn't until the final moments that a switch-a-roo of sorts is made in terms of who the villain is, and calculated to drive home the message of the film, that is, survivalists are all crazy, deluded gun nuts. While this might be true to an extent, this still doesn't excuse reframing the hit-man as just another victim of an economy in the toilet (to borrow a phrase from the film). This just seemed odd to me, and somewhat misguided. Still, the farcical nature of the film makes it hard to take seriously, but in the end I quite enjoyed it. Great? No, but it's a decent watch. "},{"Title":"Absolute Stupidity","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Survivors paired Robin Williams, who by then had two previous movies under his belt, with legendary actor Walter Matthau. From the beginning, the movie was already acting stupid. Robin arrives at work only to get fired by a parrot. A PARROT! The thought of that idea is dumber than actually seeing it. Next, Walter goes out of a job after Robin arrives at his gas station and refills the car all wrong, leading to an explosion caused by Walter's cigarette rolling over to the spillage. If you thought that was stupid, they tease that part too many times before it eventually happens. By then, you realize what to expect. The entire movie was an annoying tread that drags the joke on for too long, and most of the time, the jokes don't make sense. Most of these scenes were mindless, awkward, boring, and confusing. There was one big laugh that I got out of the movie, and leave it up to Robin Williams to provide it. After the criminal traps Walter in his bedroom in the middle of the night, Robin arrives at the house, hoping to talk to him. His daughter goes up to the bedroom to notify him and gets trapped with the criminal. At that moment, Robin realizes what's going on and fakes his departure from the house. Then, he takes a lamp stick and hits the criminal over the head. Now, his rambling goes too long after that, but the stuff that happened there, that was clever. "},{"Title":"Fun, pointless comedy.  Well worth the watch","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love to read the reviews of this movie talking about how there are plot holes and the movie lacks direction and on, and on, and on. The Austin Powers movies have plot holes a plenty and virtually no direction or underlying 'ah-ha's...but they're still really funny. The one liners in this movie are classic Robin Williams and him and Walter Matthau play off each other really well. Throw in Jerry Reed and you have a party. If you're looking for something with plot and direction and some underlying meaning, this is not your movie. If you just want some good laughs in a corny comedy filled with some really great one-liners, this is right up there with the Austin Powers movies. Just don't go into it expecting to see something like Schindlers List and you'll be fine. For all the haters out there...lighten up! Stress'll kill ya! "},{"Title":"Nice movie, could have been better.","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There was bound to be a movie like this in the early 1980s, a time of the Cold War, recession and survivalists. Walter Matthau plays Sonny Paluso, an ex-filling station operator. Kristen Vigard plays his teenage daughter Candice. Robin Williams plays Donald Quinelle. Donald and Sonny become friends. Donald gets put in the hospital. Donald says that being in the hospital makes him think about God. Donald gets fed up with modern civilization. Donald goes to a survivalist camp, even mushing sled dogs. Sonny goes to the camp with Candice to convince Donald that he is overreacting. The movie has a happy ending that seems somewhat phony. Perhaps that is why the movie is seldom shown. "}{"Title":"Better Comedy than the RATING","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think it is an underrated movie and very funny. I thought Robin,Walter and Jerry were great I don't rate movies that are strictly comedy as high as others, but for comedies I think this is one of the better ones out there.I happen to know a few survivalist and I thought the way this movie made fun of that was accurate. I love some of the one liners in this movie.I just don't think Robin Williams or the rest of the crew get their just credit for this movie. Maybe people don't think anything with guns is funny, but I did "},{"Title":"one of the finest comedies i've come across","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the survivors is absolutely one of the finest comedies i've come across. never is  williams better than when playing the deluded idiot, and this is his finest hour in that  persona. matthau's opposite, more reserved approach works perfectly to temper  williams' madness. and jerry reed is fantastic as the hit man who may or may not have  been responsible for teamster boss jimmy hoffa's disappearance. i must urge those (and  there are many) who consider this classic to be a turkey to give it another chance. "},{"Title":"Great work of art","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Who cares what anyone else says about this film?  I think it is wonderful.  It really was something seeing Walter Matthau and Robin Williams paired up in the same movie.  One scene that was funny was when Donald Quinell (Williams) told off Jack Locke the criminal (Jerry Reed)over the telephone.  I also liked the part where Williams and Reed were shooting at each other in the woods.  One scene that would be quite scary was when Jerry Reed pointed a gun at Sonny Paluso (Matthau)while he was in bed.  Nevertheless, Sonny didn't seem too frightened.  One thing that was odd was at the end where Jack, Donald, Sonny, and Sonny's daughter Candice were driving away.  Apparently they had made friends with Jack.  Or do you suppose it was all a trick to turn him in?  I guess we'll never know. "},{"Title":"A waste of talent","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a major disappointment for me.  I have always been a fan of Walter Matthau and Robin Williams and director Michael Ritchie, but not even the three of them together could breathe any life into this dry film.  Williams' character, Donald, is a neurotic, bumbling idiot who is unforgivably paranoid, and his relentless struggle to make some sense out of his life simply isn't funny nor interesting.  Sonny Paluso (Matthau) is a sour old fart who, of course, eventually warms up to Donald (aaaaaaawwwwwwhhhhhh).  I went to see this with a friend, and , aside from two other people, we were the only ones in the entire cinema--not a bit surprising.  The World According to Garp is a much better representation of Williams' early '80's efforts.  As for Matthau and Ritchie, stick with The Bad News Bears. "},{"Title":"Jerry Reed steals the show from Williams and Matthau","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie does it all entertains, sickens, confuses, enlightens, disappoints, enrages, delights... You get a young, burgeoning Robin Williams at the height of his cocaine abuse, a poorly-aged and dangerously arthritic Walter Matthau whose acting conjures past greatness (Charade) and the effervescent Jerry Reed, at the peak of his career and in full, self-confident stride after the monumental success of the Smokey series and Highballin (won two awards at Cannes and a Gay and Lesbian Film Alliance Honor). Not sure why this movie is listed a comedy. I sob uncontrollably every time I watch it, which is nine times a week since 1996. Simply put, Reed's character Jack steals the show. His role would've been bigger but rumor has it that he made ridiculous demands while on set. Apparently, he had in his contract dodo-egg omelets at every meal and nobody on set can utter his name. Towards the end of filming, he attacked Robin William's publicist with a samurai sword. Needless to say, the man is our new Lord and this movie is his Testament.... "},{"Title":"Some great dialogue, falls apart in the end","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie dozens of times, mostly because of some of the funniest dialogue ever written, and mostly when I was younger and the uneven story, problematic direction and distracting editing were more easily over-looked. Rewatching it tonight, I can still see a good movie in there, somewhere, but the uneven bits and long stretches of not-funny really stand out. In particular, the very last five minutes of the film ruin the rest; a bit like heartburn or food poisoning after a tasty meal.Someone should remake this movie. It would be a shame for the great moments of dialogue to be lost gems within this average and uneven whole. "},{"Title":"Funny..period","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very funny movie. This is an American comedy classic! Period. I dunno what that guy's talking' about. I buy the DVD, lend it and never get it back (so I have to buy it again). There are more great one-liners in this movie than you can shake a stick at. for example Walter Matthau Donald, are you okay? Donald (Robin Williams) holding a hand gun laying on the ground. Yeah I'm okay, but I think I killed your tree. Or what about this Donald at the end of a long line at the unemployment office addressing a seemingly dignified elderly woman Excuse madam, would you mind if I cut in? Oh no, not at all, if you don't mind me biting off your nose and sticking it up your ass. See, that's what I mean-outta left field, who-saw-that-one-coming writing. Robin Williams has never been funnier in a movie. What else can you say about a movie featuring luxury survival condos in upstate New York for Heaven's sake? We'll be hanging on to the rim here when the toilet of society gets the Big Flush. And don't get me started on the Jerry Reed-the bad guy hit-man I place a very high value on human life-$25,000. Okay, okay-in some highfalutin, grand sense, this movie has no point-none. When, and why, did humor have to have some meaning beyond itself? Who keeps poisoning the comedy well? Oh wait... Doug Chaz sez check it out. "},{"Title":"Survival or survivalism","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Survivors is not one of Robin Williams' best films, but it is worth watching, and thinking about.  The beginning keeps you guessing about what kind of film it is - Robin Williams' character, Donald, is fired from his job, and we have a few comments about the Social Security system. Then suddenly he foils a robbery, together with Walter Matthau (Sonny).The two characters go in different directions - Sonny tries to make a deal with the robber to leave them alone, while Donald goes to Vermont to join a survivalist community.  Each try to deal with the villain in their own way.The film suffers from sentimentality and  moralism, like most of Williams' films, but it has humour and a good insight into the paranoia of American society. "},{"Title":"A muddled mess that can't be saved","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems that many people have enjoyed The Survivors and as a huge Walter Matthau fan I sure wanted to be one of them. The Survivors is a muddled mess with script problems and, most curiously, problems with the casting of its leading actors Matthau and Robin Williams. Just reading that would make you thing that the casting is inspired but it ends up working against the film. Matthau and Williams have two very distinctive styles of comedy that work against each other and that aspect is clear throughout the movie. These two appear to be starring in different movies even when they are on screen together. Director Michael Ritchie appears to have let Williams and his manic sense of humor go crazy with no attempt to reel him in to a calmer level more suitable for the film. Take a look at The World According to Garp where Williams worked with the great George Roy Hill to see a restrained and terrific performance. Sure some of Williams' manic comedy sneaks through there but it was at a minimum. Here Williams is all over the map which is surprising considering director Ritchie's track record of only good movies up to this point (The Candidate, Smile and The Bad News Bears among others).Another problem with the film is the tone of the script. It wants to be satirical, farcical, and dark all at the same time. Had it stuck with just one of those tones we might have had a better movie. Perhaps a satirical look at the difficulties of big business which is suggested in a funny opening scene when Williams is fired by his boss' parrot. Or perhaps a dark comedy about two down on their luck guys who happen across a hit man, trying to stay alive or even perhaps hoping to be killed, as they get their lives in some sort of order. This is hinted at but the story falls flat with the casting of Jerry Reed as the hit man who turns out to be a likable guy. Reed never convinced me he was anything more then the Snowman with a gun waiting for Burt Reynolds. He always seems to be winking at himself and never comes off as menacing. And the last act of the film at the survivalist outing is so mundane and silly it doesn't even belong in this film.The Survivors could have been a really special film had director Ritchie reigned in and restrained Williams some and having the script go through major overhauls instead of looking like they shot a first draft. As it now stands there are a few laughs and it's not a total waste of time but will be a huge disappointment to fans of the lead actors. "},{"Title":"Snore.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very boring.  When I was a teenager, I saw it in a theatre. I got up halfway through the movie to get some Raisinets.  My leg had fallen asleep and I fell down in the aisle.  I remember that vividly but I remember virtually nothing about the movie.  Didn't Walter Matthau and Robin Williams stand in some snow at one point? "}{"Title":"What kind of man gives cigarettes to trees?","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" As I watched The Survivors, I couldn't help but wonder what was going through the mind of director Michael Ritchie when he was presented with the script. Outside of the enormous gaps in plot and development, he had to see some humor in it somewhere to cast two direct opposites of the comedy spectrum to helm this project. There had to be a mission or a reason in Ritchie's mind when he decided that Robin Williams, a fast-talking comedian that can sometimes be uncontrollable, and Walter Matthau, a slow-methodical comedian that appeals to the every man, would be his key players. I wish I could have been a fly on the wall during this opening meeting because this little fly would have spoken up and mentioned that this pairing would doom the script, and possibly put a black mark on both of these actor's careers. I wouldn't just stop there, I would tear this film to pieces trying to get others to explain to me the subsequent ending and missing tone. The only element that I would be content with would be the casting of Jerry Reed, who honestly brought some humor and intelligence to this scarred film. The Survivors was not a film, but instead an attempt to allow two comedians the opportunity to express themselves coupled with heavy firepower. Nothing more, nothing less.Could somebody, anybody, please help me out with the story surrounding The Survivors? From the zigzag opening centered around the parrot and Robin Williams' job to the incident at Matthau's gas station (a plot point never mentioned or concluded), Ritchie spends no time developing anything. His choice of direction is simply to allow Williams to be as zany as possible and see how Matthau reacts to it. If it weren't for Jerry Reed this film would have been nearly an hour and a half of forced jokes, gunshots, and awkward moments. The story was pointless. In most instances I can find bits and pieces of a story which keeps my attention allowing me to be curious about how the ending will resolve itself. For there to be this resolution, there has to be a conflict. Ritchie attempts to create one with the entire survival of the fittest byline, but even that idea is never fully announced. I felt like a Ping-Pong ball in this film, constantly going back and forth between Williams and Matthau hoping that I would land on something that scored a point, but alas, this was the game that would never end. Ritchie even takes us into the wilderness in attempts to bring more laughs and eventually draw an ending, but again, nothing happens. Nothing is explained, nothing is developed, nothing is linear. Williams goes into the woods to be trained in survival, yet for the amount of time he was there it was as if he was unable to learn anything. Also, where did he get the funds to buy the house out in the woods? Then, without giving anything away, there was that pathetic ending. WHAT HAPPENED? I use big words there because there was not one iota of a conclusion. Enemies became friends, friends became enemies, and before words could be spoken the ending credits appeared.I would like to announce this here, but I believe Michael Ritchie could not even handle the simplest of tasks with this film. The direction was horrible because Ritchie could not control his actors. It was obvious as you watched Williams and Matthau on screen that there were getting no advice or pointers from the man behind the camera. Ritchie didn't stop Williams during his rants (which at times were never relevant to the film) and did not help Matthau react to the insanity that Williams was bringing to the table. What should have been the best part of this film was easily the most painful to watch. Williams and Matthau, in this critic's eye, possibly could be ranked as the WORST comic pairing in cinema. Matthau's form of comedy is completely, if not 100%, different to Williams' shenanigans. While in some film cases this would work to a movie's advantage, for The Survivors, it did not. There were no characters for these two comedians to enter into. I sat during the entire hour and a half watching Robin Williams be Robin Williams and the same for Walter Matthau. I could not see any semblance of a character between the two of them. Both seemed to jump from one trait to the next. Neither seemed to have a complete hold or knowledge of who they were attempting to portray. This is half due to the flimsy story, but mainly I place the blame on Ritchie. With Williams and Matthau at the helm, this had the beginnings of a hilarious possible gut-busting, laugh-out-loud comedy that would be a staple in the film community, but Ritchie, in my eyes, could not handle it. He relied to heavily on his actor's comic personas instead of actually building characters for them.Overall, this was a very sad excuse for a film. I have read some other reviews that speak highly of the comedy in this film while do speak similarly of the lacking story, but for me everything was broken. There were no characters, there was no direction, there was obviously no story, and our two central actors didn't work for their money, but just read through their lines and gave a measly 30% to the final product. The only plus I give this film is the accomplishment of Jerry Reed. He was worth watching. The scene between his wife and I was nearly close to perfection. I think it was the only time that I found myself chuckling through this entire film. Ritchie could not handle this film and in the end The Survivors is probably a film that neither Williams or Matthau wants to remember.Grade ** out of ***** "}]