[{"Title":"A truly bad sequel","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Why can't Hollywood just let good movies die in peace? This 2nd sequel to the original (and quite good) Smokey and the Bandit stinks everywhere. The story is lame and the characters have been reduced to caricatures of themselves.Let's start with the story. The premise here is that those Enos boys are at it again, wanting to have some fun at the expense of someone. That someone is none other than Sheriff Buford T. Justice (key the tuba) who has just put in for retirement. When those retirement plans aren't what he expected, our valiant Sheriff accepts the Enos' challenge Deliver a plastic shark to the new restaurant the Enos boys opened up. While along the way, those rascally Enos dudes are going to try to stop him at any cost.Okay, stop right there. In the first Bandit movie, the idea was a simple challenge and bet. The Enos boys were depicted as nothing more than a rich father and son team who were bored so they thought up a good challenge. No real maliciousness involved - just a challenge with some money put up to make people take it seriously. That was fun.In the 2nd Bandit movie, the Enos reputation (such as it is) is on the line and they want to beat a political rival. Not as strong, but again, nothing terribly malicious involved. This movie has them just trying to be mean to their new play toy. Namely, Sheriff Justice. So they send him on his way and start trying to sabotage his trip. When Justice beats them at every turn, they figure that they need a professional to deal with him. Since the Bandit isn't around (he's off making Stroker Ace) they give the job (and the red shirt, belt buckle and hat) to Cledus, our old truck driving buddy.So, Cledus chases Justice to get the prized shark and fun and laughter ensue. Well, not too much fun and little laughter but look on the bright side - it was a paycheck for Gleason and Reed. Anyway, from there on out it becomes the now tired old cat-and-mouse game with one side giving chase to the other. But even the chases lack the polish to make you remember back to the ones in the 1977 original. They seem more staged and one dimensional. For example, there's a scene where Cledus and a new buddy sneak up from behind and take the shark off of the Sheriff's car. The shot is not technically difficult and it's rather boring. Plus, what law enforcement officer doesn't check his mirror to make sure of what's behind him? I learned that in 11th grade driver's ed.Anway, to summarize, I think the use of the 1982 (anemic) Trans Am is allegorical to this movie It's got the right name but is under-thought, underpowered and basically is just a diluted version of its former self. "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Deary me. Where do I begin? I usually have no problem watching stupid films. They give you an opportunity to just sit back, relax and enjoy the fun. Except when they are so bad that no matter how hard you try to enjoy it, you still wish there was a noose that you could use to end the misery of it all. The dialogue in this film was unbelievable. Anyone who found it funny is in urgent need of a funnybone transplant. The car chase scenes are endless, and very very lame. I don't think there is much more to say except that this film should be avoided at all costs. It is an insult to humanity, and if I were one of the actors i would quickly immigrate to the north pole and wear a sack over my head in complete and utter shame.  "},{"Title":"One of the best bad movies ever","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Call me weird, but I love bad movies.  I just get a kick out of seeing what a couple of million dollars really means to Hollywood.  In this case, it doesn't mean much.  Smokey 3 is one of the biggest stinkers ever produced by a major studio. Besides asking the obvious questions that this movie poses (Why would The Great One actually star in this disaster and how could Universal create, release, and advertise this movie and still be able to sleep at night?), you have got to wonder one thing...where in the heck did all of these ramps come from?  One example (out of too many to count) is how Jerry Reed (Snowman posing as Bandit) actually jumps his Firebird out of his garage...from a dead stop...huh?? The plot is putrid, the supporting cast is horrible (Jerry Reed used to be lovably annoying as Snowman...all he can do here is utter obnoxious one-liners and triple-speak while hooting and hollering about getting to pretend to be Burt Reynolds), and there is actually a point during all this mess when the pity for Gleason lifts, and you actually want something to fall from the sky onto Buford T. Justice and end it all. But watch this movie...I beg you...this is the worst bad movie ever made, and it is worth the rental money to spend 1 and 1/2 hours being embarrassed for the families and friends of everyone who had a hand in this disaster. "},{"Title":"Lame excuse for a movie","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Smokey and the Bandit (part one, that is) was a really funny movie with a great Burt Reynolds. But this time around, almost everything goes wrong. Almost...Because there is this one scene at the beginning of the movie as Jackie Gleason spoofs 'Patton', and I loved that part (as I love Patton), but that's about all the joy this movie gave me...Cledus 'the snowman' is the bandit in this one, as Burt Reynolds turned it down (and rightfully so), but he's so awful it's hard to describe. If he'd said 'I am the bandit, I am the bandit' one more time I would've slapped him in the face.As everybody deserves a good slapping after making this one. One question left What were they thinking?2/10. "},{"Title":"I was an extra during the boat scene","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was in HS at the time and part of a 200 piece marching band there for the shark presentation. I can't tell you how many takes were shot to get that immortal scene forever saved on celluloid. I'm honored to have such an indelible mark on cinematic history.The main thing I remember is that there was always a grip following Mr. Gleason around with a directors chair, and he would slide it under his butt as he started to squat down. I don't know if he was that frail or that pompous, but we all took note of it.That, and all of the bikini clad girls on the boat. Nothing holds the attention of adolescent boys better that hot models in bikinis (and they were hot for their day).I gave it a 3, since I've yet to see it after all these years. Now that I shoot some movie sets for my company (http//www.thomasmanchester.com photography) I wish I could go back as an observer and re live all of that kitsch. "},{"Title":"This is what happens when you make a Smokey and the Bandit movie without the Bandit...","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There have been lots of dumb and unnecessary sequels throughout the history of Hollywood, but Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 was sure a doozy. Really, a second Bandit movie was too much, but at least the sequel had the entire cast back and was funny at times. Neither can be said about this film.Like with most bad movies, the whole central thesis of this film is wrong. Here, the crime is screwing around with story continuity. Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) is entertaining as a foil for the Bandit, but making him the main character is just insane.The plot to this little travesty is that Justice and his simpleminded son Junior (Mike Henry) must transport a plastic shark cross country that's going to be the mascot for Big and Little Enis Burdett's new fast food franchise in exchange for $250,000. However, the Enises intend to make his life miserable by impeding his progress at every turn, and even enlist the help of Cletus The Snowman Snow (Jerry Reed) to impersonate the Bandit and try to steal the fish away.Along the way, Justice acquires a big, ugly female admirer, gets involved in motor hijinks, and tries to steal back the fish from Cletus and Dusty Trails (Colleen Camp), a former used car salesman who hooks up with the faux Bandit for no discernible reason other than it's in the script.All right, at this point you're going WTF? and rightly so. This whole film is a mess. How can a movie filled with stunts and action scenes be so boring? Very, very easily. Just put together filmmakers with no talent or vision, give them a script that's hackneyed at best, and let 'er rip!The movie is filled with stupid and pointless scenes. A long sequence feature Ku Klux Klan members attacking two black truck drivers is tasteless and poorly realized, and is indicative of the movie's general theme -- crude sequences thrown together with little rhyme or reason.The only part of the movie that made me laugh was a brief sequence where Buford and Junior Justice are in a hotel room filled with sexual deviants, and each time they open door Buford comments on the situation. Looks like a union meeting, he mentions, followed by Get away from that or you'll get the herpes! which are both just as stupid as anything else in this movie. An opening sequence spoofing Patton made me crack a smile, but that was all.Reed is simply awful in the role of the Bandit, and plays the role like a third grader who got the part of a lifetime and can't stop gleaming. Maybe someone should have told him that being proxy to a legend isn't a compliment.And of course, the big question is WHERE IS BURT REYNOLDS? The answer? AS FAR AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE AS HUMANLY POSSIBLE! Heck, compared to this, Cannonball Run 2 is a masterpiece. And yes, it did hurt to say that.Gleason should have known better, but still, any moment he's on screen is a welcome relief in this turkey. His Southern-baked comments are old hat but this time, but at least they remind of you of a time when his character was actually entertaining. And he sure beats the endless amount of screen time eaten up by Paul Williams and Pat McCormick extra corny dialogue as the Enises. They're just bad. Really bad.In the only inspired moment of the movie, Reynolds shows up in a brief cameo dream sequence near the end, almost like a bone being tossed to the audiences who stuck it out through the whole film. The scene isn't funny, but it shows that there is some sort of epic relationship between Smokey and the Bandit. The sequence belonged in a better movie, but sadly, that will never happen now.What else? Oh yeah, what can you say about a race movie so bad that even Hal Needham won't direct it? His replacement, Dick Lowry, seems to have no particular talent of his own, and justly returned to directing television shortly after. Screenwriters Stuart Birnbaum and David Dashev worked on one more movie together, the 1987 comedy Summer School which is actually pretty good, but never wrote another script. I suppose it's best to bow out with something good on your resume.One final note -- there is apparently a whole different version of this film where Gleason plays both Justice and the Bandit that test audiences were not very fond of. Reed was added for new footage to fill the gaps, which explains why he doesn't even show up until half an hour into the movie. I doubt the first version could have been worse than the finished product.The first Smokey and the Bandit was at least a fun experience. This is just a third rate rip-off, even going so far as to shamelessly steal scenes from the first movie, only redoing them in horrible fashion. This whole movie is a lifeless, by-the-numbers effort, and completely devoid of any true redeeming qualities. Unless you really enjoyed the first two movies and have some sort of sick curiosity, I suggest you avoid this abortion of a movie at all costs.Two out of ten stars. A sad waste of Gleason's talent in the final years of his life, and now thankfully a largely forgotten motion picture. "},{"Title":"Smokey And The Flop","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" By Joe Simiana Sydney Australia I was disappointed that Universal did not wait for Burt To Finish making Best little whorehouse in Texas instead they went on ahead anyway and made this flick, they only had to wait 10 months, i hated that darn fish on the roof of the sheriffs car all the way through, sort of took away the authority and stature of Sheriff Buford T Justice.The Main thought that stuck in my mind with Sheriffs Character from the previous Films was that he was from the old school of law enforcement, stood tall and proud and took no crap from any foe, and was always entertaining watching his confrontations with others during the earlier films Smokey 1 and 2.This seemed to diminish and the character changed somewhat, venturing into strip clubs, nudist colonies, Fetish motels, very unnecessary.I would have thought The Misadventures of Sheriff Lobo would have made a better film, with Claude Atkins, Jackie Gleason, Bj and Bandit joining forces.In Smokey and the bandit part 3 the woeful actress if that named (Colleen Camp), who teams up with Jerry Reed as bandit throughout the film wears a bad wig, bad dress sense, and really cannot act, she can be noticed really trying to put on fake laughs throughout this film, and her whining voice, i mean i always remembered the true Burt Reynolds bandit with the hottest girls ever, you can't tell me there was no other better looking women hanging around the Universal back lot that could of been used instead,or where they all taken up and sent over for filming The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas, i was wondering when she would be thrown out of the car, Jerry reed getting all excited parading around as bandit with that car and hat and he reels in Colleen Camp????...Getting Desperate in his old age, and Jerry Reeds Character (snowman) is married with Children, and Fred the dog, so whats he doing ??? and why with Colleen Camp for heavens sake?? Im Sorry but every film (Colleen Camp) has been in she plays the same obnoxious, in your face, character resembling a caffeine addict, or suffering some sort of withdrawal symptoms in the attitude and whinny voice she has in her acting desperately in need of a fix.One stunt woman turned actress named (Faith Minton) is a remember able looking sort, tall, leggy, and a face to match any fantasy, plays the dragon lady who is smitten by the Sheriff who forces her way into hitching a ride with the Sheriff....i don't know why the sheriff is running away from her as she is more of an eye full better than bandits colleen camp seat cover.Watch this movie if you are a fan of Jackie Gleeson....or Faith Minton remember this film was shot in the years where CB Radios where dying out and truckers fighting cops were all said and done, even BJ and The Bear was axed 3 years before, The dukes of Hazzard and The A-Team were on the rise so i guess Universal wanted In on the Zany Madcap Sheriff Car Crashing Icon that was a big hit in the early 1970's But this was 1983, and it just didn't stick with other films out that year like Ghostbusters Gremlins Two Of A Kind and Twilight Zone The Movie and another Universal comeback Jaws 3 they must have fired a scriptwriter that year....or Hal Needham wasn't available. "},{"Title":"Absolutely sucked...","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This absolutely sucked...and I'm still wondering how in the world it got a PG rating. The first Smokey was great, and the second one was still pretty good...better than most sequels anyway. I thought that Smokey 3 would be a fun movie simply because of the first two. I am also very pleased to know that Burt Reynolds had no part in this film; if he did, I would be ashamed. What really got me though was all the nudity and sexuality. It was completely ridiculous and could have been completely taken out of the movie, and you wouldn't have missed a thing. Unfortunately, it appears that Smokey and the Bandit too had become subject to the raunchy sexuality of the times. It truly was a waste of my time, and I wish it had never been made. "},{"Title":"Pitiful.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Despite Burt Reynolds only agreeing to be in a cameo part at the end(and no Sally Field at all) studio went ahead and made this pitiful, embarrassing sequel that has Sheriff Buford T. Justice retiring, only to be called back one last time by Big Enos & Little Enos, who defy him to catch the Bandit. Despite the real Bandit being elsewhere, his friend Cledus decides to become the new Bandit and Buford(with his son in tow) chase him instead.With no plot to speak of, and a distressing number of lame, crude gags, this utterly pointless film was one of the worst films of its decade. Hard to believe this went into production at all, and remains a jaw-dropping experience.This really stinks! "},{"Title":"slapstick with Buford T. Justice","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Things go really wrong here, Burt Reynolds isn't in it(only at the end) to play the bandit so the production decided that Cledus (Jerry Reed) becomes the bandit. But they also knew who's the most important part in Smokey, yes, Buford T. Justice. So this time he's on for a bet. There's more of chasing cars here but what we had in part one I didn't found here. The only thing we do have is more erotic parts and here and there even some nudity. But even then, it's more about the jokes then the chasing. After Smokey and the Bandit part 3 there were 4 other entries and nowadays available in a box, but that was more B-flick movie style. So strange that universal spent money on part 2 and 3 even as part 3 was better then part 2, just agree, part 3 is a slapstick.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 0/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 1/5 "}{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you were to show this nightmare to death-row inmates and offer them either this or lethal injection, 9 out of 10 would take the injection. The 10th would have their sentence commuted to remain in an asylum for the criminally insane. But after watching this turd, Stephen Hawkins could be cured of his ALS long enough to throw himself from the space shuttle into a black hole into a universe where this vision of horror doesn't exist. How bad was it? I think I have just seen the worst sequel in movie history. Smokey and the Bandit 3. How bad was it. Burt Reynolds wasn't in it and Jerry Reed played the bandit. In fact it was so bad, Jerry Reed didn't even sing any of the horrible songs in it. The Trans Am was so under powered, it made a Yugo look like a Lamborghini. Granted, Burt would come to the opening of a door for a buck and was in a weird cameo in the TV version. Egad... "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Shark.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 is an action comedy where speed demon outlaw The Bandit (Burt Reynolds) takes a vacation and his sidekick Cledus Snow (Jerry Reed) takes on the Bandit Role, who accepts an offer from wealthy big shots Big Enos (Pat McCormick) and Little Enos (Paul Williams) to thwart Sheriff Buford T. Justice's (Jackie Gleason) chances of transporting a plastic shark from Miami to the Enos Ranch. If the sheriff loses that bet with the Enos, he will give up his badge. If he wins, the gets $250,000.Like the first two movies, there is virtually no basic plot to this sequel, taking on the same formula of the high-speed car chase with Justice Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) in pursuit of The Bandit. Gleason continued his hilarious portrayal of the Sheriff, inserting laugh-out-loud redneck humor where appropriate and continues to talk-down his slow-thinking son, Junior (Mike Henry). As I used to watch the movie when I was a little kid, I had fond memories from it and especially enjoyed watching all the car cases, car flips and the the sheriff's police vehicle getting a pounding after each collision. And of course, the shark gets an honorable mention.Jerry Reed, I thought, tried too hard to mimic Burt Reynold's Bandit role and cannot really pull off a good acting job in this movie. He acted more like a clown in my opinion. And, Colleen Camp was underused in the story and didn't contribute much - she just went along for the ride and tried to fill in Sally Ride's shoes from the first two films. But, Camp wasn't bad in the role overall considering what little she had to work with and she is a sight for sore eyes.This sequel has its funny moments, mostly courtesy of Jackie Gleason. The cop vs. bandit action was lesser in this movie and the sexual gags were a little too much. Again, some nice car chases scenes, but it's apparent the series has lost steam.Grade C "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit Part 3","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Why is this sequel called 'Part 3'? beats me, sounds strange really, like an old fashioned tale. Other than that its business as usual for a third time accept for the fact that the Bandit is no longer with us on this road trip. Yep for this third movie Reynolds has flown the coop leaving Gleason to hold the fort on his lonesome. The only other returning cast member is Reed as the old Snowman.The plot once again sees the ultra rich Enos duo offering a wager to (this time) Sheriff Buford T. Justice. The rather pointless aim this time is to transport a large stuffed fish on their car, from Florida to Texas, within the time limit. Why a stuffed fish? well it makes no difference really, its just a stupid visual gag. So Justice accepts the wager and drives off with his dim witted son played again by Mike Henry. The little twist or gimmick in this story is after the Enos duo fail to slow down Buford on his new quest, they attempt to hire the Bandit to help them. But as we know Reynolds isn't in this movie so instead they have to opt for the Snowman for assistance.This entire idea is somewhat tired really it must be said. The original movie was a great slice of hokey, Dixie bound tomfoolery with a cool car. The second was an utter shameless rehash of the first which literately didn't even bother to try and be remotely different, accept for the cargo it was virtually identical. Now with this they have turned the tables and tried a new angle by making Buford the mule, which I must give small kudos too. Alas they still can't escape the lure of the original flicks plot and simply have to make the movie into another big chase sequence. Unfortunately that small element of originality with Buford goes out the window, the reason being the Snowman manages to slow Buford down by stealing the large stuffed fish on his car. Buford needs this stuffed fish to win the wager. Thusly this once again sees Buford on the chase, after the Snowman and the large stuffed fish. The twist concept of Buford being chased doesn't last long I'm afraid. Heck even Cledus the Snowman manages to pick up a female sidekick in virtually the same fashion as the Bandit did way back in the first movie. It appears that these movie characters have requirements, Buford always chases and the protagonist always has a female sidekick...and drives a Trans Am.I don't actually know what Buford is in his police attire for this really, he is on the brink of retirement and once again is completely out of his jurisdiction the whole time. I understand being a police officer in a police car would have its advantages in high speed chases but he's out of his jurisdiction! In America you can tell that easily from the car model, colour, body wrap layout and of course the badge on the side. It doesn't matter of course because we all know its just for the movie, Buford has to be in his police garb, with his son, driving a wrecked police car, otherwise its not Buford T. justice.I think we all know what to expect with this movie by now. There isn't much time to blink without possibly missing something as the entire movie is literately one big chase and crash sequence after another. There is very little actual plot or character building going in between the chaos. We see one chase and crash, Buford suffering some kind of humiliation and his car getting more beat up as it goes, then move on the next chase and crash. The slapstick and pratfalls are on a grand scale with this one, perhaps even more so than before, where as the stunts are pretty predictable really, you can see what's gonna happen the second the scene starts. They even throw in some motorboat chases this time, just to mix it up a bit...a tiny bit.On the whole its more like watching banger/stock car racing on the streets, the mayhem is through the roof with gravity defying, unrealistic nonsense that is impressive in an odd way (gotta admire the stunt work). Its not really funny though, more childish and insane than anything, kids might like it but geez...even 'The Dukes of Hazzard' and 'Knight Rider' are more realistic. Put simply, it kinda works better than the second movie because they try something different, but it still doesn't work entirely because there is no Reynolds as the Bandit and Reed is no leading man. The Snowman on his own just doesn't hit the mark even if he is driving the famous black Trans Am Firebird.Definitely only for people who like these specific late 70's/80's madcap car chase genre movies. If you like to spot all the old cars, pickup trucks and big rigs, whilst seeing a good old crunch up with solid stunts etc...well you know already this is the movie for you. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Luckily this was the last","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Smokey and the Bandit.' In case you didn't know (and who the hell starts watching a film series on 'Part III?') was about a car racer, aka 'Bandit' helping his tracker mate 'Snowman' to get their load across America, while constantly being pursued by a relentless policeman, 'Smokey.' Therefore, you'd expect part III would be along those lines. The film's only just over an hour and twenty minutes and for the first half an hour, we don't see the 'Bandit.' That part of the film should just be called 'Smokey and the.' Then the Bandit enters. Only he doesn't. Burt Reynolds didn't come back to play the titular role for the third instalment. Instead, the trucker 'Snowman' takes on his role of car driver.Does he pull it off? Not really. He tries, but it's pretty hard to watch. First of all he's not &#x96; and never will be &#x96; Burt Reynolds. He can't really bring anything new to the role. Secondly, in terms of character development, the character of Snowman completely changes from what we've gotten used to from the first two outings. For a moment I even thought it was a different actor playing him! Then Snowman (or maybe 'Bandit' now?) gets a girl/partner to drag along. It seems totally forced, simply copying the same plot device used in the first film.However, worst of all, is that there's nothing new here to see. Seriously, you should try this, if you're watching Part III on DVD, just skip a couple of chapters for the hell of it. You won't miss anything and you'll completely be able to work out what's happened. Basically, in DVD terms, every 'chapter' represents a time where Smokey nearly catches Bandit, but he gets away. Each time Smokey's car gets trashed, but somehow still manages to carry on then he moans at his long-suffering son (who he's dragged along for no real reason).If you haven't actually seen the first two and happen to stumble onto this one, I'm not saying you won't smile the odd time. There are moments of fun, but, if I want fun, thrills, good characters (played by the right actors!) and originality, I'll just watch the first one thank you. "},{"Title":"More Car Chases.","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed Smokey and the Bandit part I and part II along with the film Cannonball Run but by the time this film came out, the 1970's comedy car chase fad in films was getting monotonous and I was growing somewhat weary of them. To be fair Smokey and the Bandit part III is a pretty good film but the film felt like more of the exact same thing without adding something to keep the spice in the series to me.If you are into films with lots of high speed car chases and wrecks then you may enjoy Smokey and the Bandit part III (as well as part I and part II).4/10 "},{"Title":"One of the ugliest movie i've ever seen","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is one of the ugliest movie i've ever seen.Acting from almost all cast are awful. The plot story not clear, I don't get any point from this movie.Maybe this is comedy movie but honestly I almost never laugh or smile from the 1st.Smokey part 1 & 2 for me also not too good but at least there is Burt Reynold in that movie.Where they got the producer, director, writer? Watching this movie I feel like watching for kid's movie. But many kid's movie are better than this movieI give 2 out of 10 but actually I want to give 1 at 1st. "},{"Title":"Terrible in every way","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's absolutely nothing redeeming about this embarrassment of a sequel. No Bandit equals no fun. Why they thought they could make a Bandit sequel without the Bandit is a mystery for the ages. While it does have Jerry Reed and stars Jackie Gleason, it just isn't fun at all. Colleen Camp is a poor substitute for spunky and charming Sally Field.The plot is about Buford T. Justice (the villain in the prior films, now the protagonist) transporting a large stuffed fish from Florida to Texas. I feel stupider for just having typed that. I can't believe someone thought this sounded like a good idea. Apparently the original idea was to have Gleason play two roles, Buford and a new Bandit character. Test audiences hated it so much they re-shot the Bandit scenes with Jerry Reed's character Snowman. The original idea sounds equally terrible, if not more so. It seems there was never any chance Smokey 3 would have been anything but god-awful. "},{"Title":"Better than II, as if that's any kind of achievement","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Burt Reynolds barely shows his face in this one, which at least means there's one less charmless mug to grate on your nerves. Otherwise it's third verse, same as the first a parade of repellent characters spouting crude and unfunny one-liners in between a lot of slo-mo car crashes. The main objective of this chapter seems to be to make it as obvious as possible that none of the actors do their own stunts all the smashes are shot from the same angle, usually far enough away so you're not supposed to spot the stuntman, and then the actors clamber out of the wreckage as if the joins aren't completely obvious. It doesn't work. Nothing works. The only thing in its favour is its slight superiority to the first sequel. "},{"Title":"Worse than R.O.T.O.R.","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, that might be pushing it, but since this film was theoretically made by professionals and had a big-named distributor, the result is an absolute abortion. This movie is so bad, I will not even call it a movie. Nor will I give it a rating. Smokey 3 is just 85 minutes of stupid lines, horrible attempts at acting, and the lamest stunts ever put on celluloid. Now allegedly, Jackie Gleason was supposed to somehow play both Sheriff Justice as well as the Bandit. I'm not sure how that finished product would have looked, but it couldn't possibly have been any worse than the final product they came up with here.The story deals with Big and Little Enos (Enis?) challenging the retiring Sheriff Justice to a pretty lame bet. Instead of trucking Coors Beer or a pregnant elephant across the South, he has to drive a PLASTIC SHARK from Florida to Texas as part of a promo for their new fish restaurants or something. I won't waste any more time on the plot. Just trust me... its stupid. You can tell that Jerry Reed was a fill in after the initial dailies were a bust. He doesn't appear for a while, and many of his scenes seem totally arbitrary. Actually the whole 85 are kind of arbitrary. All we see are a series of boring stunts and detours to ridiculous locations. The stunts are about as original as driving an old Pontiac through whatever they could stack up. Ice, eggs, sand, flowers, Cuban refugees... you name it. There are detours to swinger hotels, nudist colonies, construction sites, etc. None of it is interesting. Even the nudity is laughable. Its like watching an old episode of Benny Hill with flabby early-80s nude people frolicking amidst quick editing cuts. The Trans Am was a weak-looking car by then, too. There is also a truly tasteless scene where a truck full of drunken Klansmen harass two black chicken farmers who sound as stereotypical as Amos and Andy. The mustache Cletus has is a fake-looking porno-stache. And if you want to see Colleen Camp look sexier in something funny, watch Clue.It was so bad that I forgot how it even ended. I think Cletus gives the fish to Sheriff Justice so he can keep his badge and collect $250,000. I hope Gleason was paid a hell of a lot more than that for appearing in this swill. Ughhhh! Worst film ever. Zero stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big and Little Enos (Pat McCormick and Paul Williams) decide to have some more fun, with plans to open fish'n'chips restaurants, offering $250,000 grand to the retiring Sheriff Buford T Justice (Jackie Gleason, trying his damnedest to make the material work despite itself, with lines like Junior, when this is all over, I'm gonna buy you a nice lobotomy.) if he'll transport a dummy shark with their advertisement from Miami to Austin, with multiple attempts along to way to deter them from their quest. But each time the Enos duo seem to throw up roadblocks, Buford and his oft-ridiculed son, Junior (Mike Henry, as amiable and clueless as ever) just seem to keep going. Buford is relentless, even as the Enos duo elicits the assistance of a new Bandit, Cletus (Jerry Reed, still plenty appealing and relishing the chance to be in the driver seat for a change instead of second fiddle to Burt Reynolds), to secure the shark himself, offered the same reward if he can make the trip in a few days time. With a tagalong, Dusty Trails (Colleen Camp; I swear this is the poor girl's character's name in the film!) as his passenger, Cletus will further complicate matters for poor Buford, stealing away the shark (he uses a lasso as Dusty takes temporary control of the steering wheel!), and forcing the sheriff to play a game of take the shark throughout their journey cross country.This film seems designed specifically to destroy Gleason's cop car (and, man alive, does that car take a beating!) as it explodes through a milk hauler (that showers the Enos duo who planned to use the truck as a diversionary tactic), takes out the Klu Klux clan (who had been tormenting a black chicken farmer and his father (but the chicken farmers get the last laugh when the Clan is tarred and feathered!), smashes through a flower stand and cartons of eggs, not to mention, a bumper is torn off from a tow truck, the tires are flattened, and the Enos duo drop bombs at the end leaving it a skeletal wreck. Gleason and Reed try really hard to make the comedy work, and that saddens me to no end because the film just does them no favors. The script leaves Gleason trying to make flea pecker and you dumb sht zingers tickle our funnybone, and after a while I could only feel sorry for him. It isn't for a lack of effort, though. Reed has this one scene where he must go into a bar with Harley bikers hanging around and fall out over and over while asking Camp what all she wants on her cheeseburger, repeatedly returning to eventually vanquish the baddies giving him a hard time&#x85;it feels like a daunting task for poor Jerry, having to get laughs out of spilling from a bar, all smiles and flashing the ah, gee, whiz attitude despite punches to the face nearly damaging his shades. Camp is given little to work with, trying (bless her heart) to use her bright personality to overcome uninspired dialogue that is more or less chatty back and forth with Reed. I did like Reed allowing Buford the chance to win at the end; it was very un-Bandit like. The Burt Reynolds cameo still feels as forced as I remembered from childhood. Gleason and Henry got some giggles out of me, and I love Reed even if his role is overwhelmingly reduced in relation to Gleason's. Right from the song sung during the credits sequence, this film was designed around the Buford T Justice character; even the poster for this film has Gleason's face at the forefront. As the film goes, everything from a sex hotel orgy to a colony of nudists is hurled at us, with Gleason reacting exhaustingly, What has this world come to?!?! Don't worry, you get to see the Trans Am drive right through an inferno with Gleason following suit, the two cars joining a race, and a dirt hauler dumps a load on poor Gleason's car, helping the Bandit get a little distance from the persistent sheriff. I think the absence of the star power of Reynolds and Sally Field can be felt, but even the previous sequel with them in it proved that the first film probably should have remained standalone. There are times where a film feels like a desperate attempt to keep a dead franchise resuscitated, and this is such an example...also an example of fun actors unable to overcome the odds compounding them. At least you get to see Gleason standing in front of a giant American Flag, dressed as George C Scott's Patton, boring the audience of his law enforcement peers while praising his career and announcing his retirement... "}{"Title":"Smokey and the Band-Aid","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Where to begin? I have yet to be able to watch this bomb for more than 15 minutes. What was The Great One (Gleason) thinking? I just don't get it. I know he loved to drink and he would have had to have been bombed to DO this bomb.This was probably made during the peak of cocaine abuse in Hollywood. The drug obviously affected the judgment of all involved except Gleason who was just doing it for the easy money. He even admitted it. Anyway, if you thought Smokey II was bad, this somehow is worse. Even if you are a fan of bad movies, this isn't worth the time. It's not bad. It's useless! "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit The first one is one of the greatest movies of all time. Smokey and the bandit three is actually a good sequel. Jackie Gleason is still funny as Buford T Justice. Jerry reed is still funny as the snowman but he ain't the bandit. Pat Mcormick and Paul Williams are funny as the big Enos and little Enos. the car chases are still good. it deserver's more credit then it got. i not saying its one of the best its just that good movies are a lot of times underrated. the son is funny except i do not know the actor who plays him. i like how they basically replicated the scene in the first one when bandit picks up frog. overall a pretty entertaining movie "},{"Title":"Scumbum!!!","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Where do I begin???? I hope that Mr. Gleason is looking down at us right now asking for forgiveness for making this train wreck of a movie!!! I am the BIGGEST Smokey and the Bandit fan but even I have to draw the line somewhere.............and this is it!!! This movie had to have been one of those has to be made cuz of a contract movies. I can't even begin to tell you what is SO horrible about this movie, to the acting right down to the stunts, awful!!! The ONLY thing saving this stinker from the garbage heap is Jackie Gleason. He still is spouting off those great one-liners such as Don't go in there. You might get a herpes on you. but even some of them are tired and sound forced. At some point, even he must have thought OOOFF!. Jerry Reed as the Bandit just doesn't work for me. There are so many bad things about this movie. The editing is horrible!! There are times when you can plainly see what is said is NOT what is really said. It looks like a Japanese Godzilla movie at times. The mistakes such as the spelling of Big and Little Enis?? It is supposed to be Enos, the wrecking of the cars in one scene and in the next scene there is no damage to the vehicle, the change in the Trans-Am's wheels during a chase scene....I could go on but my fingers are hurting. I bought the Smokey and the Bandit pursuit pack, all three in one, so I could watch #3 for the first time in years to see if what I remember was true and, sadly it was. Even the soundtrack is downright horrible. They even threw in nudity to, I guess, spice things up. My guess is to keep the guys watching this awake, didn't work. Even the nudity is boring!!! I have heard over the years that there was an alternate version filmed of this movie called Smokey IS the Bandit. It might be interesting if nothing else to see Jackie Gleason playing the Bandit. Watch this ONLY for curiosity then bury it and never dig it back up!!!! "},{"Title":"One Truck Drivers Opinion","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Third in the series,but this time,the Snowman gets to be the Bandit.This movie is a tad bit better than the second movie. The soundtrack is good also. Evan though this movie pushes the definition of a PG rated movies. Its interesting that during the bar fight,Snowman/Bandit didn't lose his hat. And it appears that it didn't even move. This movie even takes a shot at feminism. This fish is worth $250,000.00 . Dusty wants to sleep on the hammock where the fish is. Instead of leanin it against the wall in the room. She puts it outside the room,where anyone can walk off with it.Jerry Reed drives the Peterbuilt big truck.Jerry Reed was a permanent A list actor.Cathy Cahill drove the GMC 18 wheeler.Cathy Cahill is a permanent A list actor.Colleen Camp,Cathy Cahill,Faith Minton,Janis Cummins, and the June Taylor Dancers are all hot!!!(especially the brunette in the yellow tank top).erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not good","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here's my opinion. Jackie Gleason is back as Sheriff Buford T Justice and Jerry Reed, Cletus a.k.a the snowman from the previous two films. The storyline is dumb. The Enos boys bet Buford 250,000 dollars to bring a plastic fish from Miami,Florida to their ranch in Austin, Texas in a certain amount of time. Huh, okay here is the big pointless thing in the movie. The Enos boys give the sheriff the challenge for the money. Why couldn't they give the challenge to Cletus who is the bandit's replacement? Anyway the storyline is completely stupid. The chase scenes should of been shot better. The things I loved were the soundtrack, Colleen Camp as Dusty was more attractive than Sally Field's character, and they had a cameo of Burt Reynolds (The Real Bandit) at the end. "},{"Title":"I agree about this movie not being very good","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think the nudity and the sexuality was the best part on this movie. The rest of it should have never been made. I don't blame Burt Reynolds and Sally Field for turning that movie down. The idea of transporting a fish to the Burdettes Ranch is not a bad idea. However, it was thought out very poorly. In a way I would not have minded seeing Sally Field naked on that movie if she had accepted a part in it. She was cute looking thing back then. I agree who ever thought up this movie should be drug out on the street and shot. The transam was not the same one that was in the first two movies. So how can they say that they brought trigger out of mothballs? "},{"Title":"Bandit Movie without the Bandit","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What I liked most about the Bandit movies was the Bandit (Burt Reynolds). He was wonderful in that role. I have to admit that the sheriff is quite an amusement in interaction with his dumb son, but you just can't shake of that question Where is the bandit?. I found it a pretty cheap idea to get a beard, some sunglasses and a hat for the snowman and than to say, here's your Bandit.He doesn't fit in to his role. In addition to that, the company he has this time in his car comes out of nowhere and hasn't really any dialogue.All in all you can say, that this movie is funny because of the Sheriff and bad because of the fake Bandit. "},{"Title":"Quite Adventurous!!!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 is among my favorite movies, and I enjoyed it the most of the Smokey and the Bandit series. Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice, is at his best in this one. Him and his son Junior (Mike Henry), have many funny segments. One prime example is the part where they run out of gas, and they argue about who is going to push the car. Another one is where Sheriff Justice is in the traffic jam, and takes a shortcut into oncoming traffic. We see a cameo of Joe Pesci, which has a really funny laugh in it. Burt Reynolds has a cameo appearance in the end, which is really detailed, considering it being a cameo appearance.There are many spectacular stunts and chase scenes I liked as well. Such as the part where Sheriff Justice goes through the cannon at the race track. Then later you see the back of the car all charred up from the cannon, which is really funny. Another great scene is by Cledus The Snowman (Jerry Reed), where he is getting revenge from the first Smokey and the Bandit and brawling it out with the motorcycle guys. Unlike the first one, he wins this time, while he's getting a burger for one of my favorite actresses Colleen Camp, who plays Dusty Trails.Dusty Trails (Colleen Camp) doesn't appear until exactly one-third of the way through the movie. My favorite part with her is where she's wearing the cowgirl outfit. I also like the few lines she has with Sheriff Buford T. Justice. Needless to say, she's the main reason I like this movie. She's great throughout the movie.I also enjoyed watching Big and Little Enos, as they get more screen time. One really spectacular part is where they shoot the dart to blow out Sheriff Justice's tire, plenty of action there! Then Sheriff Justice loses one more tire after leaning on the front of the car, which makes it even more funny and exciting!Finally, this movie just gave some of the other people a chance to be in the spotlight, which I like to see as well. The bet Big and Little Enos make for Sheriff Justice to haul the shark clear across the southern United States, Colleen Camp hitching a ride with Jerry Reed, plenty of comedy and one-liners from Jackie Gleason, explosive action and breathtaking stunts, it just all comes together to make a quality adventure. The ending is quite inspirational, as it shows the Bandit and Sheriff Justice at the chase once again, preserving their reputation. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My wife and I had a great time watching the first movie and the second one was fair. This one, however, was nearly embarrassing to watch. Bad acting, stupid gags - and recycled jokes from the first movie remade and adapted for this one. This is truly a worthy candidate for 50 worst movies ever made as I have been told it is featured in.I must say, however, that some of the gags were truly funny, but they did not justify an entire movie. Leaving Burt Reynolds (The Real Bandit) all out of this one was probably Mr Reynold's best move, but it made the movie even more WRONG. If you can't get the main character to stay, drop it.Halfway through the movie we started wondering Will this never end? and Are we there yet? - and finally we could flip this yawner out of the DVD player - never to be played again. "},{"Title":"Buford T Justice for mayor","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" i only used to watch this movie as a kid because it was a smokey and the bandit film,sure it was the worst one with no Burt Reynolds(who i was and still AM a massive fan of)but it was a smokey so purely out of nostalgia i bought a copy, never to watch for a long time, upon watching it i noticed one thing!! Gleason is the only reason to watch this movie, with his perfect performance of Buford T Justice and a catchy song in his honour!!! the worst of the series but Gleason deserved a full film to himself after stealing every scene in the first two movies!!! Burt Reynolds used to call Gleason the great one and i could not agree more he is hilarious as Sheriff Buford T Justice sure the film is full of continuity errors(some are even funnier than the movie itself) but ignore them and watch (and enjoy)Sheriff Buford T Justice show the same grit and determination as the cyotee trying to catch the road runner "}{"Title":"what were they thinking... (contains spoiler)","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What were they thinking when they made this film?  It's just yet another example of how  in many cases that sequels don't work.  Now of course there are exceptions to that rule  of sequels that do just as well, if not better than the original film.This third installment of Smokey and the Bandit has little in the way of redeeming  qualities.  It seems that the studio wanted to milk the Smokey and the Bandit franchise  for all it was worth, which resulted in this flop being made.(Here's the spoiler).  Other than a small cameo role right at the end of the film, Burt  didn't have anything to do with this film.  Sally Field was nowhere to be seen.  With them  missing, there wasn't much left to hold this film up.  While Gleason and Jerry Reed tried  their best, without Reynolds and Field the film was a house missing a large part of its  foundation.I still enjoy seeing the first film, and the second film has its moments.  But not this third  film. "},{"Title":"HIGHLY flawed but still a good time.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm going to be nice here and try not to diss this movie.  I've seen it probably a dozen times and, No, it doesn't come close to matching the first one but it does beat part 2 by a mile.  Part 2 was a very odd sequel.  It's very weird when a movie comes out claiming to be a sequel and none of the characters act the same.  The Bandit was just an all-out jerk in that one and it's a wonder the writers ever got a paycheck.  I would have sued. Bandit 3 should have been an apology for the second and while it wasn't exactly that, it sure was a lot of fun.  It's certainly got it's share of faults.  The whole thing feels very slap dash, kinda like Director Dick Lowry was in a hell of a hurry to get it made and released as quickly as the characters were trying to transport the plastic shark.  For some reason or another, Junior has gotten even dumber and the Snowman has been on a major diet (think anorexia) and has also discovered hair dye.  If you liked Snowman in the first two, well this is your movie.  He takes over the wheel in the TA this time and he even dresses like the Bandit. As many people know, Jackie Gleason was supposed to be playing both, Smokey and the Bandit (what the hell?) and the original cut of this film, was shot just that way (what the HELL were they thinking?!) as Smokey IS the Bandit.  I don't know who was to blame for that enormously stupid idea, but I thank God that the test audiences felt the same way as I do about it.  When everyone failed to see the humor in that, the director went back to work.  He called Jerry Reed to be the Bandit and re shot a bunch of scenes, interweaving them with scenes that he'd already shot.  If anyone's curious about the overabundance of continuity errors, well, there's your answer. What you see here is the finished project.  If things are a bit confusing, now you know why.  Knowing all of this, I still enjoy watching it.  I'm not sure why, but it's just good light-hearted fun.  Maybe with a better director at the helm, it would have done a lot better and wouldn't have such a tarnished reputation.  Still, being as it is, I would still reccommend it.  7/10.   "},{"Title":"A Noble Ending To A Bygone Era","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Let's be clear, die hard S&tB fans will frown on this film. But being a casual fan of the S&tB films, I'd like to offer a different perspective.Smokey and the Bandit III is essentially a string of funny lines and scenes loosely held together by a plot. The storyline is weak, but who cares. This wasn't exactly the Godfather to begin with, so the 3rd installment should be embraced for what it is; A Jackie Gleason vehicle that allows us to revisit characters we've loved since the first film, minus Burt Reynolds' Bandit, of course.The plot centers around Sheriff Bufford T. Justice announcing his retirement from active law enforcement. But the Enos's propose a wager, which Bufford initially turns down. But after a montage of mishaps Bufford finds retirement hell, and takes them up on the bet. The bet? That Bufford has to drive from Miami Florida to the Enos Ranch within a certain amount of time, while carrying a giant fake shark on their car (the Enos Fish & Chips logo). If he wins, he gets $250k. If not, Little Enos gets Bufford's badge. While the Enos's find some success at trying to impede Buffords progress initially, they eventually contact the Snowman (Jerry Reed) to assume the mantle of The Bandit and steal the logo and return it to the ranch himself.What follows is a cat and mouse game as they each give chase, while running into a variety of characters and situations setting up for those simple, country-boy redneck laughs that have been a staple of the franchise thus far. Yes, some old lines do get rehashed, but there's plenty more to keep you engaged.While a funny film, and a pleasure to watch with friends over beer and pretzels, it is a lackluster finale, not only to the Bandit films, but to the short lived Convoy era of movies and television, such as the Cannonball Run and Dukes of Hazzard.Buffords final salute at the end of the film and the song Ticket For The Wind by John Stewart emotionally sum up a tearful goodbye to this era. "},{"Title":"my finger was drawn to the stop button on the remote","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've been swimming in 70's nostalgia lately, reliving my childhood, and I've taken a stroll through many of the 'car chase movies' that had their day in that decade. Some I had strong memories of seeing as a child, like Gumball Rally and Cannonball Run. I recently re-watched the first Smokey and the Bandit and it hit all the right notes -- well-paced, nice proportions of fun and action, and a fine cast. SATB 2 was also fun viewing...a slightly weaker story, but offset by the welcome addition of Dom DeLuise. I came across the SATB triple-pack DVD set, and got it to consolidate shelf space on my DVD rack, and to finally see Part 3.....Good Heavens, this was bad, and painfully unfunny. A movie can't be filled with only supporting characters, and while Sheriff Justis' idiot son saying Daddy, Daddy... is funny a few times in the original, it is NOT funny in big doses throughout a whole film. Even Gleason's performance seemed forced, and some voice dubs didn't even sound like him. How could Jerry Reed go from so likable and natural in the first two films, to so crazed and annoying in the third? The writing was terrible, Colleen Camp was a complete piece of wood, and the jokes were embarrassing excuses for humor. This film proved that the fun-loving 70's were over, and the tasteless stench of the 80's is evident here in every shot. Excremental. "},{"Title":"They just keep getting dumber.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 starts as the legendary Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) announces his retirement, however father & son Big Enos (Pat McCormick) & Little Enos (Paul Williams) offer him a deal to drive from Miami to their ranch in Texas with a large plastic Shark in a given amount of time to promote their fast food restaurant chain. At first Justice declines the offer but after finding retirement boring he accepts the challenge, Big & Little Enos decide to have some fun with Justice & set up sabotages along the way including hiring the Bandit (Jerry Reed) to steal the plastic Shark & prevent Justice from winning the bet...Directed by Dick Lowry who also has a small cameo as one of the sand dumpers in the construction site scene this was apparently originally filmed under the title Smokey is the Bandit with Jackie Gleason playing the part of both the Smokey & the Bandit which just sounds beyond awful to me & thankfully it bombed with test audiences & part of the film were re-shot with Jerry Reed replacing Gleason as the Bandit although having said that Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 is still a pretty bad film even after having been re-shot. As with Smokey and the Bandit II (1980) a lot of the jokes are recycled (or just plain stolen) from the original Smokey and the Bandit (1977) with Justice getting all his old familiar lines, once again he is made to look a fool at every turn & his idiot son Junior is still here & I would say the film is more about him than the Bandit this time around, Burt Reynolds has a small cameo at the end but otherwise doesn't appear & Jerry Reed makes for a dull & bland Bandit, Bufrod T. Justice is just boring now & the silly car crashes & ridiculous plot just aren't funny at all, or at least I didn't think they were & the whole thing is rather tedious yet only lasting for just over 80 odd minutes it feels longer. The character's are the same, the jokes are the same, the action is the same, the plot is more or less the same & it's no surprise at all a fourth Smokey and the bandit never materialised, this was well past it's sell by date even back in 1983.As well as cars there's some speedboat action here but it's lame, things crash & cars take off from the ground seemingly by themselves but none of it's exciting. The comedy slapstick is also a little more raunchy this time around with a nudist camp scene & a hotel full people doing weird things. The US telly version add or alter a lot of footage, I am not sure if the film would be better for this (most of the sexual humour is cut or re-shot) but it seems quite different.Filmed in Florida there are lots of continuity errors & the whole production is quite sloppy & cheap looking. The acting is bad, Jackie Gleason gives it his all but everyone else is just bland.Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 is the worst one out of the three films & while it's short & moves along at a decent pace it's moronic & just not funny or exciting at all. I didn't like the first two Smokey and the Bandit films & this is even worse than those. "},{"Title":"Fond Memories","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As children growing up in the 80s, my brothers and I were all big fans of the Smokey & The Bandit movies, including part 3. Perhaps the innocence of childhood made me less cynical about the obvious flaws with this sequel. When I watch it now I am reminded of happy times.When you're a kid you don't look for continuity errors and critique the skills of the actors, you simply go with the flow and escape into your own little world. Isn't that what movies are supposed to be all about? So what if it's not exactly Gone With The Wind or The Great Escape? It made my childhood a happy time and I will always treasure it for that. Thank you, Jackie Gleason, for making me laugh so hard, wherever you are. "},{"Title":"Your momma's loins.","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is probably the best of the weak trilogy of cow pie and car movies. Burt Eastwood opted out of this one, leaving it up to Jackie Gleason to travel cross country with his imbecilic son, Junior, for no good reason. Junior slips on a banana skin and farts. Gleason shout  Your momma! at him. Junior then sticks his ass out of the car window accidentally, offending a bus full of pensioners. Gleason shouts  Your momma! at him. This carries on for an hour and a half until we are finally treated to the final scene of Junior farting and Gleason shouting Your momma! at him in a shock twist.I found this to be the most entertaining of the trilogy. There were more fart jokes this time round, which shows the writers had really put more thought into the script at last.Funny shiit. I am laughing as I write this. In fact, I think I've just split my pant. I must control my laughter. Excuse me a moment while I gather myself. "},{"Title":"Not bad just misunderstood WARNING SPOILERS","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Most people have panned this movie because of a lack of Burt Reynolds but the producers have done a good job of working around that. Instead of finding a new Bandit. The producers set the story around Buford T. Justice.Here Buford T. Justice has retired and moved to Florida where Big and Little Enos show up to challenge the retired sheriff to race from Miami to Austin with a huge fish to promote their new fast food chain. Long the way Buford gets every sort of disaster thrown at him including Cletus who gets to be the Bandit. Despite having Cletus get to take center seat in Trigger and a possible romance with Dusty Trails this is Buford T. Justice's story.Buford is the one initially approached by the Enos boys. The audience gets to feel his excitement and despair along the way. He even gets to have a theme song in the movie. HERE IS WHERE THE SPOILER COMES IN DO NOT READ ON IF YOU DONT WANT MUCH REVEALED.Most reviewers have commented that Burt Reynolds does appear as the Bandit in this movie. Yes he does. At the end of the movie. Buford T. Justice catches up to Cletus and Trigger won't start. When Cletus realizes that the only one who thinks he's the Bandit is Justice he transforms into Burt Reynolds even though it's Cletus in the mind's eye of Justice it's Burt Reynolds as The Bandit. Justice and Bandit commiserate about being kindred spirits and you get the impression that the sheriff really doesn't want to bring him in. As he is about to arrest Bandit Junior pipes in about how now Justice can go back to retirement now that he caught the Bandit. Buford T. Justice gives the Bandit a five minute head start and continues on to the only life he really loves pursuing the Bandit "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Born in 1980, i consider myself a big 80's kid. A love American cars and the overall theme of the first Bandit movie and the Cannon ball flicks really appeal to me. But after buying the Smokey and the bandit Pursuit pack on DVD. I realized how terrible sequels can be. Perhaps i was setting my hopes to high, but i felt after the first bandit film. The following two, had very little in way of a story line.I mean surely your not telling me this is the best Hollywood directors in the early 80's could come up with! You can't hold a movie together with humour alone. But Sheriff Justice seems to do just that all the way through the movie. I agree with someone elses comment. If Rynolds choose not to appear in this film, surely that set off a red alert somewhere.If i'd had been funding this film and found out our main star wasn't going to show. I'd have told them to hold the phone and find out why.People may disagree with me, but thats their right. Yet i feel the films following the original fell short of what fans expected. It fills me with regrets & sadness that Bandit II & III where such sorry shadows of the first. And it's no wonder Rynolds and Fields didn't choose to appear in them.  "},{"Title":"the bandit is back","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" this is one great film not as good as the first but better than the second i think jerry reed does well as the bandit but Gleason is great he is the main man this time just for a change but it was alway going to be hard for Gleason and reed to make this a real big hitter the best line in this movie is where little Enos says to justice id like to kick Ur ass and justice replies u cant kick that high cricket crotch and then big Enos ask little Enos whats the matter with u little Enos says sorry daddy i lost my head big Enos shame little Enos little Enos shame daddy so thats that maybe there is a whole lot more to come from the bandit a nu of course but we will have to wait and see what happens get the box set with all three films great buy i got for only 10.99 i don't know how much that is us dollars thats all from me good buddy 10-4 "}{"Title":"If you're really feeling dangerous tonight","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm telling ya, if you're really feeling dangerous tonight, then 'Smokey and the Bandit III' is the movie you must rent.I dunno, my man Burt's not in it.Hey, he wasn't in E.T. neither but that was a great movie.Hey can you go next door? I gotta make a phone call.Hey, 'Smokey and the Bandit III', thumbs up, am I right?Best Burt-less movie ever made. Ummm.....  Okie Dokie.  Underrated, yet over appreciated, retarded yet genius.  Jerry Reed, possibly the most unappreciated country singer/comedic stylist since Ray Stevens.  Thumbs up, am I right? "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't mind Jerry Reed.  I think he played a better part though as Snowman in the other two.  This movie gave him a chance to be the Bandit but he couldn't replace Burt.  The end was okay.  This movie was cheaply made in my opinion though.  I don't recommend seeing it unless you really admire Jerry. "},{"Title":"They made more than one Smokey and the Bandit???","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As far as I'm concerned, Smokey and the Bandit had no sequels. The second movie was bad enough....a drunk, loser Bandit trying to get his act together. C'mon! That's not the guy from the first movie. Bandit was the hero, the guy everybody looked up to. He was in charge and had respect. Then, they come out with Smokey and the Bandit 3. Whose terrible idea was this? It was just a ridiculous farce with no plot, no story line, and really just a complete embarrassment. God, I love Jerry Reed, but why, brother, why did you make this movie??? Luckily, Burt turned it down as did Hal. Hell, as bad as this movie was, maybe they should've cast Dom Deluise as the Bandit.  "},{"Title":"Not as good has the first two, but fair.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first two, seem to be on a good laugh track. This one did allright, but without Burt Reynolds in the title role a little bit of the magic seem to be gone, but in a way it gave some of the characters a chance to shine. Bufford T. Justice(always the very funny Jackie Gleason) and his son Junior(who seems to be born with no free will of anything), take a bet with Enos Burdette that he could'nt drive a restaurant fish across state lines. In hopes to distract him, he would half to call on the Bandit, but with the Bandit moved and married to Carrie/Frog(just a guess). He asks his good ole friend Cledus(the impressive Jerry Reed) to don the Bandit outfit and the car. And Cledus picks up a disgruntled commercial worker(Colleen Camp). It almost seems like a recycled plot of the original. Although the jokes were allright, and the chase scenes were pretty cool. It still was'nt as good has the first two. "},{"Title":"Part 3","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lucky for the writers I'm in a generous mood today and won't totally trash it but it was just that trash yet good trash. God, did I just say that? I pinched myself and I did. I pan the film simply because Burt and Sally weren't in it except the cameo by Burt.Jackie Gleason always a gem,funny,outrageous at best. The Eno's had a few funny lines in the sleazy hotel. Even Colleen Camp had a funny line or two but despite some funny moments i just didn't care too much for the film. I like Jerry Reed but I have to pan his performance by jumping into the Bandits shoes,sure it'd be fun but I believe Cletus forgot whom he was and was actually starting to believe he was the bandit for a while,while doing a crappy job at portraying the Bandit.He looked retarded Bandit. I know I know totally the writers fault. This sequel is an example of enough is enough the franchise is dead.I like the movie if not more for Jackie Gleason but other than him and a few hilarious moments by Junior,the nymphs and the others the film isn't worth the effort. It is better than the 2nd in the humor department and has more car chase sequences but without Burt Reynolds,ugh! Sorry but thats the best review I can give. Mind you I tried to be kind I really did. "},{"Title":"This one is a letdown!","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I didn't expect a third installment of Smokey and the Bandit. Well to me, this one is not what I hoped for. No Burt Reynolds(except from showing the flashbacks of the last 2). No Sally Field? Now that's cold! Other that Jackie Gleason, and Jerry Reed, it was a so-so movie. There was some funny parts don't get me wrong, but everything else was just a shadow of the other two movies. I liked a slew of the scenes that was good When Buford took out the Klan in the red Dodge Truck, and the Enoses(Pat McCormick and Paul Williams) try their best to thwart Justice in every-way. They love to play dirty, ALWAYS! The one dumb scene is where the Enoses did all those explosions and the car was nothing but a skeleton. How can it go without a gas tank? This movie seems well overdone, under-casted, and over-the-hill in the first place. And Jerry Reed as the Bandit? Not even close. He's too gentle and mild compared to Reynolds. They should have put the brakes on this movie. 1.5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but a lot better than the second.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Overall this movie isn't as bad as you think it is even though Burt Reynolds wasn't the bandit, Cledus (Jerry Reed) fills in for the Bandit and the Enuses have a lot of tricks up their sleeves, Jackie Gleason returns as Buford T. Justice and of all of the Bandit movies, I would say that this was his best performance cause he was funnier than the first two.Buford T. Justice announces that he was going to retire but the Enuses want Buford to take the bet and he refuses but since his retirement wasn't going so well, he decides to take the bet by driving the car with the fish (which is the franchise) on the top of the car within 28 hours, hell get $250,000 and if he doesn't his badge is going to be destroyed and the Enuses makes sure that Buford won't make it on time.Later on the Enuses call up Cledus to take the bet and he later picks up Dusty (Colleen Camp, and she is awful compared to Sally Field).Overall this movie has its high points and its low points.High Points The scenes with Buford T. Justice and his dumb idiot son Junior, the hotel part, the police chase when a car does a 360 degree angle, Junior at his dumbest and good music.Low Points The Ku Klux Klan part, the Enuses playing mean tricks on Buford, and the ending.Overall this movie is pretty forgettable compared to the first but it's a classic compared to the second due to Burt Reynolds being obnoxious (what happened to the happy go lucky side of him on the first movie). "},{"Title":"They tried....","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the saddest movies I've ever seen! The good folks that made this movie tried hard, but just couldn't quite make this film work. I'm a fan of the first two films and the series, but this one might be the worst. Jerry Reed does a good job at the role he was given, but seem slightly out of place.  But it does have one redeeming factor It is pretty funny. Cars fly off the ground for no reason, and there's no dialogue to speak of. "},{"Title":"Better than the second close to the first","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this movie was great. It wasn't  boring like Smokey 2 and on the downside it wasn't as good as Smokey 1. Jackie Gleason gave a great performance as Buford T.Justice. Jerry Reed also plays the fake Bandit in this movie and Burt Reynolds has a cameo at the end. I recommend buying this movie as soon as possible cause it's a classic. It's way better than any of this new crap out today. 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'd like to say that in contradiction with most comments upon this movie it is surely one of the funniest movies ever. Just don't expect to see any sort of reasonable storyline - there is none to speak of. It's pure comedy value short and simple. A brilliant addition to the Smokey and the Bandit series. I certainly enjoyed watching it and so will you if you enjoy alternative humour at its best. You could play the scenes in reverse order and they would fit together just the same. Excellent movie. "}{"Title":"The Rise of Cletus and the Redemption of Buford","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" While sure Smokey 3's no Smokey 1, still, it does have it's moments. Kevin Smith was right this is the best Burt-less movie ever made. Yes that's right for those who didn't know, Reynold's isn't in this one. Except for a small cameo at the end, the original Bandit we know and love is gone along with our favorite Frog, but fortunately we still got the Snowman to take up his former partners good name for one final job against the toughest Smokey that ever lived, Buford T. Justice fresh off retirement. Every dog has his day and this is theirs. Fights break out, cars are totaled, and love ensues for our fair heroes as they seek the answer to the question Can Buford get a giant fish across the country in twenty four hours for a quarter a million dollars? The catch, the new Bandit's hot on his tail this time, his objective, take the fish and stop Buford and the quarter million is his. What's at stake? Should Buford fail, Little Enos gets his pride, his honor, his masculine libido... AKA his badge. Now I know what you're thinking if you're still reading, Steal a big fish? What kind of stupid plot is that But don't brush it off just now. Remember It's not where you're going it's who's on your tail. Put your disbelief aside and give it a try. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. Less Bandit, more Smokey, still a good ride. (Plus it's got some nice tit and ass shots at the end too, no not Bufords) "},{"Title":"Not half bad when Gleeson's on the screen","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Cleetus, or Cledus, or whatever the hell Jerry Reed's character calls himself, is unreservedly awful.  His cheesball, 1983, We gone! spouting crap actually wears thin even before he even barks out his first line.  To be honest, Fred the dog has more charisma than this guy.  Even Hal Needham would hang his head in shame.  And Hal Needham as we all know, has hung his name on some real garbage. But never mind him.  Jackie Gleeson comes up with some seriously good one-liners, so stick around and try to keep a straigh face when he yells Youah killin' yo daddy, Youah KILLIN' yo daddy!Memorable lineI'm as con-FUSED as a baby racoon!  "},{"Title":"A reallly good comedy/car chase movie!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I dont see why people think this movie is so bad! Sure this movie is'nt as good as Smokey And The Bandit, but it is better than Smokey And The Bandit 2. It doesnt deserve a 2.7 out of 10 either! It's not the best thing that there is no Burt Reynolds or Sally Field but dont let that you discourage you. In Smokey And The Bandit Part 3, Buford T. Justice retires. At his retirement ceromony, the Enises challege Buford to a bet. Buford turns the bet down. After seeing that retirement isn't so great, Buford goes to the Enises and takes the bet. The bet is for Buford to carry a plastic shark, advertising the Enises new resturant, on the top his police car and deliver it to the Enis ranch in Texas in 14 hours or less. If he makes it, he'll get the $250,000 dollar prize. If he does'nt make it, the Enises will take his badge. One thing Buford does'nt know is that the Enises have hired the Snowman to act as the bandit and compete for the $250,000 prize! The Enises are out there to get in the way of Buford as they to slow him down and ruin his car in many various ways.  The way Buford's car looks like at the end of the movie is classic! With wild car chases, funny lines from Jackie Gleason, and Jackie Gleason part of Buford T. Justice never being better, this is a must see for any movie fan, any Jackie Gleason fan, and for any fan that loves car chase movies! "},{"Title":"Jackie Gleason shines","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Smokey and The Bandit 3 is one of my all time favorite movies.  The primary reason that I rate it so highly is the performance of Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T Justice.In almost every scene that Buford is in, he utters a quote worthy line. I think that this one summarizes the movie best  I've got a felon in front of me, a fool in the family and a giant nymphomaniac on the roof. The burden of it all is really starting to grab my a** (butt).This movie is just great action packed comedy.  It's escape at it's finest. It will not bog you down in reality at all.  It's a nice comedy with a warm send off for one of the all time great characters Sheriff Buford T Justice. "},{"Title":"Just say no to this movie","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To call this movie bad would be an insult to such bad movies as Showgirls, Werewolf, and Leonard6.  Watching this movie was pure torture as I was inundated with terrible acting, an incredibly boring plot, and no Burt Reynolds.  The car chases were lame, and Jackie Gleason is a mere shell of the great comedian he once was.   The only positive thing I can say about this movie is that it isn't Problem Child 2.  Avoid this movie if you value your sanity. "},{"Title":"The only movie I ever walked out of.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not much more to say other than that. this movie had a very weak plot, a bad script, and the actors must have had a boat payment due to make this one. This is one sequel that should not have been made. "},{"Title":"What a car load of crap","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just rented the three Bandit movies - reliving my childhood and all of that... For the life of me I couldn't remember the third in the series. Now I know why! What a bucket of crap. I know it's already been said, but the dialog is bad, the acting and action is bad, my mood is bad. This almost seems like it was a Made for TV movie gone very, very wrong. If this movie was made today I would almost guess that Uwe Boll was behind it. Why did they even bother making this with out Burt Reynolds? They even used the shitty early 80's Trans-Am for this one. Where was the one from the first two movies? Why did I sit through this mess? That's and hour and a half of my life I will never get back. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance at least!","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, I admit this isn't the best movie, but unlike what most people say, its not the worst either. It has some good Buford T. Justice name calling in it. I mean, we see Buford, stressed out because of delays and trying to catch the Bandit, while also trying to win some money, getting mad at Junior left and right. I think most people put down this fun film because Burt and Sally were not in it. I do not want a review about this movie from someone who doesn't like it because some actors were not in it. If your a fan of Jackie, or his character Buford T., give this film a shot. If you like how Buford makes fun of his son left and right in the previous movies, and you want to see more of it, this is the film to see. I watched it the first time, not knowing what to expect, and I love this film more than #2! Open it with an open mind, do not get hung up on the fact Burt and Sally are not in it, and have fun watching it! "},{"Title":"See it...wish I had not","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" recently purchased the Smokey and the Bandit Pursit pack. I saw it. Wish I had not. The plot was not very good and stupid. Big and Little Enos pay the sheriff to drive to Florida and keep a huge fish on top of the car. (HUH) They tell him if he wins he gets a quarter of million. Then being cheap sakes they try to make him lose and hire Jerry Reed to pretend to be the bandit and take the fish away. Along the way he picks up a female from a stupid cheap car lot. The only thing I like about the movie was the car. But I am into fire-birds. there was not enough scene with the car for me personally. Jerry Reed didn't have the same sense of comedy that Burt Reynolds had playing the bandit. "},{"Title":"funniest movie of the 80's","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the funniest comedy I've ever seen from the 80's.  People who put this film down need to go and see a head surgeon or they need to get personality shots, because I was laughing all the way through this movie. Every time I watch this movie I think of what a brilliant comedian the late Jackie Gleason was.  This movie is a must-see for all Jackie Gleason fans. "}{"Title":"Poor, POOR Jackie Gleason","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, it's time to retire this franchise.Jackie Gleason has been demoted from comedic great to a sad, tragic little man via this work. His character is pathetic, but it's also pathetically played. Gleason doesn't appear to have his heart in this...actually, he doesn't appear to have much of anything in this in spite of adequate screen time.Jerry Reed is now the Bandit, and Burt's cameo is a few seconds long, and at the very end of the film.This would have been fun without the Smokey and the Bandit brand stamped all over it, but as it is, this is NOT the Bandit, and it's NOT a Bandit film. Sorry, Jerry, but it isn't.It rates a 2.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why was this made? Were the first two not terrible enough? At least the first SMOKEY -- which I loathe -- was fairly unique. It was an iconic film that sparked a forgettable decade of racing movies. CANNONBALL RUN, for example. And all its miserable sequels...Now this is made, the third in the series (and not the last!), a film so devoid of wit and humor and originality that it makes Part II look like The Godfather Part II (har-har).I have some questions, like...1. Why bother making it? Burt Reynolds turned down the role and he NEVER turns down roles. That should have been an early indication.2. Jackie Gleason - WHY?3. Dick Lowry as director - WHY?4. And finally, why on earth did Joe Pesci -- after his critically acclaimed supporting role in 1980's RAGING BULL -- ever agree to an uncredited cameo in this film? Credited or not, it isn't something I'd want on my resume. "},{"Title":"Smokey IS the Bandit!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now, after buying the Smokey and the Bandit pack. I wasn't planning on them making me want to watch them again and again. And that is the case with the first one, frankly i think it is kinda boring, a good film, but boring. The 2nd one is Ok! but nothing special. But the 3rd one is so funny and i love it! I think it is highly under-rated. Go watch it and be surprises. It has Chief Justice taking a bet from someone, he will have to drive cross country and if he beat them then he will get 250,000$ if he losses he will give up his badge. He takes this as a sorta retirement thing. And what happens at the end? You will have to wait and see! "},{"Title":"Absolute Class","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is fantastic.... I don't know what film Theo Robertson above was watching, but this film is absolutely hilarious with a fantastic soundtrack and the always pleasing car chases etc. Some of the lines Buford T Justice comes out with are top class, he is far funnier in this film than the previous 2, and makes up for the absence of Mr Reynolds. "},{"Title":"Soiled Legacy","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Films are like no other element of life. For the people who do them, they are a living. But it is art as well. And because they persist, and because we seek them out for enjoyment, they are the legacy of the artists as well. Nothing else is quite like this, at least so far as the actors are concerned.Now here we have Jackie Gleason. By this time, his `Honeymooner' work was done but had not experienced the revival and popular appreciation it now has. So the man needed money and landed here. And what a sad result.All of the humor in this project is the kind that makes fun of types of people. It both strengthens stereotypes and meanly pokes fun at them. One can see all the fears of the time sex, race, Nixonian law, `technology.' This is one for students of society only.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Awful - but what did you expect, smart guy?","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unbelievably, SMOKEY & THE BANDIT 3 is awful. If you are shocked, stop reading now. This would be the point you stop reading. If you go any further, you'll discover that this film is a hideous confection served up as the last (possible) residue of the once-popular good-ole-boys genre. Having been shot TWICE, once as SMOKEY IS THE BANDIT, then re-edited with Jerry Reed as SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3, this is just a who cares? three-quel that amazingly, got made. Worth watching just for the desperation, but a waste of human effort. Let's all pretend this didn't happen, OK? "},{"Title":"Nice!","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" All of the Smokey and the Bandit movies are not like all the other funny cop movies ever made! Why? Because they have exciting car chase sequences (ala Dukes of Hazzard), funny stuff (you gotta love Burt Reynolds...no, wait; that's the fake Mr. Reynolds from Celebrity Jeopardy!), hot action; I mean, what else is there to say about these movies? That they're all dull? They're not!!!!! Smokey and the Bandit Part 3, or better known as Smokey Is The Bandit, was a terrific way to wrap up the three-parter Smokey series. I've never seen these movies yet, and I would like to get to watch these movies in the future, so if the same happens to you, then watch them! "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst Comedy Films I`ve Seen","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is pitiful in its lame attempts at trying to get me to laugh. I can`t for one moment believe that the makers of steaming pile of horse manure didn`t realise that this was going to be an absolute turkey . I will admit that I`m not a fan of comedy films and  Spectacular  comedy never works . I hated THE BLUES BROTHERS but do admit some people loved it , I hated 1941 but concede some people liked it , I hated this film and don`t believe that anyone will like SATB 3 which consists of slo mo car crashes  , car chases , the KKK , bikers , a Basset hound , CB talk and nothing in the way of funny scenes . How bad is this film ? Burt Reynolds turned it down . That says it all This movie` s badI know son . I can smell it  "}]