[{"Title":"Magic","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"48 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie demonstrates what happens when the rare, magical perfect combination clicks together. Duvall, Beresford and Foote blended their talents marvelously and managed to fool the critics by producing a film that is absolutely one of the best ever. Its draw at the box office and on video may have surprised the critics, but is understood by those who place a high value on well-written and well-acted drama. I have nearly worn out my VHS copy from multiple viewings but I have never worn out the experience. The film is uplifting because it is all about unhoped hope finding fulfillment.The movie combines tragedy and pathos with love, warmth and redemption in a manner that rarely occurs in a Hollywood production. To top it off, it does it so that there is not a phoney or contrived moment in the picture. Excellent and somewhat surprising supporting performances came from newcomer Tess Harper (discovered for this film by Duvall and Beresford) Ellen Barkin and Betty Buckley.  Brimley (impossible to dislike in any role) is perfect as Buckley's manager.One of the best scenes in the movie occurs when the young band drops over to just say howdy to the ex-singer. Harper is guarded and protective at first, but the pure hearts and openly embarrassed intent of the young men quickly win her and the viewer over. It is a touching and beautiful scene. It reminds you that there is still decency and humility among American youth (maybe we should all visit east Texas once in a while, although you can easily find it in most parts of rural USA).No action flik this. The best word I know to describe Tender Mercies is heartwarming. If you have not yet watched it, by all means do yourself a favor beg, borrow, rent or steal a copy without delay. You'll never think of Duvall or Texas or country music the same again. "},{"Title":"The Great Robert Duval at his Very Best","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Something tells me that when it is all said and done, and people are trying to come up with that definitive greatest actor of all-time winner, it will be Robert Duval. I know that this is a bold statement. The Jimmy Stewart, Humphrey Bogart, Burt Lancaster, Paul Newman and Henry Fonda fans (among others) will scream and protest. Sure, it is subjective, but then again, maybe it is not. Sometimes there is supporting evidence out there, maybe because of one particular role. I think Robert Duval's performance in Tender Mercies is the greatest performance by an actor in the history of film. It is a subdued performance, but underneath, so powerful. Duval plays a washed up Country music singer and song writer named Mac Sledge. His better days are in the past. Now, he finds his only comfort in a whiskey bottle. His ex-wife has gone on to use his songs to become a huge star. She detests him because of the way he had become in his later years with her (alcohol). She even denies him the right to see their daughter. Mac has closed himself off to the world, he does not want to become emotionally attached to anybody or anything. The only time Mac was ever happy, bad things ended up as a result. However, Mac will soon come into contact with a widow and her young son and he gets a second chance to join the living. In this film you see a Duval character different from any other he has ever played. You see the rebirth of a spirit, long suffering. The supporting roles are incredible as well. I still find this one of the most emotionally satisfying movies ever made, every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"A Good Film Carried by Robert Duvall's Oscar-Winning Performance","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Tender Mercies is a strong character study about a washed-up country singer (Robert Duvall, in his Oscar-winning role) who finds the will to live and makes the most of his life.  After spending a drunken night at a small motel in Texas, he meets the woman (Tess Harper) who can change his life for the better.  She owns the motel and after allowing Duvall to stay for a while by doing odd jobs, she marries him and he starts his transformation.  Duvall still has songs to sing, but his heart is just not in it any more.  His ex-wife has become a singing star, partly by using the songs that Duvall wrote himself.  She has also kept their daughter away from him because she was afraid he might do something in a drunken rage.  Duvall comes to terms with everything and shows that he is a changed man.  He meets his now-grown daughter (Ellen Barkin) and realizes that everything that has happened has occurred for the right reason.  However, tragedy will strike and Duvall will have to show how great a person he really is.  Tender Mercies is a film that works due to quiet performances, subtle direction, and a smart screenplay.  The film runs a crisp 89 minutes, but never feels rushed.  Robert Duvall finally got the chance to showcase his acting ability and he does not disappoint.  His performance is the greatest attribute here, but this does not mean that everything else is not impressive.  4.5 out of 5 stars.     "},{"Title":"Duvall at his Finest !!","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This moving and thought-provoking film is a timeless classic of redemption and perseverance.Robert Duvall totally captures the pain, heartache, despair and ultimate survival of a once beloved entertainer.The film is an emotional tour-de-force for all the main characters, as they deal with forgiveness, doubt, loss of faith and memories of what might have been .......The direction, screenplay, music and cinematography are all top-notch and add to the realistic feel of the film.In a career that has seen a number of great performances, this quiet, unassuming Duvall film will leave you inspired as well as thoughtful. In this film , we see our own lives reflected in this small town saga. Maybe that is why I found the movie so deeply entertaining. It appeals to the lost dreams and missed opportunities in our own lives. "},{"Title":"The power of simplicity.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  To all aspiring screenwriters  this is how to do it.  Horton Foote eschews all of the phony and melodramatic plot devices Hollywood is so fond of, and concentrates instead on telling his tale as truly and simply as possible. In complete synch with him are his collaborators, director Bruce Beresford and star Robert Duvall.  There's not a false gesture, extraneous word of dialogue, or wasted camera move.  Just people who seem real, who strive to reach out to others, who want love and want to give it, but sometimes don't know how.  There are quiet, subtle moments in this movie that squeeze the heart.  Don't pass this one by. "},{"Title":"Laid back movie with a surprising emotional impact","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great, great film. Robert Duvall richly deserved the Oscar he won for Best Actor, and Bruce Beresford's direction is quirky but consistently entertaining.The most wonderful aspect of this movie is how the screenwriter (Horton Foote) doesn't let the characters engage in all the obvious, Hollywood histrionics that the plot would allow them to do. For example when Mack (Duvall) finally meets his long-lost daughter late in the film, he doesn't run to her and embrace her with tears staining his face while music swells beneath the scene, as a hack director would have him do. Instead, he looks at his shoes, makes small talk, and acts embarrassed. Why? Because, consistently throughout the film, he doesn't believe he deserves the good things that come his way.This is the tale of a man who, in the absolute pit of despair and hopelessness, is saved by the love of a good woman and the love of God. You need to see it. "},{"Title":"A Drama With Realism,  Heart & Dignity","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is a movie with a lot of dignity. It has such realistic people, it kept me fascinated because it seemed so different from most films I've watched.There aren't a lot of dramatic things that happen in the story yet, as a whole, it's a wonderful tale that stays with you. It's a lot more than just seeing an Oscar-winning performance by Robert Duvall as Texan and former C&W singer and writer, Mac Sledge. It's simply good storytellingI can't say I am a fan of Duvall's country singing, but that is the only thing I didn't like. Well, maybe Dixie (Betty Buckley), who played a bitter ex-wife of Duvall's in here. She was not pleasant, but others were really nice, likable people. Yet, this is not some sappy movie just because most of the people are good folks.As in film noirs in which the viewer has a sense of dread, knowing something bad is around the corner, I felt the same thing in this film, even though it didn't necessarily happen. I mean with the main characters Mac, Rosa Lee and Sonny. There was underlying tension, probably because of Sledge's alcoholic and violent past, that made me fear that any minute he was going to ruin the nice setup he had with a good woman and nice stepson. Duvall, as usual, makes his role a fascinating and unpredictable one. With many of the people he has played over the years, you never am sure what his characters are going to do next. Tess Harper, as Mac's new wife, and Alan Hubbard, as her son, are two of the most realistic characters I've ever seen on film. It helped they were from the area so their accents were real.This is a just straight drama, with a solid screenplay by Horton Foote and direction by Bruce Beresford (Driving Miss Daisy). In addition, actors Buckley (who can sing, too), Wilford Brimley and Ellen Barkin all give memorable supporting performances.It was an interesting tale of something I have rarely seen on film in the past 50 years a good Christian woman lifting up a man to her level. She never had to do it verbally, never nagged or preached to the man, just set example of how to act and be a loving, supportive spouse. There is a lesson for people here with how well Rosa Lee handled situations. Nice.....very nice. "},{"Title":"In the spirit of John Ford","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  As spare and clean and unflinching as a John Ford movie. At times reminds me of The Searchers in its perfect marriage of style and pained stoicism, and the way the sky and fate dwarf the all-too-human interiors. Superb editing and interior design, and probably Duvall's finest performance. "},{"Title":"Powerful, moving movie about redemption, restoration and hope.","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" While some may consider the movie a little slow at times, its overall message is a powerful one. A movie about redemption, restoration and hope. Robert Duvall's portrayal of a man whose life is in need of repair is outstanding. Ranks with his character in The Apostle, a similar tale in many ways. In my opinion, the baptismal scene is one of the movie's most moving moments. The bleak landscapes and the dust-blown scenes effectively echo the main character's state of mind for part of the film. Mac Sledge is a great character brought to life by Duvall. As Sledge gradually gets his life together thanks to the developing relationships with a young widow and her son, the mood of the movie becomes a little more positive. "},{"Title":"the good things","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I was happy to see this film once again when it aired last night on CMT. It's certainly worthy of a second look, as you take something new away from it each time. Even though this was filmed during the urban cowboy era of the early 80s, it doesn't seem dated in its subject matter. Country music fans can draw their own conclusions as to who inspired some of the characters. Robert Duvall's burnt-out drunk Mac Sledge surely borrowed from Lefty Frizzell. Mac's singing style is eerily close to Lefty's and he even performs one of his songs in the film. Betty Buckley's country queen Dixie Scott is reminiscent of Dottie West. Perhaps the writer based his story on George Jones and Tammy Wynette's bitter divorce, Jones' subsequent alcoholism and redemption, and Tammy's raising of their daughter. Whatever the case, it has a wonderful message about loss making us appreciate the good things we're given in life. The final song playing while Tess Harper watches her husband and son tossing a football says it best. "}{"Title":"excellent acting, visually stunning","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is a gentle, honest and straight forward depiction of the lives of several lonely people who meet, interact, and change one another in positive ways. Everyone grows and becomes more than what they were before, and when there is tribulation, they are able to rise above it with poise and gentility. The film is steady, quiet, and not overly long, but with good tension. It is very well acted. Duvall won a Best Actor Oscar here. I'm not a sentimental person, but this is really a charming, simple and beautiful film.Whomever was responsible for the set direction of this film is a true genius. The use of color, foremost, and of depth, motion and scene blocking is as nearly perfect as any film I have ever seen. Amid a perfect background of muted greens or blues, there is always something red, drawing the eye directly to a perfect focal point, either anticipating or complimenting the action on the screen. It's simply gorgeous to look at, like an oil painting in a museum you can't quite tear yourself away from.The first time I was shown this film it was at a small party thrown by someone I write and direct with. He and his wife have Ph.Ds in drama. They had wanted me to see it for the story and performances, but when I mentioned the direction and art direction and set and costume design, it opened new worlds for them. Inexplicably, they hadn't noticed.Watch this film from a human, emotional perspective, and you will come away very satisfied. Watch it from technical point of view, vis-a-vis Citizen Cane - either way you will benefit. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Cleansing with clarity","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Some movies you just don't have a whole lot to say about. No intricate symbolism to analyze, no hidden meanings to extrapolate, no big ideas to grapple with. Some movies (well all movies, but some more clear than others) simply take you by the shoulder and tell you let me tell you how life is. Good old-fashioned storytelling that in all the sound and fury and clamor of the quirky, self-referential, overplotted cinema of our days seems to have fallen by the wayside. TENDER MERCIES is this kind of movie, a low-key character study that has no easy answers to give, no big twists, no disparate plot strands to tie neatly in the end. It is left as open-ended as it began. A washed up country singer wakes up in the room of a cheap motel, the floor strewn with empty whiskey bottles, with nowhere to go and not even a coin in his pocket to make a phone call.When Horton Foote writes, all aspiring screenwriters should sit down and take notice. Not because he was a twice Oscar-decorated veteran (for this and TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD), but because he exemplifies great writing in the most simple, clear fashion possible - writing from the inside out. And whereas TOMORROW, his previous collaboration with Robert Duvall (playing a poor, illiterate farmer in a Faulkner adaptation), a stark, slowburn but ultimately dour southern Gothic story that lacked the affinity for the Gothic to make it work, was not a total success, Tender Mercies is. And it's great because it is clear, honest and immediate in its all-encompassing totality.An emotional clarity in the story reflected in Bruce Beresford's direction reflected back into the story. Everyone seems to be on the exact same page on the movie they're trying to make. Beresford doesn't intrude; he doesn't keep a minimalist distance either. He leaves enough room to the worldweary characters and rural scenery to speak for themselves but he's always there to add his subtle touches.Take for example the scene when Robert Duvall returns home late at night after he stormed out furious a few hours earlier. A subtle dark layer has been woven into his character in a previous scene when he was described as a mean drunk and we saw him getting out of a liquor store with a bottle in a paper bag. Back home his wife lies in bed anxious for his return. She hears someone bumble at the door, grappling with door and keys, staggering in the dark as he gets in. She throws the lights on and we see Duvall, not looking good. But he tells her he's not drunk, that he bought booze and poured it down the street. As the wife gets up from bed to make him something to eat, foreshadowed menace and domestic violence have suddenly turned into reconciliation with his old life and faith in his new one. The movie is filled with these small, seemingly casual but masterfully orchestrated, beats of action and dialogue, beat by beat creating a poignant whole.In the end we don't get the big catharsis. The heartstrings are barely tugged at all. But the combination of Duvall's realization (I don't trust in happiness, never have, never will) and the scene where he and a small boy throw a ball in an empty field, says all there is to be said. About Duvall's character and life as seen through the writer's eyes. Honest in its intentions, pure in its emotional power and empathy, this is the kind of movie to be cherished by a small audience and ignored by the rest. "},{"Title":"Great stuff for those who like strong character development","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" We tune into this story as Mac Sledge (Robert Duvall), a washed up country and western singer, has hit bottom. He is on a binge with a friend in a small motel in the middle of nowhere in Texas. Come morning his friend has gone, leaving Mac stranded with few options. Mac asks for work from Rosa (Tess Harper), the owner of the motel. Rosa has lost her husband in Vietnam and is with a young son called Sonny. Rosa tells Mac he can help around the place for food and shelter, but no drinking. The relationship that develops between Mac, Rosa and Sonny ultimately helps him put his life back together. This is a simple story, simply told, but with great believability and emotional power. Duvall deserved his Oscar for his role here. He must have identified with Mac in some significant way since he inhabits the role and wrote a couple of the songs. I can't think of another actor who could have done this as well. All the actors are good - they seem like they were plucked from real life. Seeing Ellen Barkin in one of her earliest films is a treat.This movie illustrates what a roll of the dice marriage is. When Rosa married Mac I doubt she had any idea that his past talents and passions would resurface in such an important way, and Mac settles into a simpler and more honest life than he probably ever knew he could appreciate. Relationships evolve in unexpected ways and change the participants, for better or worse.The narrative from the intense scene in the garden with Mac and Rosa to the end of the film summarizes the tenets of existentialism in a manner that would make Camus jealous.Even if you are not a country and western music fan the songs in this movie are such an integral part of it that the strength of the movie can at least stimulate an appreciation of the genre.Most all of us have had some tender mercies granted to us in our lives. This film causes us to reflect on those. "},{"Title":"Tender Mercies","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Simple, wonderfully acted, quietly effective drama about an alcoholic singer, Mac Sledge(Robert Duvall)whose career and life is careening into a complete disaster until he meets kind, warm-hearted Rosa Lee(Tess Harper), the widow of a young man who died in Vietnam and mother to a gentle, intelligent little boy. Mac, who has little left..money or self-respect..is able to straighten out his life when they accept him with love and devotion. He is able, for a while, to cut himself away from the country music business which made him a household name, but soon others find out his whereabouts including a struggling band who hold him to high-regard. Mac has a second ex-wife, Dixie(Betty Buckley), now quite a huge Country music star, he was abusive to when drunk that denies him a chance to re-unite with his 18-year old daughter Sue Anne(Ellen Barkin). Soon, however, Sue Anne finds him but sees that he's not quite the monster Dixie had led her to believe. Tragedy will inevitably strike Mac's life when Sue Anne decides to run away with a musician in Dixie's band, who is a drunk like he once was.Unlike other films of it's ilk, Tender Mercies doesn't take that melodramatic turn one might expect. It's easy to guess that Mac would ruin what he has by going back to the bottle when a circumstance might shift from his control or that someone would come between the love Mac has with his new wife and step-son. But, this film doesn't because it's a much gentler, innocent tale that says you can change for the better when you come in contact with someone who will love you and have patience with you. There aren't the usual shouting matches between Mac and Rosa Lee one might expect and there isn't, thank God, the typical rift between a step-father and his step-son. Sure, Sonny(Allan Hubbard)wants to know about his father, how he died and such, but he doesn't harbor ill will toward his mother's choice as a husband. And, I think that might be a problem with certain folks who expect emotional fireworks and damage..it's too simple and behavior too toned down. The past of Mac, regarding his music, isn't denied by Rosa Lee. Right the opposite, which was a surprise to me..she doesn't say what we expect in these type of dramas..It's me or the music? And, the religious elements in the film, which are very present in Rosa Lee's life, aren't lampooned or poked fun at..there just here to show us that to her, and later Mac and Sonny, religion is an important aspect in their lives.The performances by all considered are first-rate...simply not a false note. Low-key, to be sure,(..for the exception of Dixie, who has become a diva, but her anger towards Mac is justified and even he doesn't fault her for feeling the way she does, although he does desire to see his daughter)but the subtle characterizations still convey much. For instance, Duvall shows pain, frustration, and sorrow(his career, his daughter, loss of someone dear), but also joy, admiration, and love(instilled in his life by Rosa Lee and Sonny). Tess Harper is divine as Rosa Lee..never wavers in her love towards Mac and is rewarded by his faithfulness and sobriety. But, Betty Buckley really shines as Dixie, a woman who has endured much and is bitter to her very bones and always worried that her daughter will meet someone like her father. The music is terrific and the photography is stunning and somber. Simply put, one of the most beautiful rural character studies I've seen in some time. "},{"Title":"On The Wings Of A Snow White Dove","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies is one of those rare Hollywood films that works in all departments, from the cast, the writer, the cinematographer, right on down to the smallest contributors.The story concerns a popular country music recording artist, Mac Sledge (Robert Duvall), hooked on alcohol, used up by the Nashville shredding machine and now adrift looking for new directions when a younger widow, Rosa Lee (Tess Harper in her movie debut), running a second-rate motel in east Texas, with a son, Sonny (Allan Hubbard), to raise, takes him in. She becomes his salvation, his anchor. Rosa Lee is no saint yet she is very religious. Her method of comfort is tender mercy, found in the Bible. Sonny, whose father died in Vietnam, accepts Mac as his surrogate father, still asking his mother leading questions about the man he never knew.Mac is unable to break completely free from his past life, keeping a satchel filled with recently written songs in his room. His ex-wife, Dixie (Betty Buckley), is now a successful country music performer. Mac attempts to go through Dixie's manager (at one time his manager), Harry (Wilford Brimley), but to no avail. Ultimately, a local band becomes interested in Mac's material, thus giving him encouragement and hope. His waters of recovery are muddied when his only child, a teenage daughter, Sue Anne (Ellen Barkin), re-enters his life desiring to find the love that was lost between father and daughter resulting from her parents' ugly divorce. A telling scene occurs when Sue Anne recalls an old song her father used to sing to her, On The Wings Of A Dove. Mac claims he doesn't remember it. Shortly after Sue Anne departs, Mac begins singing the song as he works.Horton Foot's script is loosely based on the life of the legendary country artist, Lefty Frizzell. Robert Duvall appropriately sings one of Lefty's best songs, It Hurts To Face Reality, using the correct vocal inflections pioneered by Lefty, later utilized by the likes of Merle Haggard and Willie Nelson. Lefty's life paralleled that of Mac Sledge in many ways, including the drinking problem. Like Mac, Lefty was able to overcome the handicap and make a triumphant return to stardom just before an untimely death caused by his rambunctious life style.Not only does Robert Duvall successfully pick and sing other artists' songs, he contributes two good compositions of his own, Fool's Waltz, and I've Decided to Leave Her Forever. Needless to say, Duvall deserved the Oscar he won for his performance.The highly underrated Tess Harper keeps up with Robert Duvall all the way. The telling scenes between the two are accented as much by what is not said than by what is said. Sitting in front of the TV with Rosa Lee and at times Sonny with him, gives Mac the tranquil family life feeling he never had before. When Mac receives bad news toward the end of the film, Rosa Lee is there to comfort him but never speaks a word. Her facial expression tells it all. Ellen Barkin is another member of the cast who does an exceptional job in a fairly small yet critical role.On a personal note, I taught Tess (on the roll, Tessie Washam), her sister, and two of her cousins, when she was a senior at Mammoth Spring High School in Mammoth Spring, Arkansas. She was enrolled in my speech class and won the speech award that year. She was interested in drama and determined to make a go of it. A few of her classmates tauted her in a friendly way, saying, Yeah, and what chance does someone from a nowhere place in Arkansas have in Hollywood? Her fortitude paid off and deservedly so. At the time, she told me her favorite play was The Man Who Came To Dinner. One of her classmates and a close friend since childhood lost his life in Vietnam. That must have made the role of a wife whose husband had died in Vietnam even more relevant for her.The IMDb trivia notes read, When Mac was talking with the band about possibly joining them to record some songs, they stopped in front of a shop named T. Harper Hardware. Tess Harper played Rosa Lee, Mac's new wife. Adding to that note, Tessie's parents, the Washam's, owned and operated a hardware store in Mammoth Spring at the time Tender Mercies was released. "},{"Title":"Spoier  A warm worn spot in the heart","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I was originally going to give this film a 9 out of 10 because it's a country type film with country style music, and I thought you'd have to have a country taste for it. But upon thinking of it (and just the fact that I'd spend that much time thinking about it shows you how great a film this is) I realized, no, the story is so universal, the acting so excellent, the music so enthralling, it passes boundaries and anyone can enjoy it.It's difficult to believe that Betty Buckley and Robert Duvall are actually doing their own singing since neither has been given enough credit for those talents. Buckley known as the step-mom in Eight is Enough will captivate you with her song Over You. She had a strong stage career but you never would have known it from that show, yet it's clear to see why here in just this one song that I guarantee you'll be humming and searching for as soon as you've seen the movie.Robert Duvall is perfect as the country star has been who still has it but just doesn't realize it.There are laughs and sadness, but it all comes together in a bittersweet note, literally, like a beautiful ribbon that ties together a broken heart.See this movie. You'll never forget it once you have. "},{"Title":"Honest and straightforward","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Contains spoiler As I watched Tender Mercies, I couldn't help thinking of Hank Williams. Any Southern male who is over a certain age has some of Hank in his very being, even if he isn't a big fan of country music, and any movie about country music must measure up to that enormous legend. Even fifty or so years after his death, Hank is still spoken of in hushed tones throughout the South. In my opinion, Tender Mercies measures up quite well. Horton Foote wrote the screenplay for Tender Mercies, and he pays homage to Hank in at least one scene in the movie. I'll get to that later. The movie opens in 'Nowhere,' Texas. Mac Sledge (Duvall) collapses in a drunken stupor in a nowhere room, in a motel that is run by a young Viet Nam war widow named Rosa Lee (Harper), who has nowhere to go, and it is obvious that Mac has finally reached the bottom in his personal descent to nowhere. Mac is a broken down, formerly legendary country music composer and singer. Duvall did his own singing in the movie, and he did it very well. He was convincing, and that isn't an easy thing to do, because singing country music is more than just opening your mouth and shouting out the words. You have to have the voice quality, the inflection, the body language, and the ability to sing on pitch. It also helps to have a good band playing behind you. Duvall scored high on his four requirements, and the band was very good, indeed. We don't know what caused Mac's descent into the bottle, and to obscurity, but it's obvious that he has lived there a long time. He is about 45, but looks at least ten years older. The movie is about Mac's return to life, respectability, and writing and performing his music. It is said that an alcoholic can't reform until he has reached the bottom of the bottle, and wants to reform. In the beginning of the movie, Mac has reached bottom, and intends to begin the long, arduous road up again. He has no money to pay his motel bill, so he offers to work it off. Rosa Lee warily agrees, but tells Mac that there will be no drinking on the premises. She has a young son of about nine years, who was one year old when his father died. Mac falls for Rosa Lee and asks her to think about marrying him. Rosa Lee says that yes, she will think about it, and pretty soon, they are married, but we learn about it only when Rosa Lee's son mentions his stepfather to a playmate. In many similar movies, the love and sacrifice of a good woman would be the vehicle for Mac's rehabilitation, but this movie is too honest to sink to that level of triteness. All is not rosy, and Mac returns to sobriety in fits and starts, with some backsliding along the way. With one big exception, we learn this from a scene between Rosa Lee and Mac's daughter, Sue Ann (Barkin). Sue Ann asks if her father is still drinking, and Rosa Lee replies that he would drink on occasion away from home, but that he just put the liquor down one day and didn't take it up again.The function of Rosa Lee is to point him in the right direction. She insists that he attend church, which Mac does, and eventually he is baptized. The movie presents a realistic portrayal of church people, avoiding the usual Hollywood clichés of venality and/or hypocrisy. Church people are just like everyone else, a mixture of good and bad, but if they are true to their calling they recognize and acknowledge the bad and repent of it. Mac is divorced from a famous country singer named Dixie (Buckley), who has made a career of singing his songs. Sue Ann is the focus of their mutual bitterness toward each other. After a bitter scene between Mac and Dixie, he recklessly drives away to find a drink. He comes home in the early morning hours and confesses that he had bought a bottle, but had poured it all out.One day, a van carrying a group of young men drives up to the motel. They all get out of the van, and ask Rosa Lee for five dollars worth of gas, but they are musicians, and they are really there to meet Mac. Mac regards them warily, but eventually they become the vehicle for Mac's return to performing his music.Toward the end of the movie, Mac receives word that Sue Ann has been killed in an automobile accident. As is the custom in much of the South, the body has been taken home before burial. Mac makes the trip to pay his last respects to Sue Ann, and, as he gets out of his truck, he looks for a second or two at the mansion, which used to be his home but now is occupied by Dixie. It is set on a small hill, and as Mac walks toward this Loveless Mansion On The Hill, Hank Williams' music came flooding back into my memory.If you like country/western music, or are just a Bobby Duvall fan, see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall's journey to redemption...his Oscar-winning role...","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" TENDER MERCIES is a simple story of a country western singer's rise from the depths of drunken despair to respectability again after meeting a woman (TESS HARPER) with whom he falls in love, marries and is encouraged to try his hand at music again.ROBERT DUVALL is Mac, the washed up singer, now the handyman at the motel run by Harper, who lives there with her young son. He's a legend in that area of Texas and is urged by an unknown group to sing and write for them--eventually even joining them on stage for one of his latest songs. Duvall plays the role with conviction, lending his voice to the songs in pleasant country style.His ex-wife is bitter and unforgiving (BETTY BUCKLEY), and sees everything, even the tragic death of their daughter (ELLEN BARKIN) in terms of herself as the spotlight--and unable to treat him with any sort of respect. But he basks in the loving attention of his wife and his adopted son, getting his nourishment from his relationship with them rather than anything from his past.It's a bittersweet story, simple and direct without any sub-plots or any kind of distraction and passes the time quickly in ninety minutes, more a character study of Mac than anything else.I'm not a fan of country music nor this sort of western, but it has a certain homespun appeal and Duvall, of course, is an actor worth watching. It must have been a lean year for Oscars though--it's not the kind of performance that immediately grabs you and hasn't got Oscar written all over it. "},{"Title":"At Best It's Nothing Special","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I saw it in the library and noticed it was an award winner, so I checked it out and watched it with my mother. Neither of us were impressed.The story is about a former country music star who has collapsed into alcoholism and vagrancy, and ultimately winds up at a rural motel/gas station run by a young widow and her young son. He offers to work for her, and she accepts, telling him he could not drink. But he is still a country music legend, and he is first visited by a reporter, then a garage band who want to meet him. Also in the region are his ex-wife, also a country music star, and their daughter. The rest of the story, of course, has Mac's past catching up to him.While the performances and characters are all credible, especially of the little boy who acts like a genuine little boy and not a precocious stereotype, the story is predictable and holds little in the way of surprises. The song that makes a major part of the story isn't even very good. We don't even learn much of anything about the country music industry or culture.Not bad but not good either. It must have been a lean year at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"Blue collar poetry","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Bruce Beresford directs this wonderfully moody small town drama, which sees actor Robert Duvall playing an alcoholic country singer who divorces his wife and takes up odd jobs at a Texas gas station to make ends meet. Whilst there he falls in love with the local station owner, her quiet love helping him reconcile with his estranged family, beat his alcoholism and inspiring him to pick back up his guitar.Modern audiences may find this plot similar to The Wrestler and Crazy Heart, but Tender Mercies is in a whole other league. Beresford, a native of Australia, shoots Texas like the Australian outback, with sparse landscape shots and moody skylines. His characters are equally quiet, speaking delicately, but powerfully. Duvall himself cites this as his favourite performance out of all his films, the actor playing his character with the same mixture of vulnerability and hot temperedness which he brought to The Apostle and The Great Santini.And whilst fare like The Wrestler and Crazy Heart signal their plot beats at every turn, dwelling heavily on dramatic moments, Tender Mercies revokes such a schematic tone in favour for a more unfocused narrative and low key, quiet probing. Think Bob Rafelson's Five Easy Pieces mixed with some Paris, Texas and you have the tone of this film.Film's like this typically end with the singer making a spiritual recovery and musical comeback, but Tender Mercies rejects this and goes elsewhere, latching onto a more vague, existential ending. The film has been embraced by Christians - and the Catholic Church itself - as a giant Jesus Movie, but the the film's spirituality is far too open-ended to be pigeonholed, writer Horton Foote more interested in filtering religious themes of rebirth, baptism, salvation and redemption through a less secular, more humanitarian perspective. In terms of flaws, one of the film's songs is too on-the-nose, a last act tragedy is a bit too schematic (though it wasn't a cliché back in the 80s) and a better film would have dealt with alcoholism in a more darker light. Still, the film possesses a nice, liquid quality, Beresford exhibiting a masterful command of tone. One example watch how unassumingly our couple gets married and how unconcerned the film is with clueing us in on their union.8.9/10 &#x96; Though this kind of sentimental, blue collar poetry was common in the 80s (Silkwood, Mask, Paris, Texas, Raggedy Man&#x85;all very good) , Tender Mercies does enough things differently to differentiate it from the wave. For similar country music films, see The Thing Called Love, Crazy Heart, Hal Ashby's Bound For Glory, Altman's Prairie Home Companion and Nashville, Songwriter, Sweet Dreams, Coal Miners Daughter and Be Here To Love Me A Film About Townes Van Zandt. "}{"Title":"Touching. Exceptional film-making.","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" We don't always figure out God's plan for how our lives work out. And often there are no real explanations as to why certain people are taken from us well before their time. And I suppose those are the themes I took from this wonderful little film from many years ago. This is a thoughtful, honest, and emotional story of Mac Sledge (Robert Duvall). Mac is a broken-down alcoholic ex-country singer who has hit rock bottom in the movie's first scenes. Left for dead in a desolate motel room in the middle of the Texas plains, it is here where this former star begins to build a modest, yet honest life from his own ruins.This is perhaps Robert Duvall's best work, and indeed he was rewarded with the Oscar for best actor. His performance is understated and realistic. This was a time before the internet where even a well-known celebrity could vanish into thin air and find himself working at a gas station/motel and nobody would figure it out for a very long time. There was no tmz.com to humiliate the man after his hard day's work. Mac Sledge just goes about his business and after a spell (we are not really sure how long) he finds himself married to the woman who owns the place (Tess Harper), and doing the best he can helping to raise her son. The boy's father it seems was a casualty of the Vietnam War. Mac has a daughter of his own, but he seems to have lost her to his drinking.Mac and his new family seem to be settled in pretty well, until complications arise regarding his ex-wife and daughter. Mac desperately wants to get to know his daughter who is now 18 once again, but his ex-wife is still pretty bitter towards him. She threatens to have the girl arrested if she sets out to visit him! Further complicating matters is the fact that Mac's daughter elopes with a much older member of her mother's band. This turns out to be a terrible mistake. All the while it looks like Mac may get his singing career going once again. He has kept writing and has a chance to sing his songs with a local band. It almost looks like Mac is going to be a star once again... but things don't always work out in this life. I don't trust happiness, Mac explains in one late scene. Never have. You'll have to watch the film for yourself to find out exactly what he means.Tender Mercies is quite a diamond in the rough. It is beautifully filmed on the plains of rural Texas. The acting is extraordinary all around. Even the boy playing Mac's stepson is outstanding. Child actors are often a distraction to a good film. Not this time. Notice how good he is a scene where some school bullies question him about the new guy married to his mother. He absolutely disarms them with facts. He is not ashamed of his new father. He likes the guy. Tess Harper in a debut performance hangs in there with the professionals and doesn't look like a newcomer. Wilford Brimley is always welcome, and Ellen Barkin shows her talent at an early age. For goodness sakes, see this film! 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Well deserving of the Oscar win.","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Having watched this movie about 5 times in the last two weeks, I can say that it deserves the Oscar it received, and should be included in any top ten movie list.Robert Duvall IS Mac Sledge. After a few minutes, you begin to live his life with him.The cinematography in this movie is incredible. Texas is an incredibly beautiful state, and the various techniques make the actors and the background merge together wonderfully. Every time I watch it, I notice something else that helps draw the viewer into the story without you really paying attention to it.10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Every time it shows up, I watch it all over again.","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I can take country music or leave it, but this film, its characterizations, its songs, its perfect-pitch dialogue -- all are just exceptional! Horton Foote, the writer, is a certified genius -- that much has been demonstrated time and again. I was sorry to read that the director, Bruce Beresford, and Robert Duvall had some difficulties working together, because I thought the direction was absolutely flawless, and (needless to say) Duvall was as exceptional as he always is.It's unbelievable that this film hasn't received more recognition for the priceless little gem that it is. All I know is, whenever I see it on the TV schedule, I'm right there, watching it from beginning to end, all over again. "},{"Title":"I don't have anything wonderful that hasn't already been said...","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" But I will say this - Robert Duvall is an American Icon. He will be remembered as one of our most important artists if not the PREMIER actor in motion picture history. No matter what respected 100 greatest films ever list, Robert Duvall is featured in at least six. Believe me, I've compared them all.All told, he is featured in 12 of 100.His subtlety is genius, his stature sublime.This quote was rated the most popular in cinematic history by a poll conducted by the BBCRobert Duvall as as the gung-ho borderline-psychotic Lt. Colonel Bill Big Duke Kilgore in Apocalypse Now (1979)You smell that? Do you smell that? That's napalm, son! Nothing else in the world smells like that!I love the smell of napalm in the morning. You know, this one time, we bombed this hill, for twelve hours . . . when it was over I went up there . . . we didn't find one of 'em, not one stinkin' dink body. But, you know, that smell . . . that gasoline smell . . . the whole hill . . . it smelled like . . . victory. "},{"Title":"This movie is not just about a drunk country music singer.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The writers could have called Tender Mercies Fallen or Starting Over. All of us can relate to starting over. However, Tender Mercies is most appropriate. Mac Sledge (Robert Duvall)is all about forgiving ones self. Once a country music legend, now a has-been filled with regrets, Mac meets a sweet widow and her son. With their help he begins to think of himself as a human being again. But throughout the story, Mac continues to punish himself for his failed past. In the end about all there is for Mac is the ability to forgive himself. Realizing that even though he questions his right to happiness and knows that he will never be able to answer all the whys and why nots of his life, he must keep on keeping on. And that, my friend, are the tender mercies that we allow our selves. Now, I'm not a good writer and even a worse critic,but I know a good story. This is a great movie that will stay with you forever. "},{"Title":"Quiet, Simple Straightforward Story Beautifully Done","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Tender Mercies is a beautifully written movie. Quiet and seemingly simple, it contains some dead-on perfect moments that everyone can relate to. Robert Duvall is well cast as a down and out country singer whose best days are behind him. He ends up in Nowheresville, Texas at a filling station run by a Vietnam widow(Tess Harper) and her young son. Duvall's character is at a point in his life where he is soul searching and dealing with failures in his life. He questions why certain people get a second chance and others do not...He questions why some live and some die...He doesn't trust happiness, he probably never will. Anyone who has had some severe ups and downs in their life will appreciate this movie. The cast is wonderful. Along with Robert Duvall and Tess Harper, other strong performances include Wilford Brimley, Betty Buckley and Ellen Barkin. There is one scene in particular, between Duvall and Barkin that is a classic. The film holds up on video 18 years after it was first released.Overall Rating  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An oft-overlooked classic","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I was first treated to this film in a Film & Lit class. The learning technique for the films was to first view the film all the way through, then discussion, then lecture on the film's technical merits.The film is very enjoyable on a pleasure-viewing level, and it actually represents a turning point in Duvall's career, being the first of many films he's made in Texas and other parts of the US. Although it is a film professor's dream--in terms of easily recognizable film devices, and well-executed ones, at that--it's not so in-your-face as to be distracting.Almost all of Duvall's later films owe something to this work, whether in plot, production values, or character. Most striking are the resemblances between this and his later works Lonesome Dove, Belizaire the Cajun, Days of Thunder, and The Apostle.This was the film that turned me into a raving Robert Duvall fan. The range he demonstrates in this film, while portraying a quiet, introverted character is truly amazing. Other favorite moments are the scenes with an early-career Wilford Brimley, and the interaction between Duvall and the son of the boarding house owner (especially on the way home from a baptism).The film itself is not exactly a tour-de-force, but it succeeds on every level that it approaches. The imagery is very well-placed and effective in supporting the plot and foreshadowing. The use of irregular shots is also extremely effective in drawing--no, yanking the viewer's attention in the right direction in ambivalent plot moments.If you like Robert Duvall, or have any interest toward failure/redemption, the business side of Country music, rural Southern scenes, or enjoy a strong subject, subtly put, you should definitely see this film. It's a bittersweet drama with just the right amount of comic relief and endearing warmth. "},{"Title":"Damn Good Acting","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  Robert Duvall got Academy Award recognition but Tess Harper deserved a nomination for her work as well.  Duvall surprised me with his performance as a singer.  My favorite scene his daughter (Ellen Barkin) asks him to sing a song for her he used to sing when she was little.  He says he can't remember it.  As she drives off, he sings On the wings of a song, white dove.. This one still gets me.  Forget Butterfly Kisses. It is interesting to contrast Tender Mercies work with Duvall's work in the Apostle.  Similar Theme, different sides of the coin.  I liked the Apostle, but I loved Tender Mercies. "},{"Title":"Spawned Some Knockoffs","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies from 1983 has spawned some knockoffs, made for TV films that you see on the Country Cable station. TM is still one of the best portrayals of poor Texas brush folks on flat, flat terrain. Sometimes tumbleweed tumbles by. Anyhow, one looks at that big sky and a country song comes to your lips. Robert Duvall plays Mac Sledge stoically in tight blue jeans and cowboy boots. Duvall slips off the Godfather set and takes that Texas accent where men sort of mumble homily's at a moments notice. Ah, he can't sing, but he gets a nice voice-over during a honky tonk gig.So former Country star Duval has fallen hard and end drunkenly ends up at a rural Austin motel to take up with Tess Harper, a widow of the Vietnam War. Her young son needs a father. The ready made family makes do with gas station revenue while Duval dries out. Local citizens, boys in a garage band lure the has-been songwriter back into the music business. Former wife Trixie still hates his drunken ways and won't let Mac connect with his young daughter, teen Ellen Barker. After that, there's a tragedy.I watched TM with a teen daughter and we enjoyed it. We're not talking Fellini or Welles here, but it kept me interested. "},{"Title":"Emotional, engaging drama","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Emotional, engaging drama.An alcoholic drifter, Mac Sledge (played by Robert Duvall), finds himself in a small Texas town. He gets a job doing handyman work for Rosa Lee (Tess Harper), a widow with a 10-year old son. Over time, a relationship develops between Mac and Rosa Lee and they get married. In due course it is revealed that Mac was a famous country singer with an equally-famous country singing wife, but alcohol ended their marriage and his career. After trying to turn his back on his former life, Mac now tries to reconcile his old life with his new.Interesting story, with a large emotional content. It doesn't grab you immediately - the setup is quite dry and fairly uneventful - but the movie develops well. Once it builds up a decent degree of momentum it is quite engaging.Was heading for a very profound conclusion but ends a bit abruptly. Sort of eases out, rather than goes out with a bang. Ending is still quite emotional, but could have been better. A more elaborate and developed conclusion was in order.Superb performance by Robert Duvall in the lead role (but that is pretty much a given). Flawed, sensitive heroes with large amounts of baggage are his specialty and here he pulls out all the stops. He well deserved his Best Actor Oscar. Surprisingly, considering his incredible talent and some of the amazing performances he has delivered, this was to be his only Oscar win, though he was nominated six other times.Good support from Tess Harper. Ellen Barkin, in one of her earliest feature film roles, puts in a solid performance as Mac's daughter. "}{"Title":"Most Excellent","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" A broken-down, middle-aged country singer (Robert Duvall) gets a new wife, reaches out to his long-lost daughter, and tries to put his troubled life back together.The film encompasses several different themes, including the importance of love and family, the possibility of spiritual resurrection amid death, and the concept of redemption through Mac Sledge's conversion to Christianity. Following poor test screening results, distributor Universal Pictures made little effort to publicize Tender Mercies, which Duvall attributed to the studio's lack of understanding of country music.Although I have little interest in country music, no interesting religious conversation, and almost no interest in love and family, this film still spoke to me. Duvall is just perfect, and I had no idea he could sing. For his performance along, it deserves more recognition. "},{"Title":"great Duvall","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Mac Sledge (Robert Duvall) is an alcoholic washed up country singer. He can't pay his motel bill and starts working for the widowed owner Rosa Lee (Tess Harper) who is raising her son Sonny. He turns his life around and they get marry. His new life is interrupted when a reporter drops by. His ex-wife Dixie Scott is a country music star and she's performing nearby. His story is printed in the newspaper. He goes to her concert and sees her manager Harry (Wilford Brimley). She angrily warns him not to see their daughter Sue Anne (Ellen Barkin).It's a powerful performance from Robert Duvall. That's the heart of the movie. He puts all of his skills to work. He's great when he's quiet. He's explosive when he needs to be. The camera work and the style could do more to add more substance to the material. It's a great showcase for Duvall and Tess Harper also gives a good performance. "},{"Title":"Songs are highlights in this character-less character study","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies is a kind-hearted character study, but it doesn't have much in that vein to study. Everyone in the film, both the ones on screen and the ones who are simply allusions, is a perfect archetype. They are simple figures whose traits are summed up in no more than an adjective or two an alcoholic country singer, a pious and patient widow, a glitzy but troubled Opry singer. To the film's credit, its shoe fits the simplicity of the people is matched by a terseness of expression and a plain setting somewhere outside of Austin&#x97;not in one of that city's prettier Hill Country environs, either. The dialogue is especially direct in the case of the intensely personal questions that flow ceaselessly from a young boy to his widowed mother and stepfather. It's helpful, and rare for a serious drama which might be expected to strive for nuance and ambiguity, to know exactly what characters are thinking and feeling.The tradeoff is that what the characters think and feel is, to go back to this word, pretty simple. It's almost painfully uncomplicated, like a screenwriter's perception of what common, everyday folks' lives are like, but without being accidentally patronizing. The movie has no elitism, no detachment that could hint at superiority it is warm and forgiving and non-judgmental to its characters, perhaps to a fault in the case of Robert Duvall's protagonist. The movie passes lightly over his history as a domestic abuser, a fact that might not be so uncomfortable if our knowledge of the women in his life were not so filtered through his eyes. One of the best scenes in the film takes place when he is away from home for a day and a night, and his wife and stepson are left to talk to each other. Most of the time, though, we see what he sees in pretty much the way he sees it. Could our perception of the Opry singer who was his ex-wife be limited to glitzy but troubled if we saw her in the long years of her single parenthood rather than in the emotionally-fraught circumstances that are the only intersections between her and Duvall's character? Similarly, his young adult daughter is written in a way that says more about him than her, and her arc seems to exist primarily to give him a reason to comment on his arc. She is the quintessential teen trying to grow up too fast in a manner that is thought to add depth to males but bring females to tragedy, just another example of moralistic fiction trope stretching back centuries.The plotting, then, is unsatisfying, and the characters too. The acting is capable, but it's nothing mold-breaking for Duvall, who nevertheless won an Oscar for it. A generation later, the movie Crazy Heart (2009, also featuring Duvall, but in a supporting role) would take the very same subject matter and throw in a few new twists and a couple of big, chewy, Oscary scenes that won its star Jeff Bridges the same award. The music alone is a sufficient reason to watch Crazy Heart, which did for outlaw and alternative country what O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000) did for American traditional folk. The music in Tender Mercies is also worth a listen, especially for fans of classic country in the Nashville and Bakersfield modes. The songs don't quite make it a must-see, but they are highlights of a pleasant enough hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Robert Duvall Shines!","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies is a small film, but it aims high and it usually hits the mark. This film makes clear the dangers of alcoholism, but it also points out there is always a road towards salvation, or essentially a life fixation. This is a small, character-driven drama that is all about the characters, and the music. This film is swamped in country music and that gives the film an American taste. I was pleasantly surprised on how good this film was, and it certainly hits home.Bruce Beresford's film is about a middle-aged, once-famous country singer named Mac whose life was turned upside down by alcohol. But now he looks to bring his life together as he marries a widow from Texas and he becomes pals with her son. But life gets complicated when his long-lost daughter comes back into his life and when a chance arises to resurrect his music career.It's surprising that Robert Duvall has only one Oscar win to his name, but that came with this film and you can see why. He gives such an endearing performance as the man who desperately wants to change his life and clearly believes good things should not happen to him. We get some riveting supporting performances by Tess Harper as his new wife, Betty Buckley as his bitter ex-wife, and Ellen Barkin as his long-lost daughter.Overall, Tender Mercies is a small, emotional drama that is led by Robert Duvall's heartfelt performance and the notion of what it's like to change for the better. There are many people who could relate to this film, many people indeed. I also liked how this film avoided some of Hollywood's common tropes and did something new. For example, after meeting his daughter for the first time in years, we don't get the reaction we would expect to see based on other films. In the end, this is a very good, low-key drama with a nice country soundtrack. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"The Way Things Work Out","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Toward the end a character asks a number of why questions; why did this happen, why that? We don't always know why things work out the way they do; but that's life, for everyone. That's kind of the theme of this slow-developing character study of a damaged man named Mac (Robert Duvall), former country songwriter and singer.The script tells the story of Mac and his life in the slow lane, and his relationship to Rosa (Tess Harper) and others around him. It's a story of simple but genuine folks whose lives center on basic human values like dignity, honesty, and absence of pretense The lonely, barren spaces of West Texas provide the backdrop for the story. As such, the film reminds me of three other films about down home folks set in the rural South Gilbert Grape, Silkwood and The Last Picture Show.There's not much in the way of high drama here; there's no suspense; nor is there any mystery. The entire plot plays out in a natural sort of way, as does life for most people. Things just happen; we ponder why; we move on.Visuals look realistic with natural lighting and lots of wide-angle camera shots. Also adding to the sense of realism is detailed production design appropriate to rural Texas. Film direction, casting, and acting are fairly competent.My only real complaints relate to the slow pace and the music. If the pace had been any slower, the story would have stopped; and with the absence of high drama or anything startling in the plot, some viewers will become bored, as I did during a few segments. Also, I was disappointed with the country songs that were sung. None were memorable. As such, the film's tone was less evocative than it could have been.Slow-moving and very low-key, Tender Mercies offers viewers a plausible and deeply thematic story of life in a rural setting with characters that are believable and fairly likable. Too bad they don't make many films like this anymore. "},{"Title":"I don't trust happiness. I never did. I never will.","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. What a cinematic treat to revisit this movie on the big screen some 30 years after its release. Standing in stark contrast to the superhero and graphic novel special effects extravaganzas of today, this little film takes a slow, simmering approach as it deals with real emotions of life.Robert Duvall won his only (so far) Oscar (he's been nominated 6 times) for playing Mac Sledge, a divorced former C&W singer/songwriter who spends each day trying to kill the pain by draining bottles of booze. The similarities to Jeff Bridges' 2009 film Crazy Heart are unmistakable, but this film is much quieter with emotions being relayed through the eyes and body language of the key characters.Mac's gradual path to redemption comes courtesy of war-widow Rosa Lee, played exceedingly well by Tess Harper (her first feature film). Rosa Lee runs a gas station/hotel while raising her young boy named Sonny (Allan Hubbard in his only screen appearance). As the story develops, we meet Mac's ex-wife Dixie, played by a bombastic Betty Buckley (the mom from TV's Eight is Enough, a Tony winner, the helpful teacher in the original Carrie) as she lives a life of luxury and insecurity courtesy of a career singing Mac's songs. Their daughter is played by Ellen Barkin in only her second screen appearance (Diner, 1982). Dixie's manager offers us a chance to see the always superb Wilford Brimley with his drawling charm.The story was written by the remarkable Horton Foote (a native Texan), who also won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. Mr. Foote also won an Oscar for adapting Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird for the screen, was nominated for The Trip to Bountiful, won the Pulitzer Prize in 1955, and was nicknamed the American Chekov. His works always captured the essence of what makes people tick, and how they deal with adversity. He passed away in 2009 at age 92.Australian director Bruce Beresford was coming off the masterful Breaker Morant (nominated for his screenplay) and was surprised to be chosen to direct his first American film. He would later go on to direct Driving Miss Daisy, winner of the Best Picture Oscar. Mr. Beresford is now in his 7th decade of film work spanning his 1959 short film and his TV mini-series Bonnie & Clyde from 2013.This is such a no-frills, down-to-earth presentation that it's easy to be tricked into thinking it's a simple story about simple people. Instead, these are complicated folks leading complicated lives in a seemingly quiet manner. Mostly they are re-assembling the pieces as best they can ... some are better at it than others. The core of these people is captured in Mac's line I don't trust happiness. I never did. I never will. "},{"Title":"It's the women who matter most to this story","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I won't go into describing the plot because so many other people already have, but there's one thing that I don't think anyone else has touched on and I wanted to give my opinion on it.If you look at the two women in Mac Sledge's life, that's where you'll see the point of the whole story.Rosa lost her young husband to a war not long after they got married and could never find out how or even when he died. She speaks matter-of-factly about it now but she spent many years raising a son alone, doing what she could to put food on the table. She owns a run-down gas station/motel in the middle of nowhere and has practically nothing of monetary value, yet she thanks God for His tender mercies toward her.Dixie, on the other hand, is rich and famous. Even tho she too was a single mother she gave her daughter everything money could buy. And when her daughter is killed, Dixie cries, Why has God done this to ME? We can only hope that, as his life with Rosa continues, Mac eventually learns to accept -- and trust -- happiness in small doses. "},{"Title":"Road Most Taken","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Solemnity, purposeless, inert solemnity damns poet Mary Oliver. Tender Mercies shows the complexity behind the stoic stare and the empty country road, shows the warmth and reassurance of a seemingly simpler life. A man has to stare down the ugly parts of his past and prove he doesn't trust happiness at the same time he must have the courage to quietly welcome it back into his life. Surprises abound (and plenty of pleasantly bold ones in the angles of the camera), but sometimes the most surprising turn is the straightest road. The honest road that connects to the audience. Scriptwriters and actors take note - rarely has a movie said more with less than Tender Mercies. "},{"Title":"Duvall in his prime","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Duvall was almost incomparable in his prime, with so many great movies under his belt by this time he made TM. He was as good in this as in any film he ever made before or since, as his broken-down country singer character Mack Sledge elicited all the world weariness and despair of anyone who has ever been on top but is now on the bottom due to drugs, in this case alcohol. His life epiphany and resulting eventual restoration of at least some of his former self could be palpably felt by anyone who has had a life dream shattered and then fought hard to come back. What was so well shown was that all fame is ephemeral and can be gone in a flash, so deeper values must be sought and lived instead.Tess Harper, as his practical and loving wife and Texas motel owner who gave the old ex-country singer/present drunk his last chance at life by first employing him and then marrying him, was truly outstanding. Her last image in the film, one of her tenderly and caringly looking over her shoulder through a rusty screen door at her little boy and his new stepfather is what I consider the definitive Mona Lisa shot of all films ever made. She was that achingly beautiful in it and endlessly touching. Her eyes. Incomparable.Betty Buckley, the great Broadway diva and singer, who played Mack's famous singer ex-wife, was so true and believable in her role as a childlike and spoiled country singer who came up from the very bottom level of society and was consumed by her fame, money and ego, and got her unlucky comeuppance from a family tragedy. What a great voice Betty has! Wilford Brimley played her manager/husband simply but effectively in his solid country way.See this film for the power of its major characters, its tainted view of fame, the terrible personal damage that the drugs of alcohol and ego can do, and for the power of the human spirit to get back up and try again. We really need films of this content and quality in our lives. It will no doubt become a classic film for the ages. It is one of the top 5 films of the decade in my ratings. "},{"Title":"Healing and evocative","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Mack Sledge is a former country music star, now living in a bottle, who rocks up at a Texas Motel, owned by Tess Harper. When he emerges from his cabin two days later, fresh from a drunken stupor, he realises that the friend who came with him has left him there with no money, and with a bill to pay. This is the story of how earning his keep at the Motel gives him the chance to earn some self respect, and to receive acceptance. His relationship with Harper's son, Sonny (Allan J. Hubbard) is an allegory for him being forgiven past mistakes, as it seems that he is the judge of this man's worthiness. Wonderfully evocative of an old country world. Robert Duvall is a revelation as a singer, and Betty Buckley is a vocal powerhouse as Mack's ex-wife. Take the time to relax with this film. "}{"Title":"Very good, but I could understand someone not liking this one....","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies is one of those rare movies I have seen more than once. The first time was back in the early 1980s when it first came out and I must admit it that I didn't particularly like it. I felt it was just way too slow and too low energy. So, almost three decades later, I decided to give it a try once again. After all, I've seen a lot of films since then and my tastes have changed considerably. And, since this is a film that earned Robert Duvall the Oscar for Best Actor, I decided to give it a try once again.So what did I think this time? Well, I certainly liked it a lot more. But, I can STILL understand why it didn't appeal to me when I was 19 and saw it the first time. If you are looking for excitement or much in the way of pacing, then the film would clearly be tough going. But, as I've aged, I much more look for characterizations--and there are many good ones in this one--particularly Robert Duvall. He did a nice job in portraying an alcoholic musician--a guy who must have been the inspiration, at least in part, for Jeff Bridges' starring role in Crazy Heart--a film which, incidentally, featured Duvall in a supporting role! Overall a fascinating but slow film--good for someone willing to cut the film a bit of slack. "},{"Title":"A special film, a great Duvall performance","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" A gentle quiet film, wonderfully written by Horton Foote, and featuring a magnificent performance by Robert Duvall as an alcoholic ex-country singer star, who rediscovers himself by finding a family. Ordinarily this kind of upbeat view could be treacly, or seem like a Hollywood simplification. But here it's simultaneously rich and sparse, and even in a world where life is ultimately good, there are still tragedies big and small, broken hearts and terrible losses. This is that rare 'feel good' film that earns the right. The supporting work by Tess Harper and Betty Buckley is worth mentioning as well, as is Bruce Beresford's understated but always effective and evocative direction.But ultimately it's Foote's screenplay, set in a world where predictability and cliché are the usual, that manages to pull off the almost impossible and create something unique, tender, and new. "},{"Title":"I don't trust happiness.","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" As the story opens, washed-up country singer Mac (Robert Duvall) is dead drunk in a shabby Texas motel room. With no money to pay the bill, he starts working for the widow (Tess Harper) who runs the place. Once he stops drinking, he starts liking life again and becomes close to the woman and her young son. Not one to talk about himself or the past, she doesn't know that he was once a big star.This is a wonderful, beautiful story. Duvall excels at playing honest, straightforward characters that are completely lacking in artifice and is convincing as the silent, pained has-been. His compelling performance won the Oscar in 1984. This was Tess Harper's first movie but she acts like a pro; she effortlessly portrays the simple, hardworking woman who is grateful for the tender mercies, or blessings, in her life. The two stars make you feel like you've really been to rural Texas and gotten to know and care about the folks there. The movie is quite similar in mood to The Last Picture Show, with characters that say what they mean and know who they are.This is a quiet, touching, and utterly engaging movie about interesting people. Heartily recommended. "},{"Title":"A Tender Film!","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Duvall was awarded an Oscar for his performance in this quiet film about a down and out country music singer who rebuilds his life in the Texas flatlands. Mac Sledge was a songwriter and singer but alcoholism and the success nearly destroyed him. Suddenly, he wakes up and changes his life at a gas station and motel in the middle of Texas highways. He falls in love with the young Vietnam widow, Rosa Lee, who lost her first husband in Vietnam and is a single mother to Sonny. Mac slowly gets off the sauce as they say. Rosa Lee doesn't know much about his past. They have a quiet relationship. They work the business and live quietly. When Mac's past comes back, he admits it to her. He has a bitter ex-wife Dixie Scott (played well by Betty Buckley) and an 18 year old daughter, Sue Ann Sledge (played by a young Ellen Barkin). Wilford Brimley plays Harry as Dixie's manager. Mac fights to keep his new life from being destroyed by his past. I would have given a 10 but I wasn't happy with what happened to Sue Ann in the film. "},{"Title":"I was afraid because I wasn't in love","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" There's an scene in Tender Mercies that captures a small hotel, home, and gas station isolated in a desolate field. This image brings to light the underlying melancholy sense that carries along beneath the surface of the film. Bruce Beresford, who directed another of my favorite films, Driving Miss Daisy, brings together just the sort of humanity that comes to the surface if only you'll let it. There are two great actors that I've been familiar with for most of my life at the center of this story. Robert Duvall and Tess Harper feel and act like real human beings. Imperfect, but not in a movie script way.The down-and-out country music star plot line has been done several times before and since. Most recently, in Crazy Heart (which also features Duvall, in a small role). But this is usually on a large scale, and music the larger focus. In other films, the singer goes from rags to riches (and often repeats the cycle a second time). In Tender Mercies, the character of Mac Sledge has had a moderate level of success, some radio play, but will never play stadiums. He is merely seeking some minor return to form, to recapture what he loved doing. This provides some relief for those who, like myself, are not really country music fans. You don't get anything too far from the basic honesty of a man and his guitar. This isn't, after all, a glorified music video vehicle for an established country star - it's a quiet film about real people.The look and feel of Tender Mercies falls in close to what the title promises. Love, anger, joy, peace, even hate are represented in the understated way that a certain kind of people not commonly depicted on film express themselves. There's a humanity here in Horton Foote's writing. It's the exact kind of words that sound so natural from the mouths of the right actors. And this film has all the right ones. Wilford Brimley, one of my favorite character actors (also excellent in Country and The Stone Boy) shows up briefly, as well as many others you might recognize from similar midwest dramas. Tender Mercies is such a pure experience. "},{"Title":"Must See!","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" 'Tender Mercies' is a Must See film for various reasons. The Screenplay by Horton Foote is beautiful, which won and had to win an Oscar. Bobby Duvall's Oscar-Winning performance as a washed-up singer, is flawless, and Bruce Beresford directs this story with great patience.'Tender Mercies' tells the story of Mac Sledge, played by Duvall, a recovering alcoholic country music singer, who seeks to turn his life around through his relationship with a young widow and her son in rural Texas.Horton Foote's Screenplay is beautiful, as said before. At times, he gives his characters so much. And, at times, takes everything away from them. This journey of Happiness, Redemption, Sadness & Responsibility, comes up wonderfully. Bruce Beresford understands this story, and handles it with patience. Cinematography is perfect. Editing is good.Acting-Wise Duvall, won an Oscar for Best Actor, for his flawless performance in here. Duvall lives his part so well, that you become in awe of him. Tess Harper is very good. Betty Buckley is perfect. Others lend good support.On the whole, Don't miss this Human Story. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Wonderful film, thanks to Horton Foote and Robert Duvall.","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is the kind of film you leave with a new appreciation for life. The story focuses on Mac Sledge, a retired Country singer who had lost faith in everything- life, love, success, and hope. He moves to a motel in plans of drinking himself to death. Just then, perhaps of unbearable loneliness and his destructive state, he befriends with the motel's manager, and she agrees to let him stay and help her run her gas station.Slowly but gradually, Sledge begins to fall in love with her, and his appreciation of the tender mercies in life is sparked. The quite lifestyle he now conducts makes him give up his major bad habit- the drinking.Horton Foote, the screenwriter, does brilliant work in weaving Sledges experiences and inner thoughts into an inspiring story. Using no cheap Hollywood manipulations, he subtly constructs a sincere and deeply moving portrayal of a man who wouldn't easily give up on his past demons- only to find out life had different plans for him. We slowly get to know Sledge, one piece at a time, and by the end of the film we identify with the character to such a level, that we wish we could feel the empowering impact of life, just as he did.Robert Duvall is fantastic in his honest portrayal, mastering the smallest of nuances and brilliantly conveying Sledge's inner feelings and dilemmas.This is a movie for the patient watcher. Especially in this modern era where the watcher's eye can't focus on an image if it's still for more than five seconds. I assure you, however, that as this film unfolds, you will find yourself having a similar fulfilling journey just like the one the main character goes through. And how many modern films are able to grant you the same experience? "},{"Title":"Horton Foote's Faulknerian masterpiece","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Deeply moving slice-of-Southern-life. Screenwriter Horton Foote tried to capture the mood and feeling of William Faulkner a decade earlier with his Tomorrow, but I thought it failed. This isn't an adaptation of any Faulkner work, but it feels almost like it could be (he'd actually succeed with the TV movie Old Man in the 90s). Robert Duvall stars (and won as Oscar) as Mac Sledge, whom we meet as a pathetic drunken wreck. He's quietly cured of that disease by a young widow he meets at a motel (Tess Harper), whom he falls for and marries. As the film continues in this low-key vain, we learn that he was once a famous country singer, married to a woman who is now a big star (Betty Buckley), with whom he has an 18 year-old daughter he hasn't seen in a decade (Ellen Barkin). There's nothing too surprising plot-wise, but it's not the plot that really matters here, but the deeply felt emotions. Heck, Duvall even starts a rise to fame again, but Foote is smart enough not to play that out to its logical conclusion. That's not what's important. Duvall is an actor who is pretty much always perfect, so this performance is his best mostly because of Foote's brilliant screenplay (which also won an Oscar). That third act speech that Duvall gives in the garden, that ends with the famous line I don't trust happiness. I never did, I never will, is one of the most beautiful summation of human existence I've heard. It not only reminds me of William Faulkner, but also of Ingmar Bergman. "},{"Title":"Quietly profound...","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Horton Foote won an Oscar for his original screenplay about a drunken ex-country singer/songwriter finding personal strength and redemption after marrying a young widow who runs a hotel and gas station with her little boy. The spare Texas landscapes, busy roads and bars, are vividly captured by director Bruce Beresford, who is aided greatly by a keen art direction from Jeannine Oppewall and solid performances by his cast. Robert Duvall received the Best Actor Oscar for what is arguably his greatest screen performance (he also did his own singing); using his expressive eyes and body language to wonderful effect, Duvall conveys the self-consciousness and shyness of this complicated man, the demons he's now able to shuck off and the betrayals of life he blames on himself. As his new wife, Tess Harper has never been better, and young Allan Hubbard is inquisitive without being the slightest bit precocious. Betty Buckley's role as Duvall's rich and famous ex-wife doesn't really work (her scenes are presented in shorthand, as are the film's opening moments). Ellen Barkin seems a bit mature cast as Duvall's estranged teenage daughter, however the beautiful work by Duvall and Harper anchors the film is an emotional reality which stays with you. Nice music direction and songs as well, adding to the challenging simplicity of the story, which runs deeper than might be expected. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A Work Of Art","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Horton Foote has written a fine story with rich character sketches Mac Sledge a divorced, drinker, country song writer who rebuilds his life. Good script, great acting. EVERYONE turns in a great performance in this film. You don't see any acting. Even the boy becomes his character on screen. Very real, human story; very American. Even the editing, the pace of this film is seamless. If you haven't seen this film and you are a movie buff or have an interest in acting, you MUST see it. If you enjoy Americana this is your film. Duvall has got to be a really nice guy because he never minds sharing the stage with other actors. Tess Harper is so real in her part- just such a good actress- actually becoming this character, that she is seldom recognized as the great actress that she is. When Betty Buckley is on the screen, she dominates it (which is exactly what you'd expect her character to do)! When this film was made Ellen Barkin was 29 years old, but she is spot on as the 18 year old daughter of Duvall's character. Bruce Beresford (the director) must be a genius. "}{"Title":"Satisfying slice of life's realistic problems, dilemmas","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies (1983, color, 92 minutes) is one of Roger Ebert's Great Films. It won Oscars for leading male actor (Duvall) and screenplay (Foote). It had several other Oscar nominations and film awards.Horton Foote, who'd previously won an Oscar for To Kill a Mockingbird, wrote this screenplay specifically for Robert Duvall. IMDb.com's bio of Foote said his ....success can be attributed to his honest examination of the human condition, and why some people survive tragedies while others are destroyed. His central themes of the sense of belonging and longing for home have resonated with audiences for 60 years. And Tender Mercies IS such a movie. It's definitely not an action film; it's character studies of Duvall and those close to him.Duvall plays the role of Mac Sledge -- a former C&W star, now middle aged, broke, alcoholic. He wakes up one morning in a marginal small motel on the empty Texas plains run by a young widow, Rosa Lee (Tess Harper) with a pre-teen son. Mac has no money to pay for his lodging so he offers to work it off; she accepts on the condition he not drink.Mac has problems with his anger which alcohol sometimes pacified, sometimes enflamed. It led to the divorce from his previous wife, Dixie (Betty Buckley), still a famous C&W star and her prohibiting Mac from having any contact with their daughter (Ellen Barkin).TM deals with themes of broken parent-child relations (the widow's son and his deceased father; Mac and his daughter), longing for their restoration, and the building of others. And the gradual development over time and trials of the five central characters.It's a quiet, perceptive movie in which tensions are generated by Mac's desire to see his daughter, his anger, his battle to stay sober, questions about his handling his previous fame and will he sing again.After several months of working for/with the widow, while they're both weeding the garden, Mac says, (IIRC) 'I guess there's no secret how I feel about you. Would you consider marryin' me?' and she says,'I reckon I would.' Usual scenes of their wedding and nuptial bed aren't in this movie -- Foote's got more important issues to present and the story deals with those.IMO, the casting was perfect--not a single one would be better if replaced by someone else. While a few published reviewers have said Tess Harper's role was weak, I disagree. I thought she was perfect as a young widow, trying to hang on -- insecure and inexperienced in dealing with all that life had dealt her -- and trying to use her faith to sustain her.Psychologically, everything fit actual life -- no false, implausible notes, and it even includes the realistic, seldom presented way that problems can cascade through the generations despite efforts to prevent that happening.While some disappointments, tragedies, minor triumphs are experienced, by the movie's end, one is uplifted. A perfect movie. "},{"Title":"A unique movie","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is unique in that it doesn't show the process of Mac excavating himself from his tough former destructive life. Before I saw it I though that's what it was going to be about. And it is, but it keeps it off screen to such a great degree that it defines the film by that cloaking device. It's interesting.What this accomplishes is it smooths it out for us to enjoy on the first viewing, and I appreciated that. No screams, etc. We can kind of get into the story rather easily. The musical theme helps do that. Fame consumed Mac the first time around, and now he is careful. An honest film, but I feel it might loose something by not exploring the process more by which Mac gets better. Or maybe it gains something. I guess that's what the love a good woman can do but that's not too clear. I liked it. A good film. "},{"Title":"My favorite film with Robert Duvall","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Mac Sledge (Duvall) starts the film in a drunken stupor at least partially caused by his divorce from his country star wife, Dixie. Mac used to be a star and helped Dixie become a big star singing his songs. Now because of his drunken conduct, Dixie will not even let him see his daughter, Sue Ann, who is just about ready to go out on her own.He ends up in a small motel/gas station in rural Texas, hung over and out of money. Rosa Lee, (a young Tess Harper) as a young Christian widow with an 8 year-old son, lets him do odd jobs to pay off his debt and then agrees to have him stay on to help out around the motel.They fall in love and marry as he gradually leaves the bottle and regains interest in his music.This really is a story of redemption and the love and support that a fallen person needs to get back on his feet. It is very sincere and real.It is especially interesting to see the ever surprising Robert Duvall sing the songs and dance to the country music as if he really were a country music star.Of course at that time most people remembered his role as the lawyer in the Godfather films but he has since shown that he can play a retired Cuban barber and an assassin who loves Tango. "},{"Title":"a beautiful exploration of pain and fragmented relationships that may find healing in tender mercies","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Normally, I take a dislike to most modern films which are predicated on star power and predictable themes. In Tender Mercies we find that people with broken lives may find some restoration to happiness after a road of many disappointments. For those whose foundation was built on such shallow things as celebrity and fortune as in the case of Dixie, the pain of life's realities may lead to despair, for when she faced her greatest crisis everything upon which she had predicated her life collapsed all around her.There were disappointments for all the others in the film, most of all the apparently worn out wasted life of Mac Sledge. Yet in the simple things beginning with a rediscovery of love and family there are triumphs in the simple things of life. The sorrows of life are often caused by the past we cannot escape nevertheless it can be transformed not into necessarily some storybook ending. In our discovery of what we have deep inside we can leave the morass of guilt and failure there can be transformation in the little things. This healing may be viewed as the tender mercies we experience and that give us strength to go on. "},{"Title":"Outstanding, but not unusual for Duvall","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I don't know that it necessarily makes it the best movie ever, but this film is absolutely perfect it has a realistic, heartwarming story line; the three leads (led by on of the great actors of out time) are likable and genuine; all of the supporting characters are likewise; and the performers are also the same. Many of our great actresses are versatile, yet Jack Nicholson, Tom Cruise, Meryl Streep, et al, while they have played many greatly diverse roles, still seem to project some of the same persona somewhere within all their movies. Robert Duvall, however, seems to be the character he is portraying - whether a strong, though not likable, one, as in The Great Santini or Apocolypse Now - or the engaging, sympathetic, realistic, likable Mac in this story. A bonus for us who, though we like country music, have grown-up and lived in a more urban setting - is the interesting depiction of the slower, rural lifestyle presented here. "},{"Title":"Simple yet powerful","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Movies these days are promoted by big budget, stars powered or controversial publicity.  Nothing like a simple movie such as Tender Mercies - a small budget but meaningful film without all the hypes.  The plot was ordinary and background easy to understand.  No blood or gore, no unnecessary overacting or forced humor.  It is just an uncomplicated, straightforward movie that delivered no sermon but touched the hearts of the viewers.  Sure, there were some song and dance but they were all tastefully done enhanced the movie's simple image.  It only won a few Oscars but I doubt that it was made with Oscar in mind.  It's a film you can watch with friends and loved ones and walk away in awe. Or, you can watch it alone and feel the tenderness of the film warming your heart. "},{"Title":"Quiet, fine movie","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Tender Mercies is a tightly focused drama about a man struggling to find stability. The movie has an understated honesty and realism that makes it all the more eloquent. Robert Duvall is at his best here. This is a much better, more accurate depiction of small town life in Texas than most of the Hollywood nonsense out there. "},{"Title":"Just a comment about Betty Buckley - to add to the list","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  First, let me say that I agree with all the positive comments about the movie.  Let me add, that Betty Buckley is solid dead-on perfect as the wife. As a star she sees everything in terms of herself - even when her daughter dies. The director wisely makes nothing more of it, just lets it happen. And of course her singing 'Over You' is as good as any screen singing ever gets. "},{"Title":"Excellent in every way","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  From the cinematography, to the excellent screenplay and direction, and especially to the outstanding cast, Tender Mercies is a must see film.Robert Duvall's career has really run the gamut in the last few years. He may be best known for The Godfather movies. But movies like this and The Apostle are where he truly shines. Mr. Duvall more than earned the Oscar he won for playing Mac Sledge, and was robbed for The Apostle.Back to Tender Mercies. The supporting cast was first rate. This was also Tess Harper's first major role. She is definitely one of the most underrated actresses in Hollywood. She and Mr. Duvall are wonderful together in the film, and Ms. Harper shows strength, charisma and vulnerabilty with such deftness and poise it's hard to believe this was her first screen role. Ms. Harper also went on to play Fairlight Spencer in the Christy television series and was awesome there, too. For whatever reason, she hasn't seemed to achieve stardom for her great acting abilities. (The same goes for Marilyn Hassett of The Other Side of the Mountain movies.)Watch this movie. It's wonderful! If you saw The Apostle, you won't want to miss Tender Mercies! "},{"Title":"Comfortable like a great pair of leather boots !","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I love everything about this movie ! The setting is dusty and quiet and you hear everything; from boots on the porch to Duvall's surprisingly good country singing voice. Tender Mercies is a testament to what good movie writing should be; uplifting, while not taking the edges off what happens to all of us in everyday life. Ellen Barkin has NEVER been better and when Duvall sings On the Wings of a Snow White Dove to her I promise you it will yank your heart out. Great casting, good music and one of the best actors of all time, Robert Duvall, make Tender Mercies an all time great.   "}{"Title":"Enduring","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  According to my DH (darling husband if you're not a yank)  this is the ultimate in synthesizing the emotional and existential in life.  I hasten to add we have been married for seven years and he's never got it from the video store for me to vet.  However, it is definitely his favourite movie. let's see. "},{"Title":"An old-fashioned country music singer finds redemption","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A once-great but out-of-style country music singer, ruined by drink, finds redemption through the love and support of a new wife, her son by a long-dead Vietnam casualty, and a local band which never forgot his greatness.  Along the way, he encounters his ex-wife, whom he lost due to alcohol, and the daughter he didn't get to see grow up.   "},{"Title":"Drunken singer sobers up and gets religion","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Good show with fine performances by all. Filmed just south of Dallas, the countryside was perfect for the texture of this film which deals with a man seeking a new life in the bedrock of fundamental Christianity. "},{"Title":"I saw the film and felt compelled to comment","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  An rare representation of the artistic soul of America, in the world dominated by U.S. made misrepresentation of humanity, as Bergman represents Sweden, Tarkovsky Russia, Jean Eustache (for me) France. Hence still as poignant as it was almost twenty years ago.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Robert Duvall is, arguably, one of the four or five greatest film actors of our time. This film, which could have been written specifically for him, is absolutely brilliant in its simplicity, trueness to life and in its character development. One of our better---and much too infrequently used---actresses, Tess Harper, is a perfect counterpart to Duvall. The rest of the cast, the direction, etc. Are equally brilliant. A TEN!! "},{"Title":"A former successful country singer finds love and gets his career back.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This sentimental drama will touch that soft spot in your heart. A former well known country singer(Robert Duvall)is down on his luck after a nasty divorce and his ex(Betty Buckley) is now the still rising country star. The singer meets a young widowed mother(Tess Harper) and falls in love. A young band is trying to get recorded and need the veteran singer to provide a couple of songs and sing vocals. The former alcoholic is now redeemed and ready to resume his musical career.Duvall wrote as well as performed the songs in his Oscar-winning role. Supporting cast includes Wilford Brimley, Ellen Barkin and Allan Hubbard. "},{"Title":"Beautifully paced, well acted human story.","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The way this film was made, it's pace and the quality of the acting and direction made this a real treat. Duvall and the rest of the cast were excellent fleshing out this slight human story of acceptance and eventual redemption.  "},{"Title":"Duvall's Performance Steals the Show","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Tender Mercies (1983)*** (out of 4) Robert Duvall picked up the Best Actor Oscar for his performance as Mac Sledge, a country music singer who finds himself broke due to alcohol. He ends up working at a small Texas gas station owned by a widow (Tess Harper) and her young son. Soon Max and the woman are married and he tries to get his life back in order and that includes trying to start a relationship with his own daughter (Ellen Barkin) who he had left years earlier. It's well known that this films original studio (Universal) were pretty much dead-set against this film and didn't bother to promote it, try to push it in theaters or anything else because they felt the film was a lost cause. I guess you could understand that because the movie is about as low-key as they come so I'm sure many people in 1983 would have been turned off by it but at the same time it's rather shocking that the studio didn't see how great Duvall was in it. The picture eventually got some Oscar nominations and became better known but I guess we should be thankful that the studio didn't completely give up on it. The main reason to see the movie is due to the performances with Duvall easily leading the way. Like Spencer Tracy before him, Duvall never gets the credit he deserves because I think he makes acting seem so easy. It rather amazing to watch someone like Duvall because of how easy they make acting seem and because of how terrific he is acting without words. There's a lot of range going on here but just watch the way Duvall doesn't use words to explain how he's feeling but instead he simply uses his eyes. The supporting cast is also very impressive with Harper standing terrific against Duvall as she too is very quiet in the film but we also know what she's feeling. The young Barkin doesn't have too many scenes here but she's impressive when on screen. Betty Buckley is wonderful as Duvall's ex-wife and Wilford Brimley is good as usual. The film's strong performances are certainly the main reason to check it out but I do think the film falls well short of being a great movie. I think the low-key nature works to a point but in the end there are a couple major turns in the story that I felt should have more of an impact but they didn't. I think the emotional range isn't quite there and at times it seems as if the movie is just too simple for its own good. I'm going to guess that the simple nature of country music is what they were trying to give us but I think it's just a tad bit too laid back. With that said, it's easy to see why Duvall won all the acclaim he did as he's certainly one of the greatest actors of all time and this is a perfect example for anyone needing to see proof of that. "}]