[{"Title":"A treat for fans of Naval History","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"92 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Being a fan of British naval history, and also a fan of Anthony Hopkins, I love this film. I think it is severely under-rated. The acting (particularly by Hopkins) is superb, and the cinematography and realism are stunning.Unlike some of the previous comments for this film I think it is pretty loyal to the true historical facts of the real mutiny. Alright, there are a few minor changes to fact, but nothing that radically alters the story. Basically Bligh was a very able and fair captain, who was let down by incompetent officers. Bligh was no more a monster than any other Royal Navy captains, the difference was other Royal Navy Captains had able commissioned officers and a squad of marines to back up their authority. Bligh was on his own, because the admiralty insisted on saving money on the bread-fruit expedition by giving Bligh a small ship and no officers. (All the officers on board were non-commissioned warrant officers, who were not employed by the Royal Navy but were in it for their own advancement, Blight was the only Royal Navy officer). This is what ultimately led to the mutiny. Bligh had no one he could rely on to back up his orders from the Admiralty. Bligh was actually an exponent of modern thinking, and treated his men with much more humanity than other Royal Navy Captains. He had learnt his trade from sailing under Captain Cook.I think Hopkins manages to capture this in his performance. Bligh was a professional man, who grew increasingly frustrated by the incompetence and laziness of his officers. Hopkins manages to convey this sense of increasing irritation brilliantly. He felt particularly let down by Fletcher Christian, who was his friend and whom he had personally advanced up the ranks. He expected Fletcher to back up his orders, but Fletcher was more interested in his own pleasure with the Tahitian women.On the journey out the crew were actually very happy and contented, but the trouble began when the crew began to experience the liberties and freedoms of Tahitian life, and they did not want to leave it. Bligh had to force the men to go back to their duty, and instead of having officers to back him up, the officers took the side of the men.I think the script of this film captures the true story quite well. I saw the Clark Gable version of the story many years ago, and the only thing I remember is the portrayal of Bligh as an irrational monster, with none of the reasons behind his anger explained. In this version I feel Hopkins is more like the real Bligh. An able commander trying to carry out his orders, but let down by those around him.The confrontation between Bligh and Christian in the captain's cabin the day before the mutiny is one of my favourite movie scenes of all time. Hopkins performance of the captain at the end of his patience is just outstanding. `Oh there are rumblings are there?'. Superb! The only down side to this film is Mel Gibson. I can't stand the sight of him! Mind you, even he manages to pull of a good performance.The film ends quite abruptly, with a lot of loose ends. The most fascinating parts of the true story come after the end of the film. I guess the time constraints of the film mean they had to concentrate on just the story of the mutiny.The mutineers set up a colony on Pitcairn, and ended up all murdering each other until only one survived (Jack Adams). Those that stayed on Tahiti were captured two years later by HMS Pandora which had been dispatched after Bligh got back to England. This ship rounded up about 16 mutineers, and on the way home the Pandora hit a reef off Australia and sunk. The crew had to make an open boat journey to Coupang, the same port that Bligh's life boat had arrived at two years earlier!! Meanwhile Bligh was promoted and sent off on another Breadfruit exhibition to Tahiti, this time the Admiralty gave him commissioned officers and a squad of marines. This mission succeeded.When the Breadfruit plants finally reached the slave colonies in the West Indies, the slaves refused to eat the fruit as they disliked the taste. That's irony for you!  "},{"Title":"Complex retelling of classic sea fable; Hopkins receates memorable role with superiority.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"50 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I will admit, I thought I'd seen it all when I first saw Charles Laughton bring the snivelling and maniacal Captain Bligh to life. I was dead wrong. Anthony Hopkins, whom I place on the highest rank of accomplished actors, recreates the memorable role with incredible flair and complexity. He shows us not just an insane seaman bent on ultimate subordination, but a man with real concern for maintaining order, knowing the consequences of anything less. The Bounty, yet another retelling of the classic tale, is actually an amazing recreation of the sea fable, pumped with real emotion and drama. The writers really understand the characters in this story, especially in Bligh's case, but also in Fletcher Christian's as well. Mel Gibson reigns over the role this time, still fresh from his Australian beginnings, and undoubtedly one of the best at perfecting the challenged and affected hero. I proudly rave this version of the famous mutiny, and probably will place this among 1984's best films. Rating Three stars and a half. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances from a great cast","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film many time over the years and i never get bored of watching Sir Anthony Hopkins give a riveting performance in this classic story of life aboard The Bounty and the events that lead to mutiny. Mel Gibson plays Fletcher Christian who must watch helplessly as his captain(Hopkins) demoralizes his men and drives them ever closer to the brink of mutiny. The tension builds throughout the film and in no small part to the excellent score. The disgruntled crew has many recognisable faces including Liam Neeson and Bernard Hill which makes the film all the more enjoyable. Daniel Day Lewis is particularly watchable as mr. frier, showing us a rather smug and sometimes fiery officer. The film is shot beautifully and the story is compelling. Even the script holds up in a film where the best performances come from the actors with the least to say. "},{"Title":"What a Cast!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"43 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson, Anthony Hopkins, Daniel Day-Lewis, Laurence Olivier, Liam Neeson, Bernard Hill....and the list goes on as you can see. Where are these people now?  All making big hit movies.  You can't help but love this movie.  Every time I see it, I want to see it again.  I know of no other movie that has had an impact like THAT on me before.  Every actor in the movie was great.  Also, notice that the mass of extras REALLY act like the real thing.  That is rare, and hard to do.  I was an extra in Sudden Death (Van Damme), and you can't help but look into the camera or do weird things.  It's fun. Try an find some of the continuity errors in this movie.  They're hard to find, VERY.  I only found a few after seeing the movie 10-15 times.  It's almost flawless. The scenery was breathtaking.  I only regret not seeing the movie on the big screen. I gave this movie 10+ points.  There is nothing like it (obviously, my opinion). I thought it was one of Neeson's greatest roles, especially the beginning where Quintal is in his seat.  That scene was shot beautifully. Gibson's girlfriend is quite gorgeous.  It's no wonder why he did what he did (now I'm getting to the movie again)... Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Film Succeeds In One Way The Past Bounty Films Do Not","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Bounty in all rights may not be a great movie. From time to time it drags on but what sets it apart from its predecessors is that its portrayal of Bligh has much more depth. The Bounty does not simply show men as good and evil but as more complex figures.Bligh is played here by Anthony Hopkins and is done so wonderfully. In the movie he is being court-marshaled for the events that took place aboard ship. Unlike the past films here his actions seem to have more logical motivations rather than him being Captain Hitler. Yet for all the depth Hopkins puts in his performance Mel Gibson comes up short in that he is just there. He is supposed to take on the role of a leader but instead fades into the background time after time.I like the way the movie was directed taking the flashback approach from the view of Hopkins. It gave the movie some sort of originality which is very hard to do with remakes. This film though was strictly carried by the performance of Anthony Hopkins and his complex portrayal of Captain Bligh. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" it's strange how Hollywood is responsible for so much bad history being foisted upon the common knowledge of humanity . The Battle Of Little Big Horn is perceived to have been a glorious defeat for the 7th Calvary and where George A Custer was the last soldier to die . The defeat of that unit was anything but glorious for the regiment who put up a very poor fight while there's no evidence that Custer died as the last man standing . Modern perception of historical events is full of factual mistakes that can be laid firmly at the door of Hollywood The mutiny on The Bounty is another example of Hollywood revisionist history . Since so many people have seen some tyrant being cruel to the noble Errol Flynn , Clark Gable or Marlon Brando it enters their mind that it must be somehow true . What I loved about this version is that it's very much accurate where the known facts are concerned . Captain Bligh might have been an authoritarian but there's no way he could in the context of the time be described as a cruel tyrant . On British naval ships at the time the Captain's word was the word of god but unlike the British army at the time where more often than not officers bought their rank the Royal Navy was a meritocracy where Captain's started at the very bottom of the ladder and worked their way up , bumbling fools didn't get very far in this service . It's also interesting to note that Bligh had a trio of deserters flogged rather than hanged , an act of compassion that contributes to his downfall . The film doesn't go into great detail about the fate of the mutineers but it insinuates that they eventually ended up murdering one another on Pitcairn leaving just one survivor . Like thieves there's no honour amongst mutineers which history like this film should judge as being in the wrong THE BOUNTY is a beautiful film experience . I watched it on a widescreen TV via DVD and if David Lean had directed this he could not have done a better job than Roger Donaldson has . You can almost feel the sunlight touch you thanks to Arthur Ibbetsen's cinematography and it's impossible not to mention the then mainly unknown cast . With the exception of Olivier , Fox and Gibson probably the most well known actor to a 1984 audience would be Bernard Hill who had won a BAFTA the previous year for BOYS FROM THE BLACKSTUFF , it's amazing to think at this time very few people had heard of Liam Neeson or Daniel Day Lewis . Some people might have heard of Anthony Hopkins but only if they'd seen MAGIC and A BRIDGE TOO FAR and had a very good memory for faces . Hopkins gives a great and sympathetic performance , one of the best of his career in fact There's not too much to criticise about THE BOUNTY . I did feel that Vangelis electronic soundtrack didn't really go with the visuals , and the interior of the ship seemed just a little too clean to be convincing while I would have liked to have seen the journey of the marooned Bligh and his loyalists ( A journey so amazing that if a fiction writer wrote it no one would have believed it ) in a little more detail but these are very minor criticisms and this is a very good historical adventure film "},{"Title":"The Darker Version","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No cast can beat the one in the Bounty.  Just look at the list, Anthony Hopkins, Mel Gibson, Bernard Hill, Daniel Day Lewis, Liam Neeson, Laurence Oliver and even a young Neil Morrissey who puts in a good performance.  I have seen three versions of The Bounty, the one with Clark Gable, the one with Brando and this and this version directed by Roger Donaldson is by far my favourite because it is so much more darker than the others.   For one we have Anthony Hopkins as a caring but ruthless Captain Bligh who is hell bent on his ship sailing around Cape Town or something like that and the shipmen believe that doing it once was bad enough but doing it twice is suicide and that is where the film really kicks off but there are moments of tension between Bligh and Fletcher played by Mel Gibson and that's what makes this film all the more special than its predecessors.   If this film was made today with the same cast then it would not have had the same effect because it would have tried to win over it's audience with it's cast but the likes of Day Lewis, Liam Neeson and Mel Gibson were still unknowns in most countries and it was like an older version of the rat pack as they were the fresh faces coming up in the movies in 80's Hollywood especially for Gibson who just made action in the 80's apart from The Bounty and Gallipoli.   What makes this movie all the more better was it's haunting soundtrack by Vangelis.   Every scene in the film which contains a piece from the soundtrack is just spine tingling and the scene where Fletcher takes over the ship and the men are gathering together to mutiny is just fantastic.  It's not the best film ever but it feels like it when you watch it but then you take it in and you think of some of the scenes they could have included.  A few more scenes between Bligh and Fletcher wouldn't have gone a miss and a bit more on Laurence Oliver's character but what we did see of him was more than enough and I shouldn't complain. "},{"Title":"H.M.S. Bounty, A Troubled Ship","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The latest retelling of this tale shifts a lot of the blame about the voyage over to Fletcher Christian and the fact that he and a lot of the crew had simply gone native. One of the great villainous portrayals on the screen is Charles Laughton's Captain Bligh from the stirring 1935 film. Laughton is pretty unforgettable with that jutting lower lip and that bellowing voice at the crew. Anthony Hopkins has given us a kinder, gentler view of Bligh which may be far closer to the facts.Bligh certainly was a stern taskmaster as a captain of a naval vessel. In fact he served with distinction in several naval battles during the Napoleonic wars. What he unfortunately had was a sarcastic tongue, something not really needed for what in fact was a peaceful voyage to obtain breadfruit plants.Scurvy which is caused by a Vitamin C deficiency ran rampant on the ocean going ships of the time, none more so than in British ships because they had the most of them. This was a pretty important voyage, to bring back Tahitian breadfruit to see if it could be cultivated in the climate of the United Kingdom. Maybe the mistake was in not sending a civilian ship to do the job, who knows.Anyway Bligh punished men who got out of line, no more so than what was normal. The problem arose when after months at sea, his crew got just too used to frolicking among the female population of Tahiti. That would also unfortunately include Bligh's second mate Fletcher Christian, played in this version by Mel Gibson.It wasn't Bligh's fault they lingered in Tahiti, the plants had to be mature enough to stand the voyage to Great Britain. Nevertheless the lack of discipline there, contrasted with what was expected of British seaman on a naval vessel, a return to that life was what led to the mutiny. Certainly Fletcher Christian by all accounts was a charismatic guy, he would have to have been to get the men to mutiny. He was portrayed by four charismatic actors, Errol Flynn, Clark Gable, Marlon Brando, and now Mel Gibson. Only his intervention prevented the men from killing Bligh and a few others.What I like most about this version is the fact that it does give due attention to Bligh's remarkable voyage in a long boat to Timor which was some 1500 miles from where he and the loyalists were cast adrift. It was a remarkable piece of seamanship, no mutinies during that voyage. The luckless Captain Bligh also had the misfortune to be the Governor of New South Wales, appointed by the Crown, and was overthrown there in a power struggle with the merchants of the colony. That didn't help his historical reputation a bit.Among the crew of the Bounty you will find Daniel Day-Lewis as John Fryer who Bligh replaced mid voyage with Fletcher Christian and Liam Neeson as one of the mutineers. Laurence Olivier plays Admiral Hood who led the court of inquiry that cleared Bligh of blame for the mutiny.Still Hopkins and Gibson dominate the film with their skills and talents. Who knows who might bring the saga of this troubled ship next to the screen. This story has fascinated us for generations. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully atmospheric retelling of an old classic with a haunting soundtrack.","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A wonderfully atmospheric retelling of an old classic with a terrific cast and a haunting soundtrack supplied by Vangelis. If you like costume dramas with weight then you will love this film as it has all the swash without the buckle! Anthony Hopkins gives his usual powerful performance as the baddie-turned-victim and by the end of the film I am sure that like me you will want to see him vindicated. Mel Gibson struggles somewhat in the shadow of Hopkins but gives his all as Fletcher Christian. The atmosphere of the tropical island paradise is brilliantly captured and the scene showing the demise of the ship is, like the music, very haunting. There's no going back now Fletch!! Look out for John Sessions in a cameo role.  "},{"Title":"mr. friar sir, come back ere!!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  i personnally rate this to be a vastly undervalued remake which has been unfairly dismissed by the critics and public alike. beautifully filmed, superbly acted and finely scripted by the late, great screenwriter robert bolt as well as boasting a superb soundtrack by vangelis. true, mel's accent is pretty naff but that's about the only minor fault to be found in this lush portrayal of jealousy, derring do and high adventure on the high seas (forget 'master and commander'). "}{"Title":"The best history of the mutiny so far","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm only giving this film 8 stars, because as good as it is the Bounty still leaves some undeserved blots on the reputation of a great and courageous man. A bit more truth and this film would get a TEN from me.There have been many film treatments of this amazing story, but only The Bounty gets it even halfway right. The 1935 Lawton/Gable Mutiny on the Bounty is 49% balderdash and 51% falsehood. The Trevor Howard/Marlon Bando stinker is even less factual. The Bounty, however is pretty good history in many places, especially Bligh's court-martial and the actual mutiny sequence, which is almost word-for-word what Bligh recorded in his own writings on the matter. The ship itself is correctly represented, right down to the figurehead &#150; a woman in a blue riding habit, which makes no sense until one realizes that HMAV Bounty was originally a merchant ship called the Bethia.The movie does take liberties with history. Some characters are composites and some important figures are absent entirely. In the plot Bligh seeks out Christian to be his second officer. In reality Christian was a friend of Bligh's wife's family, and it was he who sought a posting on Bounty; Bligh didn't solicit his participation. In fact Bligh jiggered the ship's roster to make room for Christian.But the worst departure from fact is the business about Cape Horn and circumnavigation. The movie wants us to believe that Bligh chose the route for his own glory. Not true. Bligh complained to the Admiralty about the chosen course before they set sail from England, thinking it too dangerous for such a small vessel. But he was overruled. The return trip was never intended to go by way of Cape Horn. The cargo was breadfruit seedlings, a tropical plant that can't endure the kind of temperatures encountered in the Drake Passage or the Straits of Magellan. Bligh was forbidden to return via this route. Even if he wanted to such a course of action would have ruined his career. Also the mutiny occurred near Tofua, about 1300 miles west of Tahiti, the wrong direction to sail if you're bound for Cape Horn.Bligh was a man and a professional. Christian was a silly, overwrought upper class schoolboy who committed a vile crime over puppy love of a Polynesian girl. He got away with attempted mass murder, and 200 years later people still praise him. Bligh was a true hero who hasn't got justice yet. "},{"Title":"A Better Interpretation Based on Hough's Book","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not only is the story of Bligh and Christian the most famous mutiny in history, it is also the most filmed. It started with an Australian silent movie in 1916. The Aussies took another shot at filming the Bounty mutiny in 1933, providing a young Errol Flynn (as Fletcher Christian) with his first movie role. That was followed only two years later by the first American try with Charles Laughton in a tour-de-force performance as a sadistic Captain Bligh. Nearly thirty years passed before another movie attempted the story. The 1962 production remains controversial, as does Marlon Brando's affected turn as Christian. These earlier movies were based on the books by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall that portrayed the Bounty's commander, William Bligh, as a brutal disciplinarian and the second in command, Fletcher Christian, as a hero. The actual story is not so black and white. In Captain Bligh and Mister Christian The Men and the Mutiny (1972), Richard Hough presented a more balanced account of the famous mutiny that is meticulously researched and shows keen psychological insight into the characters of the men involved. It is on Hough's book that The Bounty is based.The Bounty has a lot going for it. It is based on Hough's book, perhaps the best account of the mutiny. The screenplay was written by Robert Bolt, who also wrote such classics as Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago, A Man for All Seasons, and Ryan's Daughter. His work shows in the complex, fully realized characters that are the center of this story. And those characters are brought to life by an amazingly strong cast - Anthony Hopkins (an Oscar for Silence of the Lambs) as William Bligh, Mel Gibson (an Oscar for directing Braveheart) as Fletcher Christian, Daniel Day-Lewis (an Oscar for My Left Foot) as John Fryer, and Liam Neeson (nominated for an Oscar for Schindler's List) as Churchill. Of course, none of these actors were famous yet when they performed in The Bounty. Two film giants, Laurence Olivier and James Fox, make cameo appearances as Admiral Hood and Captain Greenham, respectively, members of the Court Martial that tries Bligh on his return to Britain. The rest of the cast is not so well known, but they are all excellent.Anthony Hopkins' Bligh is definitely not a villain, but he is at best a flawed hero. Hopkins, as he always does, makes the character of Bligh completely believable. He is a superb seaman and a man of unquestioned courage. He is also a very capable leader in the right circumstances, but he has a quick temper and a tendency to shift responsibility from himself to others. And he is an ambitious man with no connections or influence in a society where those weigh as heavily as skill and competency. When the chance to make a name for himself seems to be drifting from his grasp, his frustration and anger is turned on those around him. Hopkins never seems to be acting. He becomes Bligh.Mel Gibson was a bigger name actor than Hopkins even when this movie was made, but it is obvious that he is not quite in the same league. His is the weakest performance of the primary actors, but that's still not bad considering the caliber of this cast. He does a nice job of letting Fletcher Christian evolve from a rather shallow, genial fop into a tortured leader of a mutiny. He seems to work a little too hard at being the tormented soul during the mutiny but it's a good overall performance and does not detract from the story.The Bounty does an especially fine job of showing the Tahitians as real people. The costumes and behavior feel completely authentic. Wi Kuki Kaa as King Tynah, although not on screen for very long, manages to create a fully realized and sympathetic character. Tevaite Vernette as Mauatua, Christian's Tahitian wife, is lovely but a bit bland at first. Once the mutineers have left Tahiti on the Bounty, she develops into a stronger character who backs Christian when the other mutineers turn against him.Roger Donaldson's direction is deliberate. He builds the story slowly and purposefully, piling small scenes one atop another to build a foundation for the intense, emotion-laden scenes of the mutiny and its consequences. The pace may be too slow for modern viewers grown accustomed to the quick-cut editing of contemporary action/adventure movies, but the pay-off is worth the effort for those with some patience.The Bounty is a beautiful movie. Wonderful cinematography by Arthur Ibbetson makes full use of the sea and tropical islands. There's nothing quite like the appeal of a full rigged ship under sail and we get plenty of the Bounty - brilliant, sun-drenched shots, towering waves and howling winds around the Horn, silhouettes of the ship against color saturated evening skies, and more.Of the three movies I've seen based on the story of the mutiny on the Bounty, this is my favorite. It is more historically accurate in its presentation of the events, the characters, the ship, and the Tahitian people and culture. A brilliant screen play and fine performances from an exceptional cast are the core of the movie. It is well crafted and beautifully filmed. The pacing may be slow for some, but for anyone interested in this famous mutiny or sea stories, in general, it is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Good version of the famous mutiny on the Bounty yarn, pleasing to the eye although it sags in places.","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In yet another cinematic treatment of the famous mutiny on the Bounty, the central characters are played by Mel Gibson and Anthony Hopkins. Gibson's Fletcher Christian starts the film as an adventurous youth, but following an arduous voyage to Tahiti he succumbs to the spell of the island and its natives. Hopkins' Captain Bligh is a powerful, authoritative figure whose pedantic insistence upon the highest standards aboard his ship results ultimately in open rebellion. Of the two stars, Hopkins has by far the meatier role and brings to it a range of intelligent nuances, making Bligh alternately despicable yet sympathetic, harsh yet honourable. The photography by Arthur Ibbetson is absolutely marvellous and captures the flavour of life at sea, as well as the lustful temptations of a life in paradise, most effectively.The film commences with Captain William Bligh (Hopkins) arriving at a court hearing adjudicated by Admiral Hood (Laurence Olivier) to explain the circumstances in which he lost his ship the HMS Bounty. He narrates how he commanded the ship on its voyage from England to Tahiti to find breadfruit. Bligh initially wanted to add to the prestige of the voyage by circumnavigating the globe, rounding the feared Cape Horn in the outward trip and returning by way of the much calmer Cape Of Good Hope. However, the ship and the morale of the crew took a battering while attempting to round the Horn, and after a month of suffering the Bounty turned and took the Cape Of Good Hope route outwards. Bligh at this point relieved his second-in-command Fryer (Daniel Day-Lewis) on the grounds of cowardly conduct and replaced him with Fletcher Christian (Gibson). After a long, gruelling voyage, the Bounty reached Tahiti and the belaboured crew were given a chance to rest and sunbathe and release their pent-up sexual desires with the island girls. By the time the ship was set to depart, many of the crew - among them Christian himself - were in love with Tahiti and their native flames, and were saddened to leave. In fact, Christian had inadvertently impregnated his native lover. The return journey began under a cloud of depression and demoralisation, and when Bligh announced that he planned to attempt to tackle the Horn again, the crew mutinied. Bligh and his faithfuls were set adrift in a rowing boat, while Christian and the mutineers returned to Tahiti, swept away their native lovers, and searched for a safe haven to hide from the British Navy (they eventually chose Pitcairn).The Bounty is a good slice of history which remains true to the factual information on the whole, while presenting the characters plausibly (it is hard to say if the character depictions are true to the facts, as we will never be truly sure of the motives and circumstances that drove them). Where the film loses marks is in its rather peculiar synthesised score by Vangelis (good piece of music, very ill-suited to this particular film), and in its narrative sag that occurs about three-fifths of the way in. Until the Bounty reaches Tahiti, the film plays out masterfully and is thoroughly absorbing. The second act has high points (the mutiny itself and Bligh's incredible adventures in the cast-off rowing boat being two examples) but is also rather plodding in patches as well. On the whole, though, The Bounty is solid, well-crafted and absorbing viewing. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film by accident one Christmas Day, whilst vegging it on the couch!  Ever since then, this has been one of my all time favourite films. Who cares about the historical truths or otherwise!  Anthony Hopkins was fantastic as Bligh, Mel Gibson a very believable Christian, and the supporting cast magnificent.  Th locations were perfect, the photography stunning and the music by Vangelis, wow, so in tune with the moods of the film.I,ve watched this film about 5 times now, and could easily see it another 50!Get it on video NOW!  "},{"Title":"The most historically accurate of the films","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Bounty is in my opinion perhaps the best, most realistic and most historically accurate film of the 3 films made about this historical event, The Bounty Mutiny. It offers the most three-dimensional and a far more human portrayal of Captain Bligh than its' predecessors. And Anthony Hopkins, as always, shines in this part. Mel Gibson is the romantic lead and as such does very well. Daniel Day-Lewis makes one of his more villainish appearances as the arrogant and rather unlikable Mr. Fryer. And Liam Neeson is also featured in one of his early parts, playing the brutal but charismatic and likable Churchill.It is a strong picture, the one that delves deepest in the psyches of the two main protagonists of this real-life drama. Bligh is portrayed as overly ambitious, strict and harsh, but honorable and a strong personality, while Fletcher is portrayed as sympathetic, honest and emotional, Bligh's polar opposite, who also cares less for honor and loyalty and more for his feelings. This makes him turn emotionally and psychologically unstable in a very climactic and well shot mutiny scene. Many will side with Fletcher Christian as always, but also many more are likely to be torn between the two sides or at least have sympathy for Bligh, unlike with the previous movies, because here he exhibits much more human traits. He even reaches out to Christian in one scene and tries to help get his mind on the right track and off his infatuation, the one that will eventually help trigger the mutiny. In both other Bounty films, he's a pure sadist who won't stop at any lengths to enforce his iron will and discipline. Here he starts showing these traits only after Christian rejects his friendly advice. So in a way, this film to an extent blames Christian for not being patient and reasonable enough to preserve the peace with his commander and help maintain the stability on the ship.So it's both a beautiful and a realistic film. Beautiful because of the landscape shots and not least the half-nude aboriginal girls and realistic because there are no typical villains or heroes in it, just people brought in a difficult situation. Kudos to Roger Donaldson for bringing more realism into this, one of the most famous and celebrated love stories in history. "},{"Title":"Beautifully composed score adds to the tension on board the ship. While Hopkins and Gibson play off one another in one of the greatest performances of their careers","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" They were friends through Hell. They became enemies in Paradise. This is the third film version of the book by Richard Hough about the true story of the HMS The Bounty, which was the scene of a large mutiny by it's crew against the harsh discipline conducted by their captain, Lieutenant William Bligh. A popular version of the account was made in 1962, starring Marlon Brando, called Mutiny on the Bounty. That picked up seven Oscar nominations. This version from Australian director Roger Donaldson, stars Anthony Hopkins in the lead role as Bligh, and Mel Gibson, back in the day when he was virtually unknown, with the only major films under his belt being Mad Max and Gallipoli, as Fletcher Christian, the man who leads the mutiny. Also starring are Daniel Day-Lewis (How Many Miles to Babylon?) and a then unknown Liam Neeson.The film begins with Lieutenant William Bligh attending his court martial, in relation to his ship being taken over by his crew a year ago. The court insists that there must've been a pretty good reason to why the crew would suddenly just retaliate and take over the ship. Bligh refers to his log book in telling the story of what happened, when the ship sailed out two days before Christmas, 1789. William Bligh was a very well known and respected man of His Majesty's Navy, and he is put in command of a mission to Tahiti, since he knows the waters well, to gather breadfruit plants to deliver to Jamaica as cheap food for the slaves on the plantations there. He appoints his friend Fletcher Christian (Mel Gibson) as his master-mate, which is third in command. Second in command is John Fryer (Daniel Day-Lewis), and Bligh soon has problems with him while at sea, because of differences in opinion.Bligh wants to sail around the world on this voyage, which leads his crew into grave danger. They are outraged at this, so Bligh is forced to cool it and go back on track. Exhausted, they finally reach Tahiti, where they are greeted with a very warm welcome, as the natives come across on boats to meet them, among them the bare-breasted women. The men remain on the island for longer than expected, all being tattooed and falling in love with native girls. Discipline is going out the window, and Bligh is disappointed with Fletcher's lack of discipline and control. When the time comes to leave, there's insubordination and desertion, so Bligh clamps down on discipline immediately, throwing out punishments right, left and centre by flogging. While at sea, the crew finally snap, and take over the ship, sending Bligh and the other officers adrift in the life boat, while they set sail back to Tahiti...The Bounty is a superb film with an outstanding performance from the brilliant Anthony Hopkins (The Elephant Man, A Bridge Too Far) as William Bligh. I was very surprised at first to see that Mel Gibson was in this, but he really does pull off a fine performance as Christian, and his accent was perfect. Daniel Day-Lewis has a nice supporting role as Fryer, who isn't a very likable character but he really does portray him well. And this was before he would get world-wide acclaim for his amazing performance as Christy Brown in My Left Foot The Stroy of Christy Brown a few years later.Donaldson does a brilliant job here, and he would go on to make The Getaway in 1993, and Dante's Peak in 1997 and the brilliant British film The Bank Job in 2008. The screenplay zones right in on the relationship between Bligh and Christian. In this version, the two are portrayed as being good friends, with Bligh really trusting Christian. Hopkins and Gibson work off one another really well, and really are superb chemistry on screen. It's intense, suspenseful and all round exciting, and the amazing score composed by Greek composer Vangelis; comes together with the brilliant performances to generate the immense sense of isolation and violence as the ship floats at sea, the crew becoming every minute more disenchanted with what they are doing and frustrated.The Bounty is a superb historical film, and is claimed to be the most accurate portrayal of the mutiny on board the Bounty. I think that it's a must-see alone for the truly brilliant performance from Anthony Hopkins. It's a long enough movie, but the editing was sharp and concise, and every minute is necessary for the story to be told. "},{"Title":"Spectacular and lavish third version with extraordinary performances and wonderful outdoors","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the third adaptation of the vintage story of mutiny during the turbulent voyage based on one of history's greatest true life sea adventure . It's a revisionist version very well played and with marvelous scenarios . This account of the mutiny led by Fletcher Christian against captain Bligh is highlighted thanks to glamorous cinematography by Arthur Ibbetson and emotive , haunting musical score by Vangelis . Interesting portrayal of the Bligh's Anthony Hopkins who bears little relation to Charles Laughton and Trevor Howard version . Extremely memorable acting by Anthony Hopkins who brings his own powerful individualism to contrasting role of Mel Gibson with opposing attitude whose inevitable clash receives greatest importance . Furthermore , a sensual and romantic Mel Gibson-Christian relationship with Tahitian beauty named Tivaite . Secondary cast is frankly excellent , Liam Neeson , Daniel Day Lewis , Bernard Hill , Laurence Olivier , Edward Fox ... Compelling direction by Roger Donaldson who captures the feel of sea and harshness of the times . It's much better than 'Mutiny on the Bounty (1962' version by Lewis Milestone with Marlon Brando , Trevor Howard, and Hugh Griffith but inferior to classic 'Mutiny on the Bounty (1935)' by Frank LLoyd with Clark Gable , Charles Laughton and Franchot Tone .The real deeds are the following  In 1787, Captain Bligh was chose to command HMS Bounty on a voyage to Tahiti, where he was to collect breadfruit trees with the object of introducing them to the Caribbean. Captain Bligh is determined to reach Tahiti and return with a hold full of breadfruit trees. When the ship sailed after a six-month stay on the island, Bligh's men mutinied , casting him and a handful of loyal crew members adrift with scant provisions and no chart. Bligh's incredible seamanship brought them safely to Timor after a voyage of 4000 miles. Fletcher Christian and the other mutineers sailed on to the island of Pitcairn. The mutineers' fate remained in mystery for 18 years until their island was discovered by an American whaling ship , they found one man , John Adams, with nine women and 23 children. What happened Fletcher Christian remains uncertain, some say he was murdered on Pitcairn island, but then there were reports that he returned safely to England . However the descendants live on Pitcairn island to this day. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Performances","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've enjoyed Bounty since it was initially released on VHS. Having just revisited it in High Definition, I appreciate it even more. Having read all the comments, I'm surprised that Wi Kukki Ka in the roll of King Tynah was mentioned only once. His was a fine, understated performance which lent a terrific historical authenticity to the film. His final scene when he realizes that he'll never see his daughter again is quite moving.Everything (with the possible exception of Crazy Mel's performance) works well here. Even the 80's Vangelis sound track is terrific. By far, the best of the three Bounty Films. This has been showing on HD Net Movies and is a must see for any fans of this genre. "},{"Title":"You Will Kiss the Gunner's Daughter!","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have not read any version of the Mutinty on the Bounty, nor have I read Bligh's journal or seen any film version of the event. I therefore cannot compare this film with any of the other Bounty movies, but I can say that, on its own, this film stands up as a classic. Anthony Hopkins gives an excellent performance as the ill-fated Captain Bligh. He is never over-the-top, and his subdued performance lends credence to Bligh's humanity; he is no villain, but a fully fleshed-out naval officer who is neither cruel nor innocent, but is the unfortunate victim of a combination of poor decisions on his part and bad luck. Mel Gibson also does an admirable job as the mutineers' leader, Fletcher Christian. His performance is also realistic, and should cement Gibson's place as a grade-A Hollywood actor. The rest of the cast all do a memorable job as the discontented crew of The Bounty.The cinematography is superb, and I want to personally thank the cinematographer for not trying to make Tahiti look too much like an idealized paradise. This is the movie radio personality Phil Hendrie cites as one of his favorites, and Hopkins' performance and lines provided some obvious inspiration for his program. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Original, But Great Hopkins!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was a bit dismayed at the lack of mention of the original Mutiny On The Bounty with Clark Gable, Franchot Tone and the great Charles Laughton. Even with parts of the film dated and some of the sea-faring scenes leaving much to be desired because of the studio way of making films back in the 1930's - the original still crackles with spirit and power. Gable is terrific and Laughton also gives a great performance. The 1960's remake is a great big mess - Brando seems to be fopping it up - playing Christian as some dandy who just wants to bug Bligh. There were many horrible behind the scenes fights and much hatred between crew and cast and it shows. Now, THE BOUNTY has it's problems but it is still a well made film. In fact, I dare say that this is one of Anthony Hopkins GREATEST performances. He plays him as such a three-dimensional character that in many ways he completely overmatches Mel Gibson. You can see Gibson trying his hardest, trying to hang in there with the great Hopkins but in many scenes he is completely blown off the screen. And yes there is a strong supporting cast with Neeson and Day-Lewis in early film roles. This film is well worth seeing, just don't pass over the original! "}{"Title":"Truly underrated film (possible spoilers)","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The following review assumes you know about the famous mutiny on the bounty and who was involved. If you do not wish to know how this occurred, read no further. Most people when the think of the famous mutiny on the bounty think of the way it was portrayed in the Clark Gable version. That in itself sealed the reputation of Captain Bligh as one of the most cruel people in history. It presented Fletcher Christian as a dashing hero who triumphed over a tyrant. Not the case here. The Bounty has questions to ask about the myth of the good of Christian and the evil of Bligh, and wishes to examine it without judging anyone involved. The films technical details are astounding, from the gorgeous cinematography to Vangelis' electronic score(reminiscent of Chariots of Fire in many ways), but it's the performances that make this so memorable. Anthony Hopkins is of course brilliant as Bligh, seen not as a sadistic tyrant who deserved to be usurped, but as a repressed and by the book captain who stubbornly kept to all the laws of the navy, because it's what he's wanted all his life, to be a good captain. There is a revealing scene in the movie where all the men are having the time of their lives with the islanders at a dinner, drinking and making love with a real sense of freedom that they've never experienced in England. All of them, that is, except Bligh. He's lying in his bed alone, looking up at the ceiling, sweating, realizing(correctly) that this freedom and peace and love will make the men want to stay and never want to leave, thus ruining the mission and breaking all the hearts of their families back home. This to me is the key to Bligh, it justifies in some way his somewhat cruel behavior toward the men later on, like Patton, he believe it's all for the good of the men. This of course puts him in direct conflict with everyone else, and the more the men struggle to remain on the island and become at ease, the more Bligh's behavior seems sadistic. Hopkin's gives a measured and complex performance that can be chilling(Oh they are RAMBLING are they???!!!). Mel Gibson, before he was a charismatic film icon who would become a world-renowned(or hated) filmmaker, was relatively unknown, having only done the Mad Max films. I believe that he gives the best performance of his acting career in this. I'm sure most people would expect him to play Christian as a charismatic do-gooder who fights for freedom and justice(i.e. Patriot or Braveheart), but this is not the case here. Here Christian is presented as an irresponsible dilettante who found a kind of peace and paradise in Australia that would appeal to him far more than his wife and family back home. He becomes too attached to this exotic world, and begins to appear unstable when faced with the decision to leave. The filmmakers don't have Christian say too much, and we never truly learn his real motives. He is't seen as a leader of the mutiny from the beginning, but seemed a likely person for the crew to be led by, since he was the highest officer appearing ill at ease with Bligh. Daniel Day-Lewis is also here in one of his early roles, as one of the officers. You can see briefly the subtle nuances he gives this character that foreshadow his success in films years later. You can see that while there is a certain area of Gray over who is right in this fight for power, the only true jerk aboard this ship is Day-Lewis' character, who is seen smiling and enjoying himself while the men are being punished. Liam Neeson has a good role as a lazy and insubordinate fool of a crewman who lives by his partying instincts, and it is a bit startling to watch this performance considering the way it's light years away from the wise and towering men of principle and quiet dignity he would go on to play(i.e. Schindler,Kinsey,Michael Collins,Rob Roy, etc.) Laurence Olivier and Edward Fox also appear as the men interrogating Bligh during the court martial, with Fox doing fine character work and Olivier being a chameleon yet again as the aged Admiral Hood. Bernard Hill(Thodon of Lord of The Rings, Captain in Titanic) also gives one of his solid Greek chorus and dignified performances as an observer. The movie does not answer if the mutiny was justified, nor does it do any finger pointing,but implies that the real problem was the divide between the repressed British and the free islanders that made the men mad. These characterizations and events all lead up to the mutiny itself, a truly stunning scene. I've seen it about a dozen times now, and it still sends chills down my spine, Gibson gives one hell of a performance in this scene, and just watch the co-conspirators and Bligh's faces when he explodes. It's a scene that packs the wallop the film been setting up for. All in all, the film is definitely worth recommending, it remains to this day an intelligent,fascinating, and absorbing film. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. I saw it when it came out in early 1984, and again just recently. This was a more realistic telling of the tale of Captain Bligh and the mutineers than the book or the Clark Gable film. Bligh was not cruel or harsh. He was the captain of a British ship during the 1800's, and had to show a level of discipline, especially after his crew met several half-naked lovely young native ladies. It is good to see a young Mel Gibson and Anthony Hopkins, as well as Daniel Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson before they became stars. This movie would be a good early-80's movie trivia question. What early 80's movie starred 4 actors, all of whom later won Oscars and 2 of which got their big breaks on this film? The music was 80's synthesizer-laden, but it fit the tone. The shots of the ship at dusk, or at sunrise were beautiful. Well-done, and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Decent remake","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Remakes... how many people are skeptical about them asking questions like &#132;Who has taken up a task to remake a movie? &#132;Why?, etc. There appear to be various reasons for remakes. While analyzing this phenomenon, we should focus on what is being remade rather than by whom since if the original was unsuccessful and flawed, a remake is a necessary solution. As for the director, it's quite rare to find another Cecil B DeMille who himself remade his TEN COMMANDMENTS realizing that modern (1956) filming techniques would allow him for splendid possibilities. However, there is a different case, something we take into consideration here - when a very good film, a masterwork is being remade. Then, the viewers have very high expectations. That has to do with THE BOUNTY (1984), a version of the highly appreciated sea epic MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY (1935). But does this film meet pampered viewers' expectations? In my opinion, THE BOUNTY is a movie that may either be constantly compared to its 1935 predecessor or not at all standing alone as a single work of art. It has all aspects of a modern epic stunning visuals with memorable moments, perfect music with decent atmosphere, top notch performances with true entertainment, great cast including late Laurence Olivier, and flawless action that constantly kept me on my chair. Moreover, the authentic locations prove the genuine story on screen. Let me analyze some of these aspects in more details.Some people will perhaps disagree with me but I think that Anthony Hopkins is equally appealing as cruel Lieutenant William Bligh as Charles Laughton was. He portrays a man filled with fear and pride combined with the indefatigable desire to be obeyed and praised. He does not totally realize that his cruel acts towards his crew will occur destructive for him. He thinks that it is the only way to retain order. Mel Gibson also shines in the role as Bligh's former friend Fletscher Christian. In 1935 we had eminent Clark Gable in the role but Gibson does not appear to be far to Gable's portrayal. He is truly convincing as a simple young man with his carnal desires, loyal attitudes, and a sense of justice. I cannot imagine someone else in this role. Gibson has that blink in the eyes that always make me realize This is a man who cares for other people. The supporting cast include Liam Neeson, Edward Fox, great Laurence Olivier and an exotic actor Wi Kuki Kaan so fine and memorable in his part as king Tynah.The musical score by Vangelis is perfect. From the credits, the exotic tunes constitute a magnetism for the ear and a harmonious imagination of the viewer. Some interlude moments when there is only music made me close my eyes and imagine the beautiful corners of the world with their magnificence and dangers, with their sublimity and simplicity. This is linked to visuals and constitutes a stunning spectacle of an epic - not an ordinary one but sea epic which reaches its climax at Pitcairn Island where, allegedly, the crew arrive (don't take it serious historically).However, there are people who will tell me that while 1935 version was allowed for everyone to watch; in other words, it was a wonderful adventure for the youngsters as well as adults, this cannot be said about 1984 movie. Unfortunately, THE BOUNTY (1984) is not the movie for youngsters. For instance, we have the scandalous long moment of savage orgy where people have mutual affairs to the joy of gods, for carnal satisfaction and perfect fertility. In one single moment, men shout like animals before they make love to their female partners. Another disturbing scene is when Bligh with his few men (after mutiny) embarks on Fiji Island and a group of savage cannibals attack them. They smash the head of one man and take his body for dinner. I agree that it is important to mention such moments because, by all means, kids should be protected from such demoralizing images. However, I don't think that we should add nudity to this problem. It was normal that most of the women in the exotic lands were naked (to the joy of the crew)...All in all, I highly enjoyed THE BOUNTY in spite of the fact that I had seen the 1935 original before. I did not compare much, I treated it as a single motion picture, a wonderful adventure-action movie with brilliant performances and very memorable visuals. I hope that you will also see it that way. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the Mutiny's films","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes, indeed. This movie is without doubt the best one of all the Bounty movies made. It is very accurate historically speaking and its impact is fantastic. I saw it for the first time in Miami on vacation in 1984. When I returned to Bogot, I just could not get it out of my mine. Fortunately, in a short time, the LaserDisc version appeared and I bought it immediately. I was very much impressed including the fantastic soundtrack by Vangelis. I am a Bounty fan. I have studied the only successful mutiny in the history of mutinies, read many books, watched all films and upon watching this masterpiece of modern cinema it definitively shows what really happened with some dramatic effects which is natural for any movie to make it more interesting. Hopkins, Gibson and the rest of the cast act wonderfully. One small detail but important. Tahitian girls are shown bare breasted. The way it should be. The 1962 and 1935 versions, do not. If I could I would give this film 1.000.000 stars vote. "},{"Title":"Much the best film version of this timeless story","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" By far, my favorite adventure drama film, a great improvement upon the several previous film versions of this timeless story in terms of historical accuracy, realism, and characterization. Anthony Hopkins was unbeatable as Bligh and absolutely should have won the Academy Award. In contrast to some reviewers and critics, I found Mel Gibson entirely adequate as the real Christian who, just before the mutiny he staged, nearly decided on suicide as the only practical way out of his conflicting feelings of loyalty toward an increasingly abusive Bligh vs. longing for his Tahitian life and wife. It helped that Gibson was much closer in age to Christian's actual age of 25 than the previous players Clark Gable and Marlon Brando. Some reviewers object to the extensive realistic portrayal of bare-breasted man-hungry native maidens. I found this bit of realism a definite plus and, having married a South Seas maiden, continue to enjoy the view when not watching this film. I also liked the back and forth switches between Bligh's official inquiry and the story of the Bounty and Men Against the Sea. My only complaint is the unmemorable somber opening and background music. It certainly could have used a rousing Gone With the Wind-type theme song.The long voyage to Tahiti was relatively uneventful, except for the well-dramatized failed attempt to negotiate Cape Horn. The expedition was delayed well beyond its intended sailing date, thus obligating the undersized ship to attempt the always dangerous Cape Horn passage at an unfavorable time of year. In turn, this further delay caused the Bounty to arrive in Tahiti at a time of year unfavorable for the propagation of breadfruit trees. Thus, the stay in Tahiti was much longer than expected, which allowed the crew to form stronger romantic bonds with the native girls, as well as further habituating them to the relatively light duty and good food on the island critical factors in deciding the support of certain crew members for Christian's spur of the moment decision to stage a mutiny.Another critical factor that allowed Christian to stage his mutiny is ignored by this, as well as previous, film versions. The British admiralty decided to skimp on costs of the expedition by not only providing an undersized ship for the task, but by failing to provide commissioned officers and marines, normally present on such voyages, who served to back up the authority of the captain. For one thing, there simply wasn't room enough on this ship, fully laden with young breadfruit, to accommodate all these extra bodies. Also, there is the fact that Bligh was not a commissioned captain, only a lieutenant! The film also suggests that Bligh's announced intension of returning to Jamaica via the dangerous Cape Horn was the last straw that encouraged some to join Christian's mutiny attempt. This is pure fabrication! Bligh wasn't about to alter his instructions to return to Jamaica via the Cape of Good Hope which, while also often a very difficult passage, at least didn't threaten to kill the cold-sensitive breadfruits, if negotiated during the warm season. Thus, it seems plain that support for the mutiny rested solely on the contrast between the paradise of Tahiti and the return to naval drudgery and discipline, and some personal grievances against Bligh. The historical record indicates that Bligh was actually unusually hesitant to use prescribed physical punishment to enforce his discipline. But, his psychological abuse was at least as damaging and perhaps caused even more resentment. As the film dramatizes, Christian had accumulated an intolerable load of brow beatings by Bligh on the early homeward journey.Probably, Bligh's increasingly negative attitude toward Christian, his former friend, partly relates to jealousy stemming from Christian's popularity with the native girls. As the film dramatizes, the prudish aloof Bligh feels very uncomfortable in the leisurely, relatively free love, atmosphere of Tahiti, that the other men relish. Thus, he seems to his crew a different species altogether.Thus, this film goes far, but not quite far enough, in transforming the affair from the 1935 version as an anti-fascist parable(in the mold of The Adventures of Robin Hood) into a much more historically correct presentation. The MGM powers of 1935 wanted a story with clear cut good and bad guys, with the bad guy a sadistic abusive authoritarian. In this film, who are the good and bad guys is much less clear. According to Gibson, the present film didn't really go far enough in recognizing that Christian's rash act was worse than Bligh's character flaws. Although he didn't know it at the time, except for Bligh's superhuman leadership in the navigation of the small lifeboat to Timor, nearly all the crew would be dead within a few years as an indirect result of the mutiny he staged. To me, Christian and Bligh appear to be about equally culpable,with circumstances beyond their control an equal factor. No good guys, no bad guys, just frustrated imperfect human beings.Now, we need an equal film treatment of the even more interesting lessons learned from the resulting Pitcairn Island disaster, which this film barely touches on. "},{"Title":"Heat and madness","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The HMS Bounty, captained by the stern and disciplined Lt. William Bligh (Hopkins) leaves England for Tahiti, with Bligh's friend and newly appointed second-in-command Fletcher Christian (Gibson). Stress among the crew turns to rebellion on the Eden-like island.I have not read the source novel, so I can not vouch for the film's faithfulness, even if many in their comments or on the message boards commend the film for this. Suffice to say that it is a treat to see Anthony Hopkins, Mel Gibson, Daniel Day Lewis Laurence Olivier and Liam Neeson, all at the top of their game, up on the same screen. Each man becomes an exaggerated version of himself once in Tahiti, pushed to the brink of madness by the heat (domething superbly rendered by the makeup team, production design crew and director of photography). It is also commendable that after repeated viewings, you can choose to side with any one of the characters, and get away with it. That is the essence of great characterization. Vangelis again provides perfect music for the film's score.Why then is the film's rating so low? Men at sea is not a theme that appeals to everyone. Furthermore, people who have seen previous adaptations would be right in pointing out that Mel Gibson, despite a great performance, is no Marlon Brando. It is also an uncomfortable film in that it deals with slow physical and mental degradation. Neverthelss, it very much deserves to be seen, and not only for its phenomenal cast.I urge you to see this film. "},{"Title":"Exotic and dramatic remake of the old seafaring fable","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not an expert like some of the other reviewers, having no knowledge of British naval history and not having seen either the original 1935 Clark Gable / Charles Loughton or the 1962 Marlon Brando / Trevor Howard versions of Mutiny on the Bounty. However, I enjoyed this exotic adaptation with its stellar cast.This is the old classic sea fable in which the Bounty's first mate Fletcher Christian leads a mutiny against Captain Bligh because of his cruel behavior and unwise, possibly suicidal decision to sail the ship again around Cape Horn. The film chronicles the events leading up to the rebellion, the actual mutiny, and the subsequent fate of both sides, as Christian seeks to avoid British naval repercussions and Bligh attempts to ensure the survival of his remaining loyal men to East Timor in their little lifeboat.The movie has a star studded cast, including Lawrence Olivier as Admiral Hood, though I don't recall much of his role here...it's been awhile. Also, Liam Neesan (before his more famous years) plays one of the seamen. However, the two main opposing protagonist / antagonist stars, Fletcher Christian and Captain Bligh, are portrayed to perfection and their conflict makes this movie. Mel Gibson is a sincere and passionate Fletcher Christian, but Anthony Hopkins is especially brilliant at turning Captain Bligh into a real three dimensional character. Though certainly flawed and sometimes ruthless, he comes across not as an irrational monster but essentially a capable and fair captain, who has been placed in a difficult situation, makes poor (at times cruel) choices to be sure, but lacks the support he should have been able to count on from his friend, Fletcher Christian. Christian, as others have also noted, seems more concerned with his new Tahitian love than his naval duties. While I have some sympathy for his situation, he comes across as rather irresponsible, no officer or genuine leader here, as he more or less encourages his men, who want to continue frolicking in paradise and taking their pleasures with the island women rather than return to their duties aboard ship.Lots of adventure and action of course, and also beautiful cinematography featuring exotic tropical paradise scenes. Naturally, much is made, as I seem to recall, of the scantily clad Tahitian women! In any case, The Bounty is a gripping adaptation of this old classic, really quite a dual character study of captain and first mate, and a tale which provides genuine ambiguity as to exactly which one of them is in the right. "},{"Title":"Hopkins is best and worst Bligh","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's contradictory I know but Tony Hopkins' portray of Bligh is the best and the worst of those in the three versions of this film. Best because he portrays so well how he was a 'self-made' man (remember he was only a 'lieutenant' not a true captain), both with his west country accent and bombastic commanding manner (he did not grow up with the gentle 'word of command' portrayed through a patrician accent...). The Trevor Howard/Marlon Brando version achieved this by way of portraying Bligh's lower social status this through Brando adopting a ridiculous upper class foppish accent and made Bligh seem 'chippy'. But worst because it is difficult to imagine anyone, officer or sailor, not respecting to the utmost such a capable commander who had achieved his status through knowledge, experience and hard work, or that such a man would make misjudgements about men so serious that they would mutiny. "},{"Title":"One of the best adventure pictures","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a very well-done movie and brilliantly performed with classic actors including not just Hopkins and Gibson, but Neeson, Day-Lewis, etc. It is also definitely a superb history lesson in not just the events surrounding the most famous mutiny of all-time, but also seafaring during that era and Tahitian culture.Critics and audiences haven't given this movie half the respect it deserves. Having read Mutiny on the Bounty, I was impressed by how accurate it was yet remained entertaining and compelling. The cinematography is a winner too!For a more realistic alternative to clichd movies about sailors (be it pirates or submariners) this picture is indeed the best choice. "},{"Title":"Third best Bounty story yet!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm a little surprised at the comments others have written on this movie, and it causes me to wonder if they've seen the two earlier Mutiny on the Bounty movies they are comparing it with. To me, the first one is of great acedemic interest for acting and cinematography, the second one was an absolute masterpiece, while this one was a mixed bag. Indeed, if it weren't for Anthony Hopkins as Capt. Bligh, this movie would be a yawner, except to fans of wooden ships and/or Tahitian women. And to be sure, this version does the most respectful job of portraying the Tahitians, both in terms of authenticity and respect. Tahitians are actually given some acting responsibility in this film, which I liked. Also, the crew looked the most believeable.Yet there was something lacking in this movie that made it pale in comparison to the other two Bounty films. Specifically, it lacked an actor to play the part of Mr. Christian. The part was given to Mel Gibson instead. Maybe that was intentional, to put emphasis on Hopkins' Bligh character. Then again, maybe Gibson or his writers were afraid to let it all hang out, for fear of being compared with the BRILLIANT performance given by Brando in the earlier version. Alas, keeping a low profile didn't work for Gibson. I guess the moral of the story is never follow an animal act.Another thing that bothered me about this movie was how the *screen* was cramped. Seems like all the onboard action was shot about three feet from the characters' noses. Now granted, the Bounty was small as ships go, and all ships are crowded, but to be reminded of it over and over? In fact, we weren't. I'm only speculating as to why the *screen* looked cramped and too often dark. The effect was to make the movie itself look small!For wooden ship fans, this movie does deliver at times, we get to see them trying to round the Horn, and it don't look like fun, no indeed! Strangely, I noticed a few seconds of what I could swear was the exact same footage as used in the '60's version of the film. I don't want to be too hard on this movie, and it's pretty hard to follow two previous versions of the same story, both of which were classics. Although this was not a great movie, it was a very good one, and best of all, if you liked any one of the three movies, you've got the other two to see!Some might say that it's not fair to compare any movie or actor with another, but in this case, it's just too much fun. It's amazing to see how three different movies can tell three different versions of one or another aspect of a story. Much of that story is a matter of speculation and legend, more of the story depends on who you believe, but much of the story is a matter of the court record! In one, we have Bligh punished, in another we have him aquitted with a commendation, and in another, we have him aquitted with a reprimand! OTOH, we get to see that same coconut shell scale being used to ration out food on the lifeboat. All in all, there are three fun movies to watch, two of which could be considered great.   "}{"Title":"Seafaring - At It's Best!","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First of all, let me tell you that I've been researching the Bounty story for over 20 years! There is so much in this portrayal that is irrefutably correct, and this fact alone makes it the definitive movie about a fascinating chapter in British Naval History.I will however, defend Lieutenant Bligh (note Not CAPTAIN BLIGH - he was only Captain by name, not by actual rank). He was a normal, efficient, and well-trained officer - not the despotic, megalomaniac as depicted in ALL the films about this event in history.At the time, a lieutenant could take charge of a ship, and be called captain. However, he would not receive a captain's pay.I think that Gibson's portrayal of Fletcher Christian is one of his better roles - seeming more caring, and more human than any of his 'action hero' roles. I commend him for that.Lastly, I simply must mention the 'star' of this whole movie - the soundtrack. It was absolutely stunning! Vangelis created an absolute masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Well done historical depiction of the mutiny and later settlement of Pitcairn Island.","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember as a high school student reading The Bounty Trilogy, forming vivid images in my mind, especially after the captain and his skeleton crew had to work hard to stay alive, eating raw birds and drinking the blood. Many versions of the Bounty movies have been made, but this is my favorite, primarily for Sir Anthony Hopkins, who now is an American citizen. He was Lieutenant William Bligh and was very convincing.Mel Gibson was Fletcher Christian, Master's Mate, and the cast included young versions of such present stars as Daniel Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson. It was the visit to Tahiti and a taste of the leisure life with plenty of young native women that was the catalyst for the mutiny.Tevaite Vernette was a teenager, a South Seas native, and she was Mauatua, who became the love interest of Fletcher Christian's. As far as I can tell, she never appeared in another movie. In this one she appeared topless most of the time and was perfect for the part.As history records, in 1790 when Christian and his crew arrived at Pitcairn, they burned the ship in defiance of British law, and settled on the island and lived there. At one point in the earlier 1900s the population was several hundred, but now in the 21st century it is around 45 to 50, descendants of the Bounty mutineers. Not all has been rosy, however, as several men, including Christian's descendants, were found guilty and imprisoned for sex with underage girls, which they claimed was part of the history of Pitcairn Island.Good movie. See it if you haven't yet. I am puzzled, however, that it gets a PG rating. To me it is closer to R with very much female nudity and erotic ceremonial dancing by the natives. "},{"Title":"Mostly Good, Lacking Character Development","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I want to make it clear that I liked this film. The acting was good, the cinematography outstanding and the story compelling. The scenes of Bligh at the Admiralty were excellent and well-timed. However, there were some missing elements that would have enhanced the effectiveness of the scenes and the movie as-a-whole.Most of what I consider to be critical-yet-absent stuff is character development What is Bligh's past, and why was he so adamant on challenging the roaring forties at Cape Horn? How did Mr. Christian become an officer in the Royal Navy and then, quickly, lose all sense-of-duty or even interest in sailing after a Polynesian girl gives him the eye?Other un-adressed equations are Just how dangerous was it for a ship to challenge Cape Horn? Could they have done it some other time-of-year? Was Bligh's intended revisit to the Cape the sole reason for the crew's mutiny?One scene I found most unconvincing was the scene where Bligh barks out orders to clean and maintain the ship. This would have been de rigeur on any vessel at the time. Crews clean and maintain and test endlessly, and the scenes of the crew demoralized and unhappy about having to clean are laughable.The music by Vangelis did not help the scenes, nor add to their effectiveness. I will never know just how dangerous the mission around the horn would have been for the Bounty, because it is never explained Just a few more lines of dialogue would have been adequate.If I fill in the holes, I see a lieutenant obsessed with making a mark that will earn him the rank of captain. We see a crew that has found paradise and doesn't want to leave. We see a fair first mate who is somewhat sympathetic to the crewmembers. The Bounty needed to introduce us to Bligh, the man, his history, his psychology. We needed to have-described the history of Cape Horn, in regards to previous, attempted navigation and passage of sailing vessels. We need to know why Mr. Christian incited mutiny Because of cleaning duties? I think not. If these elements had been fleshed-out in the movie, I would have been much more engaged. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed and acted film","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This wholly misjudged remake of the classic tale of Mutiny and betrayal in the  South Pacific showcases some of the best acting, by several Hollywood greatsever crammed into one long boring movie.  The cinematography, shipboardsets, and most importantly, the fantastic acting, makes this a must see for any  serious film lover.  Unlike Marlon Brando's version of Fletcher Christian as the  spoiled rich kid, off on an adventure, Mel Gibson brings complexity and depth to  this character.  Also contrasting the prior versions unlikable Captain Bligh,  Anthony Hopkins creates a character who we can identify with and who weultimately think may have been the better man.  If you want to watch amazingscenes of the South Pacific, beautiful Polynesians, and some top notch acting,  make yourself some grog (rum and water) and settle in for a nice longadventure. Required viewing for fans of Hopkins, Gibson, Day-Lewis or Neeson. "},{"Title":"The most honest of the Mutiny movies","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is regarded as the most reliable version of the Bounty's mutiny. Lt Bligh was a very good seaman, and a dedicated officer, however, his decision to go around Cape Horn after the first failure was in itself a selfish and egotistical decision. Bligh's original plan was to circumnavigate the globe and make a name for himself. He placed the lives of many men in jeapordy for his own self gratification. He wanted to inflict punishment on a man who dared question his judgement. There was no treason or cowardice involved on the part of John Adams. Bligh then called into question Fletcher Christians integrity. His accusations of thievery and cowardice towards the men were more than enough than any man could stomach. Bligh compared the supposed filthiness of the ship to Christians carnal and emotional desires. Christian did have his faults (arriving late for dinner on Bligh's order, forgetting his duties), but Bligh's erroneous decisions on the initial voyage and its delays were blamed on the crew, and they just could not take it any longer "},{"Title":"Amazing cast","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I came upon this movie quite by accident. I was perusing the DVD's at the public library, and decided to check it out.  I found it compelling, beautifully shot, and exceedingly well-acted.  I haven't seen all of Anthony Hopkins' work, but this performance must certainly be one of his finest.  Liam Neeson's characterization of the caged animal Churchill was gripping. This movie also featured the world's finest actor, Daniel Day-Lewis, as the uptight Fryer.  My favorite shot of him is when Bligh and the others are being put in the boat to be set adrift.  Look for Fryer in the boat -- very amusing.  The only flaw in the film is the photography of the Tahitian women.  The camera stayed  a little too long on them, making the nudity more gratuitous than it needed to be. "},{"Title":"Gable, Brandon and Gibson...","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Three great movies with three great actors. I have seen them all and I personally like the last... Everything about the movie was fantastic, perhaps it has alot to do with technology, in the past movies, 30's and 60's the technology was not as advanced as 84..I am sure if they made a New Bounty now, in 2002 it would be amazing, but I feel today there are not the actors to pull it off... Anthony Hopkins did an amazing portrayal as the captain..he should have won an oscar or at least been nominated... Mel gibson a fantastic job also, the cast cast was terrific... I love 80.s movies, for the color, the sound, the passion of the themes, the bounty had it all, with Vengelis, setting the mood, and the beautiful back drops of the pacific seeting the scene, and the wonderful acting of the cast it makes the movie one of my favorites.. roger donaldson and Arthur Ibbetson truely captured the moment, Artur has always been a great photograhic genius, with credits like willy wonker, and Little Lord Fauntleroy  being child favorites of mine, and in need of great photographic angles , with the bounty he found that special moment with each scene...Mel Gibson after completing films like MAD MAX, Galipoli made his American film debut with this great movie, the New Zealand director has made a movie which will never be beat...If you are looking for a movie with a wonderful story great acting and breathtaking scenery with beautiful music, this is the movie for you. historical acually events makes it more the the reason the see... larence olivier and edward fox putting their expertise to the movie truely shows experience and greatness, Hopkins holds his own with the greats...I can not say enough good words about this movie..its a favorite of mine and a fantastic movie, everything about it is just magic...  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at a theater when it was first released.The casting couldn't have been better. The musical score (Vangelis) hypnotized me from the first seconds.  The Cinematography was great.It was one of the few times my gabbing through a movie friend didn't say a word until we were in the lobby. Thankfully, 'cause I would have sewn her lips together if she would have spoiled this movie for me.I have this movie on tape and DVD.  I must say, if you can watch it on a very large screen, do it. Otherwise, wait until you get a decent sized TV to get the most out of this film.  Also, make sure your stereo or surround system is turned on -) "},{"Title":"Best Movie Version","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the most historically accurate version of the Bounty story and without a doubt one of the most heavyweight casts of any movie.  Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson carry the main roles but look for outstanding work by future stars Daniel Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson (Day-Lewis would've been an outstanding choice to play Fletcher Christian).  Laurence Olivier and Edward Fox have very good turns as officers sitting in judgment of Bligh at his court martialI like everything about this movie---the moody scoring by Vangelis (yet another Oscar winner in this movie; he'd won an Oscar for Chariots of Fire), the camera work, and the acting is first rate.  I agree with other comments that the girl playing Christian's love-interest isn't all that compelling and yet we're to believe that Christian is driven to the point of mutiny more out of his heartbreak of leaving her behind than because of his resentment of Bligh.  Anthony Hopkins is able to drive Christian to mutiny by being a complainer and nagger rather than by being physically abusive to the crew.  His portrayal of Bligh is far closer to historical truth---Bligh actually punished his crew very little in comparison to other ship's captains of the time and he was able to get the Bounty to Tahiti after 27,000 miles of sailing having lost only a single man en route. While at Tahiti the ship's doctor drank himself to death and, more incredibly, Bligh was able to sail the ship's launch over 4,000 miles to safety while losing only one man.  Christian meanwhile turns out to be a total failure as a leader and within a few years of the mutiny he and most of the men who went with him to Pitcairn were dead.  Take the time to watch all three Bounty movies close together and get some great lessons in watching how different filmmakers and actors approach this magnificient story. "},{"Title":"Great telling of a classic story.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've always been a fan of this historical story, and I feel this 1984 film is the best telling of it to date.  The story focuses on the tension that builds between Fletcher Christian (Mel Gibson) and Captain Bligh (Anthony Hopkins) - who start out as friends and become murderous enemies. Hopkins is excellent (as usual) in his portrayal of Bligh as an insecure paranoid, which is far more true to the actual person that Bligh was than the typical mean-bully treatment other actors have given him.  Gibson is also good as Fletcher Christian, showing him not as some kind of rebel party-animal who defied Bligh's authority, but as someone truly torn between serving his superior officer or doing what he feels is best for the rest of the crew.No one is 100% sure of all the details of this historical incident, but it's evident that those involved with the writing and production of this film did their research.  And I would suggest that anyone who likes this story to do the same - there's some fascinating stuff online about Christian, Bligh, and their ship The Bounty.  "}{"Title":"Historically more accurate than previous efforts.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film when I was about 13 and the setting took my breath away. So later in life I visited the South Pacific a couple of times, and these trips led me to read Captain Bligh and Mr. Christian by Richard Hough- the definitive and most complete account of what really went on. After reading this book I realised that Roger Donaldson's film was the only one that even attempted to be accurate, by illustrating how heroic Lt. Bligh's navigation by memory was. ( Without it all his loyal crew would certainly have died) And also how the crew were unruly and disobedient when facing the prospect of leaving Tahiti for an arduous voyage home. Bligh certainly lost control, and probably used a bit too much discipline , but the mutiny was certainly not warranted. Remember he was found innocent, and went on to be Governor of New South Wales I believe. Apart from that, what a beautifully made film, haunting Vangelis soundtrack, and that cast that would be slightly more difficult to assemble now.....what a great film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SHAME IT IS NOT ON REGION 2 DVD YET!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not the best Bounty, but visually stunning.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If it wasn't for Robert Bolt's wonderful influence with the screenplay I'm quite convinced this film would have sunk.As it is The Bounty is a lavish retelling of the infamous Bligh/Christian mutiny. Of all the Bounty films perhaps this one reflects the most accurate description of what happened between these two friends, and later, rivals.Bligh in earlier films had always been seen as overly sadistic & vicious, but in this film he is not quite the dictator as previously seen, and perhaps in reality should have been deemed a misunderstood hero rather than a bullying cad.Hopkins gives a very powerful & rounded characterisation of the restless Bligh, a man where honour for his King & country prevails over all else, including the wellbeing of his men.Mel Gibson's Fletcher Christian is perhaps the weak link in the film. Too many times Gibson is either barking mad or acting the tyrant. I'm sure Gibson wasn't confident enough to decide how to play the part in spite of the firm foundation laid down by Bolt.Director Donaldson sometimes wanders too far from the story as if he is like a tourist overwhelmed by all the wonderful sights as well as having some of the world's greatest actors working for you. But he does manage to keep a tight reign when you begin to think the story is going to drift out to sea. It's a pity he didn't give Fox or Olivier enough to do, since their contribution is reduced to redundant cameos when one felt they could have offered a far more richer story given  more interesting characters.The late Arthur Ibbetson's cinematography should not be overlooked here either, for he really does do a good job with the camera and not just for framing the picturesque islands either.One final mention should also go to the wonderfully haunting soundtrack by Vangelis especially the main title which when played from CD with the lights dimmed you can visualise The Bounty coming into dock on some dusky Island full of natives & pretty maidens.Overall then a film that visually impresses and perhaps tells us more about the real Bligh than the earlier versions. But Donaldson doesn't have the experience to hold the interest for very long and the film meanders like the tide before any real conclusions are reached.Hopkins shines, Gibson & Olivier glimmer. Robert Bolt is the only true supernova here!***/***** "},{"Title":"Bolt's screenplay brings history alive","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First off, The Bounty is historical film making at its finest, and many comments justly pay tribute to the cast and particularly to Anthony Hopkins for fleshing out the very human complexities of Lt. William Bligh.The Royal Navy's most infamous captain was not a monster, after all, but a somewhat ambitious officer sent on a very difficult mission with a small ship and no Royal Marines to maintain discipline. Unlike the tyrant portrayed in Nordoff and Hall's book and as played in earlier movies by Charles Laughton and Trevor Howard, naval records show the real-life Bligh flogged and disciplined his sailors far less often than the more revered Captain Cook or Captain Vancouver. Conversely, the real-life Fletcher Christian was a volatile man who may have acted upon impulse when leading the mutiny.Instead of the simplistic good-evil storyline of earlier Bounty films, 1984's version presents the meaty conflict between two complex men placed in extraordinary circumstances. It's probably the most engaging historical battle of wills in movies since the clash of the colonels in Bridge on the River Kwai. So let's give credit where credit is due, namely screenwriter Robert Bolt.Bolt made a career of creating memorable, complex and believable characters for historical films. His writing credits include Lawrence of Arabia, The Mission, Dr. Zhivago and Man for All Seasons (he also wrote the play). Bolt's intelligent and character-driven style is sadly missing in films today -- just imagine Gladiator with sharp dialogue along with the eye-candy -- but The Bounty showcases a screenwriter at the top of his form. Each line of dialogue rings true, each character is real and each scene seems authentic. When you're dealing with the wide canvas of history's most engaging mutiny, that's all you need. "},{"Title":"An excellent study of a captain's misguided attempts to hold his ship together","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Capt. William Bligh, we find out in The Bounty, is not really an awful person, he just wants to get his work done quickly and efficiently. He has two goals to complete his mission for the Royal Navy (delivering breadfruit from Tahiti to Jamaica) and to circumnavigate the globe. If these things had gone his way, the good captain would probably have been remembered by his crew as just one of the many cold and impersonal officers of the British Navy, though if they scratched their brains enough, they might also have recalled that he was not wholly without heart or concern for his men.Unfortunately, little goes his way. Rounding the tip of South America proves to be an impossibility (though the ambitious Bligh attempts it for 31 days straight), the journey to Tahiti is thus lengthened considerably, the Bounty therefore arrives in Tahiti late, and the breadfruit they plant out doesn't grow fast enough to get the mission completed in time. After having spent so much extra time in Tahiti, the crew, and most of the officers as well, become used the life of leisure in their tropical paradise, and Bligh's authority over them is called into question. Even his second-in-command, Fletcher Christian, finds it am imposition to leave his hut (and his Tahitian hut-mate) and attend dinner with the captain on board the ship.When they do finally leave Tahiti, Bligh explains very clearly to his officers that they have failed in their duty of maintaining authority, and that he has failed for putting faith in them. But the cure for what ails the ship, he tells them, is discipline. Bligh decides to whip the crew back into shape, mostly by whipping Fletcher Christian (figuratively) back into shape. The message to the crew seems to be, if the captain can treat his second-in-command (and friend) in this way, how might he treat THEM if they fall out of line?The plan backfires, of course, and leads to one of the most famous rebellions in naval history. Bligh and his loyal followers are set adrift in a small boat, though it is here that we see why the very able officer was given a command in the first place.True, the story is supposed to be about the conflict between Bligh and Christian, but Anthony Hopkins is so very strong as William Bligh that it is mostly he that you remember (though Christian is played very well by Mel Gibson). Bligh is very much a three-dimensional character. He is by nature distant with his colleagues, but is also passionately devoted to his wife and family, and even enjoys a happy moment with his friend Christian before the journey begins. He is unquestioningly loyal to the Admiralty, but he is also just a tad bitter at not having been promoted to captain (his actual rank is Lieutenant, though he is addressed as captain when he commands a ship). He demands respect and the immediate carrying out of orders, but can also admit a mistake and still maintain his authority. Bligh can even (almost) take a joke played at his expense.Perhaps Hopkins's finest moment is one that you might literally miss if you blink. As he is being carried from his boat to the shore by the natives of Tahiti, he lifts his hat in triumph to the cheering crowd, knowing that the only way to get what he wants from King Tynah (beautifully played by Wi Kuki Kaa) is to present himself as a visiting chieftan. But as soon as the hat goes back on we see a total change he is now a businessman ready to set up a deal. Glory doesn't interest him, and he wouldn't know what to do with it if he really had it.The Bounty is visually striking, full of beautiful colors and exotic sets. I'm not exactly sure where the island scenes were filmed, but they will make you feel that Tahiti truly is paradise. The cramped space of the small ship is recreated extremely well, and we also are presented with a very real representation of the admiralty headquarters, where Bligh's trial takes place.Director Roger Donaldson also coordinates his action brilliantly, particularly in the mutiny scene and also in the one in which Bligh and his men have stopped on an island to re-supply and meet up with very unfriendly natives.If you are a Laurence Olivier fan, you may be disappointed, as he is hardly in the picture. If you yearn to see Mel Gibson, you will be well-satisfied, but also duly impressed. If you like good storytelling and character studies, you will love The Bounty. "},{"Title":"Hopkins' finest role...well worth renting...","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The screenplay and cinematography are quite superb, but what really keeps The Bounty afloat is the riveting, masterful display of Tony Hopkins as Lt. William Bligh.  Unlike the B&W classic, Tony portrays Bligh as a hard-taskmaster, but not inhumane.  He's a disciplinarian..harsh but fair.The Bounty filmed in luxurious, bountiful settings is a fresh look at the mutineers, their captain and the misery of rounding Cape Horn. "},{"Title":"William Bligh, maligned in other films, gets slightly better treatment here.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Of the three prominent Bounty movies, this is the most interesting because it offers a more realistic treatment of Captain Bligh.It seems that our opinions of this man were formed by Charles Laughton in the 1935 film, so much so that his name is synonymous with all the attributes of the harshest of dictators. The log of the Bounty and subsequent events show this to be entirely inaccurate. The British Admiralty thought enough of him that he had been promoted to rear admiral by the time he retired. After the mutineers set him and 18 others adrift in an open boat, he navigated 6,800 miles by dead reckoning to an accurate landfall in Timor, losing only one man to hostile natives and none to the elements or to despair. That is an astonishing feat not just of seamanship but of leadership, for the occupants of his boat suffered far more than the crew of Bounty had and surely had much more incentive to mutiny, or at least give up.All the Bounty films are well made, have good cast and direction, cinematography, etc. This one treats Bligh as a more complex man than the others do, though I think it likely that Fletcher Christian was a more shallow man than any of the films depicts.  Hopkins' Bligh is certainly more believable and understandable that either Laughton's or Howard's.Richard White  "},{"Title":"Underrated, understated gem","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Underrated, understated gem of a movie.Great telling of the Mutiny on the Bounty. Shows well the events leading up to the mutiny, and what happened afterwards. My most accounts, a quite accurate depiction of the historical event - Lt Bligh's own log was used in writing the screenplay - and the most accurate film made on the subject.Despite it essentially being a docu-drama, not dry or dull at all. The director keeps the pace moving well. Thanks to good setup prior to the mutiny, everything makes sense when it does occur. Furthermore, the depictions of Bligh and Fletcher Christian seem quite balanced.Great performances in the lead roles by Mel Gibson and Anthony Hopkins. Good support from a cast which includes Daniel Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson in their early careers. Also good to see the great Laurence Olivier as Admiral Hood. "},{"Title":"Roger Donaldson's Masterpiece!","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is nothing short of awesome and is one that I can watch again and again without ever tiring of it! It just has all the right ingredients, cooked up to absolute perfection - gritty and sympathetic acting, sublime photography and is topped off by a very atmospheric music score. The story unfolds beautifully and is compelling from the first. I love the early scenes between Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson, the camadarie that is so potent between them and so well portrayed by them. It's rather heartbreaking when later in the film their friendship unravels, due I believe, to some circumstances other than just the overly-authoritative behavior of Bligh. I just love the very first opening shots of the palms trees hanging against a blackening sky - oh so atmospheric and haunting. I very much think that at the time of its initial cinematic release both the critics and the public totally missed the boat (pardon the pun) on it. It comes in high on my list of personal favourites that I consider Kiwi-made such as The Quiet Earth, Heavenly Creatures, Once Were Warriors and No Way Out. The Bounty is nothing short of breath-taking! "},{"Title":"When the legend becomes fact, print the legend","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The most famous and important quote from The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is a great example of how some things must be made to be more interesting when something it's not, or to make more appealing to a larger audience. The Bounty is considered the most accurate film about the events surrounding the rebellion on the Bounty, which was presented in two other classics Mutiny on the Bounty (1935 and 1962). While the original Academy Award Winner film of 1935 is a story about how tyrannical some men can be, and the first hour of the film of the film is pretty much Captain Bligh punishing his subordinates, the 1984 version is more light in this aspect and twists the story in a very different way.The Bounty is told in flashbacks from the point of view of Bligh (Anthony Hopkins) telling how things were in the ship and how the mutiny situation took place. Hopkins portrays Bligh as a friendlier commander who becomes more and more tyrannical after the Bounty gets to Tahiti and then his great friend Fletcher Christian (Mel Gibson) forms a group of rebel that takes over the boat. I get used to the whole situation presented in Frank Lloyd's film with Charles Laughton playing a mean figure who most of the time was a brutal and eminent person, treating bad everyone for every single thing that Hopkins way of portraying Bligh was more interesting and from him you realize that this version has its own way to present things and from this point you can enjoy the film or don't care about it. I couldn't help but compare these two films and despite being a more accurate view of the real story I must say that the classic film was more appealing than this one, the adventure moments were fantastic, and the quality of the performances were impeccable while here only Anthony Hopkins display a great performance, the other members of the cast are good (Mel Gibson, Bernard Hill, Edward Fox), some of them are better in other projects (Daniel Day-Lewis, Laurence Olivier, Liam Neeson).Why you should see this movie? The brilliant cinematography is astonishing in every possible way and I can't believe it wasn't nominated for an Oscar that year; if you haven't watched the original version you'll enjoy more than I did because for a film made in the 1980's is very well made, the story is interesting even though there's some weak moments. But if you watched the 1935 movie you're gonna keep comparing both films but depending on your views this can be a better film or don't.The realism worked at times (when the female Indians appear nude in front of the Englishmen on the boat) but placing the whole story as the way it happened wasn't so much interesting because it annoys a little, carries the movie into a dark but slow way, and it misses a little bit of adventure. Another aspect that is out of hand here is the musical score of Vangelis, something that didn't match the film, in some parts when it was needed music there wasn't any, and in other parts that synthesizer music didn't help at all. He's a good composer but not in this film.Roger Donaldson made a good film, very nice to see, but it's very difficult to say if The Bounty is going to be a memorable film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A true depiction","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If William Bligh could return to this earth his lawyers would be handing out writs and summons left, right and centre for all the appalling things that have been said about him.Bligh was a very good seaman, an excellent navigator, and a firm but fair ship's captain. There were far worse than him in the Royal Navy. His 3,500+ mile voyage in a small open boat with his loyal crew members has never been bettered.After the slander of the two previous films in the 30's and 60's, this film gives a far more accurate and sympathetic portrayal of Bligh, and Anthony Hopkins is excellent as always. "}{"Title":"Underrated film, much closer to fact than earlier stabs","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Some bonehead reviewer from TV Guide, who furnishes the film reviews for Comcast, calls The Bounty a revisionist take on the original story. If the reviewer had more sources of research than Nordhoff and Hall's NOVEL, the horrible Brando version, and the really decent Clark Gable and Charles Laughton version, maybe they would realize the NOVEL and the movies are the revisionist takes. If one simply reads a biography of the main protagonists, or a scholarly book, the relationship that existed between cousins William Bligh and Fletcher Christian before Christian joined Bligh aboard Bounty becomes obvious. Actually, not even The Bounty shows the close friendship between Bligh and Christian. Christian abandoned his friend in a small boat, so he could sail off to a less brutal life than the Royal Navy, and Bligh completed one of the great small boat voyages in history, sailing an overloaded small boat by dead reckoning 1400 miles to a safe landing in the Dutch East Indies. The acting is excellent, the script spotty, the scenery to die for, and all in all, The Bounty is well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"You will clean up this ship and yourselves!","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, on paper it seemed like a mutiny was all but a given, wasn't it? Stick a group of dishevelled, starved, barely experienced sailors on a boat for months on end with no female contact and then introduce them to basically paradise, and they are not going to want to leave any- time soon. The first error of The Bounty is that it goes to little lengths to actually visualise this agonising duration on a dirty boat. It doesn't feel like they have been shackled to one area for a long period of time. Everything is forwarded to us via characterisation - every beating, lashing, gagging. We spend little time on that dinghy that Bligh and his loyalists are cast off on, and what is supposed to be a courageous and harrowing journey back to civilisation happens in a few blinks of the eye, a few dissolves to show time. It's also been praised for a more moderate representation of Bligh, not as a monster, but as a measured, intelligent captain that was overcome by unfortunate situations. I do not see it. Hopkins is a fine actor, but his Bligh is seemingly written as a complete and utter dictator of HMS Bounty, punishing every small indiscretion severely, refusing to acknowledge his men's perspectives, full of blustering pride for himself and disdain for even his commanding officers, and finally completely blinded by any adverse effects his decisions may result in. A final confrontation before the mutiny itself between Hopkins and Gibson is riveting; Fletcher offers him a final out, a chance to renounce his totalitarian rule, and Bligh responds with seething disapproval, Hopkins shivering with sweat and a delirious rage. Well it would be riveting, but this is not an explosion of anger for Bligh's character, merely the predictable end for such a despicably written captain. It would be much more affecting had the movie not already set its sights on that sudden redemption once he has been cast off the Bounty, and naming him a hero at the movie's end. Vangelis has done many an iconic score, but this must count as one of his most overbearing. It doesn't wait for an appropriate moment to chime in, but merely powers its way through ever scene with a feigned dramatic importance. In the early sequences where the sunlight blasts, the wind rips through the sails and the promise of the sea is a fresh adventure the score is dreamy and inviting, using these harp glissandos to earmark the moments of bliss like dropping anchor for the first time in weeks. And then it turns foreboding and unrelenting; a relatively unsubtle bit of symbolism is the heavily percussive track which plays as Fletcher first chases and kisses his native bride-to-be, and the banging of the drum is almost like a loud, ominous cannonball shot. And then it will match each furious glare from Hopkins at his crew's insubordination - piercing as he looks upon the couple becoming more intimate, pulsing with anger as the deserters are lashed, high- pitched as he repeatedly orders the ship to be cleaned spotless. It does no favours for Bligh's characterisation - after a while you feel like mutiny yourself, because the soundtrack has made it like Hopkins is right next to us, bellowing into our ears himself. It also makes the silly mistake of using a flashback structure so that the entire series of events are narrated from a future court adjudicating on Bligh's actions. A better movie could make this work, but here it just serves to telegraph every little detail of the plot and remove all tension created. We know that Bligh and his loyalist ultimately make it back, so it becomes less a case study for him and more one of Gibson and the dilemma he faces with his mutiny. When Hopkins' weary voice-over chimes in and thinks back on how he thought it was just youthful passion that made his master's mate abandon his duties, it not only immediately signals what is to come, but it significantly weakens his own insight as well. Add to that the paradoxically suffocating soundtrack that drowns out any actual acting and it becomes near insufferable. "},{"Title":"Excellent (though occasionally paced slowly) version of a true story","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson. Young. Handsome. Still seemingly innocent. A pleasure to remember how he once was.But beyond that, this is a brilliant film. If it has one real fault, it could have stood a bit more editing. It really didn't need to have a run time of 132 minutes, although, on the other hand, that length gave more opportunities for the kind of detail that makes the film more complete than earlier versions.It is interesting that the first half of the film portrays Captain Bligh in an almost favorable light. Although then, suddenly, when the ship leaves its paradise, he becomes an almost raving maniac. That is, perhaps, another fault of this film; it seems unlikely the captain would snap so suddenly. Even with Bogie in The Caine Mutiny, the transformation is somewhat more gradual.The cast here is excellent. Mel Gibson i great here as Fletcher Christian, although it is amazing how little actual dialog he has in long portions of the film; which is okay. Anthony Hopkins' performance here as Captain Bligh is rather restrained for much of the film, perhaps making things a bit more realistic; watching one scene where he is sweating profusely made me wonder if this film led to Hopkins eventually playing Nixon. Although his part is small, it is good to see Laurence Olivier as Admiral Hood of the investigating committee, and Edward Fox, also a member of the investigating committee. Liam Neeson had an early role here; uneventful. Wi Kuki Kaa is interesting as King Tynah. Daniel Day-Lewis is also here.What's interesting to remember is that this film is based upon a true story, and a rather fantastic one at that....particularly after the mutiny. In the little I have read, this film version is probably reasonably faithful to the true story. "},{"Title":"The full story of the Bounty mutiny and aftermath","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's ironic that this 1984 film, The Bounty, would be the least popular full-length movie about the famous mutiny. It received no awards or major nominations. It had an excellent cast, with top actors and stars on the rise. And, this is the most factual and true rendition of all the films made. It is also the most detailed in the purpose of the voyage, the ship and its crew, and the relationships of the men. It includes the mutiny, the voyage of survival by Bligh and his faithful crew members, and the fate of Fletcher Christian and the rest of the mutineersSo, for its historical rendering, The Bounty excels. Many of these details are not covered, or are skimmed over in the more popular movies. For instance, Bligh was a Royal Navy Lieutenant &#x96; not a captain. Bligh was the only navy man and only actual officer on board. Christian was not a first lieutenant, but a master. He and all the rest of the leaders of the crew had the ranks of noncommissioned officers and came from the merchant marine. Christian was a known friend of Bligh's before the voyage. Bligh's first mate had already been chosen, so Christian signed on as junior to him. But, Bligh later removed the other mate, Fryer, and put Christian in his place. Bligh was an accomplished and skilled naval officer. He had served under Captain Cook on his third voyage to the South Pacific, so he alone knew the area and Tahiti. Bligh was not the fierce commander who doled out heavy physical punishment. He was more lenient than most captains in that regard. But, he had a temper, and made many verbal miscues as an officer. All of these things and many more facts of the true story are in this film. It is an excellent account of the voyage of the HMS Bounty, the mutiny, the successful 3,500-mile sea voyage of Bligh and his loyalists on a small boat, and the plight of the mutineers. So, why then is it not the best, the favorite of all the movies? I think it's because the characters of the other films were much more interesting. Look at the 1935 film, for instance. Charles Laughton was outstanding as a fierce, fear-inspiring captain. Clark Gable was much more interesting as the flamboyant office and dashing ladies' man. And, then there's the amount of time spent on so much of the factual details. I think the 1984 film spent far too much time covering the five-month layover on Tahiti. The sailing scenes were better and more interesting in the earlier films. The performances in The Bounty were all very good. But, the screenwriters needed to do something to make the leads more interesting &#x96; especially Christian and Fryer. There were a couple of excellent supporting performances in this movie. Most notable was that by Liam Neeson as Seaman Charles Churchill. I am among those who find the 1935 Bounty with Laughton and Gable the most exciting and entertaining. I think that drives home a good point that people should not rely too much on movies for accurate history. A movie like the 1935 film can entertain by playing loose with or not including many of the facts or true aspects of the story. And, it can wet one's appetite for history. But, we need then to check the true story in the Encyclopedia Britannica or other sound historical sources. I thought viewers might be interested in some more facts. Although it had three masts, the Bounty was quite small as could be seen in the early loading scenes. It was only 90 feet long, 24 feet wide, and displaced a mere 230 tons. It had a crew of one officer and 45 men. Compare that to a Man-Of-War, the types of ships we have seen in some of the great naval movies and swashbucklers. For instance, Lord Nelson's ship at the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805 (just 15 years after the Bounty mutiny) displaced 3,500 tons. It had three masts, each with three to four sails (some as long as 200 feet), and measured 227 feet long and 52 feet wide. It carried a crew of 850 men &#x96; nearly 20 times the size of the Bounty's crew. And, it had 104 canons; 4 in the bow, 8 astern, and 56 each aligned on three gun decks on each side. It could make 8 to 9 knots an hour &#x96; about 10 miles per hour. The HMS Victory is still in service as the flagship of the Royal Navy Fleet Admiral at Portsmouth, England. MGM used existing sailing ships for its 1935 film to represent the Bounty and the Pandora. Fewer tall ships existed by 1962, and MGM built a replica for its film that year with Marlon Brando. After the movie it sailed around the world as a tourist attraction, but sank off the coast of North Carolina after the crew abandoned it during a hurricane in 2012. Another replica was made for this 1984 film, and today it serves as a tourist boat in Honk Kong Harbor. In 1957, divers from National Geographic discovered the ruins of the Bounty at Pitcairn Island. And, that island today has about 56 residents, descendants of the Bounty mutineers and the Tahitians who went with them. "},{"Title":"The great and tragic Bligh story","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I finally got round to watching this film and I really enjoyed it. I brought two mirrors to bear in my mind as I watched. One was the film Master and Commander, which is not a mutiny story but depicts the era and life on the oceans. The other is a masterpiece of investigative historical research. The book is The Bounty the true story of the mutiny on the Bounty by Caroline Alexander. Examining this story from a wealth of rarely seen documents in Australia and New Zealand (if I recall) she was able to piece together many disjointed parts of the mutiny. Further she provided much background information about what became of Bligh and those involved in the mutiny. I cannot recommend her book enough for those who have a taste for this crazy story. First of all the film is gorgeous to look at. The scenery fairly drips with colours. The bare chested natives are also nice eye-candy. The uniforms of commissioned officers just about pop out of the screen with such bright shades. I quite enjoyed the manner in which the trial that Bligh, like all commanders or captains who had lost their ship had to endure, was juxtaposed back and forth into the story. (Now that I think about it, this would be a good time to plug all of the Aubrey/Maturin novels of the beloved Patrick O'Brian. From him you will learn as much if not more about naval life than by reading Alexander's terrific book). A few weaknesses in retrospect come to mind. Sir Joseph Banks was the man who put the entire breadfruit, Tahiti expedition in motion. That it was an adventure to find a way of growing food cheaply and efficiently to feed slaves on Jamaica makes the blood run hot. That they continued back to Tahiti once again to pursue the fruit was surely one of the lowest points in English history. I am surprised that Banks was not inserted more clearly as the initiator of this madness. I would normally say that Mel Gibson gives a strong performance in whatever role he inhabits, given that he is a very talented actor. Notwithstanding a loathing of him as a person outside of the movie industry, I didn't let my revulsion influence watching him act. I found his embodiment of Fletcher Christian a bit wobbly. I say this because instead of emoting something more clearly defined as turmoil when it was appropriate, too often, for my liking, he wore a blank look on his face. Compare this to the master actor, Sir Anthony Hopkins, who is famous for allowing the character he represents to be transparent and fully involved. Over all I think that it is under rated and if trashed by critics of that time, unjustly so. I saw a comment here from someone who said forget Master and Commander. Not so. It also is a superb film and adheres very closely to the several O'Brian novels from which the script is crafted. Finally, I am not really a big fan of Vangelis. I mean, the only film that I associate his soundtrack music to is the always entertaining Blade Runner. I can't imagine that film without the music. Seen these many years later, the 1984 film of the Bounty does not couple well with the electronic sounds that Vangelis was known for. A minor quibble but I'm a musician and am fussy about soundtracks. By comparison there is not one single sound of music that is out of place in Master and Commander. The Bounty is good movie making. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When watching movies like this It is important to remember the extraordinary journey that it really was. Back then people hadn't done a lot of this sort of thing and most hadn't even left the shores of England much less circumnavigate the globe for fruit trees no less. It seems a well scripted and well acted movie with a good, solid theme and many (at the time, soon to be) accomplished actors. It's nice to see some of these guys when they were still young. Definitely a good watch and worth some of your worthless time. Simply thinking about trading places with any of these men makes me feel like I'm still a boy at 30. Although the story is well known, the director seemed to want you to get caught up in what you didn't know. There is a definite isolation of view when it comes to the divination of officer and enlisted (as is the case with many militarily oriented movies)and in this, I think it fits. There is a sense that even though the acting is scripted, it is still realistic and can draw a sense of what really happened. All in all... it's still just a movie about some guys mutinying and so in the end that's what you're waiting for, but for me it's always about the small parts of pleasant in between. "},{"Title":"Channelling Captain Bligh","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I didn't really appreciate how good Roger Donaldson's The Bounty was until I read Rob Mundle's masterful biography of Bligh and saw a documentary called The Investigation of Captain Bligh. This featured descendants of William Bligh and Fletcher Christian who were still arguing the case for their respective ancestor as to who was in the right and who was in the wrong.Until then, I was probably influenced by the two earlier Hollywood movies, which painted Bligh as a villain pure and simple. However, compared to the portrayals of Captain Bligh by Charles Laughton and Trevor Howard, Anthony Hopkins virtually channelled him.The 1935 film with Laughton as Bligh and Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian had always been considered the definitive version. Laughton gave a bravura performance, which was much admired at the time, and much imitated &#x96; everyone seemed to have a version of Laughton's sneering Cheese Mr. Christian? But it was the defiant speech he made while shaking his clenched fist at the mutineers after being cast adrift that seemed to defy any other actor to attempt the role.Nevertheless there was a lavish remake in 1962 with Marlon Brando playing a rather eccentric Christian, and Trevor Howard particularly one-note as Bligh. When the 1984 version arrived, it seemed at first that it was going to be the same old story but dressed up with a sexy new star, Mel Gibson, a funky new-age score by Vangelis and a lot more use of the zoom lens.But this is the version that really nailed it &#x96; there is a good chance we won't need another one.The Bounty is the most historically accurate of them all. It includes more of Bligh's famous open boat voyage, and also shows that Bligh and Christian were friends long before the fateful voyage. Unlike the other versions, Fletcher Christian is shown to be both petulant and impulsive. Should we worry so much about historical accuracy? In this case, I think yes. With each of these films, there was always the expectation that here, finally, was the true story. However, with a screenplay based on Richard Hough's book by Robert Bolt, one of the greatest screenwriters in the history of cinema, the story was always in safe hands. The script is remarkably faithful to the facts while the words helped the actors create flesh and blood characters. Good as Mel Gibson is as Fletcher Christian, this is Hopkin's movie. He brings to life Bligh's complex character; his sharp tongue &#x96; the cause of many of the problems between Christian and himself &#x96; the stress of command in a remote location, the struggle to do his duty as he sees it, and his fortitude in the face of overwhelming odds. Compared to Hopkins' performance, Laughton's Bligh now seems more one-dimensional.In my opinion, if you see only one version of this famous story, it should be this one. "},{"Title":"Great movie with great acting by the hole cast","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is really great and this movie is the best movie i have seen in the last month and a half.The great actor Anthony Hopkins does a really great job at acting as Lieutenant William Bligh in this movie and this is one of his best movies he has ever been in.There are a lot of other great actors in this movie like Mel Gibson,Daniel Day-Lewis from the great movie Gangs Of New York,Bernard Hill and i was surprised to find Liam Neeson from the good movies DarkMan and BatMan Begins stars in this movie.Over all this movie is really great and if this movie is ever on t.v u should watch it.And my rating for this movie is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unpopular Realism","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's ironic that the truest version of this story was the least popular, but every historian I've read backs this one. We keep forgetting what a miserable life the common seaman had - or how smart the captains had to be. (See Master and Commander, for example.) Although I haven't seen the film in more than fifteen years, I'm still haunted by one scene Captain Bligh has been put in the long boat with a few officers, to row for Africa. Mister Christian is staring down on them. Captain Bligh warns They mutinied once; they can do it again. And suddenly Christian is afraid... The discipline, though harsh, was necessary; most crewmen had no structure in their lives, and no capacity to see as far ahead as next week. Their officers had to, and they were trained harshly as well. Read the Hornblower series, for some first rate adventures of the times.Performances on the Bounty were first rate, and this is one to see - especially if the MGM version is fresh in your mind. Never mind Brando and his antics in Tahiti...though Trevor Howard wasn't a bad Bligh, either. He just didn't have the script on his side. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully atmospheric retelling of an old classic with a haunting soundtrack.","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A wonderfully atmospheric retelling of an old classic with a terrific cast and a haunting soundtrack supplied by Vangelis. If you like costume dramas with weight then you will love this film as it has all the swash without the buckle! Anthony Hopkins gives his usual powerful performance as the baddie-turned-victim and by the end of the film I am sure that like me you will want to see him vindicated. Mel Gibson struggles somewhat in the shadow of Hopkins but gives his all as Fletcher Christian. The atmosphere of the tropical island paradise is brilliantly captured and the scene showing the demise of the ship is, like the music, very haunting. There's no going back now Fletch!! Look out for John Sessions in a cameo role.  "}{"Title":"This seafaring flick aims to take on the high seas, but never quite sets sail","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This 1984 version of Mutiny on the Bounty has an impressive cast featuring Mel Gibson, Anthony Hopkins, Laurence Olivier, Daniel Day-Lewis, Liam Neeson and others. Given that, you might expect it to be a fabulous film. Unfortunately, it falls short of that distinction.It's difficult to pinpoint why this is. Partly it may be the frequent use of unbridled screaming to build and sustain tension, when at times a restrained approach using chill, taut tones would have served better. Or maybe it's the fact that while we are allowed glimpses into the characters' souls, we never know them quite as fully as we'd like to.The way the director chose to shoot and generally handle the ending leaves you thinking, `Is that it?!' Not very satisfying.On the positive side, the film is colorful and pleasant to look at, and there are some fine dramatic moments, as well as a bit of comic relief. There's also enough spraying, splashing and clashing action on the ship during the storms scenes to get your attention.The Bounty could have been better, but is still worth seeing if you like a seafaring tale with elements of adventure, suspense and romance mixed in - or else are a fan of one or more of its stellar cast members.6/10 "},{"Title":"Straightforward and fairly well done","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is a straightforward retelling of the well known Bounty tale.  The film sticks pretty close to the historical record and does not demonize either side in the conflict.  Bligh is portrayed as a capable and determined officer with conflicting humanitarian impulses and bouts of temper. Most of the officers and crew opposing him are also likeable and understandable which makes the drama of the mutiny even more appealing.I am not a fan of Anthony Hopkins, but he does marvelous work portraying the complexities of the Bligh character.  Mel Gibson does a capable, if uninspiring, job of portraying Fletcher Christian.  Liam Neeson and Daniel Day Lewis make the most of their relatively minor roles as does the Tahitian King.The script, camerawork, and editing are very nice but not surprising and the focus is squarely on the historical story.The Tahiti sequences were filled with stunning, topless young ladies jiggling to and fro and giggling which is always a plus.  But it made one wonder whether Tahiti had any middle-aged ladies or grandmothers or whether they kept them all in a cave.The one big disappointment I had with the film is the score by Vangelis.  This film needed an orchestra badly and Vangelis's new age synth was jarringly inappropriate.  This was particularly evident during the storm at sea sequences and when the Bounty got underway.The film ended with the arrival at Pitcairn Island which is only a part of the story.  Since this is a historical drama it might have been good to list what actually happened to the characters at the end of the movie.  But I suppose explaining that the white men and Tahitian men kill each other over the women might have spoiled the romantic nature of the ending a bit.  It would have been interesting to note Bligh's long career with the Royal Navy and reaching the rank of Admiral.All in all, a very good and fair rendering of this historical event with appealing characterizations of the participants.  "},{"Title":"Does well to live up to maritime legend.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first saw The Bounty many years ago late at night while trying to find something decent on television and I couldn't have asked for a better result, rarely has channel hopping proved so prosperous.  Years later, when I got hold of the video, the film had lost none of its' wonder.  I wasn't lucky enough to catch it on a cinema screen and often wonder how it would compare, but it remains terribly powerful on the small screen - an achievement few movies can lay claim to.The Bounty set sail in 1788 to transport breadfruit from Tahiti to the West Indies as a cheap source of food for slaves but after a paradisiacal spell on the island (with an abundant sexual promiscuity from the Tahitian women), the sailors mutinied shortly after leaving the island.  Due to reasons that become clear throughout the course of the film, the episode has remained one of the most documented and talked about in maritime history and the movie does well to live up to legend.Most time is spent examining the relationship between Lieutenant William Bligh (Anthony Hopkins) and Masters Mate Fletcher Christian (Mel Gibson) who had been friends for many years before setting sail, but whose friendship becomes tested after a clash of interests while harboured in Tahiti.   It is this relationship that drives the movie onwards.  In many accounts William Bligh has been painted as a bad tempered megalomaniac and Fletcher Christian as a courageous man driven to the edge, however the writers, Richard Hough and Robert Bolt, are careful to keep this relationship so well balanced that your sympathies sway between both points of view for the duration of the movie.  Though the crux of the film lies in this association, all too brief moments explain the feelings of the rest of the crew and I would have liked to see more made of the thoughts of the films largest cast, the Tahitians.With actors ranging from Dexter Fletcher to Laurence Olivier, and Daniel Day-Lewis to Liam Neeson the casting (as in many British movies) is second to none.  Even the unknown Tahitian actors, such as Wi Kuki Kaa as King Tynah, carry off their roles with well-observed sensitivity and an understanding of the structure of the story.Roger Donaldson directs with aplomb and brilliantly captures the claustrophobia of the ship and the situation while maintaining the expanse of the ocean and the Tahitian landscape.  Though the film rightly focuses on the story of the mutiny itself, and the events leading to it, some of the most interesting parts of the true story have been sorely missed or skated over.  I wont go into these events here (to save giving the story away), but if you liked the film it's worth reading much of the literature that has been written about The Bounty to get the complete and fascinating account.  "},{"Title":"a better remake then you think!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  the cast is wonderful, with a young Neelson, brilliant acting Hopkins and a satisfying Gibson. The only thing that they overlooked is the cheap music-score that makes this film look like a t.v. series. The conservative way of shooting; the camera does not take spectaular sides, is not a shortcoming, but when the were a little bit more progresive, they would have scored one of the best re-make's ever...   "},{"Title":"Big things to come for its cast.....","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Daniel Day-Lewis wins an Oscar for best actor for 'My Left Foot' (1989).  Anthony Hopkins win an Oscar for best actor for 'The Silence of the Lambs' (1991).  Liam Neeson is the protagonist in 1993's 'Schindler's List', a landmark film.  And Mel Gibson wins two Oscars for producing and directing 1995's 'Braveheart'.  Who would have thought all this would happen after seeing 'The Bounty'?  This is a great film that reverses the previous portrayals of Willaim Bligh and Fletcher Christian.  Previous versions of this story show Bligh as a villain and virtually sanitize Christian.  This film shows them both as deeply flawed men and balances their different characterizations so they are given virtually the same amounts of time on screen where each is made to look like a truly human character throughout the film's running time.     "},{"Title":"THE BEST BOUNTY EVER","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I believe this is the best rendition of Mutiny on the Bounty ever made. Superior perhaps even to the original Charles Laughton/Clark Gable version, and certainly much better than Marlon Brando's posturing over acting.Everything about it is first rate.  Anthony Hopkins as Captain Bligh, a much maligned figure, is given kinder treatment here.  Mel Gibson's Fletcher Christian is all too human.The photography is superb, as are the depictions of the natives both good and bad. Christian's girl is shown as attractive but not dream like and not too Hollywood alluring.See this film by all means.  "},{"Title":"Not the story you know....","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The greatness of this film is that it is honest. Bligh and Christian are stereotypes in other films about this incident, but this film humanizes both of them, and is a more accurate retelling of the tale.Bligh was not a bad guy, he was just put in an impossible situation, where he was given a ship that was inadequate to the task. He was then in a situation where his men went native, enjoying good weather and good sex with natives.Enjoy Anthony Hopkins in a Pre-Hannibal Lector role, where he can still breathe life into a character. Also enjoy Mel Gibson in a trying to establish himself as a serious actor before everyone realizes you are crazier than bat-guano role. They both do well. And sexy island chicks going topless. What is not to love in this film? A couple actors you learn to love later (Liam Neesom, Daniel Day-Lewis) also are in this film.Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of the best iterations of the Bounty tale.","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't like Dino De Laurentises films. I think they're mostly bad or just pure schlock. But, The Bounty is a memorable voyage caught on film. The amount of art direction and the casting is superb for the nautical epic. Mel Gibson makes an outstanding Fletcher Christian, and Anthony Hopkins is superb as Captain William Bligh.There's a lot of excellent performances in this film. Couple that with incredible cinematography and an eerily haunting score by Vangelis, and you have one fantastic film. I mean they rarely get any better than this. This is not a deeply moving film as such. There's a love story (several in fact), a story about internecine conflict among the officers, and a story for survival on both fronts before and after a faction of the crew rise up in arms. The film is what it is, a visual representation of British Naval history, and finely shot with very authentic settings and performances. For that alone you should see it, or even add it to your movie collection. Not one to miss.Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" BountyStory The story follows old and many times over told story of the ship Bounty. This story is based on real events and this is one of the first movie witch really try to portray it as reality. Famous book and majority of film adaptations changed the story to a fight of a good guy Fletcher with evil captain Bligh. But this was not the case because as many times before reality differs from legends. Acting Well acting is just great. Anthony Hopkins clearly shows why he is acting legend. He is really amazing. Daniel Day Lewis also gives a terrific performance as slimy firth mate, I really hated him very soon. Gibson's performance is good but it fades in comparison with the others. Directing and camera The film is shot in a very good way, there are beautiful sceneries of sea and tropical islands. Also some scenes are really powerful. Music Music was written by Vangelis and is terrific.Conclusion All in all great movie, with amazing performances and great music. It is also good it tries to stand right to historical accuracy and not just remake popular story. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Photographed, vigorous acting from Hopkins","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When Vangelis is involved in the score there's an added bonus to 80's movies, and this is no different. Although some of the soundtrack seems to have aged not quite gracefully much of it is haunting. The Bounty is a well done movie based on The Mutiny on the Bounty tale/accounts over 200 years ago. The costuming and ship were pretty convincing, and there seems to be some attention to detail of Older British Navy Protocols during the tail end of the age of discovery and trade. Photography and effects are well made as well. By far the best performance is by Anthony Hopkins (quite a bit younger of course) who's Blithe seems determined but later paranoid of his social surroundings and his heavy hand of authority with his crew. He enthralls with vigor as a salty sea- dog captain. Mel Gibson is well cast as a troubled younger man who doesn't quite agree with the tactlessness of his captain. Gibson turns in a good performance, perhaps a bit subdued. (spoilers) They, together with some other familiar European actors meet some of the usual at sea problems that we've seen in other films. And of course later there's the requisite romance with islander savages. Perhaps more enjoyable than the mutiny itself is the survival of the smaller skiff, with the thrown out but spirited captain and company surviving through high spirits. One of the best scenes in the movie involves the Hopkins character donating his food rations to disheartened enlisted. Of note, Lawarence Olivier throws some added weight in a cameo type for good measure. Done imo during a great time of movie making - early to mid-Eighties, catch The Bounty especially if you like Vangelis or at-sea adventures. "}{"Title":"Great actors and beautiful looking","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Lieutenant William Bligh (Anthony Hopkins) is brought before a trial for the mutiny on his ship HMS Bounty. He recounts the events of his voyage to take breadfruit from Tahiti to Jamaica. He recruits his friend Fletcher Christian (Mel Gibson) to join him. Bligh vows to not lose a man and institute unconventional methods. Seaman Charles Churchill (Liam Neeson) is a violent brute and often gets into conflicts. Bad weather prevents the ship from rounding Cape Horn and Bligh's hope to circumnavigating the globe. Fryer (Daniel Day-Lewis) had argued against Cape Horn and Bligh replaces him with Christian as second in command. In Tahiti, Churchill agitates to leave the Bounty and stay on the islands. Christian gets the chief's daughter pregnant and is conflicted about leaving. The Bounty leaves Tahiti with Bligh growing tyrannical as a reaction to Christian's laissez-faire. Then Bligh vows to try Cape Horn once again.This is filled with great actors. They are all good. The older versions have Bligh as the villain and Christian as the hero. This one isn't quite so simplistic. Christian is more of a blank for the most part while Bligh tries to be sympathetic as much as he's allowed. Hopkins isn't doing a crazed dictator as usual but a needy outsider. I'm not sure about the constant back and forth between the time periods. The later time period adds very little to the movie. It is far too long already. The movie needs to get to Tahiti earlier. The turn in Tahiti is terrific with Hopkins finding another gear. The film looks beautiful. If Roger Donaldson could push the pace more and reduce the over 2 hour running time, this could be an even better film. "},{"Title":"Not better or worst than the Brando-version, just a completely different take","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The 1984 version of the Mutiny of the Bounty has been sitting on my shelf for quiet a while before I came around to watching it. Reason being, that I'm a big fan of the MGM-version and generally consider remakes somewhat unnecessary. But when I finally got around to watch the film, I was pleasantly surprised, to say the least.Thanks to prior films with Clark Gable or Marlon Brando, the perceptions of the mutiny (and especially the ill-fated captain) have been a little one-sided, if not biased. Captain Bligh is generally perceived as a ruthless tyrant, Fletcher Christian as a noble, justice-seeking soul and the mutiny itself as completely justified. The Bounty takes a slightly different take. There is no good guys versus bad guys-mentality. All the characters are somewhat flawed, which makes them all too human. Bligh (Anthony Hopkins) is essentially an idealist, generally a fair man, but completely overtaken by his sense of duty and puritanical background (in reality Bligh was said to have been a captain who, unlike most contemporaries, would reprimand, where other captains would whip and whip where other captains hang misfits). Treating his crew harsh seems almost a panic reaction of a man who fears that he might loose control over his mission. Christian (Mel Gibson) on the other hand is the mirror-image of Bligh A happy-go-lucky youngster, who &#x96; like most sailors &#x96; cares less about the mission or social-justice, and more about his woman on Tahiti. Same goes for the rest of the mutineers, more or less scoundrels, who care less about their duties and more about living the hedonistic lifestyle. It is hence understandable that the real story didn't come to a happy-end; a few years after having settled on Pitcairn Island, most of the crew had decimated itself with drink and violent murder (even today, despite its sparse population, the island is plagued by a high rate of sexual assault).That said The cinematography of The Bounty is excellent and the atmosphere so authentic, that one can really imagine what it must have been to be a sailor of the time. The actors are altogether superb; only Daniel Day-Lewis is a little wasted as John Fryer and Mel Gibson, still being young and rather inexperienced, relies more on his charm and good looks rather than his (still limited) acting-skills. From the point of the mutiny on, the story seems a little rushed, which may have something to do with the fact that the film was originally meant to be divided into two parts. Indeed, one would have liked to see more of the live of the mutineers on Pitcairn and the end suggests a happy-end that was not to be. Personally I found the soundtrack a bit unfitting. Generally I like the Vangelis-sound (he did an outstanding job on Blade Runner and 1492 &#x96; Conquest of Paradise), but the sugary-sweet, dreamy melodies would have been more fitting in a Werner Herzog film. But these flaws are minor and The Bounty is highly recommendable to everybody who is interested in the story of the Bounty-mutiny. An exceptional movie, that would have deserved more attention than it did at the box-office (no doubt most potential viewers likewise expected just another remake).A final theory some claim that Bligh forced the sailors to eat breadfruit on the return-voyage (in which case I myself would call the mutiny justified).8/10 "},{"Title":"Superb Retelling Of Famous Mutiny","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Roger Donaldson directed this superb film, a remake of the 1935 original that had starred Clark Gable & Charles Laughton. Here, Mel Gibson & Anthony Hopkins play friends turned bitter enemies Fletcher Christian and Captain Bligh, who sail the Bounty on a trading mission to Tahiti, where most of the crew are seduced by this paradise of great weather, abundant food, water...and beautiful native women. After leaving the island, Christian leads a mutiny, takes over the ship and goes back to Tahiti, setting Bligh and his loyal officers adrift, where they amazingly survive horrendous conditions, and Bligh leads another ship back there to punish them, though they had already left for parts unknown... Well-acted, directed, and scored film vividly shows the futility of mutiny and desertion, and the high price the mutineers will face. Fine script evenly balances the stubborn but honorable Bligh with the equally determined but erratic Christian. Can hold its own against the Academy Award winning original, and deserves to be better known and acclaimed. "},{"Title":"Old Story, Novel Insights.","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Are there any more changes to be rung on this hoary tale? Yes. In the 30s, Clark Gable as Fletcher Christian, mutineer, was stern but a humanitarian, whereas Charles Laughton as Captain Bligh of HMS Bounty was a sadistic beast, scowling and flogging a man even after he was dead from flogging.The splashy 1960s version had Trevor Howard as Bligh, not necessarily mean by nature but obsessed by the need for discipline and a compulsion to complete the mission even at the expense of his crew. Marlon Brando, beginning as a somewhat comic figure, held his temper until driven to take the ship. He dies horribly.There ought to be hardly any interpretations left, short of turning this into a CGI-propelled Clash of the Titans. But here we are with Anthony Hopkins as Bligh, a friend of Mel Gibson as Christian. And Bligh is a genuinely NICE GUY -- until Freud rears his bearded head and he begins to envy Gibson's easy self indulgence and punishes him as well as the crew. Hopkins gets to sweat a lot. He tosses in bed, thinking of Gibson ashore, boffing that pretty Tahitian maiden.Hopkins also sheds his usual restraint and shouts and grins ironically, insanely. Gibson, on the other hand, is breathless and wide eyed and uncertain. They are supported by an impressive cast -- Daniel Day-Lewis as a bitchy heavy, Liam Neeson who doesn't care if he gets hanged, Olivier and Fox as part of Bligh's court martial.Except for the scenes dealing with Pitcairn Island, the story is told from Hopkins' point of view as he narrates the events at his trial. Of the actors -- the Pacific Islanders aside -- Gibson's performance seems the least convincing, although he's young and handsome.There is a strange electronic score underlying the events. Sometimes, as when a storm is approaching, it's ominous. Most of the time it's more distracting than anything else.The previous tales of the Bounty were, in their different ways, engaging, and this one may be less compelling but it still has some novel features. Ernest Jones managed to come up with a murky psychological picture of Hamlet. I wonder how many more versions can be gotten out of the data. "},{"Title":"A Stellar Cast on an Adventure Across The Sea!!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Surprisingly, I hadn't even heard of this film until I found it while stumbling around looking for something to watch. When I read the plot, along with its legendary cast, I was dumbfounded. Mel Gibson, Anthony Hopkins,Liam Neeson and Daniel Day-Lewis all in a film together has the makings of an epic... The story follows Lieutenant William Bligh --played by Anthony Hopkins -- who commands a British ship to the island of Tahiti, seeking to trade goods. Once grounded, the ship's men blissfully become corrupted by their lust for the islands exotic temptations, and its beautiful half naked women. Fletcher Christian --played by Mel Gibson -- is Lieutenant Bligh's mate and personal friend. He is the first to succumb to the islands temptations, falling in love with one of the savage girls. When Bligh catches sight of how his men are behaving, he casts down heavy punishments upon them. This in turn leads to inner grumblings amongst the lower deck sailors. Bligh begins the voyage back to Brittain, which infuriates Christian and the others who are forced to leave their lovers behind. Tension begins to boil furiously between Bligh and Christian all the way to the film's climax, when Christian leads the men to an act of mutiny, when they take over the ship...The Bounty leads an all star cast on an adventure across the sea, well worth witnessing. Daniel Day-Lewis -- the arrogant and aristocratic Mr. Friar -- and Liam Neeson -- the strong and stubborn Churchhill -- give performances worthy of mention. I give it a strong 7 and recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"Two hours of escapism.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm a pretty big Anthony Hopkins fan, plus I like history (and tropical island paradises). Thus, this film naturally appealed to me. The Bounty is a period piece, and based on true events, but it is not factually accurate, so the plot should be taken with a grain of salt. Hopkins is excellent, pulling off dialogue that no other actor could, and the supporting cast is mostly English, therefore very good. The photography is brilliant, the script well done, and the score, by Vangelis, a nice change of pace. This film is not a true work of genius, but it will be around for quite a long time (and not just 'cause of the ubiquitous Tahitian mammaries on display).    "},{"Title":"An Acting Class","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The movie was alright with the exception of the romance between Christian and an Island native girl which I thought was kinda dull and trivial. However, one cannot ignore the magnitude of the actors that are in this film Anthony Hopkins, Mel Gibson, Liam Neeson, Daniel Day-Lewis, and the great Laurence Olivier. My favorite scene is the actual mutiny of the ship. What an amazing showcase of powerful and intimidating performances! Not just by Hopkins and Gibson, but also by two actors who were just being recognized Daniel Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson. I'm an actress and this is one of my favorite films to watch and observe the acting and the techniques used in this movie.  "},{"Title":"All Hands","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is an engaging portrayal of the men of the sea who risked all they had to go on far away voyages. Hopkins is in his best form, actually superb as a stern Bligh. Lewis does a more than adequate job as the boatswain and Gibson gives an impassive role which is not developed fully, the only disposition he possess is shrewd youth. The crew is portrayed as cutthroats and brawlers who without Bligh's astute discipline would indulge in complete anarchy and violence against everything. So Bligh is portrayed as more than human here, he is remarkably constrained given the attitude of the crew. Oliver is also sublime as an English Admiral who engages the court-martial proceedings of Bligh.  At the end we are left to wonder why Christian had mutinied against the captain of the ship in the first place, perhaps because of some coquetry with a native girl, it seems so silly and there was no real reason. The film loses steam after they arrive in the island of Tahitia. It's as if the direction changed, it was rumored that David Lean left after the budget soared and a less capable  director moved in. But all in all, this is a great film to watch, one of the classics of the seaman's life.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it very much but didn't care for selection of Fletcher's girlfriend, Tervaitte Vernette.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I came upon the movie, The Bounty quite by surprise, it was on sale at the video store for $5.00. Now I think I have viewed it at least 15 times. It is, in my opinion better than Mutiny on the Bounty with Marlon Brando. The actors made the movie seem so realistic. I really enjoyed all the sailors, even if they were extras. Anthony Hopkins should have been given an academy award. Mel Gibson was so, so. I didn't think Mautua (Fletcher's girlfriend was portrayed by such a beautiful actress. They could have found someone more beautiful for that part.  "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation that shows the two main characters as real people","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite adaptation of the great Nordhoff & Hall classic because it shows Cpt. Bligh & Fletcher Christian as two men with two very different natures, instead of the usual good guy vs. bad guy Hollywood portrayal. An excellent cast Hopkins, Gibson, Neeson, Day-Lewis, even Olivier himself; and beautiful South Pacific locations make this a pleasure to the eye as well as an insightful study into the nature and motives of man.  "}{"Title":"Jealousy of the bounty (tv)","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm sure i got my taste for ship travels, pirates, exotic island and English Navy thanks to the library of my poor grandmother. It was before American comics and she got only a few books to offer us and among them, i think there was Treasure Island, Robin Crusoe and a team of animals seeking a treasure ! With this movie, i feel immediately this special wind which wasn't the case with  pirates of Caribbean . Here, the production feels real, rich ; the locations are beautiful and the natives are indeed exotic. Thus, Mel's romance seems authentic and i really understand his passion to stay unlike Hopkins. In a way, the key to understand the movie (and my summary) is here the prestigious captain grasps the daughter while the simple aid wins the beautiful one! In addition, the movie offers surprises, adding to Mel and Hopkins, young Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson ! And maybe you will be seasick because the life aboard a ship is well done  it's claustrophobic and overcrowded  in a way, you can't get mad without being noticed ! It's also a good illustration about authority  this is a strange power build on imagination and consent of everyone because when the numbers wake up, they can take it back from the individual. "},{"Title":"good  work","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" example of measure. in acting, story, characters portraits. a remarkable cast. and inspired music. a film who can be disappointed for the hunters of historical truth details. but a good gift for admirers of Anthony Hopkins or Laurence Olivier. a film who has as axis the music of Vangelis and examples of admirable performances- except, maybe, Mel Gibson who prefers create a role without root - but the work of Wi Kuki Kaa is a nice compensation, wise in solutions for atmosphere and for the tension, with a little brutal end, it is more than a good film. the source of this status - the balance between courage and science.and the flavor of pure chronicle of an exceptional case. "},{"Title":"The most accurate and realistic version of the infamous mutiny","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The 1935 black & White version of Mutiny on the bounty may have won an Oscar for Best Picture at the time, but will likely strike modern viewers as dated and unrealistic. Marlon Brando's 1962 remake is the most epic, captivating and compelling version even though it failed at the box office when released; indeed the '62 version is a masterpiece (see my review). But Mel Gibson's 1984 version, simply called The Bounty, is the most historically accurate and realistic film version of the infamous mutiny.THE PLOT (***SPOILER***) The Bounty mutiny story is so fascinating because it's TRUE. William Bligh, as acting captain, was sent on a mission in December 1787 to bring breadfruit plants from Tahiti back to England. Bligh intended on circumnavigating the globe in fulfilling the mission. Unfortunately he and his crew failed to get around Cape Horn, South America, and had to go the long way around Africa. It thus took them 10 months to reach Tahiti, wherein they were forced to stay another 5 months due to the breadfruit's dormant period. The natives were friendly and the women beautiful. It comes as no surprise that the crew naturally fell under the spell of the Polynesian paradise; Fletcher Christian even married the King's daughter, Maimiti. But after 5 months they had to get on with their mission and return to Naval discipline and England. Three and a half weeks later on April 28, 1789, Fletcher took over the ship with 18 other mutineers. 22 remained loyal to Bligh and 2 others were neutral. Christian set Bligh and 18 loyalists adrift in the ship's launch boat and then sailed back to Tahiti where he dropped off 16 men but picked up 6 Tahitian men and 11 native women, including Maimiti. Fletcher then set forth with 8 other mutineers and the Tahitians to elude the Royal Navy, ultimately settling on Pitcairn Island, which was well off the beaten path and misplaced on Royal charts, seemingly a perfect hiding place to live out the rest of their days (***END SPOILER***.WHAT WORKS As already stated The Bounty is the most historically accurate version. It also has the most realistic vibe, which isn't to say that the '62 version isn't believable, it's just that this '84 version strikes the viewer as completely REAL. It's almost as if the film takes you back in time to view the actual events.This version also gives the most balanced and positive portrayal of the infamous Captain Bligh, played by Anthony Hopkins to great effect. Indeed the film stresses that he was exonerated in the matter. But it also hints of his character flaws that ultimately provoked the mutiny. In real life Bligh had a bad temper and was abusive & insulting to his subordinates. The other two versions show an event that really happened on the Bounty two big cheeses came up missing on the ship and Bligh unjustly blamed and punished members of his crew even though it was he himself that stoled them!Perhaps Bligh's biggest flaw was that he lacked the ability to inspire loyalty in others; by all accounts he was a real bastage to be around when he was in authority. Lending credence to this is the fact that, even though he was exonerated in the Bounty case, he provoked ANOTHER mutiny years later in New South Wales, Australia!Despite all this Bligh was certainly a brilliant seaman and navigator. The film shows this with Bligh and the 18 loyalists on the adrift launch. After failing to settle on near islands due to unfriendly natives, Bligh navigates the small craft over 3600 miles to Timor in 47 days on very few provisions. He didn't have any charts or compass. All he had was a sextant and a pocket watch. Although all of the loyalists survived this incredible journey 5 later died due to ailments sustained in the voyage. The '62 version barely addresses this miraculous event but The Bounty devotes quite a few scenes to it.The score by Vangelis is very fitting. The best part of this composition is heard during the end credits. The film shows Fletcher, the mutineers and the Tahitians stranded on Pitcairn as they sadly observe The Bounty go down in flames. They know they can never go home again. Vangelis' unique piece then plays out over the credits. It perfectly captures the mood and setting. It's so magnificent sometimes I just play the end credits sequence. It's definitely one of the most emotionally potent endings in motion picture history.WHAT DOESN'T WORK Although Gibson is more realistic as Fletcher Christian than Marlon Brando, especially since Gibson was closer to Christian's real age of 23-25 (Brando was 36-37 during filming), Mel simply lacks Brando's captivating charisma.The Tahitian scenes seem to lack pizazz; the film almost crawls to a halt (which is the the exact opposite of Brando's version). It doesn't personally bother me because the film is attempting to show us what leads to the mutineers' decision to take the ship, but some viewers may have a problem with it, in particular those with ADD.The Bounty also fails to give any glimpse of what life would offer the mutineers & Tahitians on Pitcairn Island. The '62 version, on the other hand, devotes a number of scenes to this part of the story. This is not a negative to me, however, since showing subsequent scenes on Pitcairn would ruin the powerful end sequence noted above.FINAL ANALYSIS The Bounty is the most historically accurate and realistic version of the infamous mutiny even though Brando's version is the most epic, engaging and compelling. I recommend seeing both versions back to back, which is what I usually do. Both versions are amongst my favorite films of all time. In fact, I consider them masterpieces.The film runs 2 hours and 12 minutes; Brando's version is 3 hours.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Mutiny on the Bounty","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Long, moody, self conscious film based on the actual historical event of the allegedly brutal sea captain Bligh (Anthony Hopkins) being over thrown by friend and first Mate Fletcher Christian (Mel Gibson) and the crew. Daniel Day-Lewis plays Jon Fryer and Liam Neeson plays Charles Churchill. Music by Vangelis.Now this is not an uninteresting film to say the least, but it isn't always the most engaging film in the world either. There are times where it feels as though the filmmakers can't make up their minds over who they want us to sympathize with Bligh or Fletcher Christian. Then again, maybe that was the whole idea. Gibson and Hopkins are okay in their roles. As a general rule of thumb, early Mel Gibson is usually more interesting than later Mel Gibson.Of course, no one will ever know for sure what really happened on the real Bounty all those centuries ago.  "},{"Title":"An Original Look At A Famous Story","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You have to look at this movie in its own right. There's no doubt that it pales in comparison with 1935's Mutiny On The Bounty, and although I thought they both put on very good performances, when I think of Bligh and Christian I will still see Charles Laughton and Clark Gable rather than Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson. But Hopkins and Gibson were good in this. Hopkins' Bligh seemed much more human than Laughton's, much less sadistic, even able to laugh and smile and interact with the crew - which, from what I know of the history - is probably a more accurate portrayal of Bligh. He was a strict officer, definitely a disciplinarian, but certainly within the accepted bounds of the 18th century Royal Navy. Gibson's Christian is less noble than Gable's. The mutiny here has much less to do with Bligh's methods and rather more to do with Christian and the men simply wanting to stay in Tahiti. I can't blame them for that, to be honest, but it wasn't exactly the noble fight against tyranny and oppression that's often inaccurately portrayed. I also liked the structure of the movie. It unfolds as Bligh is giving testimony before a Commission of Inquiry called to decide whether he had any responsibility for the events on the Bounty. The supporting performances are all quite good - especially from a young Liam Neesom as Churchill - one of the mutineers. And yet, perhaps it's just because you can't avoid comparing it to the 1935 movie that this seems - not great. It might offer a more realistic portrayal of Bligh and Christian, but in spite of their good performances Hopkins and Gibson never leap off the screen and become Bligh and Christian. (Hopkins does better at that than Gibson, in my opinion.) To me, there seemed to be a lot of extemporaneous filler involved with this, resulting in an overly long movie, and maybe too much emphasis on the topless women of Tahiti. No doubt that's realistic and historically accurate, but the amount seemed unnecessary.I appreciated that this wasn't a remake of 1935. (I haven't seen the 1962 version with Marlon Brando and Trevor Howard, so can't comment on the relationship with that.) This was a thoughtful movie and an original take on the story. It has some weaknesses - many more than the '35 version - but it's still a decent film to watch. "},{"Title":"Nothing spectacular","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There really isn't anything spectacular about this movie.  It does however have a lot of current A list stars that you could never get all into one movie again.  The Bounty is a retread of two other movie versions and a novel that tries to present both Blythe and Christian in a more fair light.  This movie has some great potential that never really seems to take off, and the worst thing of it is, you just can't tell why.  The direction is not bad, the acting isn't bad, the cinematography, nothing in this film is bad, but it just doesn't strike you the way it should.  Personally I feel that the attempt to be fair in the sideing of the mutiny is just might be it's flaw.  On a more personal note, I side with Blythe all the way, and I feel that he was just a man who was trying to regain control.  Granted he did make some mistakes, but given the condition of the men, he could not have done anything right.  Anyway, worth checking out if you are a Hopkins, Day-Lewis, Gibson, or Neeson fan.  7/10  "},{"Title":"Well done account of mutiny aboard a british navy ship ...","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well done account of mutiny aboard a british navy ship of the late 1700's. We're not quite sure whether Christian or Bleigh is the enemy in this remake which makes for it's appeal.  Gibson and Hopkins give good performances as well in these roles. "},{"Title":"A good interpretation","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is just as good as Mutiny on the Bounty. Hopkins is an excellent Captain Bligh and in my opinion Gibson is a better Fletcher Christian than Clark Gable. Obviously this newer version has better sets, props, and special effects. The natives are also portrayed more authentically. I should also note that the story telling device of the trial was an excellent choice. This story has always appealed to me so I enjoyed both versions immensely. Recommended, 7/10. "},{"Title":"An OK Pre Action Hero Mel Gibson Performance","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This third major film version of Mutiny On The Bounty stars Mel Gibson as Fletcher Christian and Anthony Hopkins as Captain Bligh. The story hasn't changed much and Gibson's and Hopkins' portrayals are not on the level of Clark Gable's and Charles Laughton's portrayals of the same characters in the 1935 film version but this remake succeeds in providing a curiosity piece for Gibson's fans to see what he was like in that lesser period after Mad Max and before Lethal Weapon. "},{"Title":"The adventure of the Bounty's crew in Tahiti","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This remake of the film Mutiny on the Bounty(1935) is good but in certain points not better than the 1935's one. Mel Gibson's acting is not at the same level as Clark Gable in 1935 version while Hopkins is as usual simply the best giving the real bad image of Captain Bligh. The same can be said about the performance of Daniel Day Lewis. This film has good photograph and the environment is nearly the same, but with better color, as in the 1935's version.     "}{"Title":"This Bounty sinks","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's no surprise the story of the mutiny on the Bounty has been adapted to screen several times it has the potential to be both a fascinating adventure and a compelling psychological drama.Not here, though.The 1935 film with Clark Gable and Charles Laughton is still enjoyable, but I liked the idea of a more morally complex version where Bligh was not a one-dimensional monster and the mutineers not idealized heroes (I haven't watched the Brando-Howard movie yet). And the cast is impressive Anthony Hopkins, Mel Gibson, Daniel Day-Lewis, Liam Neeson, Bernard Hill, plus Laurence Olivier in a small role. I blame the failure on director Roger Donaldson, who, great actors notwithstanding, botched it - thanks to the subtlety of a sledgehammer, a (badly used) discordant Vangelis score and an inconsistent script by none other than screen writing titan ROBERT BOLT (Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago), who I assume was hindered by the source material (a novel by Richard Hough).Anthony Hopkins could seem like the ideal choice for a three-dimensional Bligh - he was still in his top form, before his late Nineties sellout. Alas, this is not one of his great performances. To be fair, Hopkins is not entirely to blame if Bligh here comes across as an absurd character who switches from decent guy to obnoxious tyrant and then to fearless leader again, with no subtle transition and no solid motivations. At least Laughton's amusingly over-the-top turn in the 1935 version was internally consistent.Gibson has never been a great actor, but he has given competent and even good performances elsewhere (The Man Without a Face). Here he is tragically out of his depth his version of a character plagued by a moral dilemma consists in brooding like a teen berated by his father for buying porn - his worst moment comes in the pivotal mutiny scene, where he shouts his way through. Again, Gable's gallant Christian may have lacked depth, but at least he was likable. Neeson, Hill and Olivier are wasted in small parts. Daniel Day-Lewis, for the first and (so far) only time in his career, is uninteresting - the fact he was badly cast as a one-dimensional twit didn't help.A disappointment and a mediocre movie.5/10 "},{"Title":"Unnecessary.","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The 1935 version of Mutiny on the Bounty was simply one of the best films of the decade. Despite being in black & white, it is still a very powerful and compelling picture today. The 1962 version, while not quite as good, was made with amazing production values and is a gorgeous looking film. Both are worth seeing. So why, then, did they remake the film again in 1984?! In fact, the public must have thought the exact same thing, as they stayed away from The Bounty and it lost a fortune. The production cost $25,000,000 and only earned a bit more than $8,000,000 in its biggest market, the US. Aside from the 'been there/done that' aspect of the film, is there any other reason for the film being such a flop? Well, perhaps Mel Gibson's bizarre performance was also a contributing factor. In this remake, his Fletcher Christian seemed, at times, just plain nuts--especially when the mutiny occurs. Regardless, I found this to be one of the most unnecessary films ever made. Not terrible, just completely unneeded. My advice is to see the first and, perhaps, second version and pass on this one despite a nice performance by Anthony Hopkins as Bligh. "},{"Title":"Sexual Enrapture","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen the Brando version yet, but this version is quite different than the Gable-Laughton one. The cinematic requirements are different. In the early version the motivator was an inherently cruel man. So we had to focus on the voyage out and what tensions were created by that cruelty.The shooting of the 1936 ship (copied later in extreme emulation in Pirates of the Caribbean) is architecturally aware and the editing is adept, increasing the tension. Everything that follows merely recalls that cinematic power, burning it in.This version is radically different. The captain in this case is a good man, with great kids (giggling little girls). Good friend of the mutineer. What causes the mutiny in this case was the allure of Tahiti, specifically the ready, open sex.If there was ever an opportunity for something cinematically effective it is the erotic allure of a an exotic array of women and an easy place. All our cinematic drivers were explored by artists earlier and the echo of Gauguin's vaginal meditations in color and anticipated desire are what roots this.It does as far as it goes anyway. The women are barebreasted. They always appear in a wall of smiling, demonstrably simple pulchritude. It tantalizes with knowing what would work here.And then it blows it, so radically it almost seems that some daft crew of kids stole the beginnings of the production and blindly sailed forward.Gibson is a lout. He knows how to shout, but he knows nothing about adoration, the soft surrender leading to hardened resolve that this version of the story demands. Hopkins differs in being a real actor and during this period he really was effective when he had a soul to work with. But the director has thuggish sensibilities, and Hopkins complies.Tahiti and surrounds have a place in the history of the cinematic imagination, probably beginning with Legong and that 36 Bounty, and then transmuting with US Navy war experiences (South Pacific and its strange, distorting filters), and the redefinition of exotic sex.This is a major disaster in most ways. But it is fascinating in how it approaches acquired copulation as a possible center of life &#151; and then runs away. The impulse of repression mutinies against the comparatively weaker ones of pleasure.Two comments on the narrative. The story is presented as recounted to us by Bligh in court, recalling from memory and reading from what seems to be a detailed log, written even when being beaten by cannibals. It doesn't work at all. Not in any respect. Puzzling.The other is the presentation of the ship. We know from the beginning that the sensibilities of place will be centered on horizon shots, and the cinema of silhouettes (which are reversed with the burning ship at the end). Compare this to how the ship is handled in the 36 version and the modern Depp pirate movies (only two of which have appeared as this is written). They are profoundly architectural and presented as the container of what we see.Not here. The ship we see is undeniably real, but you can see that it is a modern ship dressed out to look as it were built of wood. The cinematographer has to avoid any detail of the ship. That's even when the ship itself is important, as when Bligh insists that the deck is filthy and has Fletcher's watch repeatedly work to clean what we understand as imaginary contamination.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Watch only if you like the films stars or the novel if you like it!!!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about a mutiny on a ship in the 1800's. It stars today's hottest stars, Liam Neeson, Mel Gibson and Daniel Day Lewis to name a few. Or if you like the novel of the book of which this film is based on , you might like this movie!!Other wise avoid it unless you want to take a nap during this boring , dull actionless movie!!!! "}]