[{"Title":"So funny, one of my new favorite comedies!","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have heard of Bachelor Party a couple times, once on VH1's I love the 80's and also in Clerks 2 there was a small reference. The weird thing is, I'm more used to a dramatic Tom Hanks, other than Big and A League of Their Own, I've never seen him in a raw comedy movie, so it was a little weird to think of Tom Hanks as this very funny male lead in a movie. But I decided to go ahead and give the movie a look, I have to tell you, I haven't laughed so hard and so out loud in a movie like this in a long time. Then I check out the rating on IMDb, 5.7?! Are you kidding me?! This movie is just so beyond funny, I know that it is cliché'd eighties, but come on! I just couldn't believe that anyone else would not find this to be a funny film. If you're telling me you did not find Brad to be funny, you have got to get your funny bone checked because Bachelor Party is non stop laughs from beginning to end.Rick is about to get married to beautiful Debbie, his friends who live to party are throwing him the biggest bachelor party they can have. Debbie's rich and snobby family definitely don't want Rick to be apart of their lives, so Debbie's dad will do anything, including her ex-boyfriend, Cole, who wants her back, to split them up. But the bachelor party night has arrived, and things are going more crazy than the boys have expected.Bachelor Party is seriously funny, it's predictable and silly, especially the end, but it's all in good fun. This is perfect 80's humor, it's the humor I miss and I'm sure others do too, because it's raunchy but doesn't over do it and just has fun with the audience. This cast looked like they had an ultimate blast and Tom Hanks was just brilliant, his character could be a jerk, but such a great guy at the same time, so he's real and likable. This is just a funny movie that I would recommend, it's a lot of fun and the rating on IMDb is just too harsh. Come on, let's get this rating up.8/10 "},{"Title":"Classic!!","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First of all, if you are thinking that this will be some wonderful, well thought out, well crafted artwork starring Tom Hanks, put the movie down and back away from the rack. Now flash back to 1984, when movies were inane and entertaining--solely for entertaining!!! As far as raunchy 80's humor goes, you won't find anything better that Bachelor Party. Yes, the humor is predictable. Yes, the sight gags are predictable. But this movie does it better than anyone else in it's genre (that would be raunchy comedy). Good girl falls for bad boy, plan to get married, but first the guys must be guys. Let's have a party with liquor and drugs and guns and hookers and cops! and they do. Don't ask for more than this movie can deliver, yet appreciate it for what it is! "},{"Title":"A great comedy that deserves more credit","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Hanks' career began in comedy, and this film is a shining example of his comedic talents.  Hanks delivers a satisfying and enjoyable performance as groom-to-be Rick Gassko, and his supporting cast couldn't have been better selected.  Many of the film's co-stars had worked with Hanks in the past, most notably on TV's Bosom Buddies.  The chemistry is apparent here, as the actors are all very comfortable in their roles, as the dialogue is executed with a smooth, yet expedient wit.  The jokes all work in this film - outlandish as some of them may be.  There is never a dull moment in Bachelor Party, as each scene is well-constructed to deliver an inevitable laugh, without the premeditated one-liners that seem so forced in today's trash comedies. The events of the film were based on Producer Bob Israel's real life bachelor party experience, and the realism of the story can be felt in the film, as the viewer rarely has to suspend disbelief.  This movie can best be appreciated by the movie fan who enjoys witty, smirk-inducing comedies such as Porky's, Animal House, Police Academy, Summer School, and Weekend At Bernie's.  "},{"Title":"Great to spend time with","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I've read, someone has written not worth of watching. That's all blah-blah-blah. I looked it through this evening, and I can't even say how many times I've already seen it.  None of the modern US comedies could be compared to Bachelor Party. They are all uninteresting and pure in humour. It makes me think how free were american movie-makers in 80's - they could do and allowed to say everything they wanted. I'm not American and the modern comedies for teens I watch now forced me to believe that as a genre comedy is dead in US.   That's why I advise you to watch this movie, old but full of jokes about sex, crazy parties and true love, that means keeping promises. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks in 'funny' shocker!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bachelor Party has few redeeming features, but it does have one big one it's funny. Tom Hanks is about to get married, and his friends throw him one big bachelor party. Naked women, large amounts of drinking and a donkey getting high all follow.Of course, someone wants to ruin the fun, in the form of Hank's bride-to-be father. Naturally, all of his plans to ruin the party are foiled by the motley crew.Most of the gags in Bachelor Party are tasteless, but that's half of the fun. Not really recommended to devout Christians, but those with open minds will either find this film infectiously silly, or just stupid. It's a nice reminder of what film makers could get away with in the 80's, though. American Pie, it's nearest competitor, is too glossy and slick to be a proper Hollywood soft porn flick. It also has too much of a heart. Bachelor Party just piles on the dirtiness, and throws in a moral at the end, which is the way all 'Porky's' copies should be made (although Party is more fun than Porkys.)(Comedy, 1984) "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks greatest work","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this is one of the funniest movies in the history of comedy. Tom Hanks was a phenomenal comedian at one point in his career, and I would watch this over any of his other movies (even Mazes & Monsters). I don't know what I can say about this movie other than as long as you don't try to take it seriously, it will leave you in stitches for 2 hours, and if you are going to plan a bachelor party, this is your handbook.The general plot line is Tom Hanks is a blue collar worker (school bus driver for a Catholic School) as are most of his friends, but he falls in love with the rich girl, whose parent's can't stand there daughter dating an uneducated slob. Many of you will say that this plot has been seen numerous times, but this was the original comedy that did it, and did it best. If you haven't seen this movie, take the time to watch it, you don't know what you have been missing.  "},{"Title":"Works as an amusing time-passer thanks to a likable debut performance by Tom Hanks","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bachelor Party is very much like other films of its genre except that it is one of Tom Hanks' very early efforts and, as a result, is more fondly remembered than it probably would be without Hanks.Yes, before Hanks turned into Forrest Gump and an Oscar-winning heavyweight actor, he desperately starred in a 1984 teen sex comedy not unlike Porky's, The Last American Virgin or American Pie. Splash had been a success by now so the marketers could rely upon his newly-created status to promote Bachelor Party, and it paid off -- this movie was an unexpected hit when it came out (albeit a small one).Tom Hanks is a fine actor but I have to say that he had a certain charm about his acting that made many mediocre '80s comedies -- including Turner and Hooch, The 'burbs and of course Bachelor Party -- immensely likable despite their flaws.Yes, this is a crude, lewd, rude movie but it has its fair share of embarrassing moments, laugh-out-loud segments and cheesy (but fun) segments. Good entertainment for a Friday or Saturday night, and a good glimpse at a much younger, thinner, more comedic (and slapstick) Tom Hanks before he got all weepy-eyed and serious on us. "},{"Title":"An early comedy favorite from the 1980's.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When a goofy Care-Free bus driver named Rick (Two Time Oscar-WinnerTom Hanks), who decides to get married with a rich nice young woman named Debbie (Tawny Kitaen). Rick's friends (Adrian Zmed, William Tepper, Barry Diamond, Gary Grossman, Gradford Bancroft & Michael Dudikoff) decides to give Rick, an wild all-out Bachelor Party. While Rick's nemesis, a scumbag named Cole (Robert Prescott) tries to ruined the party of Rick and also trying to framed him as well. Since he's still crazy about his ex-girlfriendDebbie.Directed by Neal Isreal (Suft Ninjas) made an amusing comedy, which it was in the heights of Tom Hanks' career. Which he had another hit in 1984, which it was Splash. Hanks is fun, so is the entire cast. This has some memorable funny scenes and clever gags as well. This has becomes an Camp Classic. Fans of his early work, should enjoy this as well.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 4.0 Surround Sound. DVD also vintage behind the scenes vignettes and short interviews with the actors as well. Fans of wild 1980's sex comedies will have a blast. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Amusing silly '80's comedy.","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those typical silly early '80's comedies, that features lots of immature teenage type of lame humor and nudity and sex jokes.No, this by no means is a great movie and it also is hardly the best the genre has to offer but it's a movie that simply serves its purpose and brings some good entertainment.The movie features dozens of silly and over-the-top characters, who are the main reason why this movie is such a maintaining and silly entertaining one to watch. It features Tom Hanks in an early comical movie role and it actually is sort of a shame he doesn't do movies like this anymore, since he certainly was very talented at it. Not that I mind the movies that he does now days of course but it at the same time is also a waste of his comical talent.The movie also tries to feature some more serious elements, that concentrated on what it means to be married. Not that this works out horrible for the movie but it of course is also distracting a bit from what the movie is really truly about; simple immature comedy. Further more there is very little story actually and it simply features on the events during and around a bachelor party.The movie is so silly, simplistic and immature that you just can't help being entertained by it all. No matter how bad and cheesy it all gets, you can't help laughing at this movie. Some comical moments are just plain great.A real enjoyable silly '80's comedy, starring a young Tom Hanks.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"1984 was a very good year","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My boyfriend took me to see Bachelor Party during my senior year in high school. It was the most fun I had in a long time. I was scanning Encore an hour ago and came across Bachelor Party. I immediately turned to it. I was curious to find out what it was rated on IMDb since it is one of my all time favorite movies. How can it be just 5.8? Bachelor Party has everything you need in a crazy 80's movies. The hilarious scene with the female strippers who show up at the Bachelorette Party. The bathroom scene where one of the friends of the groom tells him that he's met his soul mate only to find out the hooker who serviced him is a man so he jumps into the shower to scrub his privates. How about the scene with the hot dog bun at the male stripper club?Don't even get me started on the donkey? Bachelor Party is a movie that satisfies every time. It never gets old. "}{"Title":"One of Tom Hanks' Best !","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      There is a lot of funny stuff in this movie as Tom Hanks plays part straight man and part traffic cop to the insanity that happens around him as a simple bachelor party swells and then degrades into a bacchanalic revelry. Let this movie serve as warning to anyone even THINKING of throwing a party as this seems to confirm Murphy's Law If Anything Can Go Wrong, It Will. The movie has a great soundtrack and Adran Zmed really wails on Little Demon as the craziness occurs around him. Hanks' character, no matter how nuts he seems to act, turns out to be quite, sensitive and reserved as he hides in a corner and finally retreats to a back room as his buddies keep having the fun, but they keep dragging him back into it. For my tastes, Tawni Kitaen, now or then, is not much of a beauty, but Wendi Jo Sperber (Tom's Busom Buddies co-star) is also on hand as his sister-in-law. This movie does win the Scary Movie award for unnecessary sex jokes, but the scenes at the photo studio, the garage and the 3-D theatre are some of the funniest.  "},{"Title":"Your basic 80's sex comedy, but this one has Tom Hanks.","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, this one stars Tom Hanks, and from looking at the cast not to many other people I have heard of except for Tawnee Kitane. However, I thought this film was a laugh riot and enjoyed every minute of it. The plot is simple enough. An about to be married man is about to embark on the greatest send off party ever the bachelor party. Things are not so cut and dry though as the female comes from a wealthy family and she has an ex boyfriend who is a bit of a prick too that constantly tries to throw a monkey wrench into the works during the course of the movie. The father of the bride to be also tries to stir the pot a bit too. Well the party starts out rather slowly as the dirty movie has been censored and things are looking rather dull until one of Hanks' buddies finally comes through with the hookers and all bets are off. Drugs, nudity, and donkeys are all the rage!!! Yes, this movie is crazy and your basic sex comedy of the 1980's, but it is also one of the better ones of the era. I like it a lot more than Tom Cruise's Risky Business as that one takes itself to seriously at times while this one stays light and funny all the way through to the climatic battle in the movie theater where a gal gets punched in the face and thinks it is the 3-d. "},{"Title":"Holds Up All These Years Later","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie as a kid, and being a juvenile at the time, I of course loved the juvenile humor (not to mention the nudity). But humor is one of those things that rarely ages well, and I fully expected all these years later to find that the movie was rather, well, juvenile. Very pleasantly surprised to find that it really was still funny, even if Hanks himself is so over the top that it makes the central storyline (Tawny Kitaen wants to marry him) unbelievable. Its silly, low brow, and yet exuberant and consistently funny throughout. One of those movies where everybody is having such a good time that its hard not to yourself, and the jokes are fearlessly tasteless. Not a classic, but still fun nearly 30 years later (has it been nearly 30 years? wow!). "},{"Title":"Classic Raunch!!!","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was 14 years old when Bachelor Party was released...therefore I was too young to see it in a theatre as it was rated R, and of course Mom and Dad weren't going to take me to see such a film. About a year after that it happened to come on HBO one night while my parents were out for the evening, so I excitedly sat down to watch this forbidden fruit. I laughed my ass off for the entire movie, of course, and the experience was heightened by the knowledge that if Mom and Dad came home before the movie was over and caught me watching it, they would've kicked my butt. Fortunately the film ended before they returned, so I got away with my little indiscretion. That's my main Bachelor Party memory and why the film remains so special to me all these years later.Seeing it again after a quarter of a century (! has it been that long?) I was confronted with a blast of nostalgia. Bachelor Party is now a true time capsule of the '80s and as soon as it started I was transported back to my junior high days. Hard to believe that Tom Hanks -- yes, THE Tom Hanks -- got his start in goofball comedies like this, Volunteers and the sit-com Bosom Buddies before becoming an award winning serious actor. Hanks is likable in just about anything, and Bachelor Party is no exception. His character, a goofy slacker named Rick who drives a school bus for a living, has somehow lucked into marrying the gorgeous Tawny Kitaen (who would become famous a few years later for her turn in several Whitesnake videos, then infamous after that for her drug and alcohol fueled activities), to the horror of her rich parents. Rick's party-animal friends (including Adrian Zmed of Grease 2 and T.J. Hooker fame) want to send Rick off into married life with the bachelor bash to end all bashes, and so the characters descend on an upscale hotel suite with all the class of a horde of Vikings on the attack. The party has all the sleazy trimmings you'd expect (drugs, hookers, booze, porn, strippers, etc.) plus a few hilarious asides such as a pimp who looks like Gandhi and a well endowed male stripper who goes by the stage name Nick the Dick. Rick's fiancé, afraid that he will be unfaithful to him during said party, decides to crash the proceedings with her friends, leading to predictable '80s raunch-comedy chaos. (A naked guy hung out of the hotel window! A Marilyn Monroe lookalike stripper who turns out to be a guy in drag! A cocaine-snorting donkey that dies of an OD!) I laughed just as hard as I did when I was a teenybopper! This movie still holds up as one of the best low brow comedies of the 80s, if not of all time. Rent this one and give your inner 14 year old the time of his life! "},{"Title":"This is a Bachelor Party","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this film, I noticed a lot of raunchy humor, & this film is really one of a young Tom Hanks better early efforts. Because of it's R rating & some pretty soft core near porn it will not be work Hanks is remembered for.This film is a better film than most would give it credit for. The film sets a decent pace, employs some classic comedy techniques & overall when you watch it, you get the feeling the cast & crew actually had fun making the film & it spills over onto the screen.In a way, this film is the most like it's title. This is an adult bachelor party with all the raunchy that any adult party could have. There is a sequence near the end in a theater which borrows it's setting from some earlier comedy films but puts a different spin upon theater reality. Once in a while, this sequence shows up in some places as an example of a great movie comedy sequence as it is that good.Critics were too snooty to give this film much of anything positive because it is not a film for the kiddies, but even though some of the gags fall flat depending on the viewer, there are enough gags that hit the target that this is a pretty indecently delicious piece of entertainment. It is faster paced than PORKY'S but done with a different style. "},{"Title":"Favorite actress","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a bawdy wonderful reminder of my college days in San Diego. This film is funny, funny! Reminds me of the Lampoon style humor, which is my favorite. Who would have guessed at the time that Hanks would become so famous? I think I'll buy this DVD which I never do but this one should be kept around to loan to friends who've never seen it. It makes me wonder what kind of bachelor life the writers had. Makes me envy them. We use to head for Tijuana for bachelor parties in those days. My favorite character in the film was the girl with the donkey. How come she isn't in the cast list? How come the donkey isn't in the cast list (himself)? Is this racism? "},{"Title":"Stupid and repetitive macho comedy. This party dies fast","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rick (Tom Hanks) has finally decided to marry his girlfriend Debbie, much to the horror and shock of his best friends and older brother. They decide to throw him a bachelor party, in order to celebrate his last night of freedom. But they are preparing to go all out, and to make it a party Rick will never forget. Meanwhile, Debbie's rich parents are not too pleased with their daughter's decision to marry Rick, who is loathed by the two of them. So her father enlists the help of Debbie's ex-boyfriend to win her back and to throw Rick aside, which may cause a few complications on the night. The men rent a huge room in a very fancy hotel and so begins a night of hookers, booze and drugs, with anyone and everyone walking by and joining the party. Rick promised Debbie he'd remain faithful to her, but this isn't enough... she along with her bridal shower disguise themselves as hookers in order to infiltrate the party and to spy on Rick.I'm not the biggest fan of the comedy genre, as I usually find the labelled films to be bland, repetitive and stupid on top of everything else (Particularly the efforts of the previous decade). However, I was willing to give Bachelor Party a chance because it starred a young Tom Hanks, and was made in the 80's... That decade was a gem for films of all genres. Due to a series of mishaps and uncontrolled events, I ended up watching this film twice in two nights. Don't ask... but although I found it to be enjoyable enough in places, it feels tremendously long and boring and times with more than one scene and phrase being churned out over and over again to the point that the repetition is reminder of the vomit we've been subjected to in recent years. Tom Hanks is surprisingly good as the goofy, immature party animal, and the supporting cast are pretty good as well, although in saying that, their roles weren't exactly asking them to do much. Michael Dudikoff (Platoon Leader) is amongst the supporting cast. Overall, this is a very stupid and macho film (But what else would you expect?) with a typical happy ending. Has some good laughs, but really, this party dies hard and fast. "},{"Title":"No Party.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BACHELOR PARTY stars Tom Hanks in an early role as a school bus driver who is about to get married, so his friends make sure that he goes out in style by throwing him the ultimate bachelor party.  This movie has a few funny bits, but it is flawed by too much nudity and crazy and cheesy performances from supporting actors including Michael Dudikoff in a pre-martial arts role as one of Hanks' friends.  A somewhat disappointing film from one of the most promising actors of the 80's.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"even for a dumb movie this is pretty dumb","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I can appreciate the fun 80s movie vibe trying to be achieved in Bachelor Party, it just doesn't cut. The movie is more loud and obnoxious then funny, and while the cast is allowed to over act, they over act just a little too much. Sorry Tom but this character and plot device just aren't good enough.   "},{"Title":"very bad movie","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  hmmm... this is probably the worst movie I have ever seen. I don't understand why it has such a relatively high rating. Maybe some people think it funny because it is so bad... but even that is not possible with this 'movie' in my opinion. The best I can say about it is that it is a continuous stream of VERY silly jokes. Don't watch this!  "}{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies of the 1980's","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Hanks nowadays is known as a very dramatic and going for the academy award each year type of actor. But back in the 80's Hanks was an extremely funny actor. It might be hard to imagine after movies like Forrest Gump and The Terminal, but he used to be an extremely hilarious guy. One way to prove it is this movie Bachelor Party. This is honestly one of the funniest movie of the 1980's. This really was a movie that ushered in the whole party movie genre which continued throughout movies like Dazed and Confused and recent films like Superbad. So please check out Bachelor Party, because it was truly a launching pad for many of todays party comedies. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks in a trashy 80's film?","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm surprised that Tom Hanks hasn't expunged this or his role as a cross-dresser on Bosom Buddies from his resume; I guess they're part of his rise to fame. Sufice to say he'll never appear in anything like those again.Hanks plays Richard, a soon-to-be-married man and future husband-beater Tawny Kitaen plays the fiance. Of course, the title is self-explanatory; Hank's friends want to give him the ultimate bachelor party. However, this film goes to ridiculous lengths to get there. Through a pastiche of bad taste, S&M, misogyny, and more, the buddies come up with the deeds, but everything goes wrong and poor Hanks is caught in the middle. Hanks shows little of the talent that would make him a star, Kitaen looks unattractive, the rest of the talent is awful, and the story is plain stupid. There's a few titillating scenes, but it's not worth going through the rest of this film to see them. Avoid it. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks' Big Break.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Disgusting and really perverted film that does entertain when all is said and done. The difference in this film and dozens of other tasteless films from the mid-1980s is the performance of then-newcomer Tom Hanks. Hanks' enthusiasm and screen persona are very apparent here. Does this make the film good? Well to be honest not really. It is still a film that does not really stand out among others in the genre, but it is still nice to look back and see how much Hanks has grown as a performer over the years. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Crude journey into the mind of jock-mentality","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Man-child bus driver Rick Gassko (Tom Hanks) surprises his friends when he announces he is going to get married to his girlfriend Debbie (Tawny Kitaen), much to their horror. In his honour, they plan to throw the greatest bachelor party in history. Worried that Rick will be unfaithful, Debbie and her friends leave their own bridal shower to go to a strip club, and then to crash the bachelor party. Rick must resist his temptations, and deal with a psychotically jealous ex-boyfriend (Robert Prescott), a transvestite hooker, a mentally unstable school friend, and a coked-up donkey.When I watched this I really felt in the mood for a bit of 80's cheese. The sex/teen comedies that came out in that decade were hugely successful, and were usually funny in a guilty way. Films such as Porky's and Fast Times At Ridgemont High managed to balance gross-out humour, coming-of-age, and an odd vein of sweetness to good effect. Bachelor Party, however, is an unfunny, offensive and appallingly crude journey into the mind of jock-mentality.90 minutes of a group of middle-aged men with bad haircuts and even worse fashion sense grope and drink to excess does not a good film make. Apparently the idea of the film came from the director and the majority of the crew attending a similar bachelor party. I couldn't imagine a more nightmarish prospect. Apart from the odd funny line - Gentlemen, start your boners! - this is desperately devoid of ideas and inspiration. And Tom Hanks' character is one of the most annoying in cinema history. He plays tennis with his fiancé and his future in-laws and repeatedly hits the ball out of the court laughing like a child. Debbie's father hates him, and we're supposed to think he's a stuffy old man. If I had a daughter that was considering marrying someone like Rick Gassko, I'd throttle the both of them in their sleep.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Classic That Just Didn't Work For Me","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bachelor Party (1984) ** (out of 4) A man (Tom Hanks) announces to his buddies that he's going to get married in a week so obviously they decide to throw him a bachelor party (as well as try to talk him out of it). This is yet another post NATIONAL LAMPOON'S ANIMAL HOUSE flick where it's dumb, obnoxious, stupid and it doesn't care. As you'd expect, the R-rating is certainly reached for and achieved through a variety of profane language, silly sexual situations and of course plenty of nudity. The movie gets off to a good start but I thought it slowly got out of control with some of the side plots and in the end I really didn't find it as funny as many do. It's clear many consider this a classic of 80s comedies but I personally wouldn't go that far. I think the biggest problem I had with the film were the characters. I can't say I enjoyed any of them nor did I find any of them funny. Sure, there are a few laughs here and there but for the most part I was sitting there rather bored and just waiting for the film to end. Which is pretty much another problem since this thing clocks in at nearly 110-minutes, which is way too long. I think the main reason to tune into this thing would be for the young Hanks who you'd never tell by watching this that he would end up winning two Oscars. I guess the same thing could be said for Sean Penn in FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH but then again you could strike this up as their talent for being able to play characters like these. I think Hanks gets to show off some of his comic timing and he certainly has a few funny bits playing the smart jerk. I thought some of the best moments happened early on when he's going after his future father-in-law who hates him. The rest of the cast were pretty bland to me but then again I think most of this has to do with the screenplay and not their performances. The film is very hit and miss in terms of laughs but to me most of them were misses. When the bachelor party finally happens it too is somewhat of a letdown as it really doesn't appear to be very fun. "},{"Title":"funny 1980s movie","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is one of the funnest films i have seen in a long time the film is about a man (Tom Hanks) and a woman (Tawny Kitaen) who are going to get married and before they do they have a bachelor party and a bridal shower and that is when all the fun starts.This film is full of funny scenes like the mad bachelor party,and when the bride and her friends dress up as hookers to try and spy on the groom but they end up in a room full of Asian business men and they are trying to get out and the scene when Tom Hanks is fighting the ex boy friend in the 3d film theater and the crowd think that them fighting is part of the 3d film.Tom hanks does a good acting performance in this film and Tom Hanks should make more films like this one and if u like Tom Hanks u should see the film Forrest Gump.And over all this is a really good 1980s film and it is a must watch film and it is a must buy and my rating is 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Awful Movie Experience","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Heaven save us from such absolute tripe as this completely pathetic college boys/sex 'comedy' about the allegedly sacred male rite, the Bachelor Party. Rick has just got himself engaged to the horror of all his pals, so they decide that before he loses his freedom forever that he should be sent off in style. Needless to say that this includes plenty of alcohol, drugs and the occasional naked female.It's appalling to think that Tom Hanks had to start out so low before making a name for himself as a truly fine actor. As for the rest of the cast (including Adrian Zmed and Tawny Kitaen), they progressed just as far as their collective talents would take them, nowhere.As for Bob Israel's story (adapted to the screen by Neal Israel and Pat Proft), it isn't enough to describe it as bad taste. Even the foul comedy is foul, and the camp humour just isn't funny. Only one slightly humorous scene comes of this movie, involving a group of Asian gents who finally get some 'Bonzai'.Please spare yourself this awful movie experience. Bring back Revenge of the Nerds if we must. Anything but this!Friday, June 9, 1995, Video "},{"Title":"So bad it's PITIFUL.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so bad that it made me want to cry. It's about as funny as a plane crash with no survivors. But it's not only completely unfunny it's also moronic and offensive. For two hours you're watching retards behaving like three-year-olds. The sexist and racist jokes are just plain pitiful. And the scene where Hanks' girlfriend forgives him for lying to her and smiles sweetly is excruciating. I gave this comedy 1/10, a grade I've never used before. A pitiful movie. BLECCH. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Guilty Pleasures","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My list of guilty pleasures would not be complete without mention of 1984's Bachelor Party, a raunchy, laugh riot that made the world sit up and take notice of a young actor by the name of Tom Hanks.Hanks plays Rick Gassko, an aimless but funny guy who is engaged to a beauty named Debbie, who, upon learning that Rick's friend's are throwing him a bachelor party, makes Rick promise not to have sex with any women at the party and it is on that thin thread line that this comic riot hangs. Throw in an obnoxious nerd named Cole, who is also in love with Debbie and adored by her father, who can't stand Rick, you have all the makings of a classic comedy.Don't get me wrong, this film is no classic...the actors playing Rick's buddies, including GREASE 2's Adrian Zmed, give forced and over-the-top performances that tend to grate and when the actual bachelor party happens, it's not nearly as raunchy as we are expecting, but this film does have a lovely leading lady in Tawny Kitean as Debbie, fun supporting performances from Robert Prescott as Cole and George Grizzard as Debbie's father, but more than anything else, this film brilliantly showcases the commanding comic presence of Tom Hanks, who appears in just about every scene and never makes you regret it. Usually in a film like this, the leading man plays straight man to his supporting players, but Hanks is the show here and makes this not-so-great comedy seem a lot better than it really is. "},{"Title":"THE Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I often compare Bachelor Party to the Hangover movies to illustrate the right way and the wrong way to do a raunchy comedy. Then again, the Hangover movies did a lot more box office biz, so what do I know? The Hangover is a crude and raunchy attempt to be funny. Bachelor Party was also crude and raunchy..along with being infinitely more clever and laugh out loud funny. The first time I watched it all the way through I wondered if it was physiologically possible to literally bust a gut from laughing so hard.Rick Gassko (Tom Hanks, who was never funnier), a wise cracking bus driver for a Catholic school, is about to get married to rich girl Debbie (Tawny Kitaen), and her parents are none too thrilled about it. Neither is her anal-retentive, rich ex boyfriend Cole, who's still obsessed with her (at one point he ultimately offers Rick his new Porsche in exchange for Debbie). Rick's hard partying friends don't much like that their buddy is settling down either. They want to make sure Rick goes out in style, and throw him the bachelor party to end all bachelor parties at a super swank hotel, complete with hookers. This prospect doesn't sit too well with Debbie, and she forces Rick to promise he won't cheat on her. All kinds of wild stuff ultimately ensues..including an outing to Chippendales (where the gals in his fiancée's bridal shower end up showing up..and the guys subsequently pull a prank on them), a donkey that arrives in disguise, a hilarious exchange with a Hindu pimp, and Cole taking pot shots at Rick with a crossbow from an adjacent hotel.A number of things work in Bachelor Party, starting with a really funny script (supposedly this was at least partially based on the real life bachelor party of one of the writers). Something else this movie achieved was that it drew me right into what was going on. I actually felt like I was right in the middle of this epic bachelor party with Rick and his wacky friends, for whom depravity and debauchery are virtues. But the centerpiece is Hanks, who took what could have easily been a shallow character and made him three dimensional. Rick shows genuine worry about the prospect of perhaps cheating on his fiancée, and also shows concern over Brad, one of his friends at the party, who believes in better living through chemistry..while at the same time is suicidal over the breakup of his own marriage. But mostly he's an irrepressible wise ass (i.e. picking up the school kids Sister, you look terrific today! What have you done with your hair? Later, over the bus intercom Attention passengers, we are now leaving nun central on our journey to hell and beyond. The captain has turned off the no smoking sign, and you may now move about the cabin freely. Thank you for being Catholic, and for choosing the St. Gabriel school bus).The guys who round out Rick's motley bunch of friends are perfect in their respective parts, particularly Adrian Zmed, who plays Rick's best buddy O'Neil and is damn near as funny as Hanks. The female characters (along with Debbie's father and the aforementioned Cole) are overall a humorless bunch..which makes the guys' antics that much funnier.Some pretty raunchy and potentially dark stuff happens in this movie, which might have even offended my sensibilities had it been handled wrong, from Brad's suicidal tendencies (which had the potential to not be funny at all) to what happened with the aforementioned donkey. But even the really crude stuff was handled deftly, in a way that left me laughing rather than cringing (conversely the Hangover mostly made me cringe). Again, it's Hanks' flawless comic timing which ultimately makes this film. There are one or two scenes where I'm sure he improvised dialog. Warning This movie is raunchy..lotta nudity and graphic sexual references, and definitely deserving of its R rating. And there are elements about it which by today's standards are a bit dated. But this is one funny movie..they don't make 'em like this anymore, alas. "}{"Title":"Hanks is likable and funny","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rick Gassko (Tom Hanks) is a cool personable school bus driver soon to be married to Debbie Thompson (Tawny Kitaen). His friends Jay O'Neill (Adrian Zmed), mechanic Rudy (Barry Diamond), nerdy Gary (Gary Grossman), and waiter Ryko (Michael Dudikoff) throw him an outrageous bachelor party. Her old boyfriend Cole Whittier (Robert Prescott) aims to break them up. Her parents don't like him either. His brother Stan (William Tepper) is coming along eager to get away from his wife Tina (Wendie Jo Sperber). They invite drugged up Brad Peckerhead Mollen.This is a simple Tom Hanks vehicle. The problem is that he doesn't have good enough partners to play with. Tawny Kitaen is a reasonable hot good girl. There are some fun scenes. Hanks hitting tennis balls over the fence. The male stripper with the fake hot dog is hilarious. The party getting out of control is fun. The Oingo Boingo song is catchy. These are good individual scenes. There needs to be more of them. It should get to the group bachelor party sooner. At least, the group has some limited comedy bromance chemistry. Adrian Zmed is not good enough to be the best friend. Gary Grossman is good as the funny nerd. The rest of them are acceptable as the boorish friends. Robert Prescott is great as the douche ex. As far as 80s raunchy comedies go, this one isn't too bad. "},{"Title":"A Wild and Crazy Warpath of Drugs, Sex and Alcohol - That's What I Call a Great Bachelor Party","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Raunchy, easygoing frat boy entertainment that could only have come from the 1980s. Crammed with all the hallmarks of party films from that decade - glaring fashion choices, oodles of saxophone, frequent gratuitous nudity and tons of recreational drugs - it's wafer-thin and proud. The title pretty much tells you all you'll need to know about the plot, which frees up the rest of its running time to go nuts with blasphemous humor and increasingly inebriated acts of questionable legal standing. It's a perfect fit alongside the wild-eyed greats of its generation; Caddyshack, Animal House and Revenge of the Nerds, make some room. Tom Hanks sometimes presses too hard to look crazy, unruly and cool, and often leaves us wondering how anyone could agree to marry such a slob (this may be the first time I've ever agreed with the pensive father-of-the-bride in this kind of movie), but when the music starts blaring he makes for a great master of ceremonies and that's really what the role called for. Pointed and unpredictable, balls-out and funny as hell, it's fantastic at what it sets out to do. "},{"Title":"One of the movies I grew up on.","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Growing up I had no real rules on what to and not to watch so I Grew up watching not just ET Batman Power Ranger Carebears Darkwing duck But also Bikini car wash company Dinosaur Island Friday the 13th Hardbodies Hellraiser and Bachelor party. I must have been 5 or 6 when i first saw this and I loved the Racy and zany humor I didn't know it wasn't for kids but I didn't care. Tom hanks Roots are built on movies like this and big the Donkey scene was too funny so was the guy being wrapped up in sheets being lowered from the hotel. I am not for censorship so i would not mind any one seeing it My sister and cousins like me could see it and others like it at a young age. Like one crazy summer moving violations It's Under-rated and doesn't get the acknowledgment it deserves. This is an 80's classic and a big part of tom hanks early career. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Universal HD showed it a few minutes ago.","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While striving to equate the movie to Animal House, I must admit it comes very close. The scene with the donkey eating the drugs and snorting the lines of coke, invoked the heart attack scene of the horse in Dean Wormer's office. The elevator scene confirmed it.Tom Hanks has come a long way from Bosom Buddies to Bachelor Party to Apollo 13, Saving Private Ryan and Cast Away. This movie shows one of his best comedic moments.While Adrian Zmed or Tawny Kitaens career didn't advance as far as Mr Hanks, they both made an impact in this movie. Wendie Jo Sperber was, well, Wendie Jo. May she RIP.If Bachelor Party isn't of cult status, I won't be upset, but I will be baffled. "},{"Title":"Comedy Classic","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Great 1980's raunchy comedy classic. Tom Hanks and crew put on a Animal House type romp with tons of gags and goofs. I still laugh my rear end off with scenes like the donkey overdose, The Nick the D scene and the bedroom scene where the one girl goes the bathroom and takes a leak standing up. And that guy who tries to kill himself with an Electric shaver. I've met parents of some of my girlfriends who treated me like Rick was treated in this. I only wish i could of handled it like he does. The tennis scene is funny as heck. Like Animal House, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Back to School and Caddyshack, this one is in my comedy classic collection. I wonder what happen to allot of these actors. We know what happen to Tawny Kitaen. "},{"Title":"not exactly one of tom's best, but still","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Far from being one of Tom Hank's best movies (as previously stated by a reviewer), this is still a very entertaining movie. I'm a fan of Tom's work. All of it. I love him, he's a great actor. Big is one of my favorite all time movies, as is Philadelphia. There seems to be nothing this man can't do, acting-wise that is. Back to this movie, while it may not be excellent, it still is very entertaining, and if you haven't seen it and are a fan of Tom (or just like over the top comedies), please go and rent it now. It will give a few good laughs (if it doesn't, blame me for the time you've lost watching it but i don't think that would be the case). "},{"Title":"Romeo and Juliet.....?","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If we could have known then, that Tom Hanks was going to be Tom Hanks...  (I recall watching the SAG awards tribute to Tom and they simply ignore the fact that he did this movie, too bad because it is   absolutely one of the coolest movies from the 80's.)A twisted Romeo and Juliet complete with guns, and drugs, and hookers, and beer... yes, something for everyone in Bachelor Party.  Any MAN that is married can relate to this movie.Bachelor Party has a good, workable cast, and a very funny story.  Hanks was at a great period in his career, a fresh face at the time, with good timing and delivery.  This is a guy movie all the way.  If you appreciate bathroom humor, this is a great flick; It is the bachelor party EVERY ONE OF US wanted to have!!  "},{"Title":"Raunchy Laugh Fest....","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the top five funniest movies of the eighties.  The humour in this movie isn't for everyone, but if you're not offended by the sex jokes, misogyny, S&M, and bestiality, then you won't be able to watch this movie without laughing your head off.My favorite scene in the film is where Debbie's ex-boyfriend gets hog tied by Rick and his friends and they proceed to hang him out the window of the hotel by his bed sheets stark naked.  The sheets eventually come undone from the footboard of the bed and he falls several floors while screaming and lands a** first through the roof of a car occupied by a couple who, about to kiss, wind up putting their lips right to his hairy butt.  Not many movies have a scene like that in them.Tawny Kitaen is an interesting choice as Hank's love interest.  Her lion's mane of red hair being her standout feature that sets her apart from the usual blonde, siliconed (Pam Anderson) looking leading lady in most films of this genre. The action moves along at a fast clip so that you won't become bored and notice that this film virtually has no plot at all.  All in all a fun film.  As comidies go, I'd give it a 9 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"FANTASTICALLY TASTELESS FOR A MAINSTREAM HOLLYWOOD FLICK!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This tale of a soon-to-be-married guy and the Sodom and Gomorrah-style bachelor party that his friends throw for him is like a crazy, filthy live-action cartoon. No joke is too broad or silly, and pretty damned funny to boot! In a film loaded with classic guy moments, my favorite segment has to be Tom Hanks' extremely displeased soon-to-be father-in-law sitting him down for a serious man-to-man talkSOON-TO-BE FATHER-IN-LAW (attempting absolute earnestness) Rick, I think you're an asshole. And I'm afraid that my grandchildren are going to be little assholes.Any guy who has ever had to face a father who knows that you're nailing his daughter(and would rather see her with a farm animal than you) can relate to that bit.The plethora of bad taste gags are a riot, and even my mother lost it at the sight of Nick the Dick. Throw tastefulness to the wind and rent the last good film that Tom Hanks made before becoming an actor. "},{"Title":"Classic sophomoric romp","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERSOne of the things I enjoy about this movie is the mere fact that it exists. I'm thinking Tom Hanks scratched this one of his resumé long ago, along with Dragnet and Volunteers. I delight in the notion that some folks who love Hanks from films like Saving Private Ryan and You've Got Mail might stumble onto this puppy and give it a shot based on more recent work. Boy are they in for a shock. Even this early, in 1984, it's obvious Hanks had the capability of spinning gold from pewter. Because the script is nothing more than an endless series of low-brow gags and d*ck jokes. But in Hank's hands, it all comes out much better than you'd think.I think the second-most famous person in this film is either Tawny Kitaen or Adrian Zmed, so what does THAT tell you? (By the way, think they get Christmas cards from Hanks?) But the odd assembly of buffoons and horndogs here team up to do some surprisingly funny work.Sometimes I'll take one scene and let it sum up a movie's entire mindset. I can definitely do that for this flick In the middle of a donkey show at the bachelor party, the donkey wanders off, snorts a lot of coke, munches a bunch of pills and drops dead of a massive coronary on the spot.So ask yourself this Am I the type of person who thinks a sex-show donkey OD'ing on blow and pills is funny? If no, steer clear. If yes, you may proceed. I might be nuts, but I say...7/10. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Party Movie Ever!!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who critiques this movie on its acting, story, or redeeming values, well then forget it! They just don't get it! This movie was made for laughs and that's what you get! There are only a hand full of movies you can play at a party where everyone will stop what they are doing and watch,  some are (and take note, these movies must be seen unedited!) Animal House Blazing Saddles and Airplane But the greatest one of all is Bachelor Party I know I have thrown a few parties where everyone is dancing, partying, but you put this movie on and slowly a crowd forms in front of the TV and people start laughing and have a great time.  I heard once a few years ago that Tom Hanks said in an interview that this was his favorite movie to make because he had so much fun making it, well it shows! I do have to say that if you have only seen this movie edited on TV and not on video, you are missing out! This is one of those movies that must be seen unedited! "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK...so the content is sophomoric, and essentially aimed at the teenage party crowd.  And it has Adrian Zmed in it.  But despite these shortcomings, the humor in this movie is actually quite good, and in the right frame of mind one would consider this a very funny movie.  It's no surprise that Hanks didn't get an Oscar for this one, but it's still worth a look. "},{"Title":"coke snorting mule, indian pimp, and nick... that should wrap it up","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  He is Nick...the dick Show 'em Nick *applauses* This definitely is the funniest part of the movie, however, the piss-taking of high-society and its hypocrate values...the movie starts with tom getting married and the possibility of having a bachelor party of all times. Something which the bride is not in concordance with, this results in wide variety of pranks and excellent scenes.  e.g. the ladies in the strip club, the actual party (with animals, hookers and booze).  It is so funny that You must laugh a a lot! "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this flick for the first time in a long time. I remember that when i originally saw it, I thought this flick was funny. Seeing it again, and understanding the jokes a little better, this one has displaced The 'Burbs as Hanks' funniest. The cooking scene, the Hooker Twins scenes, the Nick-the-Dick scene, the window-suspension scene, and the donkey scenes are all priceless. This is a true classic, and shows how great Tom Hanks was, and how much better he has become. GO SEE IT NOW. "},{"Title":"Hilarious 1980's film!","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Strong Sex and Drug Content and for Language.Tom Hanks is a great actor.He is mostly known for dramatic roles such as in Forrest Gump and The Green Mile.But in the 80's he made comedy films such as Big and Bachelor Party.I saw Bachelor Party yesterday.Even though I was born in 1992, I enjoy 80's music and movies.Bachelor Party is really funny and was probably controversial when released.I mean, its pretty raunchy for today's standards, imagine back in 1984! There is an implied bestiality scene with was later spoofed in Clerks 2.The film is about a man who is about to get married, therefore his friends decide to throw him a bachelor party.Hilarious misadventures ensue.Bachelor Party is a funny movie and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"what other brainless sex comedies fail to be","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this flick back when it first came out but still recall several things about it.  Only one-third of its jokes work.  The gags came so fast and furiously however that that was fine.  I still ended up laughing throughout.  This movie is definitely crass and vulgar (and dates from an era before network tv sitcoms regularly stooped to the same level) but, for those of us who can except such slimy humor, it's ding dang funny.  The film-makers understood humor, how to make a film, and how to make a film funny.  Most of the other teenage smutfests are NOT as competently made as this.  Making a movie does require some skill, kids.  And this flick fortunately didn't try to hedge its bets by injecting any phony social consciousness either. "},{"Title":"It's a shame they don't make movies like this anymore","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A comedy classic thats raw, raunchy, hits below the belt, has Tom Hanks in his prime, it even has a cocaine snorting donkey for the love of pete!  Ah, those were the days, when a comedy could revel in being politically un-correct, and Tom Hanks was actually funny.  The plot has to do with a slacker type bus driver played by Hanks getting married to the blue blood Kitaen, much to the chagrin of her snob father and her even equally snobbier ex-boyfriend, who acquits himself very well in what is essentially a thankless role because the film needs a heavy.  To this day, I still get a chuckle thinking about the line No, not with her!  She pees standing up!.  If you don't get it, I won't spoil it for you.  It's one of the biggest laughs in the film. "},{"Title":"BACHELOR PARTY (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the most popular genres in the eighties were definitely sexcomedies and topstuff for those who wanted to see jokes with nude brests on the screen and the funniest thing is that one of the greatest American actors of our time, Tom Hanks, was starring in one of them. You can start telling that it is ununderstandable that Hanks ever chooses such roles but that's not the point as not only the talent from Hanks is there and this is a very funny movie, nothing more but also nothing less... This isn't a timeless classic it is just supposed to make you laugh. Mr Hanks tell his friends he will marry but before that his friends wants him to organize a bachelor party...and the standards of Hanks friends only see a god party when there are hookers around... Well yes, everyone has their own taste and the funny thing is that Hanks is not only chased by his forthcoming bride (Tawny Kitaen) but also by her parents who think Hanks is a looser of the highest category. Some will be offended by it as after all this movie only has sexjokes (even bestiality) but if you just wanna have a laugh and forget some scenes with stupid overacting, Bachelor Party is quite nice... "},{"Title":"Tom  Hanks takes the plunge!","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Hanks, fresh from Bosom Buddies, stars in this comedy about a bus driver who falls for and gets engaged to an intelligent beautiful rich woman played by the lustful Tawny Kitaen. Seems like a perfect match? There is the matter of her parents hating him..and his friends not liking her. Despite Kitaen's wishes, his friends throw him a bachelor party and of course all gets out of control with hookers drugs loud music and all sorts of debauchery.A funny 80s movie that is a little dated with the clothes and the hair but still brings laughs..and of course it has Tawny Kitaen... on a scale of one to ten..6 "},{"Title":"I take this movie, till death do we part....","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Remember when Tom Hanks was funny?It's easy to forget, what with him in such films as Philidelphia and Saving Private Ryan and such.  He's made quite a name for himself as a serious actor.Then, there were the early years.As a guy whose friends throw him the Bachelor Party of the title, Hanks wisecracks right and left, making fitting comments on all he sees while the script (by Israel and Proft of Police Academy fame) even manages jokes about hookers at bridal showers, OD-ing donkeys, hotel windows who have TOO GOOD a view of the moon and baby photographers who forget the kid and concentrate on the mom.If the guys from Animal House ever got married, this would be what to expect, with Hanks as a genial, raunchy ringmaster of this comedy of errors.  And yes, true love wins out (was there ever a doubt?).Nine stars.  Party on! "}{"Title":"Tom Hanks B movie....","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was one of Hank's early efforts an he did a terrific job with what was given him.This movie was all Hank's charm.The budget was low for this movie but that is not the problem for a low budget can still create masterpiece movies.The problem here was the cinematography and the director's ineptness.The screenplay was adequate though which kept comedy fans interested.This movie is very over rated by Hank's fans and B movie comedy fans but to more descriminating viewers like me,this movie is merely average.Nothing is original here and the shock value which it relies on was not all that  shocking.I d not recommend this for viewers whodo not like B movies.You will feel as though you wasted your time.Do watch it if you want to study Tom Hank's acting skills.You will definitely admire his acting versatility.......  "},{"Title":"Crude and tasteless but very funny.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has held up pretty well over the years, thanks in part to Hanks' hilarious comic performance.  There are many funny moments throughout the film, but the funniest is probably the scene at the male strip club with Nick the Dick.  Also funny is Brad, a childhood friend of Hanks and his buddies.  As you can guess from the title, the movie is about a bachelor party for Hanks thrown by his friends to celebrate his impending marriage to sexy Tawny Kitaen.  Her elite snob family disapproves, of course, with her ex-boyfriend determined to put a stop to the union.  The film is in the tradition of ANIMAL HOUSE, PORKY'S, and the like.  It does tend to get a bit too silly at times, especially the climax at the movie theater, but no big deal.  The only time the movie goes wrong is when it gives the incredibly sexy Monique Gabrielle a criminally brief cameo.  Her role should have been much larger. "},{"Title":"married to craziness","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bachelor Party is a big, stupid, pointless excuse for a movie. And it's proud of being such. That's what makes it so great. One of the many examples of Tom Hanks's career before he started acting in serious movies, it portrays him getting a party thrown by his buddies the day before he gets married. His father-in-law-to-be may try to undermine the wedding, but this guy doesn't know what he's up against! So, while the critic-stapo may say that Tom Hanks is now a serious actor, so these sorts of movies are worthless, I categorically beg to differ. It's just a nice, wacky, not-for-children excuse to have a lot of fun. And when I say not for children, I mean that this movie isn't afraid to do anything that it wants! I assert that it's worth seeing. You're sure to like it. "},{"Title":"Brainless comedy.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The main interest in watching Bachelor Party twenty years after it was made lies in seeing Tom Hanks - later to become a multiple Oscar winner and much admired actor - wasting his talents on a rude, crude, Porkys-style sex farce. There are a couple of laugh-out-loud moments too, which might delight fans of broad and simple minded comedy flicks, but beyond that the film is a puerile exercise.Hanks plays a young wise-ass who's just about to get married to his girlfriend Tawny Kitaen. Her father isn't at all happy about the arrangement as he views Hanks as a lazy, unreliable slob (and to be fair, he has a good point!) Anyhow, Hanks' pals can't let him tie the knot without one last wild bash, so they organise the mother-of-all-parties for him. The party is characterised with various hilarious incidents, such as a horse which overdoses on amphetamines, a sniper trying to kill the guests from the skyscraper across the street, and a weedy guy who falls in love with the woman of his dreams only to discover that she is actually a he!Bachelor Party is probably the perfect film to have playing in the background if you're a teen-aged kid throwing a wild party at your mom's house. However, if you sit and watch it on its merits, you'll soon tire of the predictable jokes and the film's infantile obsession with tits and ass. Still, it's preferable to the unbearable Porky's Revenge I suppose! "},{"Title":"The worst piece of crap I ever wasted time on","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was beyond awful. It felt like watching small children being tortured. Now... I've seen a couple of bad movies, but this one rises to a new level. The acting was crap. Everyone knows that... But the realism of this piece of crap was amazing. None of this could NEVER have happened. Nothing. No one is this shallow. No one so stupid.The script seemed like it was written by a 6-year old with at fascination for tits.I rate this movie the worst movie I have ever seen to this date;25.03.2006 "},{"Title":"Crude but fun","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Likable, stupid, crude and very funny movie about Tom Hanks having a bachelor party before he marries beautiful Tawny Kitaen.  Naturally, things go barreling out of control.  It's incredibly tasteless (although somewhat tame compared to today's movies), silly and full of female (and male!) nudity...but damned if I wasn't laughing!  Most of the humor comes from Tom Hanks who's (I assuming) ad-libbing his lines left and right.  Very 80s in terms of clothes and hair.  Brainless but fun.  A perfect example of an R-rated 1980s sex comedy that would get an NC-17 rating today.  Also interesting to see Hanks pre-stardom.  Turn off your brain and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Nice for '80","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. Vote 7.0 Arise the voteIf this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. Vote 8.0 "},{"Title":"The real reason for marriage","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BACHELOR PARTY (1984) **1/2 Tom Hanks, Tawny Kitaen, Adrian Zmed. Frequently funny send-up of the male pre-wedding ritual the bachelor party, with Hanks in his Bosom Buddies/Bill Murray-esque mode as a fun guy battling his sexy fiancee's moronic preppie ex-boyfriend and her bilious father.  Easily Zmed's best acting job ever including his stint on TJ Hooker. "},{"Title":"Fun Saturday Afternoon Flick","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bachelor Party may not become your favorite movie of all-time, but it's great when you have some extra time to waste, say, on a rainy Saturday afternoon. Tom Hanks is hilarious in this film. His female co-star, Tawny Kitaen, is a great match for Hanks. They have a chemistry with each other, and play off each other well. This movie is quite crude, but what else can you expect from a bachelor party? Hanks is the only well-known celebrity of today to star in this film. I don't think this takes too much away from the movie, however. This movie is enjoyable. Try it out sometime! "},{"Title":"They all have to start somewhere","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Hanks is one of Hollywood's most popular actors who can almost always be counted on to deliver a great performance but that status has been judged in recent years. Judging Hanks' early film performances has usually been negative. This 1984 20th Century Fox release, an obvious rip off of National Lampoon's Animal House was Hanks' first starring role. The film's heavy amounts of gratuitious raunchiness take away any possible sense in the storyline. However, Hanks may have most likely needed the work so this film is notable only as being a training ground for his much better subsequent films.  "}{"Title":"This story hits all the sterotypes","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood can get away with certain sterotypes but not others.  This film like Caddy Shack  has the old established people (people off the May Flower) mixing with the ethnics (Irish, Polish Greek etc)  I am from East Kildonian, the ethnic part of the city, and can relate with this film.  Sure some of us can be loud, along with crazy, but not thin skinned and can laugh at our selfs.  Many of the 80's comedies play on these sterotypes.  My friend, and I remember events from the old neighborhood when we watch this film.  IT's fun to watch but no classic, like most of the 80's films it too cheesy. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A funny classic film.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy brought this into the store, not even believing I'd have never seen this. I try to explain to Tommy about the Russia of the 80's yet he does not seem to get it. So I watched with Tommy and Ron in the store and found it funny. It's amazing that Tom Hanks was in such a raunchy sexy movie. It is funny though. Customers laughed a lot and explained to me why they think this is a classic. I think they're right. When he plays tennis, Tom is funny. When he drives a bus, Tom is funny. There is just nothing this guy can't do. It would be nice to see a Bachelor Party 2. I think a lot of people would like it. Tom Hanks should never forget where he came from and do a sequel for us fans (and new fans) of the sexy Bachelor Party. I'm Todd M. and I give this 3 and a half stars!! "},{"Title":"Top five of the 80's comedies list!","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is truly one of the classic comedies of the eighties.  Tom Hanks at his best!!  Watching Hanks in this movie before his superstardom, you can see why he has won 2 Oscars.  This has to be in any comedy aficianado's Top 5 of the 80's list. "},{"Title":"Bachelor Party is An Animal House *1/2","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very young Tom Hanks stars in this 1984 film with many familiar themes.As a school bus driver getting married to a girl from an uppity family, Hanks' assortment of odd friends plus his married doctor brother plan the usual bachelor party for him.His father-in-law to be dislikes Hanks so that he gets his daughter's former boyfriend on the case to get rid of our lad.The film is typical of what goes on at our wild, swinging bachelor parties. There is plenty of merriment and glee, especially when the girlfriend and her friends crash the party as hookers.While the very end of the film is hilarious when things get out of hand at the posh hotel where the swinging party is being held, the film is so typical and predictable. "},{"Title":"Early, Tom Hanks Comedy","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before Tom Hanks hit stardom, this movie was fairly typical of his role and his performance (quite a change to the Tom Hanks we know now)Batcholar Party is a sleazy, distasteful comedy flick; packed with crude jokes, sexy women, drugs, donkey's and plenty more laughs all born out of bad taste. With no real story to speak of and absolutely no character depth whatsoever, Batcholar Party still manages to be a great laugh, and is worthy of your time on any drunken evening.6/10Also see 'Big' and 'Splash' for other good examples of Tom Hanks's early work "},{"Title":"Funniest dirty movie of the 90's...","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classic movie of the 80's. Tom Hanks is charming as the soon to be groom.. A treat for those seeking 80's nostalgia and dirty slapstick humor. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Dirty but funny","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie can be crude but it is funny. The scene where they meet Nick is just about the funniest. I know some people wouldnt like this movie at all but you just have to let yourself go and enjoy it. It'll give you something to talk about with friends. ) "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A classic below the belt comedy. All the good things a mid 80's comedy needs. I'm sorry to see these kinds of movies not being made anymore. Hanks in his his prime, forget Saving Private Ryan.. this is the Hanks I wanna see. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this film at least 3 times. I couldn't stop laughing! Of course I was eighteen. But I'm sure I'll laugh again if I see it. "},{"Title":"Not a bad film","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  tho this is a very enjoyable film there doesnt really seem to be much of a plot. tom hanks is getting married so his mates throw him a party. his wifes mum and dad dont want him to marry their daughter and tom has a good time at the party. that it as far as plot goes really. tho his wife is kidnapped for all of 5 minutes.a fun film 7/10 "}{"Title":"Classic American eighties humour","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Bachelor Party for the first time in a long while last night - and I forgot just how funny it was.  If you like Porkys type Caddyshackesque humour, you must see this film!!Hanks is superb as the Bachelor boy who finds himself in a tug of love with his fiancee's ex boyfriend who would do anything to have her back before she gets hitched.  His friends throw him a party of a lifetime with booze drugs and hookers included which in turn leads to some memorable antics.  But not to be left out, the bride and her buddies are intent on having a good time too - all the time trying to resist the temptation to drop in on the Bachelor Party.....This is mid 1980's crass American comedy at its best, and the vastly underrated smooth operator Adrian Zmed turns in a great performance as Hanks best friend.Miss this film at your peril..... "},{"Title":"Outrageous Comedy (great)","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely in my top 20.  I've loved this movie ever since it first came.  It always makes me laugh and always cheers me up.  This movie is packed with some great material.  The humour is a cross between Airplane and Animal House and for me it works perfectlyContrary to a comment below I saw an interview with Tom Hanks where he said it was one of his most underrated movies.I realise it may not be to everyone's taste but I found it hilarious and still do.  9/10  "},{"Title":"In context","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Tom Hanks made Philadelphia, he was asked if his kids might be embarrassed that he was playing a gay man with AIDS. He said they'd be more embarrassed if they saw Bachelor Party. Which says it all really... "},{"Title":"Dumb but funny, very funny.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From a time when Tom Hanks did comedy.  A high-charged farce- silly, puerile, dumb and very funny- this is essentially a guy film.One scene that will always stick in the mind is - to not spoil it for those who have not seen it- the donkey scene. "},{"Title":"Classic Hanks...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A man's last night as a swinging single turns into a wild  blast that includes a transvestite, a donkey and fire engines. Nevertheless, there's plenty of laughs, in the tradition of the Porky's films. It moves it a fine pace and Hanks is funny as the groom to be.  "},{"Title":"Regardless of what you think of the film as a whole ...","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... this has one of the funniest scenes of all time involving a carsun roof. Crude, rude and highly vulgar but still hysterically funny. "},{"Title":"Brutal Crap!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I lived through the Eighties as a teenager and this film tries to pass itself off as a teen movie. Believe me when I say that the Eighties were nothing like this trollop! The actors excel themselves as being inane morons. Adrian Zmed must be the worst actor ever his awful undressing scene is sickening rot. He even attempts singing in this movie! It is dire! Hanks was always rubbish but he really shines as true garbage here. The so-called sex scenes are laughable to the point of extreme. The clothing and hairstyles are Eighties all right. The comedy is pure gutter trash and totally unfunny. Every new scene is worst than the last. Give it a miss! You will feel better for it.  "},{"Title":"a scene that might have been...","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I read in a magazine that when the future mother-in-law was yanking back and fourth on Nick the Dick, he was supposed to shoot in the woman's face. THAT was supposed to make the movie even more hysterical, but of course that would have changed the rating of the movie so it was cut out. I did wonder though if that was about to happen when I saw that seen for the first time! I mean, she was yanking so hard I thought the guy was going to fall over. I read in a magazine that when the future mother-in-law was yanking back and fourth on Nick the Dick, he was supposed to shoot in the woman's face. THAT was supposed to make the movie even more hysterical, but of course that would have changed the rating of the movie so it was cut out. I did wonder though if that was about to happen when I saw that seen for the first time! I mean, she was yanking so hard I thought the guy was going to fall over. "}]