[{"Title":"The last hurah?","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  The Richard Pryor presented to us in Richard Pryor Here and Now, is a man changed by all life has threw at him. He has learned from the mistakes and heartaches in his life, has experienced both sides of success and failure. His nose is clean from drugs and alcohol, and he seems to have ridden the storm to get were he is at this point, and looks happy for it. He is also as deadly-funny as he has ever been, yet has matured. Here and Now is a good concert film. Pryor isn't at his peak, he probably hit that with Richard Pryor Live at the Sunset Strip. Yet despite this we get a chance to see a drugs free, happy go lucky and mellow Pryor for the first time. The routine is as similar as before. Pryor goes through his usual battalion of jokes set pieces and stories, showing the mocking side to himself first glimpsed in Live at the Sunset strip, while letting the usual anger, that comes with comedy to seep out. The stories are as funny, for instance his telling of meeting President Ronald Reagan in 1983  I went to the White House, well i was invited anyway because i made this movie Superman III, and everyone was in line to meet him, and when he came to me, he looked at me liked i'd just walked in off the street and totally blanked me. I didn't even want to go in the first place, i felt like a turd on his shoe or something. And his recollections of meeting ex partners in drugs whilst sober for the first time They come up to me and apparently i spent weeks, months doing drugs with them, i dont  know them from s***. They say to me 'Hey Rich remember when you were out of it on drugs and you put you hand up that elephants ass on 42nd street and got carried along with it to the Ed Sullivan theatre'. Pure genius.Sadly, Here and Now does contain one or two slow moving segments, unusual for the normally fast paced Pryor, and the is a heart breaking moment when he recreates his actions as a drug addict. The one main critisism is the constant heckling, for no reason that Pryor recieves, perhaps shading his performance. Do these people honestly think that they are going to say anything funnier than Pryor can? All in all though, Here and Now is well satisfying concert movie, and i would recomend it to anyone seriously hunting belly laughs. "},{"Title":"Funny and surreal","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Here and now is easily funnier than Live on Sunset Strip, when it wants to. But also quite surreal. What makes it surreal is mainly the audience. In the middle of the show a middle-aged geezer hands Richard a crab in the water glass. Far out. Also, the heckling is quadrupled in this show. It was probably Mardi Gras time. But Man Pryor still made me choke from laughter, and the improv with the aforementioned crab was quick thinking too. Towards the end, it's Pryor's turn to crank up the surreal with his junkie-bit, which is also quite moving, if too much of a downer for a supposedly comedy show.This show is something else.  "},{"Title":"The one and only Richard Pryor","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" RICHARD PRYOR  HERE AND NOW (1983) & RICHARD PRYOR LIVE ON THE SUNSET   STRIP (1982) – both ***1/2 Pryor, one of    America's greatest stand-up comedians, expertly conveys the  inner pain and personal demons of his tumultuous life with  heartbreakingly funny takes on his drug abuse, sexual relationships,   racism, spirituality abroad in Africa, getting drunk,  recalling early gigs with Mob run clubs and the occasional improvs  (his bit with a hermit crab shows just how quick on his feet his  mind is) showcase the true brilliance of an original artist in his  element and total at ease and command for the language of  'vulgur' humor that seamlessly blends into the vernacularity of his  topics of discussion (say unlike his protégé Eddie Murphy and only  recently touched upon with better results by Chris Rock). Lucky to  be alive after his near-fatal freebasing burning Pryor even makes  dying sound funny. A genius in every sense of the word. "},{"Title":"Pryor uses humor to tell it like it is","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Richard Pryor has met with a few pot holes in life's bumpy road.He has done countless things that he never should have,and he is the first to admit this.He uses his own unique comic style to tell us the gritty details of his life and to give us the message to not travel the road that he has traveled.You see,Richard Pryor not only wants to entertain us,he cares enough about us to tell us how stupid we would end up looking if we did the things that he has done.He is hilariously funny,and he is caring,and that makes him all right with me.I would urge all Pryor fans to have it in their collection.He was definitely at his peak here. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Funny Concert Film","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Richard Pryor Here and Now is a funny snippet of the late period of Pryor's active career, before MS forced his retirement. It features classic Pryor characters such as Mudbone, while also incorporating new routines such as his description of a visit to Africa.Pryor is as hilarious and uncensored as ever, covering topics including his struggle with substance abuse. The skits range from the comical to the poignant, with one sketch about a heroin addict having a particularly sad denouement. Some reviewers have complained about the at times disruptive audience, but Pryor's interaction with the audience gives a better sense of his talent. We see his skill at improvisation, particularly in a scene where he receives a glass of water with some surprisingly animate contents. "},{"Title":"now and forever","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Richard Pryor, who would have turned 71 today, was truly one of the comedy greats. Richard Pryor...Here and Now shows him performing in the Saenger Theater in New Orleans. He talks about a lot of the stuff on which he frequently focuses, and ends the concert with a gag that really made me crack up! The part where Pryor impersonates the Japanese was kind of racist, but other than that the concert was really good. Having survived the freebasing incident and gotten more sober, Pryor had apparently met some people whom he'd known while wasted, but now didn't recognize them! Anyway, it was always fun to see the guy doing what he did best. He will always be missed. "},{"Title":"Relaxed in all his glory","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Richard Pryor was one of the three greatest stand-up comedians of all time (along with George Carlin and Lenny Bruce), and there are three films that collectively show why Richard Pryor Live in Concert, Richard Pryor Live on the Sunset Strip, and this comedy-concert film. In Here and Now, Pryor finds one of his best audiences in New Orleans - one patron even gives him a pet crab mid-show - and stumbles upon one of his most relaxed performances sans-king of comedy garb. His elderly character Mudbone shows up to discuss rude children, Mexicans, and earthquakes, along with a junkie character later who speaks of jail, invincibility, and tells us, I did it myself before depriving us of his company. There are no scenes in a comedy concert, so my favorite bit is the gut-clenching finale about erections, vibrators, herpes, and public toilets. Pryor was a master. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":" Richard Pryor Here and Now (1983) **** (out of 4)In my opinion this is Pryor at his very best as he plays New Orleans to a rather tough crowd who keeps interrupting the show. This is one of the funniest films I've ever seen with only a few jokes that miss their mark. The stuff (again) dealing with Pryor in Africa is terrific as are the jokes about him getting crabs, getting married countless times and the life as a junkie is nice as well. When the crowd interrupts the show you'd think this would hurt things but it actually helps since Pryor is so fast on his feet that he manages to bring even more laughs to the show by making fun of them. "},{"Title":"Not as funny, but not completely useless","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Documentary","Review":"  Richard Pryor makes his directorial debut here in his stand-up special- Here and Now.  It is a docu-comedy of new things from Pryor.  Not completely funny as in 1979, but he isn't bad yet.  He still brings amusing monologues and funny punchlines to witty remarkes.  Pryor's true last comedy film (the 1985 film he made took place in 1971).  B "}]