[{"Title":"Fear on many levels","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"70 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Anytime someone asks me what I'd consider the scariest movie ever, I say Silkwood, and they say But that's not a horror movie.No?There is so much to fear here, and scariest of all, probably, is the fact that the title character lived just a few decades ago, in modern-day America.There is the fear that comes from living in poverty, or right on the edge of it.  Silkwood, her cohorts, and most of her coworkers have little education; they live humble lives of church revivals, rebuilt cars, and mystery meat sandwiches brought for lunch in brown paper bags.  The nuclear plant where they work is the only game in town (or the entire state), in terms of wages and benefits.  And so, every day, they live in fear of losing their jobs. They have spent their lives being instructed to trust authority and submit to it.  They are intimidated by the managers and supervisors who frown on camaraderie, and positively scowl on their labor union.There is the fear of the unknown at the plant -- trucks being dismantled and buried behind barbed wire, under guard and under cover of darkness. Management gives the workers the minimum amount of information they need to perform their jobs, and often withhold or disguise facts that are essential to their very survival.Karen, a somewhat rebellious, less-than-conscientious worker, is shocked into activism when her co-worker Thelma, becomes exposed to radioactive contamination, or cooked.  For me, this sequence is one of the most disturbing.  Thelma is probably only in her 40s, but she looks like she's ready for retirement, due to the hard life she has lived.  Her daughter is dying of cancer, and she herself wears wigs most days, because her hair is falling out.  It's hard to watch the weeping, pleading Thelma being forcibly scrubbed head to toe with a stiff brush, water being shot into her eyes and nose, in a dubious attempt to decontaminate her.  She is then patronized by a doctor who straight-facedly assures her that she has only superficial exposure and will be just fine.There is fear when Karen sticks her neck out -- talking to union reps, traveling to Washington, and being sent back to work with a dangerous assignment to gather evidence.  At one point in the film, absolutely no one is supporting her.  Her roommate feels resentful and rejected; her boyfriend has moved out, jealous of her involvement with the sophisticated people from Washington, and her co-workers treat her like a pariah, afraid that being seen talking to her will brand them as troublemakers, endangering their jobs, or even their lives.Their worries seem more and more valid as the movie progresses.  She walks into a roomful of supervisors, and they all fall silent.  Suddenly, every time she walks past a radiation monitor, the alarms sound and she, like Thelma, is dragged to the dreaded decon room, where her skin is scrubbed raw -- torture chillingly disguised as medical necessity.  Even her home is no longer safe.  Plutonium is found in a urine sample that she brings from home, and every item in her house--right down to the wallpaper--is emptied and taken away from her.  Her stone-faced, smooth-talking boss is right there, encouraging her to sign a statement that will undoubtedly absolve the company of any responsibility.The headlights Karen sees in her rear-view mirror are not the last thing we see that frightens us.  It's her wrecked car being slowly towed past the restaurant where a union meeting is still in progress.The movie hits so many of our fear buttons Helplessness, loneliness, rejection, vulnerability, and finally, the bottom-line thing we all fear the most.  The most encouraging note is the awareness that anyone who sees this movie will come away with.  It's a blueprint for empowerment.e.w. "},{"Title":"what you have done for others","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"49 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw Silkwood again recently, and it seemed to make sense of the past 25 years of my life -- I finally understood why I began doing what I do.When I was sixteen years old I broke both legs, and was out of school for two months. But twice a week my father, who worked nights as a security guard at the Kerr-McGee office building, took me downtown to the federal courthouse in Oklahoma City, to watch the proceedings of the Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee trial during morning sessions. He insisted I go, he said, So you'll learn something. I learned a lot about people then, and about the law, and the experience certainly took my mind off my own physical discomfort.Mr. Paul, an excellent corporate lawyer, represented Kerr-McGee, which leased the operation of the plutonium plant in Crescent, Oklahoma, about thirty miles north of here. Mr. Spence represented the children of Karen Silkwood. Mr. Paul and his six associates seemed to change their suits every day. Perhaps they didn't want to see like the great gray wall -- which was the stereotype of corporate lawyers. But the net effect of seven men striving to seem individual was that of a great plumed serpent preparing to devour any small creature in its path. Mr. Spence, on the other hand, wore the same buckskin fringed coat each day. Each day he would place his Stetson on his table. He and the hat sat in splendid silence while the Kerr-McGee attorneys conferred and whispered.Both men counted on the sentiments of a working-class jury. Mr. Paul figured people would recognize the contribution made to the community by Kerr-McGee, a locally owned business with world-wide influence, which provided many jobs to people here. Mr. Spence counted on them harboring deep suspicions, after having been treated like throw-away people for so many years by other employers of the same size as Kerr-McGee. My father was such a person. He worked for Kerr-McGee, but he distrusted corporate politics, and rightly figured they'd let him go right before he qualified for a pension. Later, that's exactly what happened.Mr. Spence has sued the corporation for 2 million dollars. But the jury awarded him, and Karen Silkwood's children, five times that much. Later, thanks to an excellent foundation laid by Mr. Paul, Kerr-McGee was able to get the conviction overturned, then eventually settled for a payment of 1 million dollars to the grown children. Of course, Mr. Spence took about half of that, and after taxes, I suppose each of the three children had about enough to get a college education, or to buy a new truck and have a down payment on a house.That's what happened to me. My father died not longer after being let go by Kerr-McGee. There was enough insurance money to pay for my college education. Then my mother died. For many years the social atmosphere in the Kerr-McGee offices, where one of my friends worked as a draftsman, prevented anyone from ever saying anything good about Karen Silkwood. I will not repeat was generally said about her, or her social life, her motivations or her politics. I never met her, but I did see and hear the people who were for Karen Silkwood, and those who were against her, at the trial. It was clear to me that whatever else she may have been, she was a courageous person. By the time the movie was released, I was a junior in college, and suddenly changed my major to drama. After graduation, I found work with a film production company which filmed herds of cattle -- Video Auction was its name. Then I went to California, where I taught drama, or worked as a stage manager, for twenty years.Watching Silkwood last week, for the first time in 24 years, reminded me of what the trial, and later the movie, showed me -- the part of you that lasts is what you have done for others. The lawyers will take everything else. "},{"Title":"America the beautiful","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"42 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The lives of working class Americans are shamefully under-represented by Hollywood, and when a poor person is depicted (as something other than a criminal), it's almost always with the subtext of hope and the American dream.  But hope isn't what drives someone, like the real-life Karen Silkwood, to risk her life working with plutonium for the only employer in a company town.  Silkwood didn't find hope, but she did get scared, and angry, and put her job (and those of her colleagues) at stake to uncover dangerous practices before dying a mysterious death.  'Silkwood' the movie doesn't give us the glib conclusions of a conspiracy thriller (it refrains from giving an opinion on her cause of death), but it does give an excellent portrait of life at the bottom, and the mounting sense of claustrophobia and paranoia that accompanied Karen's perilous voyage of discovery.  Meryl Streep does an excellent job in the title role, portraying a woman gradually losing her sanity, and the whole cast is good, even Cher in an unglamorous role.  In conclusion, this is a serious and important film; and a reminder for the fortunate how hard, and ugly, life can be, even in the land of the free.  "},{"Title":"It is worth the time!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After watching Silkwood, I became fascinated and mesmerized by the true story behind it. I read the book, bought A&E biography video, and the History Channel's video Contaminated, the Karen Silkwood Story. Despite reading other comments, I totally disagree about Karen Silkwood who probably saved more lives and lost her own to protect her colleagues and neighbors in Crescent, Oklahoma. If she had not spoke up in the seventies, Kerr-McGhee would still have a nuclear reactor plant in Crescent, Oklahoma. What most people do not know is that Karen's mysterious death haunted a huge ENronlike company. The plant closed in the following year. The shocking discoveries such as missing plutonium and horrible working conditions for its employees.Two showers for the entire company! Karen Silkwood's life was tragically cut short but she did more in 28 years than most people can do in their entire lifetime. Meryl Streep played her wonderfully. Kurt Russell and Cher played their roles quite admirably. This film was showed to high school students who became equally fascinated by the story after viewing the history channel's video. After the film, they even wanted to watch the biography video. Now anything that can keep teenagers interested in plutonium and nuclear energy is worth all the trouble. This film's only criticism from the students was that there was too much smoking in this film. Granted, all the main characters smoked in the seventies. After all, I think lung cancer from smoking was far less riskier than working in a nuclear plant. "},{"Title":"Whistle-Blowing Could Be Hazardous to Your Health.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Intense 1980s flick that is based on the true story of Karen Silkwood (Meryl Streep in an Oscar-nominated role), a woman at a plutonium plant who began to talk about what really went on at the facility where she was employed. It seems that nuclear tampering would lead to the poisoning of the plant's employees and the pollution of the environment. Silkwood was about to talk to the New York Times about the Oklahoma plant when she died under mysterious circumstances in a car accident. The audience knows what is going to happen, but it is getting there that is the fascinating part. Mike Nichols' Oscar-nominated direction is arguably the best of his career, with the exception of his work on The Graduate. Cher (also Oscar-nominated) proved that she was a legitimate actress as Streep's lesbian co-worker. Kurt Russell also gives his finest performance as Streep's on-again-off-again boyfriend. However with all that said, it is Meryl Streep who gives one of her finest performances in this memorable, remarkable and important motion picture. 4.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"I think many reviews miss the point","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the things that many movies are missing these days are the small details and things that happen in everyday life - and how we are able to learn about characters through small visual clues rather than the large hammer of exposition-driven dialogue.For instance, in the scene where the characters are looking at the slides of the trip to Washington towards the end are two photos with Streep and Ron Silver's character.  In the second photo, she leans into him a little bit. That tiny bit of body language makes us wonder - and Kurt Russell's character too.  He suddenly moves his arm from around Streep's and suddenly she's aware that something's wrong.  It's all in the unspoken.  There isn't a preceding scene where she picks up the other guy, or goes to bed with him or even lies to Kurt Russell.  It just cuts to this scene, and we the viewer learn along with Kurt that she's been unfaithful - which also reveals a little more about this person Karen Silkwood.She's not a perfect hero - she's flighty, irresponsible, impulsive and non-committal - so the question becomes, why did she change?  Why did she risk her life when she finally truly understood the risks?  And how does Kurt Russell come to terms with this changed person he is in love with, given that he is just a guy who knows how to fix a car not save the world?Watch Mike Nichols' inspired direction; he rarely cuts away in the middle of a scene.  A lot of Kurt, Cher and Meryl's acting happens all in one take. *That's* truly good acting and directing.Good dialogue in a film is in knowing what's happening without it being said.  Don't fast forward the first hour - really pay attention and see how much you learn from the small details that will enrich your viewing of this film. "},{"Title":"Considering the time period, a pretty good film.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I took the time to register with IMDB just to present a more accurate review of this movie than the person that wrote that the movie was a joke.  While not one of the best movies of its type, it's still pretty well done.  The story moves along well....clues are dropped throughout the movie to show the possible conspiracy at work.  I would consider The Insider as one of the better movies of this type that was made in recent years, and even that movie shows traces of having evolved from movies like Silkwood.I find most movies of this type that were done in the 80s as generally pretty cheesy. Silkwood does a pretty good job of not being too cheesy.  And if there is any trace of cheesiness (if you will), it's represented in the way that the townspeople react to Karen Silkwood.  And the reactions worked for me, because when I think of how seriously people reacted to issues like nuclear or toxic contamination back in the late 70s/early 80s, there was a lot less info available.  Nowadays in the Oprah and 11 o'clock news warnings generation, where there's something new that we should be cautious of everyday, these types of stories are much more believable.Meryl Streep (as expected) far outshines the rest of the cast.  Kurt Russell turns out a pretty nice performance.  Cher's performance was ok.  I think at the time she probably received a lot more recognition for this role because it began to show her range.  But she's been better in subsequent roles.All in all, Silkwood is a movie that doesn't suprise or open the eyes of all the conspiracy- conscious people that are alive in 2003, but it does provide a touching story about a town that was dealing with the prospect of having to choose between the risk of toxic infection and their livelihood.  But the real story here is about the one woman that cared enough to dig a little and ask a few questions and the danger that developed from taking a stand.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep at her best","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Even though you already now how the movie ends just by reading the taglines, there is still a strong element of suspense in this film, about Karen Silkwood who suspects that the lives of hereself and her co-workers are in danger.  It is a well written film, and masterfully acted by Streep and her castmates.  This one makes Julia Roberts in Erin Brochievich look really bad.   "},{"Title":"Brave Treatment of a Controversial Subject","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Contains spoilers Karen Silkwood works at a nuclear processing plant in Oklahoma; the company's business involves manufacturing plutonium fuel-rods for the nuclear power industry. At the beginning of the film Karen seems to be an ordinary worker with no tendencies towards activism or political radicalism. (The fact that she and her boyfriend display a prominent Confederate battle flag in their bedroom would suggest that politically she is on the right). She changes, however, when she realises that the management of the plant have a cavalier attitude towards the health and safety of their employees, particularly the risks of radioactive contamination, and that, worse still, they are doctoring x-ray photographs of the fuel rods in order to cover up potential defects that could prove disastrous. Karen becomes a campaigner for improved safety standards, but is killed in a car crash while driving to meet a journalist to inform him of her suspicions.I would agree with the author of the earlier comment who stated that Hollywood films rarely focus on the lives of modern working-class people, and that 'Silkwood' is one of the rare exceptions. (Films with a labour relations theme, such as 'Matewan' or 'The Molly Maguires', often have a historical setting, as though clashes between workers and employers were something from the Bad Old Days which have largely been overcome in modern society). Nevertheless, 'Silkwood' is not simply a tale of 'workers versus capitalists'. Although Karen's safety campaign has the support of her trade union's national leadership, she antagonises not only the management of the plant but also many of her fellow-workers, who value job security more than personal safety. There are few other employment opportunities in their small town, and they fear that, if forced to implement stricter safety rules, the company will simply close the plant, thus putting them out of work. There is a strong implication that the 'accident' in which Karen dies may have been arranged deliberately, but there is no hint as to who might have been responsible. The more recent Julia Roberts film 'Erin Brockovich' owes a clear debt to 'Silkwood'. Both films are based on true stories, and in both a young single mother takes on a powerful corporation playing fast and loose with public safety. 'Erin Brockovich', with its upbeat ending, is more optimistic; it is also, in my view, the better film as its director Steven Soderbergh is able to hold our interest throughout, whereas 'Silkwood' can drag at times. The first half of the film, which concentrates as much on Karen's tangled personal life as on the main theme of nuclear safety, can seem particularly slow. Nevertheless, the film becomes more gripping in the second half, aided by a superb performance from Meryl Streep in the leading role, one of a series of great parts that made her probably the best film actress of the eighties. I am always surprised that she lost the 'Best Actress' Oscar to Shirley MacLaine's caricature of a performance in 'Terms of Endearment'. There are also excellent contributions from Kurt Russell as Karen's boyfriend Drew and from Cher, cast against type as Dolly, the dowdy lesbian who befriends Karen. 'Silkwood' is not a great film, but it is a brave one, treating a controversial social and political issue with greater freedom than we normally see in Hollywood movies. 7/10  "},{"Title":"We're all nuked and going to Hell.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Apparently, when Silkwood came out, Mike Nichols hadn't released a notable movie since The Fortune nearly killed his career eight years earlier. If we call this his comeback, then it was sure a good comeback. Donning one of her many accents from over the years - in this case Oklahoman - Meryl Streep plays Karen Silkwood, a plutonium processing plant employee who sought to expose the dangerous conditions in her workplace...and mysteriously died in a car wreck.This is the sort of opportunity to be idiotically preachy, but the movie never degenerates into that. It shows how the plant's owners poisoned her and psychologically berated her. This brings to mind the overall issue of how the nuclear age affected the whole planet. Nuclear tests by both the US and USSR left the whole world irradiated. Nuclear power may be discredited, but apparently NO PERSON ON EARTH has escaped nuclear fallout. So much for progress.All in all, Silkwood is a really good movie. It's surprising to see Kurt Russell and Cher (as Karen's roommates Drew Stephens and Dolly Pelliker) in this sort of movie; we associate him with kick-ass roles and her with treacly roles. But they do a very good job. Also starring Craig T. Nelson, Diana Scarwid, Fred Ward, Ron Silver, and Bruce McGill. "}{"Title":"A Woman With A Plan","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When I first saw this film a year ago, I thoroughly enjoyed it. I couldn't believe how brave one woman could be, with disastrous consequences. Someone who fought not for herself, but for other people as much as herself. To protect others from terminal illness and maybe death.Karen Silkwood is a normal woman, dating a normal man, living with her boyfriend and friend in a normal house in a normal town. She works in the power plant, which seems to be pretty normal, but when the truth is unfolded, it puts everyone who works there lives in danger.Meryl Streep --- Karen SilkwoodCher --- DollyKurt Russell --- DrewWritten by --- Nora EphonDirected by --- Mike NicholsRunning Time --- 126 minsCertificate --- 15**THE PLOT**Most of the people in Karen's town work in the local power plant down the road from where they live. It's an easy life. They go in and work, even though they have to wear special masks, they're pretty safe. But, all goes downhill when Karen realises that the plant are cheating all the employees and putting people's lives in risk and in danger.Karen was stuck in a marriage she was unhappy in, and moved from Texas to a little town miles away. Although she was happy she'd got out of an awful marriage, she had to leave her kids behind with their father and move alone to a new town.Luckily she did find work in the local power plant, but she only managed to go and see her children every couple of months.One night whilst Karen is going home, she sees her boss burying a massive lorry full of radioactive plutonium into the ground outside the plant. Karen thinks nothing of it, until more and more unfortunate things begin to happen.In the plant there's a scanner. Every person who walks into the room must pass his or her hands through the scanner, to make sure no radioactive plutonium has affected them. But, when one of Karen's friends gets `cooked' and has to be cleaned with a brush she becomes suspicious.Soon, Karen fights against her plant to safe herself and her friends around her, whilst trying to cope with a loving boyfriend, and a lesbian best friend, who's fallen in love with her.Karen fights and fights for others thorough the film, and her strength really makes you sad but overjoyed that there were some people like this in the world at one time, fighting for others.**PERFORMANCES**I don't remember seeing Meryl Streep in anything before this. She plays Karen Silkwood excellently, and although she doesn't resemble any likeness to the real Karen Silkwood, she still manages to fool us that she is actually the strong woman herself.All three main actors have won Oscars, and I think all deserved one for this. Streep managed to show us the witty side of Karen, but also managed to show us her strong and kind side as well.Karen finds it heart-breaking having to live away from her kids, and Streep really shows us not just how difficult that part of her life was, but how difficult her entire life was.I was shocked to find out Cher played Dolly the anything but lesbian who cares more about the kitchen table than her appearance! Cher steps down from her glamorous roles, and plays the loyal best friend.Cher's acting skills really come out in the film, because Dolly seems to be the complete opposite to Cher's character. Dolly doesn't wear make-up, doesn't care about hat people think about her, and basically is very laid-back. Nothing like the real star!It's nice to see Cher play this sort of role, and prove to us that she can really act. She gave Streep a run for her money, and I'm sure she shocked a lot of people at the time of the release, showing that she really can act.The third main-character is Kurt Russell, who plays Karen's badly done to boyfriend. Karen deeply loves him, but Drew cant seem to understand why she's fighting against the plant, and is more worried what will happen to her than anything else.I don't think they cast the best person for Drew, I feel someone shyer would have been a bit more believable. But, nonetheless, he played his part wonderfully as Drew.All three characters were very strong in one-way or another, and we really needed a strong actor/actress to play them. Someone like Susan Sarandon would have been too stereotypical, for Karen we needed someone who didn't always play the same part.Obviously, all three actors did a lot of research, because all three main characters were alive at one time, as the film is based on true events. The research pulled off, and they managed to make us believe Kurt, Meryl and Cher are also Drew, Karen and Dolly.**MY OPINION**This is my favourite film of all time. Not just because I'm blown away but the story, and the fact it is true, but the characters blow me away. All are so odd, but you can see and understand why they do something.When I first saw the film, I was very upset but also intrigued. I have learnt a lot about Karen Silkwood and her life since the film, and along with Princess Diana, she is one of my heroines.Every little thing in the film makes it a must-see for everyone. Everyone will enjoy this film, but maybe enjoy isn't the right word. It's a strong story that you don't enjoy it, but you won't believe what you see.The film was screen played excellently and thoroughly by Nora Ephron (You've Got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle) and you can tell she looked at every detail.**ALL IN ALL**A brilliant film with fantastic performances, a fantastic story that will blow you away. A really touching film. A MUST see!Written By Matt Roberts.  "},{"Title":"It Has Something for Everyone!","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Karen, a low-income science loving woman from Texas, lives with her two co-workers Dolly (played by Cher), who is a lesbian and Karen's best friend, and Drew, Karen's easy-living boyfriend. All three of them work for the Kerr-McGee corporation, along with several employees Winston - a pervert and the nervous new guy Hurley - the foreman and Karen's boss/ sort of friend Gilda - Karen's friend in their station Velma - a mother of several kids, including a daughter with cancer Wesley - an obnoxious worker but nice guy When Karen learns of illegal photo tampering, unsanitary workplace conditions, shifty workers and hidden evidence, she goes undercover, and everyone eventually leaves her side, except for Dolly. Eventually Karen's home is contaminated and ripped apart by men in HAZMAT suits, and she gets mad at Hurley when he accuses her of contaminating her own home. After being internally contaminated by plutonium, Karen begins to lose her sanity, and gets killed in a mysterious car crash.It was fairly accurate, the acting wasn't too cheesy, and the movie was funny as well as dramatic. One actor who did really well was the one who played Winston. I'd rate it 10/10, except it seemed that Karen worked so hard, only to be murdered in a ditch. Granted, it is based on true events, but it just seemed a lousy way to end the chance of Karen avenging her co-workers. Overall, it's definitely worth watching. It has some great shots of Texas oil refineries and chemical factories, it's got lots of action, and it makes a significant point. "},{"Title":"All Space Filled","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story here Large company doing dangerous things, puts the nation and its employees in harm's way. One of these is tracked, her loves disappointments and death. Indeed, the nuclear complex at the center of this story (closed) is now the world's largest Superfund site, costing over two billion dollars a year just to monitor. The problems there were related to what you see here on screen.Somehow the steam has gone out of this story, as in the modern era the trespasses of government and big business even make this seem small comparing consequences. But there are some interesting elements of this film that make it a joy to watch.The unseen villain here is radiation. You cannot see it. After the fact, you can track it using the same methods (in movie terms) as a regular detective. But its pervasive and final. Its a reflection of noir that there is an unseen force, controlled subconsciously by the audience that changes the ordinary lives we randomly choose. Has to be ordinary people. Mike Nichols understands this. Its why, I think, he chose this project.You see, Mike's talent is in filling all the space. He fills the frame. He fills the lives, the dialog. There's depth there. Its not depth in the emotional sense &#151; he is careful to keep the arc clean and easy to read. No, its just that he leaves no space empty. Even the framing of a shot has the sort of clutter you find in real life. There's no stage cleanliness where if you see something you know it will factor in the story.He does this editing-wise as well. There's a deliberate shortening of each scene by a fraction of a second from the norm. It doesn't seem rushed; there's not that sort of hurry. It just seems densely packed. Streep has some flaws as an actress. But this is one approach to film she fully understands and inhabits. Watch her. She's got something going with every part of her body every moment. Its not nervousness, and most of it has nothing to do with supporting the character or story in the usual, direct ways. She's just filling space, that space that Nichols has allocated to her, that falls within the boundaries she is given.Its really quite wonderful in terms of the craft. I don't find it all that effective myself. I prefer someone who understands the holes and voids, the dissymmetries and incomprehensibles. These are the things that capture us. If you understand those, and how to modulate them in at least one of the ways Nichols has learned to demodulate, then you have a start at film-making.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Compelling Drama","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A common question to this movie is If Karen Silkwood and her colleagues are so worried about being contaminated by plutonium at a processing plant then why do they smoke so many cigarettes if they're worried about their health ? Duh Because they volunteered to smoke ! They're adults and as adults they should be able to choose their own paths to hell . Even in 1973 the setting of this bio-pic everyone knew the risks of smoking related diseases and it's their health so if they want to ruin their health why should they be stopped from doing so ? !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!I don't know if it's irony on the point of director Mike Nichols but there does seem to be an awful lot of cigarette consumption in this movie . Certainly if there's any one wanting to give up the weed they should give this movie a miss . But the point remains that in 1973 ciggie packets carried government health warnings and everyone knew of the dangers even though they didn't want to admit it . Was the plutonium industry quite so honest ? What I liked about this collaboration between director Nichols and screenwriters Alice Arlen and Nora Ephron is that the audience is allowed to think for themselves on the issue of conspiracies and possible state sanctioned murders . Was Karen Silkwood bumped off for knowing too much and for being a trouble maker ? Possibly states the film but much of this is left somewhat ambiguous unlike say JFK by Oliver Stone . Likewise Karen's urine sample . Was it tampered with or was the radiation levels high because Karen was contaminated by a plutonium leak ? Once again the audience is left to make up there own minds Some people have criticized SILKWOOD because it feels very much like one of those cheap TVMs that even having a well known cast can't disguise . I won't disagree too much but this is because films of the period lacked much gloss and you can probably use the opposite argument in that nowadays Hollywood movies feature too much gloss and visual superficiality . Compare SILKWOOD with THE INSIDER or ERIN BROCKOVICH and make up your own mind if one's not glossy enough or the other two are too glossy to be effective . Certainly Nichols directs a scene where Karen walks through detectors and a jump cut occurs where she is undergoing decontamination procedure . I have no idea why but this scene shocked me to the core and this scene alone makes SILKWOOD a very memorable movie "},{"Title":"This movie was very important for our time.","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was only a glimpse into the future. We all, should be very thankful that Hollywood had the guts to produce a story like this. Meryl Streep did a wonderful job of portraying Karen Silkwood. This movie was only a glimpse into the future. I think this movie was a real eye opener at the time. Unfortunately, now there are enough true stories out there like this, it would keep Hollywood busy full time, if they produced them all. Meryl Streep you are my star for ever, but please mentor someone else with your talent. Our country needs it. With CSI on TV today it would be nice to have a spin off with details of Karen's head x-rays and auto damage in order to get closer to the truth. A modern day story called 'Wounded Bear' depicts a very similar story. This story has CT's and would bring you to the truth of both stories. I have Silkwoodon tape because I feel it is an important part of history.  "},{"Title":"Pretty great","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I think the advertising for this is very, very misleading. The poster on wikipedia makes it seem like a thriller, a crime story, and the summary here on IMDb isn't much better. It's just not that up-front about the things happening. I don't know if everything shown in the film is exactly like it happened in real life, but it's definitely a very realistic story about a woman trying to get answers and then finding her demise, except we don't know for sure if her car accident really was just that, an accident, or the work of other people trying to get rid of a woman looking for the truth in dangerous places. Regardless, Streep is marvelous here, deeply embodying that Oklahoma accent with perfection and playing a character that we've never seen her play before. "},{"Title":"'SILKWOOD' IS A SUPERLATIVE PIECE OF FILMMAKING","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What a fine film 'Silkwood' is.  Moment after fine moment brings tears to my eyes.  Mike Nichols direction is superb and the entire cast, from supporting roles to lead roles are exceptional.This is the film that Meryl Streep should have won her Best Actress Academy for (no slight of the other extraordinary female performances that came out in 1983), but Ms. Streep's performance speaks straight to my heart.  Her warmth and generosity as a being, radiates love and empathy through her portrayal of the tragic heroine Karen Silkwood.Cher is remarkable and real.  Both her and Kurt Russell give the performances of their carreer.'Silkwood' is an underrated acheivement (no doubt deemeed to slow by many), but the pace and the drama are expert examples of what discering films have to offer.Darren C.    "},{"Title":"A great look back at early 80s films","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought this was a very nice film.  It was nice to see three people acting well together (Cher, Meryl Streep and Kurt Russell).  This type of story is very intersting to me.  We see radiation treated so comically on The Simpsons but it is a very serious thing.  Also, I thought it was great to have a film that had such simple locations and sets.  No special fx were necessary and the result was a nice film with a good story.  I would recommend Silkwood to anyone who likes these actors and anyone who is interested in true stories or films about organized labor.  "},{"Title":"Depressing Realism","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The plot of Silkwood is fairly close to my memory of major events as they played out in Oklahoma, and reported by local news over multiple weeks. A lone individual up against a big corporation is always a compelling story. In this case, the individual, Karen Silkwood (Meryl Streep), proved morally superior to Kerr-McGee, even though the story ends tragically. This film is unusual in that the plot and characters are not exaggerated at all.Quite aside from the film's deep political and social themes, Silkwood excels at a personal level. All the characters are real people, and the script and actors convey deep and meaningful characterizations. This is true even of secondary characters like Thelma (Sudie Bond) and Mr. Hurley (Bruce McGill), for example. These peoples' lives are all rather common and dreary, but what a welcome change from the contrived and two-dimensional characters in most films.Detailed production design matches the dreariness and bleakness of these blue-collar workers in rural America. The naked light bulb that hangs from the ceiling in Silkwood's house; the drab green paint peeling off kitchen cabinets; that old beat-up white car Karen drives. On and on, the settings are realistic and appropriately depressing. The low-key, country/banjo score amplifies the realism of time and place, as does the old gospel hymn Amazing Grace.Casting is ideal. I don't know how the acting could have been improved. Meryl Streep just disappears into the role of Karen Silkwood. Both Kurt Russell and Cher deserved awards. Even minor roles are well cast, and the performances are terrific.Color cinematography is quite good. Night scenes, both interior and exterior, are impressive. There's one scene in the second half where Karen and Dolly (Cher) sit out on the front porch in a swing; it's night; Dolly is crying and Karen reassures her with a soft version of the song Hush-a-bye, don't you cry, go to sleep little baby, when you wake&#x85;. As the camera backs away, we see that drab, lonely house with a melancholy Karen and Dolly, an image that is powerfully haunting.Silkwood conveys a highly realistic, true-life story about a very ordinary young woman who, despite personal issues and imperfections, takes big risks to do what is morally right. The film is sad, depressing, and very well made. It easily ranks among my twenty best films of all time. "},{"Title":"Blinded With Science!","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I might as well start off by stating that I litter and don't recycle and use pesticides and do everything I can to cause pollution, I like pollution. But I've always loved this movie, not from an environmental aspect but because it shows the life of average, working class people and instead of trying to make it glamorous, it keeps it true. I love the acting, and I'm not a big fan of the bluegrass but the solo of Meryl Streep singing Amazing Grace was stunning at the end as it showed Karen's death scene.Karen Silkwood is a metallurgy worker, refining plutonium in a large chemical factory in Oklahoma with her friends (many of her friends are employed by the factory). The only one she doesn't get along with is Winston, the known creep who is always trying to get it on with the female workers. She shares a small house with her boyfriend Drew and a lesbian woman named Dolly, both of whom are her best friends; they even go with her when she drives out to the oil fields of Texas to see her estranged kids.One day Karen begins to pull together her memories of disturbing sightings at the plant, such as a radioactive truck being cut up with welding tools to be buried, and her friend Velma being hosed and scrubbed down naked after being contaminated. Karen soon finds herself involved in some serious activism and dangerous work, and just as she is about to blow the whistle she is killed. No one knows if it was an accident or a murder.Silkwood was based on a true story, a cold case that happened in 1983, forcing the shut-down of the sketchy factory. The movie accurately depicts the events and inspired several scenes in the Sysco book series as well as an episode of Cold Case titled Breaking News. "}{"Title":"Amazing grace of 2 women Silkwood and Streep","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What does your own hero look like ?How do you judge people ?When should you let go ? And when should you stick around ?With amazing grace, the beautiful Meryl Streep and Karen Silkwood have both tried to answer our questions. This wonderful movie wasn't about Silkwood's bravery in demanding people's absolutely basic rights only.Most of people judge others by their own definition of honour. You tell a friend about how this woman sleeps with everyone and the word goes on about how this promiscuous woman is a devil. This portrayal of Karen Silkwood will definitely conquer your image and your ways of judgment. As you can see her life ends, you'll know what really matters in life and what real honour looks like. You'll know that each one of us has their own demons, and some more than others, maybe for the bigger part, because they've witnessed what the rest didn't in their lives. You can never judge this woman saying she left her children when she's fighting for the framed pictures they're taking from her as they've found her house's contaminated, you can never judge her emotional and sexual behaviour when you see the look - to Drew- in her eyes before she dies and you can never judge the quality of her life given her psychological disturbance. This beautiful woman fought for what really matters in this life end of fear .. end of blackmail for money and food. She's a hero by all means, defying all sorts of authorities with absolutely no support most of the time. You can see the struggles of being with someone who wouldn't save the world like you're trying to, but turns out to love you as you are with all your demons. The real lesson for most people in this movie was about bravery and courage, but for me, it was mostly about acceptance, judgment and what really matters in this life.I can't thank Meryl Streep, Cher, Kurt Russel and Director Mike Nichols enough for this masterpiece, especially the ever-amazing and graceful, Mrs Streep .. You've taught me more than I've ever learnt from anybody in my own life. "},{"Title":"Karen Silkwood  1946-1973","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As we don't really know what happened to Karen Silkwood for an exact certainty this film gives us a pretty accurate account of those last months of her life when a very ordinary and pedestrian life became a symbol of union activism and the power of plutocracy to have their way.When Harvey Milk went out and became a gay activist he reflected that in the 40 years he'd been living on planet earth he hadn't really left much of a mark up to that time. Karen Silkwood didn't even have that much time left to her. The last couple of years of her life were devoted to union activism and it was that activism that indirectly or directly led to her death depending on your point of view.As an a union leader she even faced the criticisms of her own rank and file for not working as they felt for more traditional issues like a pay raise, less hours etc. Her concentration was the plant safety at Kerr- McGee where she and others worked making plutonium pellets for nuclear fuel rods. As such she and her co-workers were exposed to radiation, exposed a lot more she feared than her employers let on. That's fairly well proved in the film and in life.As to her death the speculation is that it was not just an automobile accident, but something that was arranged by Kerr-McGee as she was on her way to meet a New York Times reporter with documentation of Kerr- McGee's failings on the issue of safety. That's the part that has left her story a mystery until this day, a mystery that the film Silkwood takes no real position.But despite that the film got five Oscar nominations for Meryl Streep one of her collection of Best Actress nominations for the title role. Mike Nichols got one for Best Director and there were nominations in the writing and editing categories.Cher spread her thespian wings in Silkwood playing Streep's best friend and lesbian roommate and fellow worker. She got some deserved rave reviews and this led to a second career as actress. In her whole career Cher has never really mixed her singing and her acting. Thirty years ago she probably would have been Hollywood musicals of mixed quality so she's eschewed musical films. I think that's conscious decision she's made and it's worked out well for her.Sadly being ignored by the Academy was Kurt Russell playing Streep's live in boyfriend. From child actor to Disney bubble gum star to action adventure films, Russell finally got a real acting role he could create a character with and did so. Mostly his career has been action/adventure stuff, but here and in other films like Unlawful Entry and the Mean Season he's shown some acting chops without shooting people or breaking heads.The film Silkwood as a totality is not as good as the outstanding performances these three players give in it. But it still remains a testament to the life and example of Karen Silkwood. "},{"Title":"If You Drink, Don't Order Plutonium.","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In many ways this is a striking movie. The director, Mike Nichols, lets us feel the atmosphere of a Kansas City dominated by Kerr-Magee, producer of noxious radioactive materials for use in energy plants. You can hear the cicadas at night. You can smell the interior of the ramshackle but accommodating farm house in which Meryl Streep (as Karen Silkwood) lives with her lesbian friend (Cher) and her hunky boyfriend (Kurt Russell). It's an invitingly sloppy place, rather like my own. Russell drinks beer out of the can, and so does everyone else. And when Russell is finished, he crumples the empty aluminum can and throws it in the corner.The dynamics of the household are explored in a comfortable way. There is little conflict, not even when Cher brings in her girl friend, a cosmetologist at a funeral parlor (Diana Scarwid), who subjects Cher to her beautify up treatment and produces a pretty young woman with the face of a ghoul.So far, so good. Then it begins to get a little loopy as it segues into Kerr-Magee's touching up the X rays and stimulating Streep's social conscience. This leads to Russell's dissatisfaction and ultimate departure, just as Norma Rae's passionate involvement the union led to a split with her husband.Therein lies a problem. I got lost. Three times, Streep sets off alarms at the plant -- loud, air-raid type screams, sirens, and beeps -- signalling that she's been cooked by plutonium. The corrective treatment, administered by a veterinarian, is to strip the patient and scrub her with stiff brushes, in a shower. I believe this happens five times all together. Each time, the polluted victim screams loudly between sobs as sadistic assistants push her roughly this way and that. It reminded me of one of those scenes in an old-fashioned story about psychiatric hospitals where they hose down the inmate as punishment for misbehavior. Here, never does the victim cooperate quietly in her own cleansing.How they were poisoned by plutonium is never really made clear. There is some mention of a hole in the glove but it goes nowhere. And when Streep discovers that her entire house is radioactive, she comes to the wild conclusion that somebody put plutonium in her urine specimen and then she spilled it in her bathroom at home. Why would anyone do that? Even a corporation as villainous as Kerr-Magee is shown to be? If they want to get rid of Streep, can't they simply fire her for some flimsy excuse? It's not a civil service job.The acting is unimpeachable. Streep is superb, and the rest of the principals match her. I find the most enjoyable performances come from Diana Scarwid, insulting Russell with her Valley Girl accent Sometimes I get sew tired of yewr jokes. Also outstanding is Craig Nelson as Winston, the plant's slime ball whose moves and suspicions are smoothly delivered with no expressions at all.In the end, though, this is a skillfully done piece of agitprop. The Kerr-Magee goons push everybody around for no discernible reason. When they take samples from Streep's poisoned house, they brutally tear the place apart while seeming to enjoy it. The attack turns the comfortable farm house into a skeletal wreck. Not to mention that the only conclusion that can be drawn from the last scene is that the corporation murders Karen Silkwood.Nobody like anything that has nuclear in its name. It's been, as semanticists say, pejorated. It used to be atomic but that was pejorated and the name changed. That's how undertakers became morticians and then funeral directors. But turning Kerr-Magee into harsh, anti-union, devious disciplinarians and killers is a bit much. Next time, when they remake this movie, please have the assistants be a bit sympathetic and gentle when they rub down the contaminated victim. It's not necessary to underscore a point that is already in boldface. "},{"Title":"'Silkwood', a brand name for courage, altruism and integrity ...","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Karen Silkwood, casually chewing gum, finishes her working day by a routine cleaning task. She then leaves the room, raises her hand toward the radiation detector, as she always does, but this time, the strident alarm suddenly starts ringing, indicating that she may have been exposed to radiations. Karen tries not to panic although she's visibly shocked. And the scene cuts to the first of her three cooking treatments, which in nuclear jargon, means getting into a hot, long and painful decontaminating shower. That very moment is Karen Silkwood's story in microcosm, perfectly reflecting who she was and what she went through. Basically, Karen can't see the danger pending above her frail shoulders. She's not a fool but in a tragically admirable way, she is just blinded by her own integrity. Later in the film, she just enters the door, and the sound startles us again, we have a quick glimpse on the Danger Radiation signal, then it cuts to her cries of fear and disbelief under the hot shower, again. The sad irony is that Karen tried to apply some cleansing on the field of ethics, in the Nuclear factory she worked in, but the more she tried, the more tortured she was by the 'invisible enemy'. And the frequency of the shower scenes plays like the omen of a series of misfortunes leading up to a tragic conclusion, the ultimate 'cleaning'. Indeed, we all know that Karen Silkwood died in a mysterious car accident, so the shower scenes, each time more intense and haunting, marks the beginning of the end for Karen Silkwood. But as aware as we are about the facts, there's something in Karen's portrayal by Meryl Streep and in Mike Nichols' sober directing that don't get us prepared to it. Karen is no more idealistic than any other, she lives her life, she jokes and smokes, a lot as a matter of fact, she enjoys flirting, teasing her friends, she's like any small-town girl of her generation. Silkwood borrows many elements from 70's dramas like Serpico, Norma Rae or The China Syndrome, movies featuring ordinary persons, so dedicated to their job they couldn't close their eyes on some unethical practices and made outcasts of themselves by blowing the whistle.Karen belongs to America's struggling, unorganized working class. Her three children live with her ex-husband, and she shares a ramshackle house with her boyfriend Drew and lesbian friend Dolly, superbly played by Kurt Russell and Cher. As to emphasize the fact that the factory nourishes the town, they also happen to be co-workers. Indeed, whether a cotton mill or corporate police, the factory producing plutonium fuel rods for nuclear reactors, is only the setting and the film deals with a sincere austerity a slice of American workers' ordinary lives in a crisis-stricken America, with a more dramatic turn since it's a life-and-death situation, governed by pure profits' motives. When the plant falls into an important contract and workers are forced to work over hours and falsify some records, the effect on their health is perceived as minor collateral damage, a chance even workers are ready to take, because at least, their wages is a valuable certitude. Silkwood chronicles Karen's double evolution her ascension from a worker to a union activist, traveling to Washington, interacting with union officials, testifying before the Energy Atomic Commission and revealing that some records are altered. And in the same time, there's a descent into the outcast status, making her more and more undesirable, but in the meantime, more and more determined to conduct the investigation on her own. Karen died the night she was supposed to give documentation to New York Times reporter but none of it was found in her crushed car, except convenient hints indicating that she was drugged and 'fall in sleep while driving. From all the previous heroes I mentioned, Silkwood is the most tragic character because she paid the highest price. And what makes the story so heart-breaking is that it's not until it's too late, that she realizes she's been sailing on trouble waters. I'm still haunted by the last shot of Karen blinded by headlights on her rear view mirror. Is she worried, surprised? or does she literally see the light, realizing where her fight has lead up and is probably aware of what's awaiting her? We're only left with our sorrow, sadness and disbelief shared by her co-workers and friends when the crushed car is dragged to town. And it's the bold and abrupt realism that emotionally enhances the film, it's set in 1974, but the feeling is so authentic I felt like it was made in 1974.Nichols' doesn't stylize the film, shot like a documentary. The big corporations aren't vilified as Karen isn't romanticized either. The only time the 'David vs. Goliath' aspect of her fight is hinted is when she looks for retouched negatives of faulty fuel rods and is confronted by Craig T. Nelson. She tells him she's looking for her pills, but the intimidating towering presence of Nelson accentuates Karen's vulnerability and provides the first hints of danger.Realistic dramas like Silkwood can only rely on performances and Meryl Streep dilutes herself as Karen Silkwood. She wasn't thirty in Kramer vs. Kramer but she conveyed a classy maturity, she's older in Silkwood but she looks like a 28-year old woman with that mixture of tenderness and carelessness, and so deeply rooted altruism. I didn't know Meryl Streep could look so adorable, so childish, being sometimes naughty, yet revealing a stronger side than anyone, something she didn't knew she had. That's the stuff heroes are made on and I was sad to see that Karen Silkwood was only listed as 47 on AFI's Top 50 Heroes, so far below Norma Rae (#17) and Erin Brokovich (#31), especially since the reason why I loved Silkwood is precisely why I didn't like Erin Brokovich. "},{"Title":"powerful story","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Meryl Streep stars as Silkwood, a 1983 film directed by Mike Nichols and also starring Kurt Russell, Cher, Craig T. Nelson, Diana Scarwid, and Ron Silver.This is the true story of Karen Silkwood, a whistleblower at the plutonium processing plant at which she worked. Nearly everyone works for the plant, and when Karen volunteers to be part of the union's efforts to stay in the plant, she becomes a threat to everyone.After maintaining a union presence in the company, the union's next step is to negotiate a contract. Part of its work is investigating the safety features of the plant, which are woefully lacking. Karen herself is exposed to plutonium, and the question today is was it deliberate, as the levels were very high.Very good film, done in a very naturalistic style and showing not only the shabby way in which workers were treated, but the fact that most of them were lower class, working lots of hours under dangerous conditions. It's not a happy ending, as I guess most people know, and again, the question is, was Silkwood killed in an accident en route to meet with a New York Times reporter, or was it an arranged accident? And if she had documents, there were none at the scene.What's not shown in the film is that the plant eventually was shut down, and Silkwood's family sued and won a large settlement. This settlement was reduced, but then restored. Rather than appeal, the company paid a substantial amount of money but never admitted liability.Meryl Streep is fantastic as Silkwood, a hard worker, well-liked initially, who loved to laugh. She was courageous in the sense that she saw a wrong and wanted to do her part to right it without a lot of fanfare. Like everyone in the film, there is no artifice to Streep's portrayal. It's all done in a very natural style, and that includes the sound, which is not overamplified. Cher is wonderful as her lesbian friend Dolly, and Kurt Russell effective as her boyfriend.There were several films like this in the '80s and '90s - Norma Rae was one, and even though it's not about workers, The China Syndrome is another as it deals with dangerous conditions in a nuclear plant. Later there was A Civil Action, The Firm, Afterburn, The Insider, Erin Brokovich. Silkwood was an important movie with an important message, and it undoubtedly served as inspiration for the films that followed it. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Intense 1980s flick that is based on the true story of Karen Silkwood (Meryl Streep in an Oscar-nominated role), a woman at a plutonium plant who began to talk about what really went on at the facility where she was employed. It seems that nuclear tampering would lead to the poisoning of the plant's employees and the pollution of the environment. Silkwood was about to talk to the New York Times about the Oklahoma plant when she died under mysterious circumstances in a car accident. The audience knows what is going to happen, but it is getting there that is the fascinating part. Mike Nichols' Oscar-nominated direction is arguably the best of his career, with the exception of his work on The Graduate. Cher (also Oscar-nominated) proved that she was a legitimate actress as Streep's lesbian co-worker. Kurt Russell also gives his finest performance as Streep's on-again-off-again boyfriend. However with all that said, it is Meryl Streep who gives one of her finest performances in this memorable, remarkable and important motion picture. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Good film lifted by sublime performances","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Set in a small rural town in Oklahoma, 'Silkwood' (1983) follows Karen Silkwood's (Meryl Streep) quest to reveal the truth about the local nuclear power plant she works at. Based upon a true story, Karen is killed in a car accident on her way to meet an editor of the New York Times who was going to help her expose the truth. Living with her boyfriend Drew (Kurt Russell) and friend Dolly (Cher), Karen, a technician in the plant, sees her life turned upside down after she tests positive for radiation poisoning. After she is subsequently moved to a different department, Karen quickly becomes suspicious that the company is putting worker's health at risk in order to fulfill million dollar contracts. A suspicion that ultimately leads to her death. Directed by Mike Nichols, direction for which earned him an Oscar nomination, Silkwood is for the large part a believable, thrilling and touching film. The script by Nora Ephron and Alice Arlen is given life by the two lead actresses, Streep and Cher, both of which gained Oscar nominations for their performances for the high amount of depth and humanity exhibited in each of their characters. At times, however the plot seemed to drag slightly, and Kurt Russell was given little room for character development playing the stereotypical southern blue collar worker, but these are minor criticisms. The bigger problem with this film is the structure. As the audience is let known beforehand that Karen will die at some point, the tension that builds quite effectively through the film is wasted somewhat by a anti-climactic end. A problem that seems to undermine many thrillers/dramas that are based upon true stories as the spoiler is given before the film. Nonetheless, Silkwood is a high quality film and Meryl Streep gives yet another Oscar nominated performance (her 5th at the time) and with her co-star Cher they help lift a film that otherwise may have lacked. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing acting - Meryl Streep underacting, which makes Karen Silkwood so real.","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was so ahead of it's time. It went on to show the problems that could happen at a nuclear plant. At this time, most people did not know what a nuclear plant or it's purpose was.People commenting on the smoking aspect is too out there to be real. We are dealing with a totally different subject matter here. I bet, Karen Silkwood never would have realized what was to come, and in this day and age, she would have been a hero! You are a hero to me Karen - anyone who speaks up for the people, and is willing to put her life on the line to save others - Lady - you did a good job! And you lost your life for this. "},{"Title":"Streep's showcase--perhaps overly so","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" At over two hours, Mike Nichols' Silkwood is rather long and slowly paced, and not quite what I was expecting. The dramatic, mysterious circumstances surrounding the real Karen Silkwood's life and death led me to think that the movie would be suspenseful and closely plotted, focused mainly on the subject of unsafe working conditions at a plutonium-processing facility. Instead, it's more of a character-based movie, a chance for Meryl Streep to create a detailed portrait of a working-class Oklahoma woman.Of course it's always a pleasure to watch Streep dig deeply into a character. She subverts our initial impression that Karen is just a rowdy good-time girl, playing her as a woman who throws herself into union and workplace-safety concerns because she is losing everything else in her life. She also has good scenes with Kurt Russell (as her boyfriend) and Cher (as her lesbian housemate).But ultimately, I think that Nichols loves his leading lady a little too much. He lights and shoots Streep to look almost too movie-star pretty in many scenes (despite her awful shag haircut), and her voice is almost too good when she sings Amazing Grace. Several scenes could be trimmed or cut entirely, and Karen's character arc would still be in place. For instance, the first 30 minutes of the movie spend way too long dealing with Karen's relationship with her three children, who are now in the custody of her ex-husband, but never appear in the movie after that.Because Nichols is never sure whether to focus more attention on Karen's relationships or on her job, and is unwilling to even try to explain the confused circumstances behind Karen Silkwood's death, Silkwood, while a good showcase for Streep, does not fully work as a film. "},{"Title":"Slow and depressing but some brilliant moments make it worth it","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The only gripe I have with this brilliant film is the Australian-DVD-release cover. Being born in 1979 and not knowing much about Karen Silkwood, it was disappointing to read the ENTIRE plot of the film, including the ending, on the back of the DVD. I had seen this movie years and years earlier, and I didn't remember the ending. It's enough to say it's the Karen Silkwood story, and then let the film speak for itself, because it speaks volumes.This, I think, is one of those quiet films that have sort of disappeared from view nowadays, except for die-hard Meryl Streep fans I suppose. All I remember from seeing Silkwood as a child was being extremely disturbed by the decontamination shower scenes in which people are scrubbed down with hard brushes that cause welts on the skin, and they are blasted with either extremely hot or extremely cold water (its not made clear which, but either would be unpleasant i imagine). That this method of decon is not even effective, makes these scenes even more distressing to watch.The film is quiet, dialogue driven, but that's not to say it's brilliant...in fact, it is very slow, and today's audiences would flick channels in no time. It's uncomfortable (c'mon, it's radiation poisoning we're dealing with here...it's frightening stuff we'd all rather not think about), and in a nutshell, it's depressing. But Meryl Streep is just so likable as Karen Silkwood. You can't help but cheer for her and her courage in the face of an big corporation that practically OWNED the entire county. And Kurt Russell gives an understated and very effective performance as the redneck with a good heart. He's great in one scene (spoiler) after Karen (and an older lady employee named Thelma) have been contaminated and Karen asks him if its changed how he feels about her. I was expecting some cheesy romantic line here, but instead he goes, Well, I still want to f*ck you...I sure as h*ll don't wanna f*ck Thelma anymore though! Another standout for me was the very end (another spoiler) the accappella Amazing Grace rendition. No sound, no dialogue, just a final shot of Karen Silkwood and a fade out as the song ends. It's a great ending in cinema I think. Understated, quiet and powerful, just like the film itself. "}{"Title":"Meryl Strip in a Powerful Role","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If Silkwood is such a great movie, then a large part of its greatness is definitely owed to Meryl Streep She plays Karen Silkwood, a single mother who is working in a nuclear plant based somewhere in Oklahoma. In the beginning, Karen seems to be an average working-class girl living a rather simple life, without any ambitions or hidden potential. She stays with her boyfriend Drew (Russel) and their room-mate Dolly (Cher), and the three of them are living an uneventful life. However, Karen changes dramatically, when she starts to realize that the management of the plant they work in, is quite lax on security and health issues. As she starts to get more involved, she gradually finds people around her being distanced from her and even outright hostile and potentially dangerous. And yet, she becomes more and more determined to her goal, defying the risks that are continuously piling up...The performance that Streep gives as Karen Silkwood is really touching. She gives an excellent portrayal of a girl, who could be naive and even self-destructing on the one hand (just count the cigarettes she is smoking throughout the film to get an idea!), while on the other hand she proves to be a very altruistic and responsible person who does her utmost to protect her unappreciative fellow workers. Streep is amazing in her role, and she definitely deserved the Oscar for that one.Of course, Silkwood is not only Meryl Streep. Cher is very good as the lesbian room-mate, while Kurt Russel is surprisingly good as the confused boyfriend. Mike Nichols signs an excellent direction, so it all adds up very well. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Oh Meryl...","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Not that she needs it, but this movie, like most of her others, reaffirms Meryl Streep's ascendancy to the title of America's greatest living actress. A faithful rendering of the tragic story of Karen Silkwood, a nuclear plant worker in Oklahoma and a precursor to Erin Brockovich, who spearheaded a crusade to expose her company's callous misdeeds and was silenced under 'mysterious' circumstances. The movie is crisp, gritty and optimally paced, devoid of superfluous melodrama, deftly penned (in part by Nora Ephron), and with remarkable performances all around, particularly from Cher, who plays Karen's lesbian roommate. A must-see, and not just for Meryl Streep enthusiasts.  "},{"Title":"Movies are like fine wine. - contains Spoilers","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Some age better than others, though, and this movie is definitely one that is aging better than most.  Dr. Strangelove (Or how I learned to stop worrying and love the bomb) is sadly not aging as well (but it is a very timely movie, especially the part with the cowboy riding the bomb). Meryl Streep gives a very dead-on performance, and Cher as a lesbian - well, that explains why her songs are wafting out of most of the clubs in this city.  Kurt Russell gives a very understated performance which reflects well how we expect a man in this situation to act.  I wouldn't describe the movie as just screaming along, but everything in it - from the slice of life interaction with her children to Cher's beautician girlfriend (she sees dead people)- works towards the final culmination of her death. A great weekend movie.  Not exactly uplifting, but more uplifting than some of Meryl's other flicks, such as Sophie's Choice.     "},{"Title":"Magnificent Meryl","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Meryl Streep is fantastic in this true story of Karen Silkwood.  As usual, Mike Nichols gets the best actors to be in his movies, and this cast is terrific, especially Ray Baker, Sudie  Bond, David Strathairn and Ron Sivler.  Kurt Russell gives his best performance.  I love this movie very much and do not find it boring in the least.  "},{"Title":"Plutonium vs Meryl Streep Go!","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have no idea deep down if Karen Silkwood was a martyr, and in the case of the Mike Nichols movie (co scripted by Nora Ephron), there's a part of me that almost doesn't care. It's not that I don't care about how she (spoiler?) died, as it was a tragedy and there were certainly circumstances around it that made it abhorrent. But a movie has to rest on its characters and how the emotional through-line works, not just just it's subject matter, and in that department it soars on showing people in circumstances that could be anybody in the working class (yes, it's Oklahoma and yes there is a Confederate flag in a bedroom which doesn't make Kurt Russel's character totally endearing, but still).Indeed a film like this reminded me why I had an issue with Erin Brockovich, which dealt with another down-on-her-luck says-whats-on-her-mind woman (also a mother) up against a corrupt system, and that was simply that I couldn't get invested in her or the script made her too much of a tough-talker (however close it might've been to real life who knows). In this case I got completely invested with Karen and how she had, frankly, flaws but also a lot of good humor about things in her life and related well (up to certain points) with her man Drew and her roommate Dolly (Cher). Of course the fact that it deals with radiation and plutonium and how dangerous it can be - nay, how in this story this plants f***-ups could have led to millions of people dying through not documenting things correctly - makes for compelling drama.But I think the power of the movie is that it's not *just* about that, and that Nichols and Ephron and the actors can use the dramatic plot if you will in Karen dealing with the unions and then getting in deeper with sort of spying on her organization for other things that aren't being reported on (whistleblowing, in short), and it's a sign that the filmmakers had a good sense on the material to show that the Karen of this story isn't necessarily so great at this. She's a working woman who gets by day to day and tries to not get contaminated - at first she does by accident, and then other times it happens... more on purpose, perhaps, who can say, it's likely just that - and seeing her try to lie her way out of sneaking pictures out of fellow worker Craig T Nelson's desk drawer certainly has some level of suspense (mostly due to how Streep and Nelson act so well off one another, both knowing the other knows what's up, probably, hear how they say the words).It's important I think to note how we only see Karen's kids in a couple of scenes - they live with the father, and we can assume she has limited, if at all, visitation rights - so this leaves her all the more on her own once she hits rough patches with Drew (Russell makes this such a fascinating guy to play, a man who sees Karen as two people, one I love, the other is a pain in the ass), and with Dolly, though that's much briefer. I also liked seeing how Cher managed around in scenes where she had to strip away her usual, well, 'Cher'-ness, but at the same time she's not using her lack of makeup or frumpy demeanor to do the acting for her and she takes and gives as good as acting-mammoths like Streep and Russell give to her. The scenes at the Silkwood house are the heart of the movie, and it's here where we see much of Ephron/Arlen's dialog shine (sometimes comic, but more in a fluid style where it's less about getting laughs than simply being there from one real moment to the next).I wonder if I watched this again if I'd get even more out of the side dealing with the issues so to speak, meaning that I'd focus more on the hazards of the unions and the nuclear situations and plutonium (don't let it get in your lungs, remember that!) I got enough out of that to see that as a solid story of malfeasance at best and criminal acts at worst (the face of the sort of corporate-drone is seen best with Bruce McGill's character, who offers help to Karen in the same tone as he gives out orders to get back to work). And yet I just keep thinking about those scenes with Streep and Russell in bed, talking about this or that, or that scene between Karen and Dolly on the front porch at night where they just hold each other both trying not to be completely broken by what the world's doing to them at that moment, or the different modes emotionally Streep takes Karen when she goes through discovering she herself is contaminated from her home. It's a tragic human roller-coaster first, issue movie second, though not without some wit sprinkled throughout which is kind of a minor miracle for a story like this.Only the very end gets to be a bit much (Amazing Grace, only Streep's voice), not that it isn't earned. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Ordinary People in Extraordinary Circumstances","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Given away with a Sunday newspaper, I left this film in the 'watch later' pile for quite some time. I'll start saying the film has a slow pace, but his helped in developing the characters as people'. Whilst not a Streep or Cher fan, both play their parts very well building an empathy and understanding not often done successfully in a mainstream film. It's not a shock/horror affair - more how people react to hazards presented by way of their day to day job. I liked the way her relationships at work suffered as she went about her work, and this I thought well presented. The type of threat to which Streep was exposed was well developed as the film went on. I didn't buy into the work situation following her transfer to a review function nor the way in which she acquired evidence for the Trade Union re radiation levels. I liked the relationship portrayed between Streep and Russell, it did seem realistic to me. The essential point being how personal and representative priorities often conflict with the one impinging on the other. In short a film about how ordinary people respond to extraordinary situations. The film encouraged you to form an opinion rather than give you one ready made. This is one to sit, watch and empathise with. "},{"Title":"Fine Film About a Genuine Working-Class Heroine","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Warning! Spoilers ahead!This film is but one of a series made in the early 1980s that dealt with issues of social change and individuals dealing with overwhelming odds against powerful oppressors. Among earlier epics like Reds and Gandhi, Silkwood is perhaps the most relatable to the average individual, and thus perhaps the most poignant. Unlike the protagonist of Reds, Karen Silkwood is not an upper-class do-gooder out to change the whole world from the outset; she is an ordinary laborer in a nuclear materials plant who becomes a social crusader due to the hazards of her workplace on both herself and her coworkers. Also, unlike Gandhi, Silkwood is subdued and limited in scope, the setting being limited to rural Oklahoma and the nuclear materials plant; the characters are not nation-builders or viceroys, but workers, union leaders, managers and reporters. Mike Nichols's film about Karen Silkwood, while being comparatively humble, is no less heartbreaking and gripping.Meryl Streep is excellent as the eponymous protagonist. Unlike John Reed in Reds, Karen Silkwood is of the same class and temperament as the people she is trying to save. She playfully steals coworkers' food in the cafeteria, laughs at their crude jokes, and chides her roommates--also employees at the company--for keeping spoiled food in the refrigerator. Because Silkwood is close to the people she works and lives with, she is particularly distraught when she learns about the plant's contamination and watches as a coworker is given a brutal bath to rid her of irradiation. She understands them as John Reed never could. Some critics have characterized the character of Silkwood as equally obnoxious and irrational as she is noble. Silkwood is a back-slapping blue-collar woman like everyone else in her life, but Streep is able to make these traits endearing rather than annoying. It is Silkwood's personality which makes her hated by coworkers and company later in the film, even though members of the audience get the sense that *anyone else in the plant* could have ended up like Silkwood if they had chosen her path. The audience feels, for the most part, sympathy with the tribulations of Silkwood rather than distance, and this is to Streep's credit. It seems fair to fault the movie for getting sidetracked in the first hour or so with stories about Silkwood's relationship with her boyfriend and roommates, as well as her painful relationship with her divorced common-law husband and her children. While, on the surface, having little to do with the main plot about Silkwood's fight against nuclear plant corruption, these vignettes are nevertheless important in building and developing Silkwood's character, such that she is fully three-dimensional and sympathetic when the main plot starts rolling. Unfortunately, these early scenes may be distracting to the first-time viewer, so much so that they may lose sight of what the movie is about, and might turn off the TV (or monitor) in frustration because the first third is boring and doesn't seem to go anywhere plot-wise. A fair warning Silkwood is as much about the emotional interactions between three roommates in a small house as it is about workplace safety; these plot points *do* eventually join together, but it requires patience on the part of the audience.While Meryl Streep portrays Silkwood as a gutsy, fearless individual, the movie treads carefully between hagiography and castigation. The movie does not ignore the toll SIlkwood's fight against the company has on her roommates and, more significantly, her coworkers, who show understandable concern that her sleuthing will only result in the company shutting down and everyone getting laid off. While those around her change in their attitudes toward Silkwood, Silkwood, remarkably, remains a static character, as boisterous and playful near the end as she was in the beginning (a near-finale scene with her boyfriend as she departs for the last time shows this character development). Silkwood is a fine piece of filmmaking about a true working-class hero. Meryl Streep deserves credit for making Karen Silkwood a likable and compelling protagonist, who in lesser hands may have come off as annoying. While unsung today, Silkwood remains one of the best of the social cause movies of the 1980s. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Good movie, rather entertaining than educating","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If you like movies about criminal conspiracies by large companies like the oil industry etc. and if you are not hoping for baam boom bang action, and if you respect the release date of this movie, you shouldn't be disappointed watching it.We got different actors here that have a pretty good career ahead of them and I'm not just talking about Cher (who already was pretty famous at that time) but also Craig T Nelson who started his cinema career about that time, also did Fred Ward and with Ron Silver, the same thing. Not to speak of Kurt Russell and Meryl Streep.So what we've got here is a biographical movie and it is about a conspiracy making one person the victim of something she might haven't done. She's put under pressure and we see how she's dealing with that.The movie is made really good and its worth watching it but the real criticism fails. There is no real political statement in the whole conclusion so please don't expect that, rather expect a nice flick. If you are looking for really critical hot stuff that must have changed things and opinions of people at that time like the China Syndrome with Michael Douglas, you are absolutely wrong here.I'm giving it a 5 out of 10 because, positive I liked the actors and the atmosphere. Negative the plot builds up to something that doesn't come out, even if it's biographical, this was pretty weak and i don't mean the person, i mean the movie. "},{"Title":"The hypothesis still remains, did Karen lose her life trying to report the many mischiefs about Kerr-Mcghee to the government and press.","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a very detailed story of how Karen Silkwood, worked for a Oklahoma nuclear plant named, Kerr-Mcghee. Karen was polluted by the plutonium intentionally, to keep her quite, as she exposed the many faulty activities being performed at this plant.Karen lived with her boyfriend Drew and friend Dolly, who all worked at the same nuclear plant. Dolly is a lesbian, and decides to move her girlfriend in with Dolly, Karen and Drew. Drew decided to quit because of the dangers of the plant and the issues his girlfriend Karen was bringing to the surface about the plant. Dolly continued to work at the plant along with Karen. Drew later leaves Karen also, because she will not stop with her accusations about the plant. Dolly's girlfriend moves out not long after Drew. If the employees were contaminated the process was miserable. Once it has been detected that you are contaminated a loud siren goes off as the red light flashes around the room you are in. Instantly you are escorted to the contamination room, where you are stripped and hosed down with what looked to be hard water. Your skin is then brutally scrubbed with a bristled brush as another person is hosing you down with water. The viewer can tell the antagonizing pain the person is in by the tone of their skin turning fiery red. All the employees hoped to not face this horrible situation. When Thelma was contaminated, Karen took it personally, constantly asked her if the nuclear plant was taken the appropriate steps necessary after the contamination. Karen started producing a bad name, being involved in Thelma's business. Karen made accusations that there were a lot of liars in management at the plant and one of the managers, Hurley over heard her. The first time Karen was contaminated with plutonium, she was transferred to the Metalography department. Karen would be brand new to this department and she was upset that she would not be able to acquire the over-time that she could in the department she came from. While working for this department she noticed that Winston, who is head of Metalography, was tracing the white spots in the negatives of the film, which could be defects in the weld. This seemed like a true cover up to Karen and she wanted to look into it further. The company was not totally clear to its employees of the possible effects to the quality of life one may have after being contaminated. Karen took it upon herself to do the research and later discovered that if she had more children they may have genetic defects and there was a possibility of being infected with Cancer, if you have been exposed to plutonium as Karen had been. This disturbed Karen, so she became more involved with Kerr-Mcghee's union. Karen was eager to exploit the mischief of this plant by any means necessary, one may still be eager to know if she lost her life trying to obtain this major goal she set out for herself. "},{"Title":"Being Human","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Silkwood is not a paranoia/expose thriller like The China Syndrome, as I had expected. Although those elements are present Silkwood moves in other directions. It's a wonderful movie, a rich, vivid, detailed, heartfelt portrait of a woman, activist Karen Silkwood, and her world. Because of the wide scope of the film and Meryl Streep's portrayal of Silkwood I'll temper my description of her as simply activist and add Woman. Worker. Housewife. Friend. Lover. Fighter. More words will come to me. The film's portrayals of the myriad of people in Karen Silkwood's personal and working lives, are acute and incisive, and its evocation of a time and place, 1970's Oklahoma and Texas, is a tapestry of many colours, a sympathetic but non-glamorization of working class lives, a penetrating look at the ups and downs of love, plus a panoramic view of an arid landscape fouled by heavy industry as far as the eye can see.It's wonderful to see a film that delves so deeply into the lives and personae of its characters. They don't behave the way we expect or even want them to. Silkwood works at a plant which handles plutonium and where white collar management is breaking the law and exposing its blue collar workers to dangerous levels of radiation. The villains are flesh-and-blood people who, themselves, are acting as they do because of real pressures and are the purveyors of established corporate survival instincts. The end justifies the means. Even many of Silkwood's co-workers are against her, fearing for their livelihood. This is not an environment where the workers possess many bargaining chips, and the company holds the trump card - it can pick up and move elsewhere. The film's depiction of the affair between Silkwood and her lover, Drew (Kurt Russell), is special, indeed. The deep well of love they have for each other starts to deteriorate as Silkwood morphs into a self-actualized human being moving into a wider world. The relationship she has with Dolly (Cher), a gay woman sharing her home, is touching and quite lovely.As I write this review political discourse is becoming increasingly antagonistic and the political mood is lurching to the right. Public unions are in danger and people are encouraged to respond to bogus threats and think in opposition to their own self-interest. Isn't this, essentially, what Silkwood is about? The pervasive climate of fear? Silkwood is not about heroines but about human beings caught in an untenable situation over which they have no control and few resources at their disposal. With the end result in doubt and her safety in jeopardy Silkwood does not leap over tall buildings, but she does the best that a human being can do. That's where the film achieves its profundity. It's the best kind of film, one which deals, in a meaningful way, with the human experience. "}{"Title":"Silkwood is an informative film about the horrors of working with radioactive materials in the 1970's.","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Silkwood was based off of a true story about the life of Karen Silkwood. Karen, played by Meryl Streep, worked in a plutonium processing plant in the 1970's. This film explains her bravery in her attempt to take on her company for a safer working environment. Karen decided to become a spokeswoman for the local chapter of the Union. She used this position in an attempt to bring attention at the National level about the working conditions of the plant.When Karen went to the National meeting, she did get their attention. However, they wanted evidence of her accusations of the safety violations. Karen began to sneak around the plant and get information and evidence. Karen was exposed to high levels of radiation multiple times in the film. After the last time, she was feed up with the situation and went to the plant to get the final evidences she needed. She was supposed to meet with a reporter from the New York Times to expose the situation. She was killed in a car accident on the way to the meeting. Many speculate that the company had her killed, but there was no evidence found.The main theme of this movie was to dramatically inform the viewers of a larger issue. The issue was the dangers of working in a Nuclear Power Plant. There was a love triangle in the film as well. Karen and Drew, played by Kurt Russell, had a romantic relationship. However, Dolly who was played by Cher, was also in love with Karen. This love triangle allowed the viewer to get closer to Karen as a person. This only strengthened her character and gave more meaning to her death.Film angles and views played a major role in this film. Up close filming made the viewer feel as if they were in the film as well. You felt as if you were part of the group. Sound effects were another great aspect of this film. Off scene sounds were used many times in the processing plant. This allowed the viewer to realize the size and hazards of the plant while viewing the film from a closer perspective. Off screen sounds also added to the dangers of Karen's acts. When she was trying to obtain information on the company, off screen voices only added to the danger element of her mission.This was a great film that portrayed a great life story. Its dramatic effects were in keeping with its theme. Slow transitions and music allowed you to feel the dangers of Karen's life. This is a must see film about the dangers of radioactive poisoning and the lack of concern from the corporations during the 1970's. "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Silkwood represents a midpoint in Mike Nichols's strength as a director. It's not badly paced, yet the end comes abruptly. It's not that the ending itself is not strong, because it is. However, as is the case with a good handful of Nichols's films after Silkwood, the ending comes before once is ready for it. As a whole though, the film is not badly made. It has a realistic emotional impact.Beautiful Meryl Streep's riveting performance, full of character, is the upholstery for the rest of the cast and the rest of the production. Cher comes in as a close second. Where Streep is a wild Southern girl, Cher is lifelike as the sensitive, easily judged character around whom Streep's Karen Silkwood is tame.The story of Karen Silkwood, who found herself investigating alleged wrongdoing at the plutonium plant where she worked, is dramatized very sensitively, and also very objectively. Though Karen and her husband, played by Kurt Russell, have a large Confederate flag over their bedpost and she doesn't seem to feel any guilt or remorse when she hits a deer with her car, we don't find it difficult investing in her very human story.Silkwood was not as memorable to me as other Streep films or others by Nichols, but looking back on it, I see that it has a tight atmosphere within it, once again in an objective sense because it does not depict a desirable setting but it is nonetheless a real and absorbing one. "},{"Title":"Something Ain't Right in This Particular Nuclear Plant","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Released at the height of America's nuclear disaster paranoia, Silkwood is one of those blue-collar one-against-the-many films that revolve around simple folk fighting corporate power and abuse as best they know how. Meryl Streep plays Karen Silkwood, who unlikely and reluctantly becomes a spokeswoman against lax safety restrictions in place at the nuclear plant at which her and just about everybody else in her tiny town works. Since it's based on a true story, the movie ends the way Silkwood's life ended, and it ain't upbeat. But I found the whole movie to be morbidly fascinating, especially the details about how the plant treated those they suspected of radioactive contamination. Meryl Streep and Cher, who plays Silkwood's best friend, are phenomenal, and even Kurt Russell flexes his acting chops admirably. Mike Nichols might not seem like the obvious choice to direct a gritty, ugly movie like this, but he's able to make it feel authentic.A disturbing but rewarding experience.Grade A "},{"Title":"Great Streep Performance","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You know, watch Julia Roberts in 'Erin Brockovich' than watch Meryl Streep here in 'Silkwood' and you'll become a film critic instantly. Meryl Streep is the character, while Julia Roberts is simply playing dress-up. I like Roberts in many movies, but not 'Erin Brockovich' which I found very flimsy and pandering. Kind of TV movie of the week. I'm bringing attention to this film because movies get lost very quickly these days, and this is a great one with first rate performances all around, including Cher and Kurt Russell. It works as a small town drama, a character study, and also has elements of suspense. Everything is pulled together neatly and tightly by Mike Nichols here, and the movie, despite the 80's haircuts and style, still gets you going today. "},{"Title":"Frighteningly realistic portrayal of industrial revenge","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The all star cast delivers all star performances in this first rate drama. I won't alliterate the story line, anymore than I have in the Summary, but this work was very compelling, demonstrating a realism seldom found in these types of works. Do not be surprised to find yourself emotionally invested in these characters and their plight.While I do not watch it often as the subject matter is quite serious, I do consider it one of my favorites of this genre. The story is great, sadly so, but great. And as I said before, the performances are about the best to be found.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"That is one brave woman!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Karen Silkwood(Meryl Streep), is a nuclear factory worker who discovers the unhealthy factors in that plant. She would never back down on anything, and she appears to be straight-forward with the problem. At least she's got a good sense of humor on her. Especially when she flashed the boss. The true story of the life and death of Karen Silkwood really got me intrigued. Living with two co-workers Drew Stephens(Kurt Russell) and Dolly Pelliker(Cher). These people are very tight, until Karen was given a raise to work at a higher branch. They jealously of other workers probably made them try to make Karen really sick. Going to the reporter from the New York Times was indeed the boldest thing she has ever done. That night she was going to meet with that reporter immortalized her, forever. I don't think the medication made her run off the road. I say someone from the factory did that. She was murdered! After her death, that plant was history! I would like to know more about Karen Silkwood, other than just the movie, she is definitely a hero! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Slow paced but well acted drama","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It seems like most (if not all) the movies I can remember watching with Meryl Streep in the lead are at least solid movies. This one is no exception. Although the pacing trickles at time I always was interested in the characters. Streep, Cher, and Russell are all pretty good. Fred Ward and Craig T Nelson also lend some good support to the leads. There are quite a few supporting actors who have made their niche over the years and are recognizable. Based on a true, Silkwood is deliberate and methodical; at times feeling cozy. The set (house) of the main characters serves as a great backdrop for their bantering dialog. It's set in the south around Oaklahoma and Texas. Only small problem was the ending seemed a little bit hastily put together though, a little bit detracting. Nevertheless worth at least one sit down viewing. "},{"Title":"Everyday American girl fights corrupt big business.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I found it slow in places but this was compensated for by the fact that there were some very honest politics, not something we are used to seeing in American films, at least not here in the UK. On the up side the script was sharp, with some great one liners, and at least the main characters were talking to each other rather than grunting at each other. The script was also very straight forward, carrying the viewer from one situation to the next without having to work out where things were at that point in time. The photography was very good, given that there was not a lot to work on; the factory, the house and some landscapes on the road. It was probably this naturalistic use of settings which gave the whole film much of it's credibility. In fact my only real problem was that, on first watching, I sometimes found it difficult to distinguish between Meryl Streep and Cher. "},{"Title":"America once again poisons its poor.","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Shades of the Erin Brockovich case,Once again we are told a story of how the legislature in America allows a company to enslave through ignorance and desperation a poor community into working under conditions that seriously damage their health.This is by no means the afore mentioned classic, but it does show how the greedy will do anything to make money off the lives of the poor.The cast is quite simply faultless and the story a simple tale of the futility of standing up to a corporate body. Especially when your life means nothing. I cannot say this film is in anyway great, but it is a story that has to be told. The acting is a testament to the simply lives these people lead the script is only lacking (I assume) due to forthcoming litigation.Please watch this and don't let them do it to you.An internet search for Karen Silkwood bio will tell you everything you need to know. "},{"Title":"Silkwood","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" SIlkwood was a movie that had to deal with the reality of situations that are still considered problems today. Karen Silkwood worked a a plutonium factory, when the Union was almost gotten rid of Karen and some other people got together to fight to keep the union. So someone is starting to expose Karen to the chemicals, and she was internally as well as externally exposed. There was a plot to killer so she didn't tell the union what the real health conditions were like. So she was suppose to go pick up a New York times reporter and she never made it to the airport. Her car was found in a ditch and they claimed it a one person accident. they still have not found who plotted to kill her or who really did kill her. It will be a mystery until some one wants to come forward and tell the truth about what really happened "}{"Title":"Silkwood Summary","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Silkwood is a movie about a woman named Karen Silkwood who worked at a   power plant. After working there for many years she soon discovered   that the radiation could kill many people. After discovering there   scam of filling the defects on the x-rays with a pen, she works with   others to try and shut down the plant. Many employees are very upset   with her because they do not want to loose their jobs. After being   contaminated twice she soon discovered that someone was after her,   probably for her part in trying to shut down the plant. She was then   killed in a car accident. Police ruled her death a drunk driving   accident, but no one knows that for a fact, and nobody knows how much   information she really had on the plant. The plant was shut down a year   later. This movie was very informative about what radiation can do to a   person. "},{"Title":"A very sad but true story done as a movie quite well.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This story is heartbreaking because we know how it's gonna turn out but is still outstandingly acted and very welldone. It's a tough movie to watch at times made much  more tough because of the tragic way this true life story ended. It is also a very frightening story.People have commented on the all the smoking going on in the movie-although I think I did notice this,I say if that's the way this really was then tat is the way it should be portrayed.Everyone is amazing in this, I must single out Cher, and though comparisons have been made to Erin Brokavich(obviously Silwood came along much earlier) they are both true stories and both should be watched.  "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I had to watch this movie in English class as it is compared to Enemy of The People by Ibsen. I found that although this movie develops slowly, it actually does pose some interesting ideas and thoughts. For example, the large corporation against the little guy theory. Karen Silkwood throughout the movie fights against the big corporation - the nuclear plant. Although there is obvious evidence of too much plutonium, contamination and other stuff, they just don't do anything to help anybody who get's cooked. This movie is fairly good although the acting does suffer at times.  "},{"Title":"Silkwood's in A Chemical Mix ***1/2","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Meryl Streep, the master of dialects and drawls, is at it again in this biography of metallurgy worker Karen Silkwood, who may have very well been done away with to prevent her from bringing out the truth of exposure of workers in a certain Texas plutonium plant's exposure to the deadly chemical.Streep starts off as a good-time southern girl with several illegitimate children from one man who she has left and taken up with Kurt Russell. Cher, is a long for the ride, as the woman she lives with, a lesbian whose makeup in the film seems to reveal much exposure to the chemical. Kudos to the make-up artist for Cher in the film.Silkwood becomes another Norma Rae, fighting for the dignity of workers and keeping the union going within the factory.This tragic story reveals the nature of the dangers of exposure to chemical compounds and what industry will do to keep the workers quiet. "},{"Title":"Someone on your side","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The 1960s and 70s were known as an era of political filmmaking, but movies about unionism and left-wing causes continued to be made even into the individualist 80s. However these movies increasingly became small-scale personal dramas, emphasising the human stories within the struggle. And this did not have to be at the expense of their message. In the 1983 picture Silkwood, scripted by Nora Ephron and Alice Arlen, we have a story of very real and intimate figures, fighting for issues at the most basic and human level.At this time, casting Meryl Streep for this kind of role was almost a given. Frankly she's never impressed me much &#x96; I often find her performances too calculated, too deliberate in her mannerisms and projection. There are still touches of that here, especially in the scene where here house is stripped, but for the most part Silkwood finds her at her most relaxed and natural. Co-star Kurt Russell on the other hand spent most of the 80s as big dumb action star, but here he is surprisingly believable and even sensitive. Cher, a long-established personality but still a relative newcomer to acting, has the most effortless performance, full of easygoing personality, eventually revealing an emotional fragility. Her scene on the swing bench with Streep shows an incredibly moving rapport between the two women.This was something of a comeback picture for director Mike Nichols, who after massive acclaim in the 60s had since suffered a string of flops. He still has the lateral thinker's approach that won him awards in his youth, but now it is more refined, less obtrusive. In Silkwood long takes are the norm, the camera either completely still or panning to follow an actor around the set. And, at a time when close-ups were becoming increasingly common, Silkwood is almost entirely in long- or mid-shot, sometimes with a barrier between us and the action, such as the scenes at the plant from within the equipment. It is almost as if we are looking in on the events, people-watching in effect. It gives the movie a strange sense of realism, and an impression that we are powerless to help as things unfold before our eyes. When we do finally get a close-up, as in Streep's goodbye to Russell, it is all the more effective for its rarity.In reality, there is no conclusive evidence to say whether or not Karen Silkwood's death was murder. And this telling of her life makes no definitive statement either. But what it does is show us Karen Silkwood as a real woman who lived, loved and struggled, and who should be remembered for who she was and what she did. "},{"Title":"Tense real-life thriller with terrific performances","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Director Mike Nichols (The Graduate) brings to the screen the tragic story of working class hero Karen Silkwood (Meryl Streep), who died under mysterious circumstances while trying to expose shady practices at the Kerr-McGee plant, the Oaklahoma nuclear power plant where she worked. Nichols' film centers on Karen, her boyfriend Drew (Kurt Russell) and their roommate Dolly (Cher), who may or may not have been a traitor to Karen. It is speculated in the film that Dolly told Kerr-McGee that Karen had gathered some particularly damaging evidence against them, which indeed Karen had done. Whether Dolly had her own reasons for offering the information is still open to debate. But with the help of an impassioned union representative (Ron Silver) Karen eventually decides to meet with a reporter from the New York Times and make the story public. Karen Silkwood died the day of that planned meeting, in what many believe was an act of premeditated murder, disguised by the Kerr-McGee bigwigs as a single-car accident. The plant shut down one year after Silkwood's death, and there is still debate about whether or not plutonium from Kerr-McGee was supplied to Middle Eastern entities. It's a fascinating case about the ethics of corporate power, and also about one person's noble attempt to expose and improve a corrupt system. But Silkwood mostly focuses on the human casualties of said corruption, and it does so with a knock-out cast and a terrific script. It is equal parts character study and corporate-political expose, and it is no doubt due to Mr. Nichols' direction that both aspects succeed admirably. While I'm not particularly a Meryl Streep fan, Karen Silkwood is a role she was obviously born to play. She throws herself so fully into the part that the actress disappears completely. Streep brings an accessible, warm funkiness to Karen, and makes her at once sexy, insecure, volcanic, and pitiable. The script does not shy away from Silkwood's own occasionally dubious nature, and the script is smart enough not to canonize her. Russell gives one of his most realistic performances, light years beyond his heavy-handed turns in such films as Big Trouble in Little China. He has a terrific chemistry with Streep, as well as with Cher, and I think it was with Silkwood (as well as Escape From New York) that he really transcended his early Disney career, and began to be considered for better, more mature roles. Cher, who had recently made her film debut in Robert Altman's Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean, is excellent as the tender, ambiguous Dolly. Her scenes when Dolly is lying (?) to Karen about the exact information that she supplied to Kerr-McGee are chilling; there is something terrible just beneath the surface of Dolly's reactions, and Cher plays this awkward discussion with a distant, downplayed brilliance. I think the role of Dolly is her best film acting to date. Every performance in the film works, with Diana Scarwid (Mommie Dearest) standing out in her small role as Dolly's lover Angela. It seems impossible to imagine anyone else in these roles, or anyone but Nichols directing the film. It is claustrophobic and frightening at times, and at other times it is sublimely beautiful and haunting. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Realistic depiction of working class people.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Meryl Streep as usual does a good job of characterization.  She is a different person in each film she does.  She was a Ellen Brokovich type. Too smart for the job she was in.    The ending was pretty weak, tho'. Also as a non-smoker, all the constant smoking made me sick.  But again, that was pretty realistic.   "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have never stopped loving this film, even though I haven't seen it in years. Streep, Russell, and Cher all give wonderful, heartfelt performances. Streep merely gets swallowed into the script and totally becomes Karen Silkwood. The final scene in slow motion with Streep singing Amazing Grace and driving off from Russell's house is a tearjerker. Watch this movie. "},{"Title":"It's my way 'til payday","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a review of Silkwood and Norma Rae, two of the more famous women's pictures of the 1980s. The better of the two, Norma Rae stars Sally Field as Norma Rae, a textile worker in small town North Carolina. Director Martin Ritt delves into Norma's social and home life, highlights the exploitation of both Norma and her fellow workers, and then introduces Norma to a Jewish unionist played by Ron Leibman. Ron teaches Norma the importance of solidarity, worker rights and battling for betterment. Sally, meanwhile, reveals herself to be a headstrong, blue-collar warrior; the brawn behind Leibman's brains.While Norma Rae does trivialise (it champions a fairer capitalism, rather than examine the contradictions of capitalism itself), it does contain a number of good passages, most of which either compare Ron and Norma's differing social backgrounds or show the textile bosses strategically promoting dissenters and so pitting workers against workers. John Alonzo's cinematography is pitch perfect, gritty, intimate and pseudo-documentarian.Some have complained that Norma Rae is uncritical of unions, that the film neglects to mention that Norma's textile plant promptly shut down, and then go so far as to suggest that unions are bad because they end jobs and chase jobs offshore. We see similar arguments today, banks, and the financial sector as a whole, which proclaim themselves as being indespensible, threatening to pack up and leave countries if taxes are raised or stricter measures are put in place. Such things are typically used as proof for the benefits of less regulation. In reality, it's tantamount to blackmail.Directed by Mike Nichols, Silkwood, another blue-collar whistle-blower picture, stars Meryl Streep as Karen Silkwood, a lowly worker at an Oklahoma nuclear facility. Along with her best friends (played by Kurt Russell and Cher), Karen begins to gather proof of her company's copious wrongdoings, which include poor safety measures, employee exploitation and radiation spills. Like Norma Rae, the company bosses attempt to fight back, but can't seem to counter Karen's grit and determination. Both film's are overly sentimental, deal in very broad stereotypes (bad bosses, good exploited workers, saintly activists etc), but mask their deficiencies well with their low-key tones, naturalistic acting and strong, small town atmosphere. Their ancestors are King Vidor's Our Daily Bread and Michael Wilson's Salt of the Earth. Their children are everything from Matewan to North Country to Erin Brokovich to The Insider to Ken Loach's underrated Bread and Roses. The tale's familiar, and is habitually resuscitated every now and then.Unlike most films in this genre, Silkwood's hero is actively stalked, hounded and murdered by the shadowy corporations she locks horns with. In real life, the nuclear facility at which Karen worked (Kerr-McGee) was rumoured to have strong ties to the US Government, the CIA and the NIA. As Karen was about to whistle-blow on the illegal sale of nuclear grade plutonium, some believe she was assassinated. In the 1970s, women like her spearheaded the anti-nuclear movement, which has been successful in stopping the construction of nuclear plants, which even today are constantly being offered as clean, carbon free, reliable energy sources.8/10 - Overrated, simplistic, but well acted. Worth one viewing. See Bread and Roses. "},{"Title":"Silkwood Was A Martryr Who Died For A Greater Cause. The Film Is Less Bothered About The Cause Though, Highlighting More About Everything Karen Lost. There's Little To  Cheer.","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Silkwood is one of those movies that you simply should not watch at midnight. Unfortunately, my cable television placed the movie at the 1230 am slot and on top of it kept no intermissions, not even one during the movie. So I had to stay awake late at night and watch this in the living area, dimming the lights around me and lowering the T.V.'s audibility so that my family would not get disturbed by the warning alarm sounds heard often in the film. Without any intermissions, I was a little lost during the movie because keeping an intermission during films does indeed have a powerful impact if placed at the right point &#x96; it increases the audience's anticipation and also gives them a break to take in all the details.Silkwood kept chugging on and on in scenes with little dramatic weight (its documentary approach is quite like the lead actress Meryl Streep's other film A Cry in The Dark) or any significant narrative development to hold us in. I quite felt like the movie chose the wrong person to tell its story, and it could've been told better had Karen Silkwood been a supporting character in a film that rather emphasized on the investigation of Kerr-McGee plant and the lawsuit in the aftermath of Silkwood's untimely demise. Unlike Erin Brockovich, Silkwood was not able to directly resolve the issue of health and safety of workers, and though she did play a major role in initiating the whole move, her accident martyrs her for a greater cause. The movie isn't able to deliver her enough justice for her efforts and death, with its epilogue only mentioning that the 'plant closed down a year later' &#x96; too grim and defeated to inspire. Karen Silkwood was a courageous small-town gal who took on the Oklahoma nuclear plant where she worked after finding out that it conducted unethical practices without considering workers' safety. From being one of the bubbliest and most beloved persons among her colleagues and supervisors, Karen eventually lost almost everyone's support after helping the union in digging out such malpractices happening at the workplace. Her private life too faced its share of difficulties on top of the mess she was already in even before the incident &#x96; apart from losing custody of her three kids, Silkwood's relationship with her boyfriend Drew also suffered when he cautioned her of 'going too far' with the case. She didn't just have to win her colleagues' support but also prove to the union that she was a smart woman with a sharp mind.In one of the film's best acted scenes, Meryl as Karen is discussing recommendations and proposals for the nuclear plant with the senior union members. At first, her suggestions are trivial and her seniors condescendingly put down her ideas and hurriedly begin to leave. It is then that Karen leaves the room and catches them in the corridor where she whispers what she had witnessed at the plant. It is only then that the union takes her seriously. Streep's excellence is evident during close-ups or mid-shots in this movie's case (the film rarely has close- ups), but her screen charisma tends to disappear in her attempt to replicate human-like performances. And this becomes a problem whenever the camera goes away from her, especially here in Silkwood where the cinematography is quite conventional like those old films where the cameras moved less and the actors went back and forth. She's managed to rectify this problem though especially in her recent ventures where her charisma makes for half the performance. Here we manage to catch less than half of whatever she is doing because of the distance the camera maintains.It's not just Streep but also actors Cher, Kurt and director Mike Nichols who act and direct respectively in a similar manner. Now I get it they wanted to depict a dull small-town in Oklahoma with as much truism as possible. Cher (playing Karen's lesbian friend Dolly) wears the most unimposing crumpled and faded jerseys and pants while Russell (playing Karen's boyfriend Drew) is equally untidy and moves around the house shirtless and in cheap blue jeans (though their performances are great). They do everything in their own lazy pace and Cher's Dolly is found half the time either in bed or on the couch. On top of this Nichols makes it even more evident that nothing much happens in 'small town Okie' by placing his camera at a distance. Only a few times do we get shot/reverse shots between the actors and once or twice we see the camera do an effect other than cutting (a few dissolves and an expected fadeout after the crucial scene). Even the upbeat background music at the beginning slowly turns into bleak mournful tunes as the film progresses. It is only the sound of the warning alarm bells that occasionally appear to raise some momentum. There is neither enough follow-up of Silkwood's investigation itself, except for some extended scenes of Karen surreptitiously (hence very slowly) hunting for some 'confidential information'. I could get up in between, bring some chocolates from the fridge in the kitchen and find myself watching her do the same action. The movie 'Silkwood' therefore becomes 'ambitionless' and although I do understand it has deliberately downplayed its 'own cinematic ambition' just to honor the woman's life, the movie as a result also becomes 'one of those inspirational films that come, snag some awards and are soon forgotten'. Or in this film's case, used as a failed 'boob-gag' in Seth MacFarlane's unimpressive Oscar show. "}{"Title":"Summary of Movie","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie Silkwood is about one woman trying to close down the radiation center that she works at. Karen lives with her boyfriend and friend. While at work Karen gets radiation on her three times. She gets contaminated. Karen gets moved to X-Rays and finds out they color in the mistakes. She tried to find evidence of this for a man in Washington DC. Most people turned against Karen. At the end the people have to strip her house and take everything out of it because it was contaminated by radiation. On her way home from a meeting with the people who want to shut down the plant, Karen gets into a car accident and dies. No one knows why. Then plant finally shut down a couple of years later. "},{"Title":"Full of pomp and prestige, but never very enlightening...","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Somewhat fictionalized account of real-life nuclear-parts worker Karen Silkwood who, in 1974, was mysteriously killed in a car accident while in the midst of preparing to go public with an expos on the faulty plant where she worked. Another American Tragedy, helmed with intimidating seriousness by director Mike Nichols. Nichols knows a great deal about film technique and how to set up an intense scenario full of complicated characters all ready to sound off; however, the details of the human drama at hand tend to escape him (particularly Karen's home-life and relationships with her roommates). Either the film was edited badly or Nichols wasn't focused enough on the incidentals, but the movie hits a bump midway through and never recovers. In the lead, Meryl Streep works hard trying to convince us she's lower-class, and some of her less-showy, throwaway moments are incredibly assured. Many of the supporting roles are annoyingly enigmatic, causing several key exchanges to be confounding or pointless. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Streep-Russell-Cher Hit","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Silkwood (1983) Meryl as martyr! Now firmly entrenched as a leading lady, Meryl costars with Kurt Russell and Cher as a nuclear power plant worker uncovering some nasty bits of information that, of course, cause problems with the powers that be.As Karen Silkwood, Meryl plays a flaw-ridden person who nevertheless rises above her own private demons and gathers the courage to speak out against an industrial giant. The movie manages to walk the tightrope of personal drama without teetering into melodrama. And unless memory fails me, another Oscar nomination was given to La Streep. Cher too, turns in a winning performance as a lesbian friend of the family. "},{"Title":"Too long a movie for the amount of meat","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was a story of which there apparently wasn't enough of for a movie. I like character development, but come on. I'm surprised Cher got an Oscar nomination for this, since I didn't really think her part was that great. (She has done some excellent work elsewhere) Meryl Streep, as always, just killed in her part. With all the attention she's gotten over the years for her accents, this one should have made the list, too. It ain't easy for a gal from the northeast to sound like a Texan, but she hit it perfectly. (Most who try way, way overdo it.) As for the plot, I have a little trouble with it. It seems to be about the powerless little union rep combating the eeeeeeeevil corporation, including making the (SPOILER AHEAD) circumstances of her death highly suspicious. Maybe I've seen too many Oliver Stone movies, but I just don't buy it. And I think poor Karen Silkwood just shouldn't have eaten those 'ludes before driving. That's known to be hazardous to your health. On a general note, it's nice to see a film about a bygone, more civilized time, when one could light a cigarette without being treated like Lucifer incarnate. Overall, an excellent film for Streep fans or conspiracy buffs, and a pretty decent one for anybody else. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Small people VS large sinister organization.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Small people VS large sinister organization. Moves slowly and painfully. This was probably as intended. Character development is slow and detailed and there is little to like about the characters. It leaves you with the impression that the nuclear industry has extremely dirty hands. The union is of little help, using information to further it's own political survival. It's hard to say from the movie if there was a conspiracy. The movie certainly points in that direction. Silkwood did die in a car accident. The movie supplies no details. It suggests that it's suspicious. The movie also states the plant closed down less than a year later - again implying that Silkwood was on to something.Either way, not the most enjoyable movie - despite the cast.  "},{"Title":"Good acting only helps to a point","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUT True story of Karen Silkwood (Meryl Streep) who was (allegedly) killed while trying to expose unsafe working conditions at a plutonium processing plant. The owners of the company went so far as to plant plutonium in her house to slowly kill her and prevent her from telling anyone. Boyfriend Drew Stephens (Kurt Russell) and best friend Dolly Pelliker (Cher) try to help her.In some ways this is a typical Hollywood movie of one person fighting an evil corporation. However this one is true and does not have a happy ending (Silkwood was killed). It's an important story that needs to be told...but this doesn't totally work. It seems too muted when it should be louder--the whole film is so quiet and laid-back it gets annoying...and boring. Also this is WAY too slow. This movie drags on for over two hours and really tests the viewer's patience. Virtually everybody who sees this movie knows how it ends so the slow pace is even more frustrating. The acting by Streep, Russell and Cher is just phenomenal but it doesn't make the movie any easier to watch. A quicker pace could have only helped this. Worth watching for the acting alone...but only if you're patient. "},{"Title":"Norma Rae Goes Nuclear","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Call me cynical, but re-watching Silkwood makes me think that Meryl Streep and Director Mike Nichols cared more about possible Oscar nominations than they did the issue at the heart of the film- unsafe working conditions and employee contamination at a nuclear power plant. When Meryl begins to warble Amazing Grace for no particular reason, you can't help but feel like you're being manipulated.I'm not trying to imply that Nichols and Streep didn't care about Karen Silkwood. It's clear that there's a lot of heart in this well-made movie, which is the true story of the woman who blew the whistle on the corruption and safety violations at the Kerr-McGee Nuclear Plant. But it seems to me as if there are one too many scenes of Meryl being Meryl, showing off her astounding acting skills and mastery of accent. Somewhere along the way the story gets lost, and we're rooting more for Meryl Streep than Karen Silkwood.And can someone explain to me whether or not Silkwood was a lesbian? In the film she lives with Dolly, a gay woman, and Karen supposedly has a boyfriend, but that doesn't explain why the Dolly character is so prominent, or why Dolly professes her romantic love for Karen. Middle-aged women who live with lesbians are usually lesbians too.The movie had much more impact when I first saw it in the late 80's. Maybe it doesn't hold up well today because the subject matter has become rather mundane. Maybe the movie served its purpose- warning of the dangers of nuclear power and scoring Oscar noms for Nichols, Streep & Cher. Maybe that's about all you can ask out of a movie, but maybe these are perfect reasons why you don't have to see Silkwood.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Excellent coverage of negligence in nuclear industry of that time","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Excellent coverage of negligence in nuclear industry covered by corporate interests along with common envy of colleagues, a social dangerous combination which subsequently leads to environmental disasters(such that at Chernobyl) -A small facility for the mixed oxide(Pu,U)O2 nuclear fuel, otherwise a powder compacting easily, is at the technological limit. - Otherwise common situations occur banning of union leaders, faking X-rays of bad welds(an important AQ item), factory tools used for non-nuclear purposes (diassembling trucks).Glove boxes, presses, fuel pellets and beta radiation detectors are well approximated. Since the personnel works with powders, internal contamination is prevented by usage of protection clothing (eventually masks) and glove boxes. It is unbelievable they smoke inside the facility where radioactive aerosols may be present. External decontamination appears exaggerated as it consists in washing a powder from the skin(with soap). Internal contamination yielding 45000 dpm (desintegration per minute) of the breath is an even higher exaggeration. Since it is about actinide oxides, the problem of internal contamination appears soluble even by that day's medicine(e.g. miners cases in Uranium mines) and rather a consequence of the obsolete technology for powder handling in the glove boxes. Not mysterious as it looks in the film. The local radio-protection personnel and chiefs perform poorly even in approaching the crisis, by trying to hide the actually possible internal contamination of the workers(that's why glove boxes are present-they were aware of the possibility). The Silkwood character is a wonderful combination of the habits of the post-Woodstock era - too much smoking - it was so!, accepting obsolete cars and scarce lodging in a jobless environment, proposing ideals(the confederate flag), guitar singing, perhaps on grounds of reduced qualification and poor professional perspectives also on one hand.Civil activism, courage and determination, belief in civil rights, hope in justice(the key of her actions) on the other hand. A portrait of that era American idol; remember she was fighting the system !It is not surprising that the character takes pills and smokes, especially given the situation. Remember the post-Vietnam, post-hippie habits which were a sort of desperation and protest against the arbitrary use/abuse of the persons by the state/corporation. Remember also that this abuse is also the reason for which the Soviet block disintegrated later. The Chernobyl accident is for comparison an important event marking negligence in the nuclear covered corporately and marking public perception definitively.Ther film is missing the legal addendum covered here,on IMDb forum, by Mary Cadney, i.e. the corporate interests were not prevalent in the end over the common sense and public opinion (nor in US nor in Europe or USSR). "},{"Title":"Respectable, perhaps too much so","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It just comes off as Oscar bait, particularly for star Meryl Streep. She plays a worker at a facility that makes plutonium rods for nuclear plants. She is unhappy with the way she is treated there, and is concerned for her own safety and that of her co-workers. She becomes deeply involved in the union, which irks her superiors. The film has a fantastic cast, including Kurt Russell, Fred Ward, Craig T. Nelson and Cher. Along with the obligatory Streep nomination (she lost to Shirley MacLaine in Terms of Endearment), Cher also received her first nomination. I'd chock that up more to a classic case of dressing down, and one knock-out scene where she admits her true feelings for Karen Silkwood. I hate to say this about the man who gave us Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, but Mike Nichols tends to be one of the dullest directors in Hollywood. Woolf is pretty much the only film of his that holds up today, and he's made a ton of stinkers in his career (first and foremost being What Planet Are You From? &#150; blech!). While it's not great either, I'd much rather watch Norma Rae again than this. "},{"Title":"summary of silk wood","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie Silkwood was about two women and a man who lived and worked together. The main character, Karen Silkwood is in a relationship with drew the man who lives with her. Another women who lives with her is Dolly. They all work at a Nucluer Power Plant. Karen begins to suspect that the plant isn't taking good care of the workers. Karen gets involved with the union to help them. Karen gets to much plutonium in her system and is contaminated. Dolly and drew didn't get infected like Karen did, but the nuclear people had to strip everything in their house and move them out. Karen started to get to much information and the people at the plant don't like it. At the end of the movie Karen was in a car accident and was killed but no one knew how it happened. It was suspected that the accident was created from people who worked at the plant. A year later the power plant was shut down. "}{"Title":"Probably my favorite Meryl Movie....","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is soooooo underrated.  It should have won all it's oscar nominations and should have, at least, been nominated for best picture.  I loved(!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) this movie.  Cher puts on an extraordinary performance, as usual, and proves that she can act, this being her first film.  Kurt Russle, i am surprised to say, wasn't nominated for an oscar.  This movie was great.  If you haven't been able to see it, see it!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not worth the time","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The box pretty much gives the story away, and the story isn't really worth a movie.  The plot moves extremely slowly, and the characters are over-developed.I couldn't really find a strong acting performance, with the possible exception of the plant workers; each of whom had tiny (not even supporting) roles.  The main characters tend to overact in an effort to bring drama to an otherwise non-dramatic film.  A viewer wouldn't miss much by fast forwarding through the first hour.If you want a good film based on a true story, rent on of the movies about Steve Prefontaine (namely Prefontaine and Without Limits).  "},{"Title":"Silkwood","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw clips of this film, but had no idea that it was based on a true story, or the subject for that matter. I was hoping it would be worthy of four stars (that the critics give it), but I couldn't understand absolutely all the story, but not a bad film from Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Mike Nichols (The Graduate, Closer). Basically Karen Silkwood (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Meryl Streep) works at the Oklahoma Kerr-McGee plutonium/nuclear plant, and she investigates alleged wrong doing. I can certainly agree that the subplot love story with Karen and Drew Stephens (Golden Globe nominated Kurt Russell) gets in the way, and to be honest I paid most attention towards the end, when Karen found out plutonium is in her body, this is the main death of the film, due to the fact the real Karen Silwood died in unusual/suspicious/mysterious circumstances which are still under debate. Also starring Golden Globe winning, and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Cher as Dolly Pelliker, The Incredibles' Craig T. Nelson as Winston, Diana Scarwid as Angela, Road Trip's Fred Ward as Morgan, Ron Silver as Paul Stone, Charles Hallahan as Earl Lapin and Josef Sommer as Max Richter. This isn't really what I hoped for, but it is certainly worth seeing at least once. I was nominated the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Meryl Streep was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and she was number 26 on The World's Greatest Actor, Karen Silkwood was number 47 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, and the film was number 66 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Worth watching, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Silkwood is a true story that takes place in Oklahoma at the Kerr-McGee nuclear plant.","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Silkwood is a true story that takes place in Oklahoma at the Kerr-McGee nuclear plant. The nuclear plant uses plutonium to make fuel rods in nuclear reactors. The employees of this plant are everyday blue collar workers that go to work to make a living for their families to survive. This movie is about how far a company might go to try to cover up discrepancies in their product in order to meet contract deadline at the cost of their employee's safety. Although the movie is very slow in action and suspense it does get the job done in telling the true story. It also makes you think about how many companies really do take advantage of their employees at all cost? The main character is an employee of Kerr-McGee, Karen Silkwood, played by Meryl Streep, which is a metallurgy worker. Karen slowly starts to become interested in the mishaps and strange things that occur in the plant due to leaks of plutonium. The company then blames the incidents on the employees not following proper handling procedures which leads to a painful decontamination process and then a follow-up with the company doctor and urine analysis to determine if the contamination is internal and external. All the results are always the same that the employees are under the limits for concern.Karen suspensions are confirmed when she is transferred to a new department and she witnesses Winston, played by Craig T. Nelson, altering negatives that confirms the company is covering up quality issues. This is when Karen decides to become an activist for the employees with the union hoping to change the way the company conducts business. Unfortunately, Karen does not realize that the union representatives are only interested in the publicity and not the welfare of the workers.The union representatives ask for proof that these practices are actually happening and Karen gets the information and is on her way to deliver the evidence when she mysteriously has a one care accident and is killed.This movie set the precedence for other movies like Erin Brokovich that tells a story of business wrong doing at the cost of other people's lives. What is ironic about this film is that Karen Silkwood is such an advocate about the company being responsible for the safe handling of the plutonium that causes cancer but most of the characters in the film spoke cigarettes especially Karen Silkwood. I don't remember a single scene that Karen is not smoking. "},{"Title":"Too heartless","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie plays like a made-for-TV, cheap biography. Meryl Streep gives a good performance but otherwise the film itself is rather disappointing. Mike Nichols, one of our most respected directors, leaves much to be desired in the directorial department. The overall impact of the movie is dull and unmoving.Streep plays Karen Silkwood, a woman who was (it is believed) killed by conspiring nuclear facility managers after she was going to make public a revelation regarding safety regulations. Her boyfriend in the film is played by the hapless Kurt Russell, given no depth and nothing of substance to work with - he comes across as a one-dimensional helping hand.The rest of the cast is simply mediocre (Cher is obnoxious as usual) and the film as a whole is vastly overrated. Although it is considered some kind of masterpiece of biographical film-making, I thought Silkwood was a pretty lame movie - notable only for its main performance and little else. "},{"Title":"starts out fine turning worse every minute","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  the story behind silkwood is possibly an interesting one, which i will investigate further after writing the review. for now i would say the script seems even more interesting than the story behind it, but regardless of the star cavalcade they somehow managed to ruin it.meryl streep does her 'bad girl' thing here, the character you can also spot from 'marvin's daughters' and shows once again that her character definitions are well crafted and practiced but unimaginative. kurt russell has been given a character that's too interesting to be played by kurt russell, and who knows what cher is doing in this movie. the factory doesn't really seem evil, infact the whole setting of the movie appears almost as if you were watching a dramatized documentary about the subject. seems and feels like a tv-movie dispite the stars in the main roles.i'm not even going start with the overblown ending scenes...give me a break. the ole' bucket became useful again.in conclusion it all could've been made so much better, an interesting subject with interesting characters but a mediocre movie. but then, it all fits if you watch mike nichols' career going \ from virginia woolf to primary colors you can find silkwood exactly in the middle. still worth a watch if it happens to be on tv.4/10 "},{"Title":"gag me a bag, run from your tv!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is awful, the film portrays the women with so many issues, you wonder how balanced she was.  Sort of discredits the story, I wish they just went with the part at work, and stayed away from her personal life.  My rating on this film is gag me a bag, run from your tv!  This film is like videodrome it will give you hallucinations. 3/10 "},{"Title":"More cigarettes than anything else","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I just hate this movie. Meryl Streep was awful, Kurt Russell did an unusually poor job, and Cher is not really cut out to be an actress. Bad script does not help any. As with most publicized news stories, anybody who read anything about the story knows how it is going to turn out. The three leads were smoking in basically every scene, generally bad quality.Rating 1/10 "}]