[{"Title":"There are two scenes in this film that I will never forget","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"60 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Horror films seemed the easy way to make a quick buck in the 80's.  There was an abundance of them that graced video.  I don't think half of them actually made it to the big screen.  You can add Sleepaway Camp to that list.  This is a typical scary film.  It has it's moments and it is scary in some parts.  It has some nice humour especially when they play camp jokes on each other.  But having said all that, this movie is as good as it is  and it's not too bad ) because the mother in this film is creepier than Mrs. Bates and she actually makes you want to kill her.  But the two parts that I will never forget are images that are firmly planted in my brain, especially the part of it that stores nasty horror elements in it.The first was the death by curling iron.  It is so horrific that it bothered me so much that I had to cover my eyes the second time I saw it.  It is qutie graphic, not because of what they show, but because you know how nasty it is.But the one thing that will stay with me and probably anyone else that has seen this film is the very end.  That last shot is so horrific, so way out of left field that you never see it coming.  It just hits you and then it ends.  It has a power of its own.  And judging by the comment on here from other users, they feel the same way.  This is a film absolutely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"The 2nd best ending in cinematic history","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"54 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I first picked up the box cover of Sleepaway Camp, I said to myself, Just another stupid slasher film with a camp setting.  Yes, it was another stupid slasher film with a camp setting.  It was the best damn slasher film with a camp setting of all time.  It provided a simple story with sexy teenagers from the early 80s innocently attending a Christian sleepaway camp.  It was really good.  The acting and writing alone could not make the movie good though, it was the ending.  It had the best movie ending in cinematic history (until I saw Multiple Maniacs).  I will not reveal the specifics, but I will urge you to rent the movie and see for yourself, because it is one of the most surprising and shocking endings ever conceived.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A ghastly ghoulish go go delight!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It had been years since I saw this movie, but I remembered the key elements. Young girl is harassed at camp, her bullies start dying off, unforgettable ending. I just never realized how big of a classic this really is. For those of you who don't know, the film starts off with a man on a boat in the middle of a lake with his two children. The boat tips over, another boat comes racing towards them and kills all but one.Flash forward 8 years later, the sole survivor now lives at her aunts house, where she sends the girl, Angela, and her cousin, Ricky, to summer camp. At camp, Angela is brutally teased and taunted by her fellow campers. Her cousin Ricky continuously comes to her defense, but the bullies are all being killed off by a mysterious unknown attacker. All of this leads up to an ending that I believe to be one of the most shocking in cinema history.Felissa Rose gave an excellent performance as Angela, who makes you sympathize heavily for her, due to her soft mannered and soft spoken personality. She is very much the kid we all were, and some of you might still be. A vulnerable target for those with a superiority complex, very much the outcast.Writer/Director Robert Hiltzik fills the film to the brim with psychological undertones, masterfully creating a genuine thriller out of this low grade, slasher extraordinare. But you don't care about that, do ya'. You want gore! And while it's not an overtly gory film, there are enough offerings of blood here and there to keep you gorehounds satisfied. Not to mention some nifty death scenes. And the ending, my friends, is what makes Sleepaway Camp worth the watch. That's not to say SC isn't a good film, in my opinion it's great, but for those of you who have no clue as to how it ends... You will not be disappointed. They just don't make horror films like this anymore, folks. "},{"Title":"Warning Spoilers Misidentified","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Many people have made the connection to the Friday the 13th series with Sleepaway Camp for obvious reasons.  They both came out within a few years of each other and all the action takes place at a summer camp.  However, the primary theme in the Friday the 13th series is vengeance.  Vengeance of a mother for the neglect and drowning of her son and then vengeance by the son for the murder of his mother.  Of course vengeance is also key to all the murders in Sleepaway Camp but for entirely different motivations.  The murders of Sleepaway Camp come from sexual repression, being picked on, and sexual molestation.  All these derive from feelings of shame and embarassment which is different than the motivations of Friday the 13th. A better comparison for Sleepaway Camp would be Psycho.  First let me say that in no one are the two comparable, Psycho is a masterpiece of story, directing, acting, and camera work, Sleepaway Camp is none of these.  But they share similar thematic characteristics.  Norman Bates suffers an Oedipal complex but when his mother takes a new lover he kills her and suffers tremendously.  He is overwhelmed by guilt and shame and brings her back to life in his mind.  But whenever he sees an attractive woman he feels guilty and shameful and murders them because his mother is jealous for his affection.  Sleepaway Camp is a more bizarre twist on these themes. Angela's (who turns out to be a boy) father and sister are both killed in a boating accident.  But unlike Jason, Angela does not wreck havoc on the camp for those deaths.  Instead Angela is adopted by her demented Aunt and forced to become a girl because the Aunt already has a son, Ricky.  There are two scenes in which I'm guessing a young Ricky and Angela witness two men, presumably Ricky's father and his lover having sex.  These scene is followed by a scene in which suggests a sort of sexual molestation between young Ricky and young Angela.  These two pivotal events greatly affect Angela and cause a sexual crisis within him/her.  What begins the rampage at Camp Arawak is another sexual molestation performed by the cook on Angela. This act sets her/him off the deep end and she/he begins to kill anyone who hurts her/him in any way.  Then to complicate matters she begins to have a relationship with Paul.  Angela has a gender identity crisis and cannot decide whether she/he is attracted to Paul or to other women.  It probably doesn't help her that she is surrounded by Men in booty shorts and half shorts, who would be mistaken for flamboyantly gay in today's culture.  So she decides to have a relationship with Paul and seems happy but he wants more, to feel her breasts, which of course she doesn't have.  Angela finally loses all control when she catches Paul cheating on her with Judy.  She brutally murders Judy by raping her with a curling iron.  Then she goes berserk and kills four younger children in their sleeping bags.  I think they kicked sand at her.  Then she decides to reveal her secret to Paul. And she does and promptly decapitates him.  Finally in the creepiest scene that I never saw coming she makes a crazy face with a gaping open mouth, ax in hand, completely naked and breathes heavily making slight animalistic noises.  This facial expression is comparable to one that Norman Bates makes dressed as the mother at the end of Psycho.  The sister of Marion is in the basement, finds the skeleton of the mother and then turns to see Norman dressed as the mother making a very similar crazy expression.  So in conclusion Psycho is a much more accurate comparison because both involve characters who are sexual confused, are men who dress as women, and kill when their sexual identites come into crisis.  I do not think Sleepaway Camp is a great movie, but had it better acting and special effects it could be. It is a thoroughly rich text.  The reason many people have responded to the ending, which I found shocking and disturbing and will unfortunately never leave me, is because it plays on deeply disturbing psychological events in people's lives.  And for that matter I think it is much scarier than a Friday the 13th or Nightmare on Elm Street which are basically about vengeance for the murder of a person. "},{"Title":"A great bad slasher movie(not for everyone)","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This 1983 horror slasher gem was written and directed by first time director Robert Hiltzik. The story begins with a boating accident which kills the main character Angela's father and brother. We then move forward in time, now Angela is living with her Aunt Martha and her cousin Ricky. Angela and Ricky then go to camp and it is Angela's first time going but Rickey has been there before. Angela doesn't get along with the other campers and is very quiet. A series of murders begin and it is a mystery who is killing all these people. Could it be Ricky who made death threats, could it be Mozart killing these campers because he was picked on, could it be Angela, or could it be someone else? This movie has very interesting and unique deaths without gore. This movie is not for everyone, if you are a fan of cheesy horror movies or just slashers definitely check out this movie. You will never forget the ending. "},{"Title":"Great slasher film.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"37 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Robert Hiltzik's Sleepaway Camp is one of the most memorable slasher movies ever made.Of course the acting and dialogue are terrible,but writer/director Robert Hiltzik manages to create very creepy atmosphere throughout,the killings are original and gruesome and the ending is very shocking and twisted.Felissa Rose is marvelous as Angela,especially with her creepy stare.Sleepaway Camp is a little bit different than your standard slasher fare-it's filled with strange and deviant characters,disturbing flashbacks and sexual subtexts.There is only a little bit of gore,still we do get an arrow through the neck,severed head,a bloody stabbing and death by hair curler.Overall,Sleepaway Camp is a fast-paced slasher flick with a wonderful central character of Angela.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Great American Slasher with an ending you'll never forget","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is 80's American Cheese at it's greatest!  The cast does a great job and the script is actually really good.  If your a fan of cheesy slasher flicks this is one you should certainly check out...and absolutely DO NOT MISS THE ENDING!!!!  One of the creepiest endings I've ever seen in a movie which is sure to give anyone the chills.   A truly wicked low budget horror flick.  "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After you watch Sleepaway Camp, you will either love it or hate it. I loved this movie after I watched it... The weird thing about this movie though it has everything I hate in Horror movies. Sometimes the acting was cheese. Especially that horny kid that keeps trying to hookup with Angela. He dropped some one-liners that made me laugh cause it was so lame. It reminded me of the 50's for some reason.... But somehow it suited the movie, which didn't make me hate it. The story is pretty predictable. You have an idea what is really happening in the movie but the ending throws it all out the window cause you never expected that to happen... I think it was the ending that made it all worth watching and made me appreciate it. The ending made me zone out and gave me the chills. The reality of the story is twisted which is why I watched again after I first saw it. Overall, I highly recommend this cult-classic. It's truly one of a kind. "},{"Title":"A rare FRIDAY THE 13TH rip-off that's actually pretty good.","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  We all know this plot People at a summer camp who are mean to a very shy girl named Angela (Felissa Rose) begin to die in gruesome ways. The difference here is the nasty edge to things and solid Ed French make-up FX. Obnoxious, overacting characters screaming at each another in their grating New York accents are always good for some laughs, too. Kids make fun of Angela (You're a real carpenter's dream! Flat on both ends and in need of a screw!), nail her with water balloons and push her down. Not since CARRIE has a lead character had it so bad. Flashbacks prove how having same-sex parents can lead to homicidal behavior! There's death by drowning, scalding water, decapitation, bees, snake and curling iron (guess where?), a child molester cook, a PSYCHO shower scene, skinny dipping and one of the best endings of the 80s.  Followed by 2 1/2 comedy sequels.Score 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Good 80's Slasher Flick","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is....you guessed it- about a group of kids at a summer camp being knocked off one by one.  Its got that classic 80's slasher music with bad acting, editing, and effects, but thats what I love about them.  This is one of those slasher flicks thats good for a movie night with your friends.  And that ending you've heard so much about...its pretty cool and unexpected.  Its not only a slash flick, but a film about sexual identity.  Worth the price of rental.  Check it out! "}{"Title":"Worth it, though only because of the ending.","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is an unusual film in that it contains a great deal of homo erotic overtones. It may very well be the only trash horror film from the '80s where the boys show more flesh than the girls. From the numerous shots of shirtless men in shorts that would make Brazilians embarrassed, to the overt cheapening of the girls, director Robert Hiltzik is throwing the entire slasher genre into an uproar by mixing his messages on the kind of gender proclivity that gets you killed in such a scenario.One could easily say it's a cheap Friday the 13th knock-off, but with good 'camp' value. So, therefore, the story is rather familiar. When Ricky and his slightly off-kilter cousin Angela visit Camp Arawak for the summer, they're hoping to spend some quality time away from home. But wouldn't you know it, the place has a problem all its own - a serial killer is on the loose, one who is slicing and dicing his way through the campers.It sure is, however, worth it, though only because of the ending. Angela is really Peter and that Aunt Martha inexplicably decided to raise him as a girl after the accident that killed his sister and hunky dad, a series of flashbacks sheds light on the identity crisis of the film's killer two men (yes, the hunky guys in the film's opening scene) caress each other in bed, and after witnessing this '50s-PSA spectacle of queer petting, two siblings reach for each using an E.T.-phone-home-pull-my-finger gesture that seems to imply that they're going to desire each other (in the butt perhaps?).With that being said, sure, the film mimics Friday the 13th's (not entirely the most original film either) summer camp setting, but because it's so hilarious, and the final money shot is so damn creepy, Sleepaway Camp has a string of mysterious bloodshed. "},{"Title":"One of the Very Best Slashers of the Early 1980s","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Slightly disturbed and painfully shy Angela Baker (Felissa Rose) is sent away to summer camp with her foul-mouthed cousin Ricky Thomas (Jonathan Tiersten). Not long after Angela's arrival, things start to go horribly wrong for anyone with sinister or less than honorable intentions.This film is either loved or hated, and with good reason, but it has been embraced more and more as the years go on by fans of the horror genre. The acting is excessively cheesy, especially from Desiree Gould, but purposely so. The kills are grisly and nasty, even if not always shown on screen. When that curling iron strikes, you know the situation. And the pedophile cook? Oh man... that is pushing boundaries that even horror films dare not cross (Freddy Krueger can be a child killer, but not a child molester).One cannot vouch for the next two sequels, which have little connection to this film, but the original stands as a true modern classic, and if you have not seen it, you are really missing out on an important piece of horror history. What could have been a ripoff of other horror slashers that take place at camp (notably Friday the 13th) turns out to be far different from any other title out there. And keep in mind the whole crew, more or less, had just come from Creepshow, so these were folks who knew what they were doing.Writer-director Robert Hiltzik (who graduated NYU with Ang Lee) mysteriously went decades without directing again. Many of the actors also never acted again, at least for a long time. And then you have Christopher Collet, going on to make such things as Prayer of the Rollerboys... does that make him the biggest success from this film?Not only does the film get better with repeated viewings (which make the humor and camp more fun), but there are actually some clever subplots that will likely be missed on the first time or two. Mel Kostic (portrayed wonderfully by the late Mike Kellin) not only is one of the best characters, but has his own story and relationship with the campers and counselors that may not be immediately evident.The Scream Factory Blu-ray is ridiculously good and worth owning. Beyond the excellent presentation, it has three different audio commentaries, where you learn odd trivia like Felissa Rose's husband Deron Miller meeting her as a fan, and much more. There is even a short film showing whatever happened to Judy (although it is not very good). "},{"Title":"Brings back memories","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film hold some personal memories since is was filmed so close to my home town.  I remember a good friend of mine missing school in 6th grade to go and be an extra in the film.  He actually got in the film longer than intended by sneeking into the frame.  Ironically, there was a murder of a young girl just down the road from the lake this was filmed at.  It occured about 15 years prior but it was strange to see a movie along the same lines made in such an obscure town.  If you look closely at the paramedics carrying away the cook scalded by hot water, you will see their jackets that say Ft. Edward Rescue squad.  They were the actual on-site emergency care workers required by law.  Funny stuff "},{"Title":"Objectively  the ending is what makes this movie watchable.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A slasher flick that has got the attention of fans of the genre mainly because of it's gruesome, shocking ending. To be honest, this is a regular Slasher flick with the usual death scenes, campy acting, cheesy gore, and clichèd characters.But also, being honest, Sleepaway Camp has a tremendously chilling and shocking ending that could only be imagined in the worst nightmares. The lullaby song... the bloody mouth... the chopped head... the expression on Angela's face... This is one of the best moments in Slasher history, yes. Or at least, one of the most popular moments.The movie tries too hard to create more character and plot development than usual but it never gets very interesting. In fact, if it weren't for the ending, this could easily pass as a regular Slasher with nothing else to add. Sure, there are some good death scenes with good gore but nothing impressive.The acting is really good specially by Felisa Rose. The rest of the cast is just okay. The direction is dark and creepy but looks like an aged Slasher in these days.Overall, this is a classic for it's gruesome ending. The rest of the movie is just good. Totally recommended for fans of the sub-genre. "},{"Title":"Chessy yet spooky","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I remember renting this movie about 2 summers ago. I agree the dialogue was pretty cheesy and the acting was pretty bad, but what do you expect on a low-budget 80's film? Some of the fashion was ugly yes, but com'on didn't we all wear that stuff in the 80s? I'm sure in the future the styles will change and everyone will be making fun of the clothes we wear now as well!The movie is about a young girl named Angela who's father and sibling die in a boat accident and is sent to live with her cousin and aunt who then becomes her adoptive mother. Eight years later her and her cousin are sent away to camp where Angela is harassed by most the other kids because she hardly ever speaks and is somewhat different (supposedly because of her tormenting experience). Soon after a lot of brutal murders begin to happen and nobody at the camp suspects who is doing them.Anyway I think the movie was ok. Not the best, but ok. I actually found it different then other horror movies in the 80's because it was more serious and disturbing, especially since most of the cast was kids. I definitely think the ending was the most shocking disturbing ending I've ever seen in a horror movie (well at least for the 80s). That was the thing that mostly was disturbing although there were a few other parts as well that were pretty disturbing and spooky.Spoilers ahead......For one thing the Mother at the beginning was freaky as hell! there is a reason why she is so scary, (besides the fact that she is nuts!) that's kinda explained in her last scene in the movie;which makes her even scarier and disturbing. Also there is a cook who is a rapist, an old man that dates a teenager and some graphic murder scenes as well as a few flashbacks of homosexuality and disturbing scenes. I still must say however that the ending is the most shocking horrifying part of the movie. I remembered me and my mom both had our mouths drooped out in shock! It's not really the identity of the killer that is shocking mean u probably won't be shocked when the killer is revealed at the end, but it is the killer's secret that will shock you. The very last scene before the credits come on will stick in your head for at least a little while. I was about 20 years when I saw this movie and I have to admit I actually couldn't sleep that night! I won't spoil the end for those of you who haven't seen it yet, but just remember to be prepared for a shock. I still get freaked out when I think of that movie. There are some unanswered questions in the movie as well that I still can't figure out, even after the ending. The ending explains a little bit but not everything, like some of those flashbacks so if anyone knows what I'm talking about let me know! I haven't seen part 2 or 3 yet cause I can't find them, I may have to buy them online. I'm hoping maybe the sequels will explain everything. "},{"Title":"What a mean, spiteful slasher film this is.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp had been talked up to me by friends and associates as a unique entry into the slasher film sweepstakes, and they're right. Never before do I remember slasherfilmvictims being so mean, foul-mouthed, and spiteful. Not a single character in this film exists above redemption. And most of them get killed off.There's an uneasy sexual undercurrent plodding about this film, from the camp chef (who calls the kids baldies) to the treatment of homosexuality to the shot of a dozen bare-assed guys going for a night swim ... to a teenage counselor going on a date with the old, crusty camp owner. Perversions run high here, and not on a level that most will enjoy. The killing scenes are inventive, plentiful, and happen on a regular basis throughout the movie, and the reaction shots to these killings seem to go on forever, which make them all the more difficult to endure. "},{"Title":"Pretty Stupid, But the Ending is Cool.","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" * 1/2 out of ****The film is pretty much just another Friday the 13th ripoff. The acting, directing, and effects all could use a lot of improvement. It's never boring, but it isn't scary or interesting. The film never really moves. I wasn't particularly interested in any of the characters problems and i didn't really care about what was happening. It just didn't thrill me. Of course i wasn't expecting it to however. It seemed like a cheap kind of movie before i watched it. The ending, however, is a good jolt. It's a pretty cool twist that definitely makers the film a lot more memorable. It's kind of like a BEYOND THE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS sort of ending, only a little more unexpected and nowhere near as disturbing. It adds a nice dose of originality to an otherwise cheap outing. "},{"Title":"What can I Say?","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can I say? I lOVE THIS MOVIE!.Sure it's not exactly academy material or something that could be even remotely compaired to Kurosawa or Kubrick,but there is something about this Movie that makes it stick out(you can take that as a pun for those of you who have seen it).Sure I know you've all heard it before and your gonna hear it again...The Shocking and Disturbing Ending.Watching a movie like this one has a bit of an expectation,*POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD* You think your just gonna get another silly 80's slasher movie with weak characters, weak script, and an even weaker resolution.But oh how you are proven wrong when you watch Sleepaway Camp.Ok,I'll admit there is a great deal of cheesiness and the acting is...well a bit weak at times (sometimes totally histerical!)but this movie despite slight faults that are most common in B-horror movies,leaves the viewer almost catatonic with confusion,shock,and the very common WHAT THE F*CK?! reaction.The movie also shows an interesting creativity in the field of Horror Film Deaths.Most of which involve almost no blood or gore,but still come off quite disturbing with excellent make-up effects.I think that almost any viewing of this movie after the initial is the best.You have all the pieces of a sick and twisted puzzle put together and your able to enjoy the characters and the highly comic aspects of the movie much more.Plus if you are like me you get an almost nervous feeling in your gut as the movie approaches it's final minutes that ends in a truly horrifying freeze frame that p***es me off because it always scares the crap out of me along with a creepy song that accompanies it.The director obviously used his head towards trying to be different.He took the small handfull of final minutes that a director can use to either make or break his film and he grabbed them by the balls (no pun intended) and molded them into something crazy and effective.It's endings like this that would have a beautiful crowd reaction in theatres of its original release,blank faces,puzzled faces,petrified faces.It changes the whole perspective of the movie and really Makes It.B-horror buffs are probubly the biggest followers of this movie for it is not for all tastes.But if you are looking for a good old slasher film with...a little something extra (I need to stop with these damn inuendows (( i think thats how you spell it))Than look no further than SLEEPAWAY CAMP,unless your afraid to test your manhood (i have problems.)By the way, Mozart is the coolest character in the whole world. "},{"Title":"A Complete Mess","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Good God, have I fallen into an alternate universe? I can't believe the comments I'm reading about this flick. All I can do is imagine that a bunch of impressionable horror geeks, the type that saw this at a drive-in in the eighties, where shocked by the ending of this supposed masterpiece. SLEEPAWAY CAMP manages to be both derivative and annoying. It's patterned after already derivative body count pictures like Friday THE 13TH. It copies the whole setup, actually. But it's severely hamstrung by a cast that looks like volunteers from a junior high drama class. I mean, these kids are bad. And the majority of the adults in this sorry excuse for a horror film are just as bad.Scream Queen Felissa Rose, who somehow made a career from her catatonic performance here, looks like a deer caught in a searchlight. She is given little to do besides stare blankly into the camera, which is hilarious in most instances, as this look is supposed be menacing. At least, that's what I assume.The only thing creepy about this picture was the undercurrent of child obsessed homoerotica (if you can get past the fact that EVERY male, from 10 to 60, appears obsessed with forging some kind of abusive sexual relationship with an underage kid). It's easy to dismiss all the young, shirtless boys running about - or wearing skin tight short-shorts - as a sign of the times. But the killer's motivation, a gender identity issue somehow motivated by her father's homosexuality, was a bit much...especially when it crescendos in a shocking climax of underage, full frontal nudity.I've got to give this picture a couple points for its death sequences, but you'd expect that of a slasher film. Believe me, that's no recommendation. "},{"Title":"Just rent it!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I remember renting this movie with my roommate a few years back.  We were just looking for a cheap slasher film to go along with a few beers.  By the end of the movie, my roommate was disgusted with the horrible acting and pathetic cinematography.  I, on the other hand, couldn't stop laughing!  It was so bad that I'd recommend it to everyone just to get a good laugh.  And the end...I won't tell you what happens...but OH MY GOODNESS that was cheesey!  Cheesey, but worth seeing. -Joshua White "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have seen in recent memory...","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was looking to watch some old school 80's slasher flicks that I haven't seen before and some recommendations were thrown my way. The Burning, The Prowler, and Sleepaway Camp.So last night I watched 'Sleepaway Camp'. This is the biggest piece of **** film I have seen in some time, and I have seen many.The acting is just absolutely *dreadful* with the entire cast coming off like they are remembering lines off cue cards. I cannot state this enough, even for an 80's horror movie. Horrible horrible horrible acting. I have seen Infomercials with better acting then this.The murder scenes were weak, boring and uncreative, yes let's kill someone with a wasps nest and the makeup effects looked like they were done by a high school student on a $5 Hobby Lobby budget.A slow and boring pace overall, with nonsensical rubbish scattered throughout the script like a pedophile working in the camp cafeteria, Meg cracking onto an ugly 60 year old guy for no reason absolutely what so ever, etc.The plot was also garbage. Don't get me started on that ridiculous disaster boating back story, the homophobic gay scene (because 2 men in love is something that disturbs children from affection later in life right?), and one of the worst twist endings ever thought up. Wow, so Angela who is afraid to go in the shower with the other girls is actually a boy who was raised by an Aunt (probably the worst actor in the movie along with Angela's cousin), who turned her into a girl. So Angela is actually a dude? So what? Who the hell cares and why is it even important? Psycho did the exact same thing 20 years earlier.And that's it folks, that's the ending. Angela is not a chick but a psycho killer who turns out to have male parts? We never see what happens to her/him, or exactly why her/him committed the killings - obviously just an angry trans gender getting revenge on everyone because of the boating accident (quite a stretch for revenge plot) and being ill treated by her/his aunt - good reason enough to go about throwing wasps nests through windows and drowning people. Worst of all, there is no end battle to speak of. They don't have to defeat the killer at all, the director just shows the reveal and that's it. The movie ends on Angela being a dude making some demented facial gesture, and that's it with a freeze frame and let's roll credits.Some people were comparing this movie to The Burning, which I also watched recently for the first time ever. The Burning is actually a well directed scary horror movie of the 80's. Sleepaway camp is a horribly acted puddle of diseased **** that doesn't even deserve to stand in the shadow of The Burning. "},{"Title":"mmm...I smell feces.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I bought this for four dollars at a gas station. I could have bought so many other things. They had those little bottle cap candies called Bottle Caps. I like those a lot. They had combos too. Nothing in my life makes me feel as good as a big bag of combos. God, I need a girlfriend. Hopefully she won't have a p*n*s like the psycho in this movie. Ha! I bet you had no idea how I could transition from gas station food to a girl-man with a p*n*s. Anyway, this comment is more fun than this movie. It makes more sense too. The production is drab ugly. The actors are not that bad, but nobody sticks out. Ewww. The ending plays out as meaningless shock value. Buy some combos instead. Eat them with your girlfriend. "},{"Title":"It's A Classic, But Not In My Eyes(BOMB/0 Stars Out Of ****)","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A lot of people in the horror community refer to Sleepaway Camp as a horror classic and should be viewed by people who love movies like Friday The 13th. Well I love Friday The 13th, but My God do I hate Sleepaway Camp. I don't Have a top 10 list like Transformers Dark Of The Moon but I do have at least 4 main problems that I can elaborate on.The first problem I had is the main character of Angela Baker played by Fellissa Rose. Now when the movie started I thought her character was developed really well, But the only problem is that they barley have this character speak throughout the whole film. I understand that Her Brother(You will see why in a little bit) and her father were killed in a boating accident and she is shy. But if you're are going to camp to meet people You have to speak at least once or twice. She speaks about a total of 20-30 words in the film. She does spout classic lines like I Don't Know and Thank You Very Much. The second problem is the overall general story. This film is a complete Friday the 13th rip-off, But every time I say that to somebody who likes the film they say they are completely different. Well lets see, They both have kids go to a camp out in the middle of the woods, and a killer who is not revealed until the end. SAME! They are the same movies! Only Friday The 13th was much more better.The third problem I had is The sexualization of underage children. What I mean by that is this movie piles on sex appeal for kids who are 13 or 14 years old in this movie. If that was not creepy enough you have the character of the pedophile chef who I won't go into detail with because if I do talk about him it's going to make me puke and you and I don't want that.MAJOR SPOILERS BELOW! Please do not continue if you have not seen the film, although I don't know why you would want to.The fourth and final problem is the ending. Angela Goes into the woods to have some business with a boy. Two older campers come across her and as she turns around you see that she is not only the killer or a girl, she is a BOY! They show you everything, Refer to problem 3 for more of that. Also she is the killer. This is the classic twist ending that everyone remembers but in all honesty, why? Sure she is disturbed after her father and Sister(Now you get it) Angela died in the boating accident Peter the brother of Angela was turned into a girl by his aunt who went mentally insane after the accident. But for me this is not an affective ending because I can't have emotion for a character who doesn't speak or do anything in the movie.The final verdict for the film Sleepaway Camp is a BOMB or 0 stars out of 4. It also earns my seal of disapproval meaning I urge you not to see this film. This film is held back by The main character, completely unoriginal story, Sexualization of children and that Godforsaken ending. This film has no redeeming factors. But the good news is that it has four sequels that I have to sit through and the next 2 have Bruce Springsteen's Sister Pamela Springsteen as Angela. Goody.Rated R For Horror Violence And Gore, Sexual Content And Language.1hr 28min/88min.23 uses of the F-word.BOMB/**** "},{"Title":"1 out of 10","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This review applies to the version released by Media.Several kids are murdered by an unknown killer at a camp, but wait there is a twist to all this mayhem that makes it slightly different from the Friday the 13th films. And depending on you it will be either, shocking or unintentionally funny. I thought the latter about the twist, so that makes it so the whole film doesn't work. Among its other faults is the zero budget, the homoerotic references in the film, and that it is extremely exploitive. Skip it and rent Friday the 13th instead. That movie looks better. I was hoping this movie would be good. But it wasn't. "},{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to be the worst horror film I have ever seen. I kept hearing the ending was shocking, it was just stupid. If you are a horror fan like myself trust me this is not a film that will please you. Why it has a ratting as high as it does I will never understand. "},{"Title":"A must watch for every horror fan!","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time in 2015. There have been tons of such movies where bad things happen when a group of teenagers go camping. This movie is probably one of the earliest of that genre. And that's what makes this movie fun to watch. There are all the tropes that have now become cliché. The acting is over the top. The 80s costumes and background scores bring out a chuckle. I wasn't expecting the make-up to be as good, but it surprisingly is for the dead victims. The last minute reveal did indeed turn out to be the twist I wasn't quite expecting. It is no wonder that it shows up in the list of movies with surprise endings! This movie is truly worth a watch for the horror fan. "},{"Title":"Summer Camp Horror...With A Twist!","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is first and foremost, another summer camp slasher film. A very popular slasher subgenre originated with the 1980 classic Friday the 13th. Angela and Ricky are young teenagers off to camp Arawak for the summer, Ricky the likable popular type, and Angela, the quiet and 'different' type. When all kinds of scuzzy camp regulars begin to give Angela a hard time, they start dying rather brutally...much to the dismay of the camp's burnt out owner Mel (Mike Kellin). Sleepaway Camp is a slasher film, however, it goes a bit deeper than that, what gives Sleepaway Camp its distinction, is the bizarre homosexual themes running throughout the film. Why they are there are anybody's guess,but from the strange transvestite (?) Aunt Martha, to Angela's gay father, the truly shocking and disturbing final shot and more, Sleepaway Camp is sick, grisily, twisted, yet always fascinating. Of course, its not always great, many scenes in this film are just laughable, like the melodramatic boating accident at the film's start, or the character that wears a shirt with her name on it, and even the scenes with Chef Artie, the local camp sleazeball. Sleepaway Camp however, always manages to be charming, despite its warped themes and lurid subject matter, this one certainly isn't for everybody, but those with a taste for something not quite the norm will find much to savor here with Sleepaway Camp, a truly strange film that stands in a tired subgenre, but stands out as a unique achievement-even if partially a fluke. "},{"Title":"The High-Strung, Melodramatic, Trashy World of Sleepaway Camp","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Throughout the early eighties, the market was saturated with cheap slashers. Many of these quickie films were set at summer camps, playing off the success of the wildly popular-profitable Friday the 13th series. Some of these films, like the hyper-gory The Burning, have become cult favorites. Others, like Summer Camp Nightmare, aren't well-known. But there's no camp-set eighties slasher flick cult-ier then 1983's Sleepaway Camp. The movie is most notorious for its gender-bending twist ending. Yet the conclusion is hardly the only odd thing about the film. Sleepaway Camp is one of the weirdest films from the first wave of American slashers.This is mostly thanks to the movie's implacable tone. Sleepaway Camp does not exist in our reality. The film is a horribly uneven mixture of nightmare images, camp, a low budget, unexpected subtext, and mean-spirited violence. The film's opening credits are set over shots of an empty camp, the voices of far-off children playing, a genuinely eerie moment. Early on, one of the camp chefs makes lewd comments towards the prepubescent kids. The other chef reacts not by reporting the man but by laughing off the would-be pedophile's behavior. All of the characters act in this exaggerated, trashy manner. Meg the camp councilors, despite being older then the other kids, still picks on shy, socially awkward Angela. Pick on isn't even the right word, as her language is highly abusive. Despite brutally dispatching the pedophilic chef, Sleepaway Camp also features a romance between teenage Meg and fifty-something camp owner Mel. The movie doesn't treat this behavior as predatory.The movie appears to be an earnest attempt to create a frightening experience. However, any attempt at horror is undermined by how unintentionally hilarious most of the film is. The acting from all involved is terrible. Felissa Rose's lead performance as Angela is somnambulist, characterized by flat line-reading and unblinking stares. Karen Fields as bully Judy seems unsure of how to handle her outrageous dialogue, delivering it in meaty lumps. The rest of the slasher fodder have a similar problem, giving broad performances without even the basic ability to read lines convincingly. As bad as the teens are, the adult actors give even worst performances. Desiree Gould is Aunt Martha and gives one of the strangest performance in any '80s horror film. Her dialogue is spoken in a spaced-out, antiqued manner. Gould honestly seems to have wander out of a David Lynch movie. As bizarre as Gould is, Mike Kellin as Mel is much worst. The mush-mouth Kellin is given some of the heaviest dialogue in the film, a feat beyond the actor's ability. Mel's obsession with keeping the camp open, even with bodies piling up, is inexplicable. When he deduces Ricky is behind the deaths, he brutally beats the kid. An adult beating a child should never be hilarious but Kellin's tone-death performance and the movie's melodramatic delivery makes it funny.The hilarity doesn't stop there. Sleepaway Camp also serves as a time capsule for fashion in 1983. Pastels are the color of choice. One of the male camp counselor wears tiny shorts hiked up to his crotch. The fashion isn't the only source of unintentional humor. The sole cop in the movie reappears at the end, his real mustache replaced with fuzzy duct tape. The movie could be commended for having the kids act like kids. They let loose explicit profanity, play mean-spirited pranks, and generally act like entitled d-bags. The nasty way they act is so unexpected that it frequently becomes hilarious. All of this characterizes the high-strung, melodramatic, trashy world of 'Sleepaway Camp. The whole movie is also characterized by discomfort with, not just teen sexuality, but human sexuality in general. The film has a strong homoerotic undercurrent. At the beginning, we see Angela and Ricky's father with a male friend. Turns out, that friend is their father's lover. In addition to this element, the film is full of half naked teen boys. They wear mid-drift barring shirts, go skinny dipping, and shove their bare butts in other kids' face. The whole film is focused on the kids' budding sexuality in a greasy, unseemly fashion.Of course, the biggest queer element is the infamous ending. Turns out, Angela is actually a boy who has lived his life as a female. The film lets this twist explain away Angela's murderous desire, a deeply transphobic element that probably wasn't thought about much in 1983. The film doesn't have time for that, as its final image of a naked Angela, penis in full sight, is bizarre. Not because of the nudity but because the character's face freezes in an animalistic growl while an eerie hiss escapes her throat.Befitting the off-putting tone, the film's murders are unusual. A man is burned with boiling water, his body covered with bursting blisters. One kid drowns while another is stung to death by bees, the camera lingering on their brutalized bodies. A stab to the back and an arrow in the neck are more typical but pulled off convincingly. The most notorious death happens off-screen. Judy is somehow killed with a curling iron, the implication being that she was stabbed in a very uncomfortable place. As opposed to most eighties slashers, the kids here are played by visibly young actors. That such violence is being inflicted on young children is one more thing that makes Sleepaway Camp a mean-spirited mess of a film.That mess isn't for everybody. Initially, it wasn't even for me. I found the film difficult to swallow on first viewing. However, Sleepaway Camp has grown on me over subsequent watches. The film is utterly unique among slashers and too generally weird not to be memorable. "},{"Title":"not to be taken seriously","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a movie that you have to leave your brain and good movie taste at the door. This is not a movie to be taken seriously. But with that said the movie is a regular 1980s slasher flick with all the clichés, now that is not a bad thing just It kind of gets old after seeing hundreds of horror films with basically the same premise. but there is one thing that make this movie stand out from all the rest..... the ending I wont spoil it but I will say I wasn't expecting it. Some of the characters are over exaggerated and bland. but the main reason to See it is the ending, I'm not saying that's the only part to See it no but the ending is what most people remember from this movie (if they remember anything). now in the end this movie is a good one but only for people looking to have a good movie night. "},{"Title":"Meatballs Meets Friday The 13th","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Before I go on about this, the ending of this movie was spoiled for me years ago before I had seen the entire thing...Family tragedy displaces young girl. Camp Time!.....where everybody is a moron. Really, just horrible people all around for the most part. Short shorts galore in this movie. Really reminded me of how bad fashion in the 80's was, especially early times. Offensive to the eyes pretty much.....anyway we have young girl & her overprotective cousin in camp dealing with jerk after jerk....Oh and there is a pedophile in the mix that a guy just laughs off when said kid diddler professes his love for banging kids. No joke, I wonder if this was just the norm back in 1983....and it frightens me. More than the rest of the movie....Kids end up being A-Holes...then dead. Now that is standard procedure for these type of movies. Stabbings, beatings, bee-hive assaults and curling iron sodomy abounds....OK, going a little bit crazy with what you're doing, creators of the movie. Not much gore but the way people are getting offed...Pretty hardcore. Hey now, though...the ending. The ENDING! One word to describe it. Disturbing. "}{"Title":"Another slasher with a taste of classic!","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Long gone the times, where movies like this one were made! This is the example how to with no budget, no actors and no talent, make a formula work! After watching movies like Scream, I know what you did last summer, Urban Legend, and many other titles who surround the ending twist, wile watching Sleepaway Camp, I doubt that you can't find out who's the killer! The storyline reminds me a little bit Terror Train, with a twist of Friday the 13th and a twist of Psicho. The image presented on the Special edition from Anchor Bay, makes this old, low budget movie worth to watch. And it is worth watching at least one time. "},{"Title":"Bad acting, limited background, great slasher!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is truly an 80's slasher. Everything about it, the location, the storyline, the characters, this all just screams 80's Slasher right here!!!!!. This ranks up there with Friday the 13th and is very similar in ways camp, teens, HORNY teens, stupid teens, blind counselors, killer. The acting was horrid. But, all the actors are no-name meaning anyone can be killed at any time, which made it much better. This movie was very messed up in some parts but I still enjoyed it. Some of the kills were very unique and well played out. The ending sure confused me but was ultimately very good, sick and completely unexpected. I can't pick out any real actors (besides James Earl Jones' dad) in this movie but its probably for the better since big name actors distract from a horror movie's plot and water the film down. Good movie, recommended for slasher fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Judy, we love you","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the all time B movie greats of the 1980's. With a disturbingly young cast and bizarre queer subtexts this is a must for anyone into camp/cult films. Not to mention a great ending and some creative death scenes. Judy as the main bad girl truly makes this film for me,and her demise is tragic, a fate so terrible that the filmmakers don't have the guts to show the aftermath. Yes, a curling iron to the crotch is never a pleasant experience R.I.P Judy, R.I.P. The plot really is secondary, a tragic boating accident leaves a newly orphaned Angela, who looks a lot like Sarah Silverman, with her aunt Martha and cousin Ricky, and off to camp the kids go, where bad things start to happen. This is from a time when horror was an odd creature, the film is clearly made for 12 year olds, much in the way that Deadly Friend was too, but contains fairly graphic, albeit silly, death scenes and strings of profanity designed to make the young ones giggle. If this were made today, no doubt it would be neutered, given a PG-13 rating, with bland yet classy production values, and a cast from One Tree Hill. "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I was 20 years old. I laughed through the whole thing because I remember when stuff like this was truly scary. The aunt was either a terrible actor or a very good one pretending to be very bad. YIKES!! Why couldn't she have gone to camp? The last image is very permanent on my memory, and I thought it was a perfect end to this movie. For the corniness and humor with the movie, it gets a 10, but because of the bad actors (except for the one that played Angela, she was great!), I give it about a 3. All in all, this movie isn't that bad at all, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone about to head off to camp! (Bwa hahaha) "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was part of a Cheesy Horror night and most of the time my friends and I were just amused by the funny 80s hair and clothes but the ending freaked us out, it is really creepy! And, they freeze it on a freaky image for nearly(if not all) the whole credits. Ick. Nobody expected the ending to be what it was. Most of the film is your standard summer camp horror movie - though the body count is rather high - kids getting it on, pranks etc.I recommend this film for its 80s value AND shock ending, though now everybody has told you the ending is shocking then you will probably spend the whole movie trying to figure out what it is. "},{"Title":"Shocking and Disturbing","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This main reason this movie was remembered was because of the ending. The director really did succeed at making a movie that would make jaws drop in the theater, and keep people thinking about it when they leave.I made the mistake of seeing this movie when I was 10 years old.  You can live through seeing a movie like this when you're older, but I was afraid I would be scarred for life.  I was enjoying the movie when I was watching it, until I saw the ending, and my stomach churned.  This movie has many creative but grisly death scenes (I shrieked when I saw the horrifying bee death).  This movie had a lot of points that kept you awake and drawn to it, which is good.  It is a mystery to find out who the killer is, so that keeps you going.  Sleepaway Camp is not a slow movie.  There were a lot of things about the movie I was way too young to see.  There was a lot of homosexual references, but I guess I know now that was foreshadowing the climax of the movie.  This movie is still good despite the shocker ending.  Many people push this movie aside because of the ending... they think the guy who made this movie was definitely sick.  But the movie was still good, just very different and awfully disturbing.  I don't think you'll be scarred for life by seeing this movie, but see it with another person.  Believe me, you might feel uncomfortable if you don't have someone by your side once it ends.Unless you have a strong stomach, there are some things in this movie that you can't unsee.  They get in your head and stay there.  I think some versions of Sleepaway Camp are cut, but the original release was uncut. A lot of the death scenes look very realistic (maybe that's just me), and they're unlike any you've ever seen before.  This movie is shocking, disturbing (kinda perversed), full of horror, and definitely not for the squeamish.Good acting (if it's bad I must've just overlooked it), fits the genre, lots of violence, a different kind of plot, plenty of profanity, and this movie was good overall (definitely memorable).  Just remember this is unlike any of those countless horror flicks, this one will stay in your mind and you won't forget it. "},{"Title":"wish I had slept through this trash","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is so dumb, I wonder how did it ever get financed?  Everything in this feeble attempt at making a movie is just so, so very bad, I find it hard to believe it was ever able to be made, and then part 2 and 3 ?? What the hell ??Obviously, a delusional idiot had money to burn when this movie got the green light.  I still can't get over just how truly sad and pathetic sleepaway camp is.  Truly embarrassing to all the actors and everyone involved, I must say, OH MY GOD !!!! "},{"Title":"Why do so many hate this film?","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK, so it wasn't the best movie film...even though it was to me.  The acting was cheesy....and it was a really over done type of movie about a camp. But it was the 80's and things like slasher movies were the in thing then.When I was in middle school, me and a couple of friends decided to rent some horror movies.  One of them pointed out this one and said that it was cool and the ending was so weird.  When I asked her why she wouldn't tell me, so I rented it.  My dad didn't really like us watching it alone because we were so young, so he was watching it with us.Right away, we realized this was a really corny movie, and my dad took off after the curling iron scene...and then came the ending.  Now, I was so spooked we slept with the lights on, and even rewinded it a few times to watch it again.  This was not something you see in every movie.I give it a 9 out of ten.  Why a 9 if it's my favorite?  Because yes the acting was BAD.  But remember, it wasn't made to be a masterpiece.  It was meant to spook, shock, and even surprise you.  If you wanna movie to watch that is a masterpiece, rent gone with the wind.  If you want to just kick back late at night and enjoy a good movie, then this is worth it.And to answer my own question...those who hate it don't appreciate the genre...and they don't know how to handle such an awkward ending. "},{"Title":"The best part is the ending...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a typical 80s flick.. like friday the 13th.. kids go to camp, strange murders happen, blah yadda yadda yadaa.. I heard this movie was scary but it really wasn't.. it was more of a comedy, me and my friend were laughing the whole way because of the horrendous acting and dialect.. im serious!!! The murders arent even well done.. well wait a mintute... oh who cares? Now on to the ending.. let me tell ya this.. i knew the ending even before i saw the movie and the ending still shocked me... its just so strange... ewwww... i remember going what the f***.. then i smoked a cigg,, cuz i was a little shocked.. warning.. i wouldnt watch it alone at night, cuz i would get scared of the ending.. LOL...** out of ****mainly cuZ it made me laugh and the ending "},{"Title":"Under-rated slasher","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS***I remember my sister taking me to see this when it was originally in the theaters when I was 13...it was the first horror film that caused me a sleepless night...and that was all do to the ending. And now as I sit here at 30...just having watched my newly acquired copy of it on DVD....the ending still hits me....in my opinion it's the greatest ending in horror movie history. And everybody made such a big deal about 'The Crying Game' ending....'Sleepaway Camp' had that ending long before 'The Crying Game'came out.I have no problems with the acting...after all this is a low budget slasher film....if your expecting more...why are you watching these kind of movies? Yes, the actress  playing the aunt is a major over-actor....but, to me that just adds to the fact that she is crazy...obviously she is crazy for doing something like that to her nephew.It's nice seeing kids talk and do things like real kids...it took me back to my childhood summers.I loved the characters in this movie...Mel the camp owner. Artie the perverted chef. Judy and Meg played excellent bitches...man, they reminded me of my sister's friends back in the old days. And I thought the interactions between Paul and Angela were nice and interesting. I liked the killing scenes....they were creative and fun...especially the scene with Mel getting the arrow through his neck. All the killings were as believable as every other slasher movie made.Felissa Rose was perfect as Angela....I've never seen anybody stare as good as her. And once and for all...Angela was not afraid of the water. The director himself said this on the DVD's commentary. She didn't want to go in the water when there were people around because there was more of a chance of them finding out her secret.The music is very well done for this kind of movie...and I love 'Angela's Theme'...it ranks up there with the 'Happy Birthday To Me' theme song.And this movie may be a rip-off of Friday the 13th....but, remember Friday the 13th ripped-off' Halloween' and 'Halloween' ripped-off 'Black Christmas'...I could go on.....  "}{"Title":"oh my god...","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this was definitely a weird one.  the realisticly ruthless portrayal of kids at camp, the pedophiliac in the kitchen, the unexplained insanity of the aunt, the homosexual undertones, the ENDING!  i was utterly floored when i rented this one.  if you can find it, rent it.  watch it.  show it to your friends and watch them cringe.  Just follow my advice and hold onto something when it winds down to the end.  i promise, you will be shocked, and will probably have the final image stuck in your head for a week. "},{"Title":"really strange","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I could remark this movie as a strange and stupid cheap flick, there is so much mentioned about the ending but i will not get into that.  The movie itself was actually a cheap, low-budget flick with some very unusual murders and silly moments in the movie.  I could only think one actual good thing about this film, THE VIDEO IS OUT OF PRINT, THANK HEAVENS "},{"Title":"Awesomely Bad!","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp, an early 80's slasher set at a Summer Camp where young teens and perverted camp workers are dispatched in an increasingly gruesome fashion is surely just another Sean Cunningham knockoff yeah?No.Not at all.What we have here is Friday the 13th in drag; an offbeat, bizarre journey into the mind of a director with some clear obsessions made in a time where originality, even in an overwrought genre, wasn't subdued by marketing pressures. I suppose the film starts in a normal enough fashion, featuring promiscuous teens carelessly careening a jet-ski on a picturesque lake, but as soon as they're distracted and fail to notice an overturned boat and our family of a dad and his 2 kids treading water, we're swept away into what on the surface may seem a sub-grade and perhaps even listless B-grade horror, but in reality is one troubling little classic.Angela, the survivor of this incident which leaves her father and brother dead, is raised by her eccentric (I was contemplating writing flaming bonkers, but thought I'd stick with proper grammar) Aunt Martha, who one summer decides to send her and her cousin Ricky to Camp Arawak to partake in various social and team-work orientated activities. A problem does arise however when a psychotic killer decides to start offing the residents of the camp, starting with the criminally deviant head chef who truly does deserve it. Just who is this murderer wreaking havoc in this normally peaceful environment? And why doesn't anyone really seem bothered by it? (note this second question isn't actually answered, and it does appear to just be caused by some terrible screen writing).Of course you can't review Sleepaway Camp without mentioning the ending, often referred to as being that of a far better film and amongst the more disturbing in memory. I implore anyone who is yet to visit Camp Arawak to not spoil this climax for yourself, and if you can, maybe hit yourself in the head just enough after reading this review to help you forget I even mentioned it. Other highlights include some grizzly practical effects, absurd flash-backs and a smorgasbord of terrifically poorly written and despicable characters.Ultimately spawning 3 direct to video sequels and having garnered a strong cult following since release, Sleepaway Camp is more-than deserving of a spot on your shelf and a viewing this Halloween. Invite your friends over, hit the play button, and have fun watching the looks on their faces.3.5 Flaming Bonkers Aunts (why not) out of 5 For more reviews and movie opinions check out &#x96; www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The movie was very stupid. The acting was bad. The ending of course did surprise me but who ever liked it are obviously screwed up. If anyone likes seeing a penis is disturbed. You could clearly tell it was not her. It was obviously a mask of her on a man. It did not scare me. The beginning was awful. That is how you make character stupid. It was funny. This movie could easily be considered a comedy. The sequels are much worse than this though but this terrible. The killer is stupid and not scary. I can think of one scene where the characters made a smart decision. The worst acting was definitely from the aunt. This was a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"One big clusterf-ck of stupidity.","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I decided to watch this for 'How Did This Get Made', but it wasn't worth it in the least. Literally everything that could be horrible is horrible in this movie. If you think this movie is scary, you don't deserve your sight. Pedophilia, underage sexing, unnecessarily dead bodies, and voluptuous swearing are all featured in this crapfest of a flick. Thankfully it's only 90 minutes long. The beginning, the end, and every scene in the middle were stupid and, *sigh*, I'm just getting tired of thinking of words to describe the awfulness I sat through. The 'How Did This Get Made' episode is totally worth it, but spare yourself from the horrors of this film.PS She was obviously the killer. "},{"Title":"Good old 80's movie","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I first watched this film when I was a kid. I thought it was fun and a bit cheesy at first. The acting was okay; however, there are some scenes that were very scary. But the end was not expected at all. The ending caught me off guard like no other horror movie I have ever seen at that time. It scared me so bad, I had nightmares. The only other movie that caught me off guard that scared me just as bad was the ending of the Ring but, with that said, I think the ending of Sleepaway camp was a lot freakier. When you watch this movie, watch the whole thing to get the full effect.I gave the movie a 8 star rating for the unexpected terror at the end. Shocking, and one of the best horror scene of all time. "},{"Title":"Not a good movie","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK storyline & all but was really more weird & shock than a true horror movie. The ending had a good swerve however, & was left wide open for a sequel which 4 more came as I found out recently. Hope they can explain how Angela got out of jail or the asylum. I didn't enjoy this movie at all but, a buddy of mine got me to watch Return to Sleepaway Camp this weekend. I found that movie to be good. Now, I'm watching Sleepaway Camp II Unhappy Campers. I got Sleepaway Camp III Teenage Wasteland on the way as well. Just a little disappointed that Sleepaway Camp IV is only available if you purchase the Sleepaway Camp Survival Kit. I will say this, as a low budget film maker, these films do serve as a good How To manual. "},{"Title":"Hang in there...","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is campy, ridiculous, hilarious and original. And I loved every second of it.It's got some pretty creative murder scenes. People get boiled, stung to death and generally made to suffer. It rocks. Plus, this film really captures the essence of what the 80's was all about bad music.Not much can be said about the plot; it's like so many other 'camp' movies of the 80's. Kids at...well, camp. But as I'm sure other reviewers have stated, this one has a nice little twist at the end that will make all the guys in short shorts and girls with bad hair worth it.6 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Still Sleazy After All these Years","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SLEEPAWAY CAMP was on the Independent Film Channel Friday night and I watched it, as much as anything, to see if my memory of it was accurate after some twenty odd years.Yep. It was just as weird as it was in the 1980's. It's not my imagination.Veteran character actor Mike Kellin (the only name I recognized in the cast) concludes a lengthy career playing the director of a summer camp that's a little short of paradise. After the very strange Angela comes to camp with her cousin things start getting really nasty and the corpses start accumulating, but the camp stays open. Why? Two compelling reasons. The camp's owners want the money, and if they shut it down and sent everyone home the movie would have been twenty minutes long.This is as unpleasant a group of foulmouthed youngsters as you'll find this side of SOUTH PARK. And when the slaughter starts in earnest nobody is spared the psycho's wrath some very young children are killed. Offscreen, sure, but it was still a shock.And the ending- which I'm not going to reveal even though most people posting on this board take it for granted that everyone has seen the film- is a prize. That last shot of the killer was a shocker twenty years ago and, even knowing that it's coming, still packs a punch.What's most surprising about the film, though, is that the people who made it didn't go on to bigger things. There's a lot of raw talent at work here. Even with a small budget the movie looks and sounds professionally made.But that's how Hollywood works. Everyone involved in EVAN ALMIGHTY, which cost $175 million to make and is emptying theatres faster than a fire alarm, will go on to bigger projects because they worked on a $175 million movie. The people who made THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, which cost almost nothing and made money hand over fist, go nowhere because they worked on such a small project.William Goldman said it best. Nobdody knows anything. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think this movie is ahead of its time given what we see of homosexuality, and transsexuality today. Sure, it's a horror movie, but it's also a commentary on gender roles in society what makes a person feminine or masculine. If I had to choose, I'd say Judy is the extreme view of the female with her extravagant sexuality, and Ricky is the extreme view of the male with his exaggerated toughness. Angela is the median being torn between both extremes. Through Angela, the movie also brings up the question of what makes us male or female our physical bodies or someone else's perception of us.This may be a little deep for a little horror movie, but it's interesting to think about while watching the movie again nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Horrific? Horrible? You decide...","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Way back in 1983, my friends and I ignored the preview warnings about this film that said that people with heart conditions and pregnant women should avoid attending, and we viewed what became our running joke for the rest of the '80s and most of the '90s.Cheesey? Kraft Macaroni and Cheese doesn't hold a candle to this film. Badly written? Yes and no. Badly acted? Yes and no. Badly produced? You get the picture. Its biggest problem is that it seems so earnestly portrayed, and yet it has some of the worst acting to come from any camp horror film. But then, it looks like they've invested big-time moolah in it, since the death scenes are all very impressively staged. I mean, they even got the aerodynamics of an arrow going through someone's throat right (arrows spin as they fly, and so does this one, even as it goes into the person's throat--very impressive). It's truly weird...Did the cast and crew really mean it to be this bad? There are a few honestly good actors in this. The actor playing Mel did a lot of dramatic roles in '50s and '60s tv, and even appeared in an episode of The Twilight Zone. So why does he deliver a mumbled--what can only be called a soliloquy--over a woman's corpse? Did the woman playing Meg really think this was going to be her breakthrough performance? Why did the woman playing Angela need to look offscreen during emotional scenes? And why does the killer chop up all of those little kids anyway?Horrific special effects, horrible script and performances.Despite all of this, I am forced to admit, I still pull out the video when my high school friends visit, just to laugh and wonder all over again.  "},{"Title":"One the positive side i didn't sleep away on Sleepaway Camp!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has a cult following, people who praise this into heaven and keep on preaching about the phenomenal ending. Well, i've watched it and i'm not that convinced. But i had fun.First, let me put your attention on the positive things  the movie wasn't boring to watch and the ending was cool and (even if you had read about it) surprising, even when the ending was over way to soon (you know what i mean when you see it). The background on Angela was also interesting (surely the idea, the execution had to deal with bad acting - i will deal with this later on). And we all damn know that we don't have to expect an Oscar-worthy movie when you're going to see a slasher movie.But now, oh yes, the negative side  the acting was for the most part (99,5%) bad, bad in a way you even not see anymore these days. I mean, unconvincing and wooden to perfection!!! Fortunately, this makes you eager to see a lot of people getting butchered in horrible ways. But there was very little slasher in this slasher movie. There was totally no suspense or anything like that, you just sit down and watch it and accept it. No scary parts, no gruesome parts, no moving parts, nothing!!! Technically, it wasn't that great either, but luckily this kind of movie doesn't need much of technical quality. And of course, sometimes the movie was plain silly and unlogical and unconvincing, but hey, that's a merit that lot of slasher movies have.What maybe deserves a special note, is that of course al these children here are at maximum 15-16 years old, what gives it a special feel sometimes. I don't know why it does, but at least it's better then a summer camp slasher movie where all people are 21 years or older, like 'Friday the 13th'. But that movie was better in all the other departments.If you add the positive and negative things, you might say that this movie isn't worth your time. And i have rated it 2/10. But even then i say  go rent it, because it occupies your time better then other movies. And the ending is still special. But don't expect much! "},{"Title":"Welcome to Camp Hateful Kids! Meet me at the waterfront after the social!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS* Intended for those who have already seen this film.Sleepaway Camp is primarily a hoot for watching late at night with a bunch of snacks.  The acting is WAY over the top (the way Judy's mouth kept hanging wide open after every accentuated word had me in fits of laughter). The language was excessive in the way that films from the late 1970s and early 1980s loved to shock with that Bad News Bears syndrome of kids cussing (might as well have changed the name of the camp to Camp Cussinkids!).  The clothes were outrageous (plaid pants, high black socks, short shorts).  The Kids were all just so hateful, and the dialogue was just plain silly except for adding the interesting plot points of two children having a gay dad, and an outrageous Aunt Martha who always wanted a girl in her family and made sure that happened.  If you're not really scared by the suspenseful scenes, that's alright because if you've just seen it for the first time after having seen so many other slasher films, then you just won't be that scared.  But, it all pays off well when the ending arrives. I was indeed surprised and felt rather rewarded.  It does indeed stand on its own from the other summer camp slasher films out there, and for those of us who got the gist of it it's a fun ride.It's very important to address the problem so many had with the ending. Those that felt it was disgusting should not have been watching a film of this kind to begin with!  Just check the other reviewers that said it sickened them to see a naked mans body, full frontal view.  Obviously those comments were made by men (presumably heterosexual of course) and those same men complained that there were no naked women in the film.  If naked women are what you really want to see, I hear there are plenty of them in some porn out there!  For goodness' sake, if you're really so sure you're secure in your own sexuality, then you shouldn't be made uncomfortable by male nudity.  Besides, consider that there are others out there (many women of course) who's tastes are constantly being ignored as to the fact that maybe THEY would like to see some guys' skin once in a while.  So many others took things out of context in the film  one reviewer complained the boys were touching each other, when in actuality they were either tackling each other or just wrassling.  Think about this  if it were girls instead of guys doing that, I'll bet that it would not have been perceived as a problem at all.  If films and entertainment in general are to progress, double standards must be stopped.That said, yes the ending is shocking but mainly because of the surprise of the moment in the context of the story.  NOT because you get to see a man's genitals.  The film does what it sets out to do  surprise and shock, that's what it's supposed to do and that's a GOOD thing!Sleepaway Camp is not meant to be high class entertainment, but it at least offers decent entertainment and an interesting enough story.  My advice to the rest of you who are uneasy about the film's homosexuality and male nudity GET OVER IT.   Now, watch Sleepaway Camp again and enjoy! "},{"Title":"complete garbage","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Anyone who even remotely likes this sack of crap movie is in dire need of a full mental evaluation. Leave the house. Get a life. If you are a human being please, don't waste precious time viewing this abomination. I hated every second.It would seem homosexual pedophiles made this film. I use the word film very loosely because it is not a film in the traditional sense. 'Films' have actors in them. People who don't look at the camera every time it's in front of them. Actor's can act as well. Not one person delivered a believable line. No one. I tried to watch this movie with an open mind. Impossible. I will once again warn the people thinking of buying this thing. DON'T DO IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! If you want to drive someone out of your life permanently, give them this movie for Christmas. They will be gone. I would. "},{"Title":"Eat sh*t and live, Bill.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First off, Sleepaway Camp is not a very good movie. With that said, maybe you can enjoy it for what it is a campy 80's slasher movie. Even though I find that to be true, I still love this movie. It's a direct Friday the 13th rip-off, except for the ending (which I will get to in a moment). The basic plot is a slasher running wild at a camp setting killing counselors and the like. Nothing terribly new there. There are some great kills not to mention a couple of truly weird scenes in the film (besides the end). There are some bizarre homosexual scenes that add immeasurably to the scary and disquieting tone of the film. Not to mention that startling finale. It's an ending that everyone who's ever written a review for this film has to talk about. They use words like disgusting, indescribable, unexpected, and nightmarish. And they aren't kidding, just read the other reviews. It could be the most shocking image ever to grace the silver screen. Prepare yourself. It's a sub-par slasher entry with a truly disturbing ending that rises above the rest of the film. I recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Yes, it has a memorable ending... but what about the rest of the film?","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having watched what I have now discovered to be a cut release of Sleepaway Camp, I wasn't entirely sure that it was fair to write a comment based on an 'incomplete' movie. However, after checking the exact contents of the cuts (a little nudity, some swearing and a tiny bit of gore) I am pretty sure that my opinion of the film would remain the same it's undoubtedly a memorable movie, thanks to its its lurid plot and shock ending, but it still failed to impress me as much as I had hoped.Felissa Rose plays Angela, the only survivor of a boating accident, who goes to live with crazy Aunt Martha and cousin Ricky. Angela grows up shy and quiet, and, when sent to summer camp with Ricky, refuses to join in with the fun and games. The victim of bullying, Angela refuses to speak, until a young lad, Paul, makes the effort to communicate. But with a homicidal maniac on the loose, does Angela's new relationship really stand a chance?Director and writer, Robert Hiltzik, has the basic ingredients for a good shocker&#151;an unusual set of characters, some reasonable effects, and a handful of particularly repellent moments (which include a paedophile trying his luck with Angela, a gay sex scene witnessed by young children, a death scene featuring curling tongs put to use in a very nasty manner, and THAT ending), but with a pretty poor cast spouting some lousy dialogue, and rather lacklustre direction, the movie struggles to maintain momentum between the 'good' bits.Sleepaway Camp is worth watching if you're a horror completist, or if you wish to see one of the most bizarre end scenes of all time, but it really amounts to nothing more than a fairly enjoyable entry in the stalk 'n' slash sub-genre. "},{"Title":"Golden Garbage","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'd give this movie a passing grade. Some of the actors are crazy bad, while others keep ya watching. The story line is like any slasher film. Sleepaway Camp is full of classic horror stereotypes. They spent the budget (thankfully) on effects, not actors. I couldn't believe the size of the cast for what was surly a small budget movie. The eighties wardrobe was hilarious (Men in short shorts and cut off Tee's), that alone was worth watching the movie for. The actor who plays Ricky could have went on to have a career, cause his natural acting ability grounded the movie. Without him being realistic there'd be no foundation, no solid core of normality to keep us watching. My viewing him as a good actor could be based on the fact that everyone else seemed like Over-dramatic high school performers. Sorta awkward, waiting for there cue types. But as far a low budget, low quality horror films go this is watchable with an open mind and no high hopes. Great for group viewing, creates great laughs. "},{"Title":"You have got to be kiddin' me...","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Never before have I given a movie a 1/10.This movie has the worst acting I've seen in my entire life. And I'm neither kidding nor exaggerating here. I've seen a whole bunch of just-for-fun student flicks and still, nowhere near as bad. It was insulting.At times I was wondering if this movie was a hoax. But then I come here to find it has a following. What the f***? The cinematography is okay for an amateur film, the music is vintage 80s score. But the acting, oh dear Lord the acting...The end twist was nice. "},{"Title":"A bad film but a fantastic ending/twist","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a fan of horror films, especially low budget 1970s-80s ones, as I find these to be the most entertaining and grisly. I have to say, as a whole, the film itself is pretty bad. The acting is terrible, the dialogue is cringeworthy and sounds like it was written by a 6-year-old, and the killings are underwhelming and boring. Plus it's full of 'filler' scenes as another reviewer pointed out, showing the campers playing sports and messing about in their cabins, etc. I know it's a film about a teenage summer camp and they certainly got the hormone-fuelled mise-en-scene spot on, but there just wasn't really enough tension or suspense which are key ingredients for a good horror.But the ending. Wow. I knew there was something extremely weird about Angela and I did kinda guess all along that she was the killer, but I was not expecting that other twist. I have to admit that I was pretty impressed with it, which is basically what salvages the film from being a complete flop. "},{"Title":"Hey hey Bob-a-ray-Bob! Scary classic fun.","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really grew to love this movie fast, I enjoyed it a bit more each time I saw it. In a switch that is very rare for a slasher, rather than the kill scenes, what I personally like most about is the characters and how they swear, are frequently mean to each other and just how they interact, I think it comes off as very natural with this movie mostly. It was cool to see a flick like this where a lot of the teens were actually teenagers and not 20 somethings pretending to be. And while they're not super-developed or anything, the characters are characters and aren't totally faceless victims, it at least attempts to give them a little personality and humanity, and that's something that really stood out a lot to me with Sleepaway Camp. I think they brilliantly portrayed the atmosphere of the camp. It's not amazingly original as a whole, but it's definitely one slasher that offers a little more, its creepy underlining elements of insanity and child gender blurring push the envelope and make it stand out somewhat, there's deeper psychological stuff going on beneath the typical stalk and kill surface. I like the slashers that try out different concepts and approaches to the setup, which this certainly does. To me it's deserving of being regarded as more than just a fantastic twist ending. Yeah sure it caps off the whole thing in a brilliant way that you can never unsee, but it deserves a little more credit than only being known for that crazy final scene. Without the rest of the compelling mystery of the story to build up to it that ending, for how shocking it is, just wouldn't be nearly as effective. You may know Angela is the killer but you'll never know she's a guy! You'll never see it coming, and you'll barely see it when it appears, but it's there alright! And for better or worse it sticks with you. But it's not necessarily the uh, the penis that sticks with you, it's the whole notion of it and the bizarre and chilling image of the frozen face with the mouth agape, making those horrible animal sounds. Brr, oh man! I thought Felicia Rose gave a wonderful performance, mostly all with her big dark eyes, she puts a lot of feeling into them, there's something magnetic and eerie about all her stares, you never know what she's thinking... I don't get why poor Paul deserved to die. Apart from one very understandable and forgivable slight, he was nothing but a friend to her. I like the scenes of them together, their chemistry and friendship seemed sweet and genuine. It's funny, as opposed to everyone else she ruthlessly slaughters Paul's murder feels especially cold and unforgivable and finally makes her a monster to the audience after appearing so innocent and harmless all through the movie. I guess sometimes you just don't know what's really looking you right in the face until it's too late. She's probably made a few people turn the movie right off in her day, but I just love that aunt. If overacting was a crime they'd lock her up and throw away the key! Now she is creepy. She's the real monster of the movie, what kind of a demented bitch would inflict such a terrible thing on an innocent child who's just lost his family? I get a big kick out of the actress who plays Judy, an ideal campground mean girl for the ages! I find all of her over the top facial expressions and mannerisms just hysterical, she's kinda terrible, but she puts so much bitchy character into her face that it works and she's such a riot to watch! I love it but something that I found annoying was how the old man kept making excuses to keep the camp running even as people were turning up dead, when in reality they'd all have been sent home after one.. Movie logic! Also it's just gotta be said, some of the guys' wardrobe is seriously ridiculous, it looks like it's taken from a gay porn shoot and really lends the movie a bit of a homoerotic streak that's pretty dang hard to ignore at points! Overall though, they got a lot out of what they had to work with, and you can tell that they weren't working with a big budget. Absolute gem of a slasher that's worth checking out if you like the earlier more weird ones. Come children, let's be on our way! "}{"Title":"Things aren't what they seem at a summer camp when one by one counselors end up dead!","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp was released in the early heyday of 80's slasher films, sandwiched between Friday the 13th (1980) and A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984). Sleepaway Camp clung to the summer camp motif that began three years prior, as well as a particular camera angle that was first effectively used more than two decades earlier. Clinging even harder to the franchise that first began making teens afraid to attend any summer overnights, the movie opens years before its initial time setting, demonstrating a borrowed need to establish a rhyme and reason for the inevitable blood shedding.After a tragic incident while swimming in a lake (sound familiar yet?), Angela (Felissa Rose) attends a summer camp along side her protective cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten), who despite his small frame is willing to stand up to anyone for his introverted cousin. After being introduced to the crusty ex-gym teacher looking camp owner Mel (Mike Kellin), whose attempts to cover up each murder as accidents, we are quickly thrown into the cruel world that befalls Angela. As the body count rises, so does the bullying, allowing for multiple suspects to open up within the realm of psychopaths; could it be Angela, the one being bullied, or Ricky, the aggressive protector, or possibly Paul (Christopher Collet), Angela's new admirer?Throughout the film we are continually guessing, as director Robert Hiltzik admiringly utilizes the first person camera established back in 1960 with the then controversial film Peeping Tom. After being re-established in John Carpenter's Halloween, and again two years later in Friday the 13th, its use is still as effective as ever, allowing us to bare witness to the slaughter head on, while keeping us guessing until that final shot.What kept the slasher genre running strong in theaters back in the day was its innovative, gory, and clever means of killing off hapless bystanders, attempting to give audiences its moneys worth. While Sleepaway Camp certainly doesn't bore the average gore seeker, it doesn't bring anything new to the table, with the most exciting kill feeling like a tribute to Lucio Fulci's The Beyond. Where the film truly excels is its perverse nature and promiscuity, wrapped around a well structured murder mystery. Even after the final shot is revealed and we're given a twist ending not seen since Norman Bates donned his Grandmother's wig, the suggestive perversion sits with us, seeping into our skin well past the credits.While Sleepaway Camp handles material that had been utilized before in a much sleeker and effective manner, all that doesn't stop it from becoming one of the defining slasher films of its time. It doesn't quiet sit up on the throne with the likes of Halloween, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, or Friday the 13th, but with it use of the first person camera and a twist ending sure to make you tweet everyone you know, Sleepaway Camp has taken its post amongst cult- horror, and it isn't going anywhere. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable.","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've just watched Sleepaway Camp for the first time, so maybe i'm still in shock and should wait a little before writing a review, but I might as well immortalize my initial emotions. I'll try to make it short. Sleepaway camp is a classic for its ending, otherwise it would be a terrible knock-off of Friday the 13th. It has an original script with elements of surprise that makes this low budget film very unique. I got to admit; at first, I wasn't expecting much. People were saying lots of things about the finale and how DISTURBING it is and I was just thinking to myself Yes people, like I've never heard that song before... I'm not scared of horror films, period. The ratio of horror films I watch and horror films that scare me basically tells me that I'm not scared easily. I grew up with this stuff. Horror, gore and creepy things are what I like and I feel comfortable in it. I can count on ONE hand all the films that legitimately scared me, and this one is now on the list. It literally made me think twice about my desperate search for a good scare and why I should just stop (I won't though..) I'm not kidding people, the finale is something. I was watching the movie and thought to myself There's NO WAY this cheesy film can have such a good ending, just how ?? Well I got my answer pretty quickly and I will NEVER forget this movie EVER... Now excuse me, but I'll try to go to sleep now... If that haunting conclusion could just leave me alone.. "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is of the first movies that comes to mind when the sub- genre of eighties slashers is brought up. The film is the epitome of a slasher film in so many ways, for example the time period's campy atmosphere, cheesy teenage dialogue, point of view from an unknown killer, and a twist ending when the killer is finally revealed. What makes Sleepaway Camp special is that it's also different than many slashers with a large mix and certain complexity of characters, entertaining filler scenes and its fearless filmmaking. The ending comes to shock to anyone who doesn't know about the twist prior to watching the film. Its final scene is so notorious that it's in the same category with the likes of Saw and The Sixth Sense. Sleepaway Camp without question ranks as one of the top 80's slasher films and probably doesn't get the credit it deserves. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In the wake of the astronomical financial success of John Carpenter's 'Halloween' and Sean Cunningham's 'Friday the 13th', slasher films were all the rage. Cheap to produce, formulaic to write, and guaranteed to turn a profit. Inevitably this became very tiresome very fast as audiences became aware that once you've seen a couple of slasher films&#x85;there's basically no surprises in any other which you care to watch. And yet, 'Sleepaway Camp' bucks this trend in a big way and offers a decent watch for the most part but a horrific climax which you just won't see coming.The plot follows a shy and possibly mute young girl, Angela, whose strange behaviour is the result of being the sole survivor of a tragic boating accident that took the lives of her father and brother several years previously. Since the accident she has lived with her freakish and obsessive aunt and, as the title suggests, is sent to a summer camp along with her protective and loyal cousin, Ricky. Inevitably, the girl's reluctance to speak or take part in the camp activities arouses the ire of the camp bullies who, as the plot progresses, start being killed one by one by an unknown attacker until the final, shocking reveal unmasks a dark and twisted undertow.In its summer camp setting the film was clearly attempting to rip off 'Friday the 13th' and yet (much like 'The Burning' (1981)) is actually a far better film than the original. Whereas I have always found 'Friday the 13th' to simply be one-dimensional fun kills, 'Sleepaway Camp' has well-drawn characters that the audience really cares about. It is easy to identify with the various youthful insecurities portrayed on screen which makes the film much more engaging than it's more famous predecessor. Even the drawing of the bullies themselves offers insights into their vulnerabilities which adds depth to their deaths. But let's not think this is some intense introspective teen drama it's a Slasher, and the kills are as imaginative as you would expect from a film in a genre defined by gore and grisly murders.&#x85;and then there's the ending. Apparently, the movie is famous for its final reveal. However, I approached the movie knowing absolutely nothing about it and wasn't even expecting a shock ending or, if anything, I expected a Jason-emerging-from-the-lake shock ending as a nod to 'Friday the 13th'. So for me the ending was genuinely surprising and shocking. Obviously, if you haven't already seen the movie and are reading this review then you know now that there is a twist ending&#x85;but still, I think you will be pleasantly surprised.Unfortunately, in a similar way to the aforementioned 'The Burning' the film suffers from its surface similarity to the far more famous 'Friday the 13th'. As a result I can imagine a potential viewer being turned off by imagining something derivative in an already derivative genre. However, if this is you, I entreat you to give 'Sleepaway Camp' a watch, it is far greater than many classic slashers and deserves much, much more recognition. "},{"Title":"Bizarre Slasher!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! This is one of the most bizarre slasher films I have ever seen in my whole life. I mean it was so cheaply done you could tell the cop is wearing a taped on mustache at the very end. I don't know if that was suppose to be funny or not but I laughed so hard at it. I did like the movie even though it was so cheaply done. I really enjoyed how this movie was about the meanest kids dying as much as possible because they are like 85 percent of the camp. My favorite kill in the whole movie would have to be the bees nest in the toilet kill. I mean it was completely awesome to see bees actually kill somebody in a slasher film. Overall I liked how campy and 80 stylish this is, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Blood, boats, and short shorts.","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 'Sleepaway Camp' is horror insanity that could've only been made in the 80s. The summer camp is overrun with pedophile staff, unusually aggressive kids (played by actors ranging from 12 years old to 35 years old, it seems), and multiple gruesome deaths that go largely unnoticed.The plot is copied straight from the slasher films of the era, with slews of victims being brutally murdered by a faceless killer (from their POV) for no good reason. Wooden acting, goofy death scenes, horny teenagers, bad special effects, hilarious costumes (see the unbelievably short shorts worn by the oddly muscular camp counselor) - all these things add to the overall charm of 'Sleepaway Camp'. Don't put on this film and expect to be scared, but be prepared to be amused and captivated by it's weirdness.I'd recommend this film to anyone with an interest in older horror films, particularly the slasher genre. Or to anyone who loves watching a so-bad-it's-good movie with their buddies and some beers. 'Sleepaway Camp' is worth a watch just for the insane ending, which, if you haven't read up on this movie, you won't expect - but it will stay with you. "},{"Title":"What an ending!","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let's face it, SLEEPAWAY CAMP isn't a great slasher movie. Despite being heavily indebted to the likes of Friday THE 13TH and THE BURNING, it's not half as good the production values are pretty poor, the script is pretty lunk-headed, and the characters just don't grip you like in some other movies.In addition, the movie is cheesy in the extreme, with the kill scenes involving such improbable methods as somebody getting a bee's nest thrown into their cubicle while they're on the toilet. It's all frankly rather laughable, although not without merit for those with a soft spot for '80s nostalgia. Certainly the fashions and the style of film-making readily date this to the early '80s.However, things do turn around for an infamous twist ending which, I have to say, is one of the most simple and yet effective that I've ever seen. I thought Argento did similar twists well in the likes of PHENOMENA but the twist in SLEEPAWAY CAMP is superlative, closing on one of the most chilling freeze-frames I've ever witnessed. It really is that good; a shame that the rest of the film couldn't rise to the same level. "},{"Title":"Genuinely good horror","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've always enjoyed slasher movies but I've never found them scary. I like the build up and finding out who the killer is. There usually isn't much more to them than that. This movie is like that but at times the deaths are visually horrific. One scene specifically is now burnt into my memories. I didn't expect this when I sat down to watch it. I had a similar experience from watching the Exorcist.The teenagers in this behave like real teenagers. Everything is great in this movie. It will definitely stay with you if you like visual horror - and I don't mean gore so much, I mean scenes/atmosphere that are just bizarre. "},{"Title":"There's more than just canoeing and campfire songs here at Camp Arawak!","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Summer camp has a history in the world of horror for manifesting a setting where outdoor activities, teen fornication and slaughter ensues. With the infamous Camp Crystal Lake in the Friday the 13th series being, hands down, the most prominent, writer/director Robert Hiltzik put his own memorable spin on making a film apprehending suspense in a summer camp nightmare. Sleepaway Camp (1983) opens with an unfortunate boating accident killing Angela's (Felissa Rose) father and brother, although the actors in this segment don't seem too concerned compared to the impact of the tragedy. Jump ahead eight years and Angela is living with her odd, yet extremely annoying, aunt and protective cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten). It's off to Camp Arawak they go for the summer, and scarred from her misfortune, an introverted Angela has a hard time fitting in with the other campers just giving them a blank, awkward stare even as she's spoken to. Soon enough, terrible things begin to happen to one staff or camper after another around Arawak. Funny how only those who had given Angela a hard time are the ones to kick the bucket list. Artie, the head chef of the camp who radiates clear signs of a pedophile that nobody seems to comprehend, is the film's first unlucky departure as he is scolded with boiling hot water all over his body (check out that pot that barrels down on him, I've never seen one so big!). He well deserved it I must add. As Hiltzik's film debut, as well as having only been involved in the Sleepaway series throughout his career, he creates a moderate amount of suspense throughout, although it's not difficult to identify the perpetrator in this one. But there are a few decent slaughters, including a knife down the vertebral column through the shower wall, an arrow through the trachea of the camp counselor, and a swarm of bees attacking one camper who only wanted some privacy while in the can. The effects department also did an above average job, the finest being the body of a camper who had been killed by drowning as he is found underneath a canoe as the lifeguard stumbles upon him. If you haven't seen this initial installment of the Sleepaway franchise, I will not spoil the conclusion but all I can say is the twist involving the film's protagonist (or antagonist depending on your own perspective) will most likely bring about one of those WTF?!? moments. Although the series had mainly moderate success, it's the finale that will forever be its trademark. "},{"Title":"Low-budget but incredibly funny","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When Angela was just a little kid, a boating accident took her family away from her. Now she lives with her older cousin Rickie and her eccentric aunt.At camp Angela never talks, and I mean never, not a single word. She is immediately singled out by the other kids, mainly the snobby popular girl Judy and sadistic bully counselor Meg. After an attempted molestation from the pedophile cook Arty, an unseen figure shoves Arty into a pot of scalding water, severely burning him alive. Soon other campers are murdered in apparent accidents. Kenny, who harassed Angela, drowns while skinny-dipping. One boy is murdered in the porta-potty after chucking water balloons at Angela. Meg is stabbed to death after throwing Angela into the lake and Judy is raped with a curling iron after making fun of Angela for never taking showers with the other campers. It isn't long before a massacre begins, the cops are called in, and counselors Ronnie and Susie discover Angela's secret...Yeah yeah yeah, Sleepaway Camp is very weird and cheap, but come on, it's at least suspenseful and hilarious, not to mention its sequels. Angela's actress did an amazing job playing her, and to be honest all the acting was great. The soundtrack was awesome; I'm still searching for the song 'Tonight You're Mine' but have not been able yet to find it, sadly it looks like it was never released, a lot of horror soundtrack of the 80's never was.Sleepaway Camp is totally worth watching, lame and campy (get it?) but still managing to keep you focused 'till the end. "}{"Title":"The ending!","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As expected from a movie called Sleepaway Camp there is tons of fun loving teenagers enjoying fun camp stuff. While this is a typical teen slasher / horror movie from the 80s, and if you like that type of thing you will enjoy this. What sets this movie apart from all others is the absolutely twisted and warped ending. After watching the lovely and pretty 15 year old star for one and half hours - you get a super shock in the final minute. I won't say what that shock is, but who ever thought up this ending certainly redeemed anything that was ordinary in the rest of the movie. Felissa Rose has gained quite the cult following due to this film and has gone on to quite the successful career appearing in mostly horror films. And she's still looks great! "},{"Title":"You're just what I've been looking for...","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's not surprising that Sleepaway Camp would have the reputation that it has. It's decidedly more twisted than most slashers, and is more than simply a Friday the 13th ripoff. It manages to combine some potent mean-spiritedness with some highly amusing bits. Its kills result in some effectively graphic mayhem, but display some ingenuity, particularly the bit with the wasps' nest. Its characters are quite memorable, and you certainly don't ever forget the imagery of that big revelation at the end.After tragedy befalls her family, Angela Baker (Felissa Rose) comes to live with her cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten) and whack job aunt Martha (Desiree Gould). Eight years after the incident, Ricky and the reserved, tight-lipped Angela go to Camp Arawak for the summer. Soon after they get there, nasty fates are in store for staff and campers alike. Antagonists Judy (Karen Fields) and Meg (Katherine Kamhi) make life miserable for Angela while Ricky goes about earning the title of most foul mouthed kid in attendance.This is the kind of movie about which it's best not to say too much so newcomers can fully appreciate the creepiness that writer / director / executive producer Robert Hiltzik has in store for them. Even the little kids attending the camp are fair game for our killer, whose nastiness is impressive, especially in the cringe inducing curling iron murder. Edward Frenchs' makeup effects are very good (get a load of that convincing arrow through the throat gag), and the music by Edward Bilous is pretty damn scary. The acting is actually solid from much of the cast; even minor characters like Martha and sicko cook Artie (Owen Hughes) leave an impression with minimal screen time. Fields and Kamhi, two very nice women in real life, are amazing as the two bitches of the piece. Rose is good in the central role, and the late, great character actor Mike Kellin, as camp director Mel, is wonderful as always; Mel turned out to be his final film role.This is pretty much essential viewing for new fans of the late 1970s and 1980s slasher craze.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"What an odd creation...","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I can't say I am fan of slasher movies but I have found several of them really watchable - in the event of sudden twists and mystery of the killer, even if the logic of events has shortcomings. But Sleepaway Camp has definitely more flaws than bright moments lousy acting (both teens and adults), brittle script, inadvertently funny realization of lethal events (intensified by ridiculous clothing and hairstyle of that time) is clearly prevailing; true, the very end is witty, but as I could guess the guilty one from the first felony, the value of the end was diminished to me. At present, the movie in question is apparently timeworn, no actor had a stepping-stone or is now widely known (the only one I recognized at all was Mike Kellin as Mel Costic).Consequently, watch the movie if you must ) Or if you are a real fan of the 1980ies slasher movies. But it is far below the level of e.g. Halloween or Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"Good Horror/Slasher Flick!","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This 1983 horror film stars Felissa Rose, Jonathan Tiersten, Karen Fields, Katherine Kahmi and Desiree Gould. This begins with a boating accident of a father and his 2 young children. Eight years later, we meet quiet girl, Angela (Rose) and her cousin, Ricky (Tiersten) who are sent to summer camp by his eccentric mother, Martha (Gould). After they arrive at Camp Arawak, Angela gets bullied and a mysterious killer starts wiping out some of the residents. Fields plays Judy and Kahmi plays Meg, 2 girls who are both mean to Angela. This followed in the footsteps of Friday the 13th and features a good cast & unforgettable ending. If you're a fan of horror/slasher flicks, this is a good one. "},{"Title":"The best way to watch this movie is to be oblivious to the plot","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is so cheesy and campy that it was bound to have a major cult following and it does. It is clearly dated with sex obsessed teenagers at a summer camp in short shorts and tight muscle shirts and unhealthy tans. The acting is pretty cringe worthy and the film (video?) quality is subpar. With all that said, it's probably worth a look if you're a fan of the teen slasher genre which reached its height of popularity during the 1980s.Although I wanted to bail out about midway through this movie, I'm glad I remained vigilant as the ending of this movie provides a payoff for our patience and still holds up today. I implore anyone interested in seeing this movie to avoid even the most basic of summaries, plot synopsis , etc. "},{"Title":"could be a tales from the crypt episode","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite the really bad acting of the whole crew, which is clearly noticeable from the very first scene, this movie have some good features, at least for the 80's trash/gore B-movies fan the gore scenes are very graphic and have some real good make up and visual effects, it seems like the producers invested a lot of effort on this topic (and maybe forgot about the rest), and that alone is basically what make this movie worth watching. The plot is very simple and predictable most of the time, but it has its twist and the ending sequence, which is really good. Even though I saw many people saying the same about the end, and after seeing this movie, I have to give them credit the final scene will stuck into your mind forever. "},{"Title":"Makes sense","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We probably know by now what Sleepaway Camp is all about, that last-minute twist. It's a chilling final image but it's the contrast that jolts me more, to what it is an end to. So much of this blithely walks the tightrope between camp in bad taste and simple professional ineptitude, that it actually stimulates the viewing experience.-teenage promiscuity and schoolyard violence in the most obnoxious, gratuitous shape. The jocks, the bitch, the sleazebags. -insane 80's fashions. You probably haven't seen so many young people so badly dressed in such a short time. The tank top worn by the guys is a hoot.-mindboggling murders. It's why we come to the slasher; to see human beings who the filmmaker mostly deems worthless (except a few, who make it to the end) suffer inconsequential, essentially make-believe deaths. The film pushes this logic to the inane extreme. Death by beehive?-touches unrelated with all these that seem designed to simply get a rile out of people; the camp manager who easily buys off the silence of the black men in the kitschen, the pedophile whom everyone knows about and merrily laugh it off, a promiscuous teen hitting on a man 40 years her senior.There's so little inspired filmmaking here, and so much bad taste, that it actually makes sense to watch. "},{"Title":"A cult movie...","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes,Mister Hilztik.You made a cult movie,you haven't much money.But now,this title is regular.People at these times see this movie and say It is boring and bad!. It hasn't enough blood for a slasher in that time. The plot is about a teen,Angela,who goes to a camp,where is mocked by the others.Then,some of them are stalked and killed,while Angela's cousin,Ricky,and camp owner,Mel are trying to catch the killer.A poor movie.No sex,no drugs(Is comprehensible because they're teens of 13,14 or 15 years)The final it's one of the BEST and shocking finals in the cinema's history.Simply perfect.Only for this,I give Sleepaway Camp a five.Sleepaway camp is one of that cult movies that grow old very bad.Now is a boring movie "},{"Title":"Typical slasher flick, with an above-average ending!","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is the story of Ricky and Angela, who are going away to summer camp. However, it appears than anyone who bullies or is mean to Angela is being murdered. Sounds predictable, right? Well, that's what I thought when I was watching this, but when the ending came, I was very surprised, and also horrified! I refuse to give away the ending, so if you haven't seen this it's safe to read on. Anyway, the acting was second-rate and the plot, well, there really is none! But it DOES have its little 80s slasher charms and if you're watching this movie, then you probably know how it goes with these movies (i.e. bad acting, script, etc.)But it is worth watching if just for that ending! *shudder*Rated R for Violence, Gore, Language, and NudityGrade C "},{"Title":"Don't expect too much but the ending does give it an edge!","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The sole reason for me to watch this movie was the twist ending that every reviewer was raving about. Thist twist can be surprising if you have missed certain clues given throughout the movie. To me it was pretty obvious who the killer was from the moment the first murder occurs. Don't worry I won't reveal the identity or the twist. I do however want to mention that the way the twist is depicted is one of the creepiest scenes ever made. And I think that ending alone makes it worth watching the movie. You do have to get passed by bad acting,typical eighties fashion and did I mention bad acting. Sleepaway Camp is defined as a slasher movie. While it does have several killings and it is implied that they are gruesome most of it happen off screen. It nearly doesn't contain as much gore as one would expect from a movie like this. And because of it's special twist it isn't your typical slasher movie. The movie does have a good build up of tension and atmosphere that is much missed in most horror movies made nowadays. Give it a shot! "}{"Title":"The Film That Will Make Any Slasher Fan a Happy Camper","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is certainly not the most well done slasher movie and at times seems cheap, but when you are finished with it you will never forget it. As everyone knows, it is all about the shocking, twisted, and unbeatable ending which could possibly be the most successful slasher film ending ever (Psycho beats it but that may not technically be a slasher). Then again, everyone has heard about the ending; if you know it you will still be shocked (I knew the ending the first time I saw it and it still had the power to shock me and stick with me) but if you don't know it than you will probably be blown out of the water.The story of Sleepaway Camp is pretty much routine for the most part; campers who do mean things to other campers are murdered in grisly ways by an maniac. The main characters include Ricky, Angela, Paul, and Judy. For his young age, Jonathan Tiersten plays Ricky to a perfect pitch, and he provides as a tough, likable hero (or villain?) to the story. Ricky's shy and awkward sister Angela, whose father died years beforehand in a boating accident, steals the show for more than one reason. Not only does she literally 'make the movie' but Felissa Rose plays her with such grace that you can't help but feel bad for her while also questioning if she is the maniac. Chrisopher Collett plays Paul, Angela's love interest who attempts to bring her out from her shy state, while Karen Fields plays Judy, the nemesis of all three other characters. Fields does her job as playing someone you can't help but hate.The direction of Sleepaway Camp is a little rough at times but still manages to pull of that authentic look. The musical score is good and keeps you tuned it, but the true essence of the film lies in the time period which is was made in. The outfits worn by the characters are at times scarier than the theme of the film, but you can't help but love them. Men wearing half-shirts, the short shorts... they're all there.Sleepaway Camp is available in a boxed set along with its two sequels, and it is also available in a single keepcase DVD. On the DVD is a commentary with the director, Felissa Rose, and others while a trailer is also included. Rumors have it that when the currently shelved sequel Return to Sleepaway Camp is released there may just be a special edition of the original shocker available. "},{"Title":"Bloody Friday the 13th clone, done with style a real fun slasher flick!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Eight years after a boating accident kills her brother & her father, young Angela Baker is sent to live with her odd ball aunt & cousin Ricky. Now a teenager, Angela & Ricky go off to Camp Arawak together, a summer camp for little kids & teens. However Angela finds her experience there most unpleasant when her quiet demeanour, coupled with her unwillingness to shower with other girls or participate in any camp activities, make friends or talk to anyone but her cousin, puts her under fire by male bullies, her snooty head counsellor & her roommate, the token slut character named Judy & is almost raped by the disgusting paedophile cook of the camp. However someone is none to happy about all this & begins picking off those who have made Angela's life miserable. Has Angela really gotten over the deaths of her family? or has she snapped & taken her frustrations out on these bullies? or could it be Ricky her protective cousin who is behind the vicious killings & accidents? The camp counsellors at Camp Arawak had better find out soon, or all of Camp Arawak will be going home in a body bag. SLEEPAWAY CAMP is one of my personal favourite slasher flicks of the 1980's that sadly is not as well known by many horror fans & in a way missed the curve since it arrived at the end of the slasher craze of the early 1980's. the slasher juggernaut, save for Friday The 13th was all but over upon this films release & that's a shame because a lot of horror fans missed out on a really fun slasher movie, that is miles better than a lot of the slasher film clunkers that did bigger & better box office, that were filled with bad acting & directing, inane almost plot less stories, tons of nudity & buckets of blood. Unlike a lot of the slashers that arrived after the success of HALLOWEEN & Friday The 13th, SLEEPAWAY CAMP was made with heart & it shows. The film-makers clearly had fun making the movie & as a result it's easily one of the better Friday The 13th rip-off's next to THE BURNING & MADMAN. The acting for the most part is pretty mediocre, but at least the cast tries & unlike a lot of slasher movies that cast twenty to thirty year old's as teenagers, the makers of this film actually cast real teenagers, making the characters feel more authentic. SLEEPAWAY CAMP follows the Friday The 13th formula to a tee, we have the mystery killer whom we don't see while the murders are being committed, usually just the weapon they are clutching, we have the opening pre-credits sequence that shows an horrible murder that has gone unavenged that sets the tone for the rest of the film's horrific carnage that is to follow years later. We get the potential boyfriend in Ricky's best friend Paul to the character of Angela, the snooty girl, the jocks, the mean/slutty female character etc. Surprisingly unlike a lot of it's slasher brethren, SLEEPAWAY CAMP is not bathed in blood or over the top gory kills, in fact director ROBERT HILTZIK focuses on making his characters as interesting as possible & concentrates on the buildups, tension & suspense scenes, milking them for maximum impact before a kill & I feel that's what makes for a truly scary movie, not out & out gore, like a lot of films from that era. Some of the methods of death are inventive & pretty painful, a person is locked into a toilet & stung to death by bees after a bee hive is tossed in through a small window above the toilet, a girl is stabbed right through the back with a knife that tears down her spine while she has her back turned in the shower, an arrow through the throat (which could be looked at as a tribute to Friday The 13th arrow in the throat gag, that now famous actor Kevin Bacon's character Jack suffered before he died, while lying down in a bunk) a drowning, a severed head lying on the beach, a hair curler to a female victims um...well lets just say this kill although done off screen, is none to pleasant & leave it at that. SLEEPAWAY CAMP also is famous for including elements not seen in slasher films at the time, such as a creepy paedophile who & in an equally painful scene, falls to the floor after the stool he is standing on, is pulled from under him & he hits the floor with a giant pot of boiling hot water splashed all over his body & in a rare, even bolder move (as if a paedophile cook wasn't enough) that is rarely seen in slasher movies, even four little kids fall victim to the psycho, when they are chopped up (off screen) with a hatchet. Add to this & the fact that the film also touches upon the subject of homosexuality, as we view a flashback scene, showing Angela & Peter peeking in on their dad & his boyfriend as they lie in bed together, these sequences seem to add nothing when they first play out to the films real plot, but it all tie together quiet nicely when the film ends on a pretty shocking & sick twist ending that I never saw coming & will throw you off guard, since it's an ending that is not only inventive, creepy & weird, but as well it's an ending you'll never forget & one of the best endings to a horror movie, I've ever seen. Highly recommended! Followed by four sequels (actually three since one is an unfinished film shot in 1992, recently redone to feature length using clips of other SLEEPAWAY CAMP movies). Starting with SLEEPAWAY CAMP II UNHAPPY CAMPERS **** stars "},{"Title":"Creepy Film!","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Creepy film! I found out about this film while looking in the horror section atmy local videostore and I saw, 'Sleepaway Camp II', and it look some-what interesting but I could find the first film. Months later... I found the original.The movie is very predictable, especially if you pay 'close' attention to what is going on through out and eventually... you'll catch on! It all begins with two children and their father out on a boat in a lake during a hot summer's day. Then, three careless teenagers comes speeding along in a boat and runs over the family in the other boat, after their boat have flipped over and trying to flee from the lake... but, the father and one of the children dies but one lives. The 'survivor' child lives with it's relatives and is sent off to summer camp along with it's cousin. Not knowing to expect extreme ridicule and mean antics from other children there at the camp, the cousin and survivor child befriends with everyone there. As time passes people starts dying and the film makes it seems as Ricky, the cousin, and / or Angela, the survivor child, is committing these horrible murders. But, it eventually boils down to a sick minded individual that has a 'little' secret of their own and the reason for their psychotic tendencies. Enough said!One last thing... If you watch very closely, you will catch on to certain things that doesn't make sense, i.e.. (The scene where Angela and the boy is out on the beach starting to make-out and she has a flashback of a boy and a girl on a bed, the bed is spinning and they're pointing at each other, and another flashback of two men (her father and his boyfriend) in the bed with each other.)If you have not caught on by now... Good! Because that means I haven't spoil the film for you.**1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Horrific vacation for night-spotters","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     The nightmare has begun Two cousins visit Camp Arawak for vacation during the hot summer days of 1983. The camp itself is quite sinister, holding a slew of uncomfortable characters ranging from a perverted old cook to disgusting, over-sexed teenagers. For main character, Angela, this is one stint she would like to forget, though she makes it forget itself in the final conclusion, once they take a look at HER!!!    Throughout the film there are a series of unexplained murders, and the head counselor does his best to sweep them under the rug to avoid bad publicity. Until one night, the killings go beyond control and we're left with only a handful of residents.     As the body count rises, so does the eeriness of the atmosphere, and we're at a lost for thought as to WHY almost everyone, both innocent and guilty are dying. That leads us to the climax where there are no holds on boundaries, either sexual or implicit...absolutely no discrimination of the killer's identity...NONE WHATSOEVER!!!     Spoilers ahead*** Spoilers ahead*** Spoilers ahead***    There are two counselors standing in the middle of the woods at night, their eyes plastered on the SHOCKING freeze-frame image of the killer SHE'S A HE....SHE'S A HE!!!    Sleepaway Camp gained cult status over the years compared to recent horror films because of its disturbing, classic ending; the imagery forever storing itself in the mind of the viewer. Other than that, the acting is atrocious, but the dreary setting works for the developing sequences leading up to the twisted revelation. Rating * 1/2       "},{"Title":"The Ending , You Have To Watch The WHOLE Movie","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok , I am a horror /scream queen fanatic. I love horror movies. Especially ones from the 80s. This one , I read a plotline on , and then a girlfriend of mine told me to rent it - I had to see it _ and she specifically said Watch the ending! Ok , So I was shopping around Halloween time and happened upon this film. A reprint VHS just for the holiday. I had to buy it and I have to say , even though the first hour of the film is anything but good - the ending was well worth the watch! It starts out , once again , in a way sort of like Trick Or Treats (1982) , where you think , you just have this feeling like something awful is going to happen...And some awful things do happen here - but not enough to keep your interests , or at least , not Mine!  My focus was based on #1 - the fact that my girlfriend knew I am a DIEHARD horror fan and she recommended this and #2 - Watch the End!!!! Straight out - this movie is not a COMPLETE bore - but its not that great. It does have a plot and it stays with it - but its surely a longtime coming. Other than all those things - the aunt is such a CREEP - when you realize what the heck is actually going on - you may wanna take aunt Martha out on the canoe in some secluded canoe trip yourself. Enjoy this freaky show - expect ANYTHING - Happy Halloween , campers 0 "},{"Title":"Creeeeepy ending...","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched this having purchased the Anchor Bay box set. WARNING If you HAVEN'T seen the first film, then DO NOT read the back of the DVDs for parts 2 and 3, as they give away a pretty damn major plot point!!I was saddened to hear that Anchor Bay have (yet again) released an 'R'-rated cut as opposed to an unrated one - it's only thru reading some Americans' reviews that I discovered how the character of Judy was killed. It's all seen in shadow (very little is shown actually) and there is no 'corpse' shot, so we don't get to see the after effects of the kill.For what is shown, Ed French's make-up FX work is exemplary for what looks to be a pretty low-budget horror film evidently shot on location. There's a seamless arrow-through-the throat shot that I don't know how it was accomplished. Excellent.Teenagers getting picked off by an unknown killer at a summer camp...sure sure, sounds just like Friday the 13th, but it's about there that the similarities end. The acting is ok, the kills are tastefully done, and the ending...The ending blew me away. The shiver took 20 seconds to get from my neck to the bottom of my spine.....creepy stuff.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Last 30 Minutes Will Spook You","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm a big fan of horror movies, and a friend of mine told me about it not to long ago, but because he wouldn't tell me the ending, I had no choice but 2 pick it up. He did tell me it was a cheesy 80's slasher flick, after watching it I thought it was a.............cheesy 80's slasher flick. Yes, the acting was bad, but the part of Angela (played by the now hot Felissa Rose), were pretty good as the quiet girl who seemed 2 be kinda......disturbed. Of course you have the normal ingredients for a slasher flick, teens, camp, attitudes and of course, the mysterious deaths. But the hook of the movie is the last 30 minutes, what happens to poor Judy is pretty sick if u think about it, not saying that she didn't have it coming, but graphic none of the less. Then the ending........not only will the image stay with you, but the sound as well is unforgettable, then to add even more fright to it, the song they play is pretty twisted. As a fan of horror movies I was very very surprised, which is why it's one of the best horror movies i've ever seen, I recommend adding it to your collection, but 1) don't take it seriously, and 2)don't watch late night, make sure it nice and sunny and the birds are singing.............and the ending will still scare you!! You have been warned....... "},{"Title":"Meet me at the waterfront after the social","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Boy do those words terrify me. Having no clue what kind of movie this was, or its sequels, and being a fan of horror movies of all types, especialy from the 80's, i went ahead and purchased the box set. I still have not seen the other movies, but man, this was worth the price alone. Having obviously borrowed ideas and techniques from previously released slasher flicks Halloween and the original Friday the 13th, Sleepaway Camp is able to stand on its own. The story centers on two teenage cousins going to Camp Arawak for some fun, mindless summer fun. The boy, Ricky, is a veteran of the camp and is accompanying his shy and very quiet cousin, Angela. In a matter of days, accidents start to appear out of nowhere, and pretty soon, the councelors claim that there is a killer on the loose. For those who are not familiar with the early 80's and it's styles will find the movie enjoying. From the way they speak to the way they dress, it is a nice flashback to one of our more under appreciated time. The mullets and the Blue Oyster Cult shirt does not hurt either! However, the age of the film did hurt the film a bit. The killings were not as gruesome or detailed as i hoped they'd be, and the acting will make a majority of you laugh more than a few times. The movie drifts off in some rather unneccisary scenes which only slowed the pace down, and will probably frustrate you. But later on it does pick up and gets even better! So why should you check this film out? Well, if you are a fan of slashers and like movies like that and want to see something different than the classics, i suggest you check this film out for some gaurantee fun. Please do not take the film seriously. enjoy! (6/10) "},{"Title":"A nice way to waste an hour and a half...","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, this is quite your ordinary, typical 80s slasher fare, but it's fun and entertaining nonetheless. The last 5 or so minutes are just great and I won't even dream of spoiling the ending for you (you probably know it by now anyway, if not DON'T READ ANYTHING ABOUT THIS MOVIE BEFORE YOU'VE SEEN IT ! Giving the ending away really ruins the fun of watching this...). Sleepaway Camp also features some impressive special effects by Ed French, who did some really cool stuff with what must have been very little money. Worth a look, I'd say... "},{"Title":"I'll never get that image out of my head...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow...What an excellent movie this was!  Sure, the acting is (for the most part) atrocious, the plot is standard and predictable, and the special effects are sub-par...  But the genuinely horrifying ending succeeds in canceling all of the movie's badness out.  In fact, the contrast of the amazingly disturbing ending with the rest of the amazingly hokey film helps add to the shock.  It is COMPLETELY unexpected.  The closing shot will stay with you forever.  Don't watch this one alone! "}{"Title":"I like it.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Some people love Sleepaway Camp while some hate it.I don't think it's a Friday The 13th rip-off like some say, sure it has a camp setting but it has a style of it's own.The setting is Camp Arawack where the kids are hoping for a summer of fun, but of course things don't go as planned.The kids and the crew at the camp begin to die in horrible accidents but they soon discover somebody has turned their summer of fun into a nightmare.It doesn't take too much to figure out who the killer is.Watch for Angela's(Felissa Rose) secret.A truly great ending unlike any of i have seen in the horror genre or any other for that matter.Writer/Director Robert Hiltzik does a decent job, the problem is the movie takes it self too serious. You will find yourself laughing at a few scenes that aren't meant too be funny but scary/But with that said give the movie a check, but it's nowhere near as good as the sequels.I give Sleepaway Camp 6/10 "},{"Title":"SHOCKING BUT GREAT","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    Sleepaway Camp not only had one of the most shocking endings in history,but it was also a terrific movie.Felissa Rose is 33 years old now,and I know that by doing the math when I saw her at the internet movie database.She has made many more movies,all in the year 2002.I have seen many websites on her,and she even has an e-mail address.No,I don't know what it is,but I'm sure you can find out if you search her on yahoo.For a while I was wondering where Felissa Rose was and what she is doing nowadays.Eventually I found many websites on her and I will say she is not only grown up,but she is happily married and is looking forward to working with the director of the original Sleepaway Camp.Return To Sleepaway Camp aka Sleepaway Camp 4 is due out sometime this year.Guess who plays Angela?Felissa!!!One more thing about Felissa,as you will probaly eventually find out yourself,Rose is not her real last name.It is Esposito.Of all the horror movies I've seen I think Sleepaway Camp is a great one.I think the ending threw everyone off pretty much.I certainly did'nt expect it the first time I saw it.I think everyone knows the plot.The sequel was great with Bruce Springsteen's sister Pamela Springsteen starring as Angela.See Sleepaway Camp 2 and 3,you'll be glad you did!                                               Jacob Young "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had read many reviews of this movie on IMDB, most of them were pretty good, and I was curious of this shocking ending. Well, finding it wasn't too easy. My local Blockbuster didn't have it, so I had to buy it through a used VHS dealer through Amazon.com. The price was $4.25 (not much more than a rental) so I said, alright, I'll do it.The movie came in the mail a week later, and that same night I watched it.Boy oh, boy what a nostalgia kick. I grew up during this time, and had a great laugh over the fashions of the day.Most of the movie is campy B rated slasher fare, not really scary. Now I know that this is not an Academy Award contender by far, but I do have some criticisms***SPOLIERS AHEAD***What is it with the cop and the cheesy mustache? He shows up, in the beginning of the movie with it. Then later he comes back with BLACK DUCT TAPE  above his lip. And they have close ups of it too!!!  What's the problem, I know they had a tight budget, but they couldn't afford five bucks for a fake mustache??Now to the ending; Yes it was shocking I suppose. But it needed at least five more minutes after that, to wrap up the story. And in answer to someone else's previous comment, it was not a computer generated image of Angela's head on a guy's body. It was a plaster mold of Angela's face made into a mask that the guy wore. (I learned this from the movie's website.) Also, the sounds he/she makes are bizarre.My friend kidding around watching it with us at the end said, What the hell? Then jokingly said we traumatized him, because he didn't want to see another guy's plumbing, and the end reminded him of The Crying Game.I suppose it is worth watching, for a good laugh.   "},{"Title":"Bad movie, good ending","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just watched this last night at about 200 in the morning... after the ending I had to sleep with the TV on. I warn you about the last 2 minutes, they will freak the freak out of you. Rest of the movie is your average, sucky horror movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies EVER","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't believe the hype, this movie really sucks. Bad acting, even worse dialog, and a shock ending that is only disturbing if you're only accustomed to watching typical mainstream fluff. Only rent it if you want to waste your money and your time.  "},{"Title":"Mission Accomplished...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...if the director of this movie's mission was to implant the absolute most horrific image in my head for god knows how long.  Wow, and I didn't really believe my wife (who saw this movie on cable back in the 80's) when she told me the ending was either gonna entirely freak me out or disgust me beyond compare.  She was right on both counts.  Otherwise my opinion pretty much falls in line with everyone else's  cheesy teen camp slasher........until the end.Uuuuuuuugggggggghhhhhhhhhh! "},{"Title":"this is surprisingly better then Friday the 13th!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just bought and saw this movie today and knew i would enjoy it and I did! It stars Felissa Rose as a shy young girl named Angela, her father and brother were both killed in a boat accident and she has been living with her Aunt Martha and cousin Ricky for 8 years. Angela and Ricky go to Camp Arawak. People start to pick on Angela because she is shy and hardly talks. Especially Meg and Judy. Then the perverted cook is burned and almost killed, the camp owner Mel labels it an accident and nothing more. But then a boy is drowned in the lake. Ricky's friend Paul and Angela fall in love, and Judy is really p***ed about it. And more bodies start dropping. Who could it be?? This is sort of a rip off of Friday the 13th, i like Friday the 13th but in my opinion Sleepaway Camp is much better, because its more then just a slasher with a high bodycount and some gore, there is a cute little love thing between Angela and Paul, and there is drama and mystery involved. In Friday the 13th everyone knows who the killer is now days, but Sleepaway Camp is not as well known as it should be and the revealing of the killer is really surprising and shocking and it is one of the best horror endings ever! Any true horror slasher fan should buy this movie and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great campy horror flick, BEST ENDING","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is a cheesy horror movie, but it's actually good. People have claimed that it is a rip off of the Friday the 13th movies, but I don't really see any connection between the films, except for they're both at camp. If you really do not want to see this movie, just see it for the ending. It's hilarious and shocking and horrible all at the same time. Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Uhhhhhh","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, I was almost certain that I was going to love this even before I saw it. It sounded like my kind of movie and the reviews I read for it really got me pumped up to see it. When it finally hit DVD, I had never been so excited.After watching, I had never been so disappointed.The plot is simple, basically, it's a about a group of campers and counselors were are mysteriously killed, except this time the victims are about 12 years old, which I found very annoying. A few twists are thrown in to make the plot a little more original, in most parts succeeding, but failing overall.The film started off with promise, very intense and suspenseful. Two children are witness to a horrible boating accident which kills one of their fathers. Fast forward a few years and these kids are off to camp, where they soon fall victim to a camp killer, typical slasher stuff.Overall, the film was executed nicely. Some of the acting was terrible, but that just made the film more fun. It really was suspenseful, and kept me interested. I knew who the killer was before I saw it, but that didn'tmatter to me, because the ending was supposed to be very disturbing according to so many reviews. Well, my interest was definitely kept until the end, and up until the final two minutes, this film was above average.It wasn't until the final 'surprise' that I realized how let down I was. The 'twist' itself was brilliant I must admit, but the way it was done was just so wrong, I couldn't help but be disappointed. I just stared open mouthed atthe screen, waiting for something else to come up, a sign that the movie wasn't over, but the credits started to roll, and it was the end. Shocking? If you don't know how it ends yet, yes it definitely is a creepy 'twist', Disturbing? Not really. Disgusting? Definitely.So overall, the film wasn't so terrible, but the final moments could have been much better. The film ended too soon and that was one of its flaws. It could have gone on and had it, the rating would have been much higher.This is definitely a film every horror fan should see once, but it isn't anything great. I still say it is above average than most, but the ending just didn't cut it.  "},{"Title":"I remember this movie and my mom is afraid of it","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie sometime in the late 80's and found it kind of silly, except for the ending. The murders, the acting, the setting were all poorly done, but the climax was probably devastating. My uncle saw this film in the movies back in the spring of 1983 and was impressed with its climax. He saw it twice more just to get the audience reaction. It was exactly what he expected...TERROR!! I wasn't scared of the film, though I was shocked by its ending. I will not tell you it exactly, but I will tell you this Two cousins go to camp arawak for summer vacation. Once there, one of the cousins(A female)gets tormented by cruel camp goers. Following, sick murders take place, with anyone labeled a possible suspect, until the bodies pile up, and the setting becomes too dark to imagine. Like I said...it could be anyone. Rent this movie at a nearby video(Blockbuster video is a plus)and check it out for its ending...if you dare! "}{"Title":"Rent this one-if you like cheesy endings","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I've been reading most of your comments about this movie, and most of you actually seem to like it.  It wasn't a bad plot; the story line was actually good, but being that it was shot in the early 80's, I guess one can't expect much as far as special effects.*SPOILERS AHEAD* I was so turned off by the ending, especially-did you notice how they managed a computer generated image of Angela's head over someone else's body?  Now, that part was extremely cheesy.  It was a good story though, just the special effects lagged, there was lack of blood and too little detail in the killings.  Anyway, like I said, it was the early 80's.  Rent it for cheap thrills, I guess. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I heard about this movie for years but never saw it until now.  the much talked about surprise ending wasn't surprising for me because I remember my doofus brother saw this film years ago and told my dad about it, and he just had to tell him how it ended while I was there in the room also.  Needless to say, the movies wasn't nearly as much fun as it should've been.  Like many previous comments have said, this is a FRIDAY THE 13TH-type horror suspense flick, but it also has elements of MEATBALLS and SUMMER CAMP NIGHTMARE (which is NOT a horror film).  It's about a girl about thirteen years old who goes to summer camp (it's called Camp Arawak in the film) with her cousin.  The girl is mute because of a long ago accident which put her in a state of long term shock.  Because she doesn't talk or participate in camp activities, the campers, both boys and girls, make fun of her.  Pretty soon her tormentors start turning up dead.  The movie quickly establishes two suspects, so it's not hard to guess who the killer is.  But that's not the point, of course; the point is the surprise ending.  If you watch carefully during the flashbacks scattered throughout the film, you might be able to guess it. "},{"Title":"MADNESS!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What can i say? Sleepaway Camp is excellent. It is a very creepy film that can be watched over and over again! its about a strange girl that is sent to a summer camp with her cousin by her auntie and a series of grisly murders occur. Is she the killer or not? well i wont spoil it but it has one of the greatest endings of all time. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Good, but not great, slasher pic.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Set at a summer camp in upper New York state, it opens with a divorced man (who happens to be gay) his lover and their two young children a boy and a girl are swiming at a resort lake, which takes a turn when a motorboat carring some roudy teenagers goes out of control and runs over the father and his two kids in the water. Eight years later, the surviving child, a shy 14-year-old girl named Angela has been living with her overly cheerfull man-hating aunt and her cousin Ricky. Ricky and Angela are sent to Camp Arawak on the same lake where Angela's brother and father died. The shy, withdrawn Angela becomes subjected to various taunts by other campers whom Ricky always steps forward to defend her. Soon, an unseen killer begins killing the campers in various violent ways, and making them look as accidents. The camp owner tries to keep things under wraps while Angela is befriended by one boy who sticks up for her and eventually earns his trust, so it seems.Although the film is technically and fairly competent, there is a lot of cheap heavy-handled parts than usual. Also there is very little mystery as to who is behind the killings since it is firmly established in the early scenes as either Ricky or Angela. But starting about half-way through the movie one begins to suspect something more about Angela when one character brings up the issue why is it that Angela will not shower or change clothes with the other girls in her cabin. To reveal anything else would have to be considers a spoiler. None of the violence is explicit or graphic but we do get to see a lot of rather messy remains of victims where one is scaled by boiling water, another guy is forcibly drowned, a third guy is stuck to death by wasps in a restroom stall, a girl stabbed while taking a shower, etc. Contents 10 killings, no female breasts, some seriously bad acting, and an unsavory surprise ending. "},{"Title":"Strange....","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw Sleepaway Camp II and III before seeing this one.  I prefer Pamela Springsteen as Angela, but this actress wasn't too bad.  In my opinion, this movie is very confusing  the homosexual scene, the children in the bed scene, Aunt Martha.. I don't know what's up with her, etc.. etc. There are some painful deaths in this movie.... the cook who gets boiled in the water, and the curling iron death.  One thing that I can't figure out is where exactly the curling iron was placed.... they don't show enough on that one.  I think the dumbest death was the beehive one.  All he had to do was climb out under the door.  It was like two feet off the ground.  I'm sure that broom handle wouldn't have held the door shut anyway... he could have gotten out. Overall, this movie isn't bad.  I'd recommend seeing Sleepaway Camp II before this or the third one.  Don't get me wrong, they are an excellent series of movies, but some scenes are better than others. I recommend watching all three if you can find them!! "},{"Title":"Loved it...","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love cheesy eighties slashers, and this is one of my favorites. Felissa Rose is awesome as Angela, and the rest of the cast is pretty cool. The acting isn't that bad. I absolutely hate it when people call this a Friday the 13th rip-off. Just because it is set at a summer camp does not mean it is a rip-off. Anyway, the story deals with a shy girl named Angela who attends Camp Arawak with her cousin Ricky. Pretty soon, people that make fun of Angela start dying in gruesome ways. The pervert chef, Artie, is scalded with hot water. Another kid is drowned, and there is also the scene where Meg is stabbed in the shower. And let's not forget Judy's demise. There are lots of flashbacks that explain what is happening, and in the end we learn something very surprising, disturbing, and shocking. The last shot of the film sticks in your mind for days. Great film, great ending. I also like that funky 80s disco-type song You're Just the One I've Been Looking for. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Good clean gruesome fun...but part 3 is till the best.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   FRIDAY THE 13TH was a big success, so of course it had to spew forth a few imitations and Sleepaway Camp is one of the good ones.!!!SOME SPOILERS!!!A young girl named Angela goes to Camp Arawak for the Summer with her cousin. Angela's a shy lonely girl and unfourtunately the other campers use that against her. Suddenly bodies start piling up and everyone's a suspect.However, we learn that the shy girl that everyone picks on is the killer.Good story, and acting. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"A classic 80's horror movie!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Many people do not like this movie. I, however, love it, with the exception of creepy Aunt Martha! This movie is definitely not for anyone with a weak stomach. Especially the water snake death and death by curling iron. Those are some shockers! But nothing, and I mean NOTHING is more disturbing than the ending! Whoa, that was still fresh in my mind weeks after watching it! Talk about creepy. My rating 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"This movie was terrific!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the third time I've rented this movie.  Sleepaway Camp is excellent! It's about a girl, Angela, who goes to live with her aunt and cousin after her father and sibling die in a boating accident.  One summer, they go to Camp Arawak.  A few days after they get there, horrible accidents and murders start to happen.  Some of the kids are cruel to Angela because she doesn't talk and because of the accident she was in.  Everybody is trying to figure out what's going on and who the killer might be.  The way some of the kids acted, I'm glad they got murdered; they got exactly what they deserved. I like the setting a secluded campsite.  Most of the murder scenes were unbelievable.  Perhaps the best part of Sleepaway Camp is the ending.  When I first saw the ending, I was shocked.  Now, the only way to find out what happens in the movie is to rent it.  So, if you are in the mood for a horror/mystery, I recommend renting Sleepaway Camp!  "},{"Title":"Dumb!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was just plain stupid. I hate the other comments saying that the ending is great and all that bologna. The ending is stupid, if you don't know who the killer is by the end then no offense but your not quite smart(that's because of other user comments). But seriuosly, this is worse than all the slasher movies out there, even the sequels. I would not recommend renting it. If you really want to see it, borrow it from a friend. Rated R for violence and language 3/10 No movies recommended. "}{"Title":"Nasty Friday the 13th. clone.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This Friday the 13th. clone set in a deep, dark forest is just about as grim as they get. The teenagers in the film are actually teenagers (how rare), but their is constant nudity and plenty of gruesome situations involving them. The film had some possibilities, but they were all ruined due to the poor way this is presented, including a twist ending that is laughable, but could have been good if handled by the right person. A waste of one's time and money. 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most shocking endings in history","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a pretty creepy movie. Its not quite as good as the next two, mainly because its not as funny and takes itself too seriously unlike part 2 and 3. but this movie is still pretty good. It is scarier than the next two, but quite as entertaining. The ending to this movie for me was Creepy, disgusting and funny all at the same time. All in all its pretty good. I give Sleepaway Camp **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"sick","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway camp is horror at it's very best, from 1974-1984 were some great times in the horror genre, anything after that is ok. this is a truly classic film, it's kind of a Friday the 13th rip off with the camp setting but who cares cause sleepaway camp brings the goods. very suspensefull the killer is a mystery but anyone with any sense should know who it is, there is not too much i can say about the movie cause i don't wanna give anything away, but all i will say is that the ending is very sick, maybe the most shocking ending in movie history, all i will say is if you can find this movie buy it. i give it 8/10. and anyone out there can find email me and let me know where "},{"Title":"*groan*","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ugh!  Decided that i should finally comment on this flick just to get it off my back. But this was a trippy flick. I want to forget it, but can't! Maybe its because of a certain scene that has everyone hollerin' and hoopin' about it...possibly.As for the rest of it, well the beginning of the movie is classic bad-acting, i was rewinding over and over laughing. Plus watch for the dad's friend  he looks just like newscaster Jim Gray! As for the rest of the movie, You get the feeling like you're watching The ABC Saturday afternoon special  it looks and sounds just like those one of those old school programs you might remember from the 80's.  That is untill some language, sex dialouge, and a few murders change everything...And ugh, that god-awful ending.  "},{"Title":"A shocking and confusing story!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I thought that this film would be like Friday the 13th, but boy was I wrong! It starts with an opening showing what happened after the ending, then it shows a prologue, also there's flashback memories that are very confusing.(I had to see it again to totally understand it!) It's not such a bad movie though, but not great either, the plot is about a bunch of people being stalked by a bloodthirsty killer whenever they're mean to a strange shy girl(wait till the ending). This did hit theatre's, I found out in November of 1983,but alot of these actors are virtual unknowns except for people like Mike Kellin who played the head camp counsellor Meg, whom appeared in numerous movies and T.V. shows including The Boston Strangler, Christopher Collett who played Paul and went on to star in other movies and T.V. shows including The Manhattan Project and Broadway shows, John Dunn who played the troublemaking Kenny who starred in Andy Warhol's Bad and The Picasso Trigger and now an executive for HBO, and Jonathan Tiersten who played Ricky, he appeared in one other film in '87 called Seasonal Differences, then moved on to start a rock band called Bambi's Apartment. Of course there's Felissa Rose who played Angela, even though she didn't pursue her career in film, she's active in live theatre, but she never played Angela in the Sleepaway sequels because she was busy with college, instead Bruce Springsteen's sister played her instead and did a better job, but the sequels weren't as good as this one though. Nice music score by Frankie Vinci, especially the ending song! "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a classic in the horror/slasher genre.  Sure it has the typical kids at camp getting killed, but it has a lot of different things to it.  For one, there's a smaller body count, than the average of this genre.  There's more of a plot to this than the mindless killing of America's youth.  It's the story of a girl who is picked on at camp and lashes out.  There's also a mild romance between her and another camper.  But the thing that makes this movie a classic is the ending.  The ending is one of the most shocking ones in all of cinematic history, better than Psycho's ending.  The sequals (as usual) come nowhere close to living up to the original (Although they get pretty creative at points). "},{"Title":"cheap, lame, but somehow entertaining","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   I rented this movie when I was in Florida 2 years ago, I had seen the sequels on HBO or Showtime, and they were dumb, but we had this free rental if your on vacation so I decided to take the chance. At first it's pretty interesting, then it got dumb, then interesting, then back to dumb. Then the ending was funny. Okay plot, okay writing, and mediocre acting. Sleepaway Camp is set at a summer camp. Angela is forced to go by her extremely eccentric and offbeat aunt with her nice cousin, Ricky. Angela has a rather disturbing past, her  father and twin sister were killed in a boat accident caused by a bunch of teens. Because Angela barely speaks and is slightly odd she is teased and harrassed by her fellow bunkmates. Then some of the staff members have been murdered or hurt. The first is the cook who tries to rape Angela, Ricky saves her in the nick of time. He is then severely burned by a boiling pot of water. And it keeps going, murdered, disappearings. All keep tracing back to Ricky. But that's not even the beginning of this twisted and offbeat b-horror movie. I give Sleepaway Camp  ** out of ****   "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think that Sleepaway Camp is an excellent horror movie that lives up to it's genre. It's scary and full of gore. Even though this film and the sequels kind of copy Friday the 13th, they are way better because they have unique killing methods, and not just some brainless idiot with running around with a mechette. And as for the mystery part, the killer is not at all difficult to guess but the ending will shock you right out of your seat! If you want to see this film, I hope you don't scare or puke easy, because this movie makes Friday the 13th look tame! I give it a 9! "},{"Title":"Unpleasant originality","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp... it sounds pretty good. Another Friday the 13th-ripoff that I probably would like. I heard that it has a very special ending... unlike any other ending in movie history.With these thoughts inside my head I bought and watched this movie. It begins with a camera moving (by day) over a deserted camp. A bit curious! Then we see a boat accident with two children and their father. The dad and one of the children dies. Suddenly it has gone eight years and we see a horrific woman that could scare everyone. She is the aunt of Angela, the child who survived, and she's sending her son and Angela to camp over summer. At the camp Angela is bullied by some people and soon those people turns up dead one after another. Who is the killer?It's a standard horrorflick, but in comparison to Friday-movies this is really bad. It's so poorly done and extremely bad acted. I find myself hating almost every character. Some characters is totally dislikable with bad language and bizarre thoughts. It's a very unsettling atmosphere in the whole movie.The ending is... different, but incredibly stupid at the same time. If it had been done more professional I would have liked the ending, but now it just makes the movie even more unpleasant.Something makes the movie worth watching though, but what that is I don't know. Maybe the original unpleasantness also is the strength of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Rent This- If You Dare!","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A few friends and I rented this movie, expecting it to be horrible, but good for a few laughs. It lived up to our expectations and then some. It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen, with the acting so horrible, the plot so convoluted, the characters so stereotypical (like Mel the owner or Ronnie), the fashion so hilariously bad that one could not help but imagine how anyone, from the producers to the public, could actually think this was a good movie. The movie relies on gore more than anything, has little to no suspense, laughable serious dialogue, and an ending that will go down in infamy. If you see this movie, don't turn it off before the ending. A collage of bad foreshadowing, disturbing images, bad music, and a complete and total lack of logic make this ending THE STUPIDEST I have ever had the displeasure of watching. If you rent this movie, only do it to laugh at how bad it is, and how short the boys' shorts are. My review negative a million stars. "}{"Title":"This movie is so cool!!!! It's scary, corny, entertaining and old wrapped up into one flick!!!!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is so disgustingly awesome. Some of the people in it are so cool and other actors are so stupid and corny!!! Please see this movie. It all has 2 sequels, Sleepaway Camp 2-Unhappy Campers, and Sleepaway Camp 3 Teenage Wasteland!! They rock, also  ~!!~ This film has one of the most awesome endings and the series has some of the most classical, original murder scenes and body counts of any movie! You won't be disappointed so go rent this movie!! It's so old it's probably at your local vid. store!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp - meant for die hard fans of the genre","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pure shock value.  Two other movies spring to mind.  Maniac and New York Ripper.  All three are such dirty bottom of the barrel trash.  I asked my sister one day if she thought the curling iron scene in Sleepaway Camp was more painful than the broken bottle scene in New York Ripper.  She wouldn't give me an answer though.  I'd have to go with the curling iron, OUCH!  If you decide to watch it might as well fast forward to the ending.  That is if you think you can stomach it.0 stars out of 4  "},{"Title":"Well done movie","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was allot better then I expected.  Except for some of the acting (kinda cheezie).  Watch for the curling iron death scene, kinda weird. This movie also has the most MESSED up endings in any movie I have seen. It will shock you beyond belief, you'll rewind it a few times for sure just to make sure you saw it right. Good fun, rent it for the shock value Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Memorable schlock","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is neither the the best... or the worst... example of anything; rather, it serves as an interesting look at the 80's slasher genre from pretty early in the game.Provided within are unique death scenes (the bees are good, though not as -- ahem -- solid as the outhouse death scene in part II), terribly stereotypical characters (Ricky = Italian mobster's kid, chef = fat, nasty pedophile, Angela = shy girl no one ever talked to), and a relatively surprising ending.  The effects are decent, supplemented by a crew of pleasantly overacting relative-nobodies.I originally saw this movie because my friend's uncle is the man who gets run-over by the boat in the beginning.  But since then I've seen it probably seven or eight times.  While there's nothing frightening about this movie, it doesn't go for the cheese factor that its two sequels do.  It's a worthwhile entry in the campy, teen slasher genre surprisingly enjoyable to watch a couple of times (especially with a group of like-minded fans) and notable for it's lack of T&A that the Friday the 13th series was known for.  "},{"Title":"What the.....?","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let me just say this first.  I saw the two sequels before the original, so the ending was less shocking to me.  It wasn't my fault!  Blame Blockbuster! ) Anyways, to the actual movie.  Rather standard horror flick.  Creative death scenes and very stupid situations mix in this film.  But since I'll always remember Pamela Springsteen as Angela, Felissa Rose didn't have much of an effect on me with her performance.  But I do need to give her credit where it deserves.  Just imagine how everybody treated her at school after watching that final scene. A few scenes could have been left out, such as when the two kids are watching their dad with another man in bed, and the skinny dipping.  But otherwise a standard horror flick.  Watch the sequels instead. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I swear this is one of the best movies I have ever seen! Maybe thats because I like the kinda movies at camp and funny jokes through it. The ending was the best. I usually spoil movies for people, but nu uh not this one. The last part of the movie will stay with you for the rest of your life. Rent it and buy it now! "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie with my friends Megan and Carrie and wait...I forget if Kristy was there but anyhoo, when I saw it in Megan's basement we were sitting there eating Pengiun after Penguin (those are my favorite candies by the way) we had rented it at Blockbuster and we were so surprised by the ending!!!!  We were like, whoa...  I mean it was a completely cheezy horror flick- the acting was bad, the script was unnatural, and the plot had more holes than an old pair of socks yet something about the movie just makes you HAVE to keep watching until the end.  You know what I mean, jelly bean? That mother was completely wacked out!  I would be sad if that was my mother.  I would probably run away.  I was born the year that movie was made! "},{"Title":"this movie is cool and nuts!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought Sleep Away Camp was scary.  It kept me on the edge of my seat. The ending was insane!  When it ended I was still sitting there with my mouth wide open.  I was sooooooooo surprised!  I haven't seen the sequel yet but I can't wait! "},{"Title":"A Pretty Decent Suspense Flick","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie had one of the most unique death scenes I've ever seen yet in a horror film (one word bees), but it didn't manage to save it from the toss-away bin. Decent acting by a number of actors that basically haven't been seen since, but nothing truly spectacular.This movie is best remembered for two things -- the interesting death scenes, and the psychotic mother-figure who should be guzzling Prozac by the bucket-load. It was way too predictable -- anyone who was paying attention the first five minutes not only knew who the killer was, but they weren't surprised at all by the ending, which is obvious by the time we figure out who Angela is (about half-way in, I think) -- but it was still watchable. Except for a cheap, half-off ending (it's like they just said, oops! ran out of cash and dropped it), the movie wasn't half bad.***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"One to watch!","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the better slasher films I've seen although I preferred the second one. It's fairly nasty in places & you can't help but want most of the teens to get it in the neck.  "}{"Title":"The best film with the best ending!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just loved this! Although when watching it, I kinda knew who the killer would be, you would too, but the ending gives it an extremely nice twist! When watching this and its sequel, those nights I hardly fell asleep thinking about those horrible ways for people to die! Like in this one where the guy gets stung by bees and they show his body and his face is covered with a hundred angry bees! Only if you like F13 rip-offs this is the film for you (Although I heard the Burning is the best F13 rip-off, but never seen it yet)! "},{"Title":"Still freaked out by the ending.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a pretty basic slasher flick, but not too bad. The last scene gave me the willies something fierce, it's a shame it's wasted on a such an otherwise dodgy movie. Also, watch out for the curling wand! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate in campiness and definitely worth watching","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although this movie may seem cheesy at some points (most horror movies are) you will get drawn into the story and plot anyway.It features some of the strangest characters around...from  Ricky'sforgetful mother to a pedophile cook to PMS'n Meg. It also has some bizarre flashbacks that are sure to get you wondering.The deaths are unique and the ending is one of the scariest I've seen. A good movie if you're looking for something frightening and darkly humorous choose this.   "},{"Title":"SEX CHANGES WILL NEVER BE THE SAME!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sex changes will never be the same!A little girl goes to camp and gets picked on,and shocking stories are revealed about her.What happened to the actress Felissa Rose?-JACOB YOUNG "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie seriously freaked me out.  A cheap Friday the 13th knock-off opened with a seemingly non-connected piece.  When all is said and done, this movie will stay with you for days.  You will not forget this film. "},{"Title":"a cheesy yet fun horror movie","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is comical in its approach.  It's more humorous in its direction and editing than it is scary.  Worth staying around until the final scene, which is one of the scariest moments on film ever. "},{"Title":"It's a what?","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Years after a boating tragedy on the lake at Sleepaway Camp, a summer's intake of teen campers is stalked by a mysterious killer.Oh my sainted trousers. I watched this because the twist ending has a serious reputation among horror fans - well, I didn't really watch, because everything about it is drek script, acting, camera, direction, editing. And the music did permanent damage to my soul. One of the worst movies I have endured, and the FF button got regular use.So a great ending, the problem being it's at the end of this production - right? Nope, and you can fcuk me sideways if you disagree. As an ending it outdoes the final flourish of Inga the chimpanzee in Argento's Phenomena so absurd I burst out laughing. Until I stabbed myself in the eye as punishment.At least Phenomena has a radical spirit - this stuff is just dull and conservative. But I only hated every second minute of it - skipped through the other half. Damn you, horror fans! "},{"Title":"The idea was there but..........","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hearing and seeing the positive reviews on this, I felt I had to see it. And I'm sorry to say, I was very disappointed.The story was effective and simple with some nice character development but the acting was laughable, that it at the end, it was hard to care. Also the writing was pretty pore. As the victims die off one by one, only one police call took place and everyone else didn't seem concerned as the killings continued. No sense of realism there.What also ruined this film was the direction. During a scene where the camp's cook is horribly burned by boiling water and lies on the floor, screaming in agonising pain. One of the caretaker's finds him and then the camera cuts to the cook screaming and then to the caretaker, in shock. This lasts way too long, which was ridiculousThere were also scenes involving flashbacks of Angela, in a setting where everywhere is black and where she's sitting or standing, there are vibrant colours aiming on her and nowhere else. It seemed like the director was trying to be artistic, but failing.For the cinematography, there were some really nice shots, especially from the killer's point of view, which always works for me.And now the ending, which I wont explain too much because of spoilers. This really frustrated me because when you find out who the killer is, it just cuts to the credits. With no chase scenes or even a fight between the killer and the main character. Another directional error, is that the killer just stands there, looking like a gormless idiot, breathing like an animal. May I ask, what is that about?When the film was rolling the credits, I just sat on the couch in frustration and disappointment. There was a good idea there but it was portrayed terribly. If you guys want to see it, by all means do so. You might enjoy it and see it in a positive way. Everyone has a different opinion at the end of the day. "},{"Title":"What an incredible surprise..","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I will start of by saying that I absolutely love this film. I will make quite a simple review and let you form your own opinion. This movies is full of child actors so don't expect much Oscar nominations coming from here, although I find this particular set o kids quite good. The whole scenario is great, i mean the whole idea of a camp for kids where killings start to happen is great. Is original and clever. Main character is Angela, a naive, quiet and very mysterious girl, constantly the victim of disparaging comments from other girls. Most of the times saved by her cousin Ricky, a brave boy always fighting with bullies. All is good until dead bodies star to show up and the modus operandi is very diverse. Teenagers, adults, no one escapes.. Who is the mysterious killer?! Watch to the very end! (One of the best endings in film history, btw! Bold statement, ah? See for yourself.)All in all, this movie is full of suspense from start to finish and it's great idea for a Friday/ Saturday night. Managed to gather one of the most loyal fan bases in Horror film history. Even after all this years... "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp is No Sleeper","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is one of the best slasher films to pay homage to the Friday the 13th Series. It is not a rip-off by far, it has some scenes in it that will leave U dropping your jaw; and to some putting your hands over your eyes. I love camp films because I would go to camp every year for Camp Fire or Girl Scouts, of course my camping experiences were always positive ones. This movie reminds me of some of the people I bunked with, the snob, the weirdo, the helpful one, and the one who starts trouble. What I like about this movie is it has some scenes it it that are not copycat slasher scenes, the curling iron scene made me cringe, the shower scene was brutal, and the guy with the bees on the toilet made my skin crawl. If U like horror movies are good slasher films I would recommend this movie for U. The ending is a surprise and a great ending it is; it will give you that WTF moment. This is a great cult film, that will make you say I wish they made horror films like they did back in the day. "}{"Title":"A highly memorable and very frightening slasher film","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A bozo with a knife is only as frightening as the surroundings and mythos surrounding them. 'Sleepaway Camp' is a memorable and effective entry in the 80's slasher pool because it takes this to heart and creates a highly memorable character with motives, mythos, and a terrible secret that drives them to be violent.What really drives me into 'Sleepaway Camp' and my recommendation of it is how well it captures the feeling of adolescence and bullying. Childhood and the early teen years can be a horrible period to live through and that is what 'Sleepaway Camp' is. What we have here is a nightmare about the pressures of growing up and vengefulness against bullies creating a horrible atmosphere, one strong enough to kill. For once these sex and prank crazed teens actually sort of feel real because what hunts them is a very real threat too. You kind of forget being removed from the real experience for a few years that teens only do have two things on their mind, sex and their inflated egos. And what better place to put these sick teens than summer camp? It really is a no holds barred hellish playground for teens to enact all their wildness. Camp is the perfect metaphor for growing up out of childhood. The summer brings everything to life and the boys and girls practice their budding sexual feelings with one another while still in the confines of being in a great childish place with games, swimming, and all the freedom to do it except of course the eyes of a camp counselor who themselves are young enough to let kids be kids. And yet for some there is awkwardness. They cannot get out of childhood, be they not ready mentally or physically and they stick out for bullies like a sore thumb. 'Sleepaway' captures all these elements pitch perfectly with it's young cast and locales.And that is why 'Sleepaway Camp' works, the theme of sex and blossoming maturity. I am sure if you are reading this you know the horrible secret of Angela Baker and despite it's shock value and novelty, it is a perfect device to build this type of horror film around. The chemical urges of puberty are really the building blocks for conflict and disaster. Angela Baker is warped because she has been so violated in her psychological and biological identity of herself that she cannot handle the adolescent experience offered by summer camp. Felissa Rose is very good at portraying a shy adolescent girl and this is exactly why the film is effective and why that ending is so memorable. We see Angela Bakers growing up and we know what drives this killer and it makes the villain tragic. "},{"Title":"Actual attempt at a provocative slasher flick...Who knew?!","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SLEEPAWAY CAMP (1983) is one of those rare 80s cult films that slipped right under my radar! I THINK that I must have heard about this film before, but, honestly, I'm just not sure! If I had heard the name before, I probably thought it was the typical 80s teen comedy cheesy sex romp that came out in droves in that decade.On the surface, the movie reminds one of Friday the 13th simply due to the camp, summertime setting, but after I saw it recently the film Psycho came immediately into my mind! This movie isn't the standard slasher-vengeance flick like most slasher movies of the 80s (and now!). It has strong psychological underpinnings. There are some genuinely disturbing scenes in this movie!The central character is Angela (played impressively by a then 13-year old Felissa Rose), an extremely shy and lonely teen who goes off to camp with her cousin Ricky (played with a lot of spunk by then teen Jonathan Tiersten). Angela was raised by her aunt, Ricky's mom, after Angela's father and brother were killed 8 years earlier in a tragic boat accident (a rather disturbing scene shown at the film's start), which has obviously traumatized Angela all these years.At camp, Angela gets bullied by several kids, especially the girls, including one of the camp counselors Meg (played with confident malice by Katharine Kahmi) and fellow camper Judy (an over-the-top, yet funny Karen Fields). Other than her protective cousin Ricky, the only bright spot for Angela is when she meets and connects with the boy camper Paul (played with stalwart appeal by 80s teen star Christopher Collett). Angela actually opens up to Paul amidst all the bullying and loneliness.Of course, the overt plot of the flick is that several killings occur. Early on, they just seem like freak accidents to the camp director Mel (veteran actor Mike Kellin in a rather thankless role). It's a bit of a stretch to believe that after a couple of kids dying, they would actually let camp continue! But, they actually do seem like accidents. Then the movie moves into full blown slasher territory in the last half hour with several of the main characters getting killed off one by one in very creative ways. I actually found the killings and maimings in this movie to be kind of disturbing simply because they weren't the typical stuff you see in the Jason/Freddie/Mike Myers oeuvre where theirs a bunch of slashing with sharp objects. Also, the killings aren't done to elicit cheap laughs or puns at all, as you typically get in many cheesy slasher films. They are MEANT to be disturbing! The ending is the big shocker and explains this film's lasting popularity.It's kind of obvious that the movie was made on the cheap, but at the same time, it's not the most amateurish looking low budget film I've ever seen. It actually attempts genuine character interaction. Some of the dialogue is actually pretty funny and comes naturally. Plus, there are some sly moments that hint at the themes of the film. And the main young actors playing Angela, Ricky, Meg, Judy, and Paul really do a good job given what they have to work with. Ironically, the only adult actor to leave an impression is Desiree Gould, who plays Ricky's mom and Angela's aunt; this character is EXTREMELY odd; she bookends the movie and the ending explains in part her behavior.Although there are obvious elements of several other famous horror movies at play here (Carrie, Psycho, Friday the 13th), the movie definitely has it's own identity that doesn't make it some cheap knockoff. I'm not usually big on criticizing datedness, but the movie is so 70s-looking that it does kind of detract from it, and the script is fairly standard fare, not to mention a few too many cliché characters; I found those jerkish male bullies to be kind of useless to the plot, in particular. The main draw is that this movie really is a psychological tale in the guise of a slasher movie and if you focus on the REAL story, I actually think the theme will stick with you long after the movie is over! "},{"Title":"Kind of Slow But a Great Ending","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp took a while to get going with the suspense and a lot of the movie is spent building up relationships and what not.The story follows Angela who survived a horrible boating accident at a lake (pretty sure it's the same lake as the summer camp but I could be wrong). She is sent to live with her peculiar aunt and cousin, who some years later, sends them to Camp Arawak (an odd name, since Arawak were Caribbean indians).Anyway, the shy and silent Angela is the object of ridicule but her cousin defends her, sometimes violently.People begin to have bad accidents, some dying, and its up to the remaining people at the camp to discover who is behind the deaths.Spoilers I originally thought the aunt was just a horrible actress with over the top performances but I figured there was a reason for this and I turned out to be right. Not quite sane would be an understatement for this woman as we learn that Peter, not Angela survived the boat accident but the crazy aunt always wanted a daughter, so she raised Peter as a girl.This revelation at the end was one of the most unexpected twists in a movie I have seen and is why the movie gets the higher rating than it does.As I mentioned, the movie drags on for a while, with a lot of time devoted to baseball games, socials, pranks, etc, which gave the viewers a nice overview of summer camp but didn't add to the plot. I suppose some of this could have been done to make the audience suspect one of the other campers and indeed, the camp director even suspected Angela's cousin to the point of beating the boy.--End of Spoilers--- The movie was entertaining and had an shocking twist which made it worth watching. I wouldn't include this movie in my must-have horror film collection but it is worthy of renting. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly likable slasher movie.","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a boating accident that killed her father and her sister, Angela (Felissa Rose) and her cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tierston) are going to Camp Arawak for the summer. Angela wasn't been in that camp for years, since her family died there. Slowly, there has been accidents and murders happening in the camp. Who is the twisted person, who is behind all these murders? Directed by Robert Hiltzik (Return to Sleepaway Camp, Sleepaway Camp Reunion) made an enjoyable, professional well made slasher B movie with an winning cast. Rose is certainly the stand-out in the movie. Tierston and Christopher Collet gives likable performances. Karen Fields (Her only film role) steals the show as a mean-spirited teen.The DVD from Legacy Entertainment is Uncut but it suffers an lousy Pan & Scan (1.331) transfer and the Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound is decent. Anchor Bay DVD is certainly has better picture quality and sound but an few scenes were trimmed down for some reason. Sleepaway Camp is certainly one of the better slasher movies of the 1980's and it is certainly memorable for it's shocking unexpected conclusion. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"sure it's not very well acted or written, but... it's got something","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp, we see before the credits roll, is dedicated to the director's mother. I wonder if she had already passed on before the making of little Robert Hiltzik's grand opus of cruelty. This is kind of a sadistic movie when it comes down to it, even as it's also a cheap and so-so acted slasher movie (I say so-so since some performances stand out as AWESOME camp, while others... well, wait till you see the Aunt early on). It's simply about a camp of the title, where young Angela and her cousin are sent away for the summer, and poor Angela, who is meek and not well adjusted around most people and keeps her mouth shut if she doesn't have something to say to someone positive to her, is picked on mercilessly. There's a guy who does take an interest in her, but is that even for real? And what's with all of these murders that just so happen to all be connected to her, and why doesn't she seem to blink much at all, and...OK, it might sound like I gave away a big spoiler, but it's not like the director tries to hide it either. Hiltzik goes to lengths to give a couple of grisly-cum-creative scenes, such as a pedophile cook (that is one nasty SOB by the way) who gets his just dessert with a giant pot of boiling water on his body and face, or the head of the camp himself getting an arrow right through the neck. Other deaths are more just ho-hum like a slash through a shower or a little trick with a hair iron. If you're watching the film just for that, it delivers decently. And if you're looking for lame-o early 80s slasher dialog there's some of that too. But more than likely if you're just watching the movie for the twist, it'll seem like a longer wait, and a strange one.It's one of those rare slasher flicks where its actually up-front with us about what's going on, and makes it a (if I can say such for this movie) study of the horror of a tragedy on a young person and constant bullying from kids. But this up-front quality, after some thought once the movie ends, is also a cover too. We're literally thrown into that last MONEY shot, so to speak, that has had fans of the movie talking for years, and it ultimately builds up to something that is far more traumatic and psychologically terrifying than anything the movie has (mostly) come to grips with for most of its running time. Instead Sleepaway Camp is a deranged mix of campy comedy and really screwed up chick-flick-gone-sour movie. Which, sometimes, isn't totally uncalled for on a Sunday afternoon or with friends and some beers. "},{"Title":"This is from the good old 80's, a classic","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was like 12. I have always been a fan of horror movies so I gave it a whirl. I just watched it again for the first time in 13 years and it was as good as I remembered it. The reason I like this movie is because 1-It has scenes that are unprecedented and completely original 2-There are scenes that will never leave your mind 3-Ricky's swearing is just flat out hilarious 4-I like old movies filmed with old camera's better than all the modern equipment we have now. For some reason these old movies have a different feel to them. I am not sure how to describe it.The scene where Angela gets drilled with a water balloon and Ricky drops about every word on the guys that threw it is hilarious. The movie drops language left and right. I normally would stay away from a movie that drops so much language but for some reason it is funny. It is a classic horror movie with a jacked up, unexpected ending. An ending that you will not forget. Whether you like the ending or not, I will make you this guarantee. YOU WILL NOT FORGET IT! Period! "},{"Title":"shocking and disturbing thrill ride","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With perhaps one of the most shocking endings in cinema history, interesting plot line and disturbingly unique deaths to say the least Sleepaway Camp was a definite step up for horror movies.Its been unfairly listed as a Friday The 13th along with mediocre films like The Burning and other stereotypical slashers. Unlike its paramours its much more complex and deep with different twists and turns.If you don't know the ending (and please do not go looking for it. It'll spoil the ride) Prior to seeing this movie it will keep you guessing right up to the last scene and before your really sure what happened its over.It took me awhile to really appreciate this film and it isn't till now after seeing the sequels (which are very good) that I really like this movie.Definitely recommend seeing this. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is one of the more memorable slasher movies to emerge from the golden era of the genre. Acting and dialog aside, the movie is actually a deep, psychological parable disguised as a blood-filled romp through the woods. Like any great slasher film, it presents a surprising backstory that successfully paints our killer as a victim in their own right; by then end, we are almost sympathetic to Angela's psychological strain. More eerie and thought provoking than any Friday the 13th, Sleepaway Camp leaves a strong (if not creepy) impression on the brain that is not easy to shake. One might wonder what this film would have been like had they had a bigger budget and more resources to work with. "},{"Title":"A twisted and thoroughly entertaining camp slasher","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While 'Halloween' gave way to a slew of imitators, some of those copycats inspired ones of their own. The 1980 slasher classic 'Friday the 13th' was the first, but not the last film about a killer at a summer camp. It was followed by ten sequels, only a few set at camp, and a remake. There's other examples like 'The Burning,' but what may be the most notorious of the 'Friday the 13th' clones is this disturbing little gem from the slasher pit. Unlike it's predecessors and successors, 'Sleepaway Camp' has kind of a sleazy and bizarre atmosphere. Not to say that's a bad thing, but the film is a little out there at times and has some pretty shocking images. Something that has continued through the series.Pros Decent work by the almost entirely unknown cast. A good score, plus a cool closing titles song. Some great kills. Beautiful filming location. An alright whodunit. Fast-paced. Lost of camp value. A twist that'll drop your jaw to the floor.Cons Extremely dated. Lacks true suspense and scares. Little you haven't already seen in other slasher films.Final thoughts Not a near masterpiece, but is somewhat underrated. This early 80s camp slasher is a must have for any horror connoisseur and lovers of campy film-making. The two sequels that followed in the 80s are not to be missed either.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Unusual and different type of slasher film with an incredible twist","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SLEEPAWAY CAMP stands out from the rest of the 80s slasher films in the unique approach it takes to its subject matter. It shares similarities with Friday THE 13th to a degree and more importantly and significantly, with Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO. Not just another mindless killer-on-the-loose movie, this film actually involves the viewer on many different emotional and psychological levels. There are themes and undercurrents here that serve to make this film a bit different than the usual cheap gorefest. Usually films of this type do not merit the accolade of intelligent. But this film does. It touches on themes that society has traditionally been uncomfortable with- homosexual eroticism, rape, pedophilia, gender identity, and nonconformity.The movie is stolen by young newcomer actress Felissa Rose, who turns in a phenomenal performance as Angela- a painfully shy, quiet, and withdrawn adolescent girl who has a secret that she's been hiding since the death of her father and her sibling in a tragic boating accident eight years earlier. Without even saying anything, Miss Rose projects a screen presence that will indelibly imprint itself on the viewer. She is just so immensely appealing and involving. There is just something about her that makes you want to hug her and befriend her. I was very drawn to her character because I could definitely relate to her and her personality type.Raised by her offbeat and eccentric aunt after her father's death, Angela is sent to sleepaway camp for the summer in upstate New York with her cousin Ricky, who is very protective of her. From the moment she arrives in camp, it's obvious that she will not fit in. Because she's different and doesn't interact well with others, she quickly becomes the target of harassment and bullying from the other adolescents- most notably a camp counselor named Meg(KATHERINE KAMHI) and a teenage queen bitch named Judy(KAREN FIELDS). Angela doesn't utter her first word until about the halfway point of the film and until then, we don't know if she can speak. We don't know if she's a mute or not.Soon after her arrival, she's targeted for sexual assault by the head cook- a fat, ugly, repulsive pedophile who's thwarted in his attempt by the sudden, unexpected arrival of Ricky. This sets in motion the gruesome accidents and deaths that are to occur throughout the film. The cook, of course, is the first target of revenge- getting his comeuppance by being scalded on his face, body and arms by boiling water from a large cooking pot.All the people who hurt Angela and are mean to her wind up paying a stiff price for their behavior. *** SPOILER ALERT*** It won't take long for the viewer to figure out that Angela is the killer- although the film, like most films of its type, tries to throw the audience off by steering it toward an obvious suspect. But seasoned veterans of this genre know that's just a ruse. The twist is not that the shy, quiet girl is capable of such homicidal violence- because that's the way it usually turns out in these films. The twist comes in the revealing of who Angela is- and what she is. Although other reviewers have already spilled the beans on this, I will not do that here. Suffice it to say that, even if you know how the film ends from reading some of the other comments, you will nonetheless be shocked by the disturbing image you see when you watch it. I give this one a 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Very Memorable","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At first glance, Sleepaway Camp seems like it'll probably be another one of the many carbon copies of so many slasher movies. The serial killer going crazy at a summer camp full of kids isn't exactly the most original plot.But Sleepaway Camp is very different, memorable, and by far one of the best of its kind. For starters, the acting is better than the usual fare seen in these kind of movies. A few of the performances border on great.And as with all horror movies, the bodies rack up and in this case, they're done in original ways. One in particular (the curling iron one, as brought up by many) has to be one of the most disturbing deaths ever put on film. And it's not even gory or anything like that. It's the shadows and what we don't see that makes for an incredibly memorable scene.But what, above all, makes Sleepaway Camp very memorable? It's the ending, one that will leave almost every viewer reeling. Obviously, I don't want to give it away. The power of it can only be seen when watching it. It sure isn't the usual twist. This one packs a huge punch and gives it a very unique and interesting theme. And for that alone, Sleepaway Camp is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Classic Slashers","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" **Nothing I'd call an outright in your face spoiler in this top section, but better safe than sorry**I happen to like all the Sleepaway Camp movies, but this is the only one that's played straight. *ahem* Anyway, it's one of the best slasher movies ever made. For fans of the genre, it hit's on every point. Gore, check. Nudity, needs more, except for that one scene. *ahem* Teenagers at a summercamp, yeah! It even goes further than that and the actors, even the youngest ones seem to manage to bring a believability to their characters that pulls you in as a voyeur to the whole environment. It's the camera on the killers shoulder thing that often gets slasher fans buzzing. In this case it feels like more of a freeform journey that kind of takes you all around the place. Sure, mostly the camera is focused around Angela but you get enough time spying on the rest of the cast to get a real feel for them and the camp. No mean feat in a film of this genre.The ending is just such a classy twist. Don't read any spoilers or fan-pages before you see the movie, because they really will probably spoil it. Do pay attention at the end! I almost missed what was going on, but I rewound the scene and...well, time for you to go watch it before you read anymore.******SPOILERS*******SPOILERS*************SPOILERS********SPOILERSNah, I can't bring myself to post it. If you're anything like me and you're one of those people who don't want to know, but just can't seem to control their eyes darting down for the briefest of glances. See, you just read this part after glancing! Now go watch the movie before you read any more of these comments with spoiler tags! "},{"Title":"id say it was lame,but that ending has to be seen to be believed","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this is a review of the cut version.for the uncut,gorier version with special features,check out the Anchor Bay edition.as for this version,for the most part,this horror flick is slow and boring.actually,right up until the last scene. and the acting has to be seen to be believed,but not in a good way.in the whole bunch,there is only one very good acting performance.i thought several times about stopping this one,but for some reason,i stuck with it.the ending has got to be one of the most inventive and even shocking moments in the genre.i,' not gonna spoil it,but in order to appreciate the ending,you do have to sit through the other 80 plus minutes.does it make the movie worth watching.i'm not sure,but it does elevate the rating,in my book.up to that point,this movie was headed for the big fat goose egg(zero).instead,i give Sleepaway camp a 4/10.come to think of it, i guess it is worth sitting through,just for the ending.normally i wouldn't recommend a 4/10* movie,but in this case,i have to make an exception.by the way Anchor Bay also has a three collection of the first three movies uncut,with special features,entitled Sleepaway Camp(limited Edition with survival kit).if you're a real fan of the movies,you might want to pick it up. "},{"Title":"Great Ending","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I was watching the first bit I thought  Ahh Jesus Christ, have I wasted my money on a Friday The 13th rip off? , well that was until the film got going, Then i saw that i didn't waste my money and it was good. It has every thing for a slasher good creative deaths, simple story line, female main character and a fantastic ending.Its amazing so to every one who has not yet seen it buy it now its a classic oh and warning it is very had to get hold of in the UK so you might have to order it.If you haven't seen it don't read below! I would never have guessed it, Angela the killer its like the complete opposite to what I thought. So good 300%. 12/10.This is defenatly in my top ten...10. The Omen (1976) 9. Sleepaway Camp (1983) 8. Friday the 13th (1980) 7. Scream (1996) 6. A Nightmare On Elm Street (1984) 5. The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974) 4. The Exorcist (1973) 3. The Shining (1980) 2. Psycho (1960) 1. Halloween (1978) "},{"Title":"One of the better Friday The 13th clones","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is one of those movies that you just have to love, although far from original as it is a Friday The 13th clone but one of the better ones unlike crappy disappointing flicks like (Don't Go Into The Woods and The Final Terror), Well, slasher flicks are allowed to be unoriginal and I for one love this slasher flick.The story revolves around Angela and her cousin Ricky who have just gone to camp for the summer. Well, a killer shows up and starts offing the kids at the camp in various ways. Now, it's fairly obvious who the killer is and the ways the killer uses to off his victims are anything but gory.Felissa Rose truly gives a stand out performance as Angela and the rest of the cast truly gives solid performances such as Ricky Angela's cousin gives both a funny and believable performance played by Johnathan Tierston, Karen Fields plays the bitch Judy down to a tee and one of the movie's highlights is her scene where she gets her just desserts, Christopher Collet plays Paul the kind hearted boyfriend of Angela really well, Mel the head of the camp is fine watch out for his death scene played by Mike Kellin, Katherine Kamhi played the slutty Meg brilliantly and Desiree Gould as Aunt Martha had fun with her 2 minute role.Sleepaway Camp is a very good slasher flick and even though it might be predictable and unoriginal, this is still highly entertaining. Don't you dare miss this one.All in all very entertaining Friday The 13th clone but with the major twist ending this movie is memorable "},{"Title":"A deliciously sick and deviant early 80's summer camp slasher flick","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Shy, repressed teenage girl Angela (winningly played by Felissa Rose) makes her first trip to Camp Arawak with her nephew Ricky (the solid Jonathan Tiersten). Several mean teens at the camp start to mercilessly pick on Angela. Before you can say here we go again, the body count starts to mount, with a handful of folks getting bumped off in assorted gruesome ways. Could it be Angela or someone else who's committing these horrible murders? While the basic plot is obviously derived both Carrie and Friday the 13th alike, this satisfyingly grim early 80's low-budget slice'n'dice item still cuts it as good'n'ghoulish slasher fun thanks to Robert Hiltzik's strong direction and a suitably sick, perverse and twisted script. Moreover, this movie plausibly depicts adolescents as cruel, selfish and fiercely competitive little monsters. The make-up f/x by Ed French are top-notch and each grisly murder is creative in its own macabre way A portly, repulsive pedophile cook has his face severely burned with scalding hot water, a jerk drowns under a boat, another dork is stung to death by wasps, a bimbo gets knifed in the shower, a vicious floozy's face gets roasted by an electric curling iron, three kids are hacked up with a hatchet, and the same hatchet is used for a decapitation. WARNING Major *SPOILER* ahead. Plus there's one startling doozy of a shock surprise ending Angela turns out to be a boy who was raised by his wacko aunt (delightfully overplayed to the campy wacko hilt by Desiree Gould) to believe that he's a girl instead. This conclusion was later shamelessly copied in The Crying Game. Craggy-faced character actor Mike Kellin turns in a fine performance as Mel, the irate, cigar-chomping camp owner who tries to cover up the murders and ultimately winds up having an arrow shot through his neck. This nasty nugget was followed by two entertaining tongue-in-cheek sequels, but the original remains the best of the bunch. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I would first of all like to say that some of the comments here are way too in depth. This is not a deep thought-provoking movie. I wouldn't compare it to anything because I've never seen anything like it. I thought this movie was hilarious. The characters are all frigging crazy in their own right and I can't even begin to wonder how this camp would actually function, seeing how everyone involved is either a child-molester, a pervert, or a bitch. The Aunt is hilarious, and probably one of the creepiest characters I've ever come by. And the ending, as you have noticed from all the other comments here, is crazy. The image and the music at the very end will haunt your dreams forever! If you are looking for a really great movie compared to all these other classics that some have been comparing it to, don't see the movie. If you are looking for a movie with hilarious characters and bad acting and a great movie all-together, then rent this movie, because it is absolutely great! "},{"Title":"One of the ultimate cult movies","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A happy family is enjoying a day on a nice lake side beach when a freak boat accident kills on the kids. Fast-forward, sometime later, possibly a few years, the girl who survived the accident is living with her eccentric aunt who sends her to camp with her cousin who is very protective of her due to her reclusive nature. The camp start of typically - outdoor activities and fun - but soon bizarre and increasingly frightening occurrences reign the camp in the form of a mysterious killer. Accusations fly, the body count mounts, but nothing can prepare the survivors for the answer of who is behind the horror.As mentioned in the headline, this is a cult movie - meaning not for all tastes. That goes virtually double for this film with its low production values and general cheesiness. Also the story is at first very generic - killer stalks, people are afraid, blah blah blah... it has been done before a multitude of times. The killing scenes should interest only slasher fans......however...... the third act makes this film stand out of the slasher crowd in its own special place. The finale to this little film is so out there, so twisted, so bizarre, that not only do you not see it coming, you weren't even expecting anything like it. The final shot (the kicker to the kicker) is also truly terrifying. The film's strange power resonates with you after you watch it as you begin to make sense of the ending through clues dropped in parts of the film.A must for horror fans, though others will want to steer clear. 7/10Rated R violence/gore and... some really twisted stuff! "},{"Title":"Great ending to an okay ending","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is one of the best early 80s camp-slasher films.**SPOILERS**Arriving at a summer camp, Angela Baker (Felissa Rose) and her cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten) immediately rub the head counselor Meg (Katharine Kamhi) by how different and quiet she is. Ronnie (Paul DeAngelo) and Susie (Susan Glaze) take time to break her out of her shell, but Ricky is protective of her and doesn't want her to be exposed to too much. As people start dying at camp, Mel, (Mike Kellin) the head of the camp, keeps insisting that it's just fluke accidents. As Angela finally comes out of her shell around Paul, (Christopher Collet) the murders around camp start increasing. As everyone starts to suspect the new-comers Angela and Ricky as the killer, the camp tries to stop the killer from striking again.The Good News Well, first off, this has one of, if the not the, best ending to a horror film ever. It comes so far from left field and is so unexpected that no one would ever believe it. It's also really original to end it that way, as all the clues point elsewhere, then we get dropped with the bombshell of all bombshells with the ending that comes out of nowhere, and it does seem completely shocking on first viewing. By pulling the rug out of our feet with a complete turn-around is a wonderful in it's execution. I can't say enough about the great ending, go see it for yourself. Also nice was the way that all the deaths aren't exactly the typical deaths for this type of movie. Granted, there is an impalement with an knife and a decapitation, but the rest of the film features some great kills, including being stung to death by bees,, scalded with boiling water, and a pretty nasty one involving a curling iron and a special part of the female anatomy. That's all I'm going to say on that one. Pretty nifty kills, although some have been done before. It's also pretty good at setting up the storyline to make the characters so believable. Angela is a quiet, shy teenage girl, and Ricky her protective cousin. While not exactly new, the combination of both is a nice addition to the rest of the characters at camp. Pretty much stereotypical characters, but all mixed together with some new ones.The Bad News For the time this came out, it should've been way more graphic. This one is very dry and features next to no blood. Only two deaths happen on-screen as well, which is a shame as several would've been nice to see what happened to them. However, more gore was needed to make the film a little more entertaining, but it still is fine right now. Just more. Also, since the sequels went for a more campy approach, this one goes more of a serious route. It's very discerning to see Angela played her as a shy, quiet type and as a wise-cracking woman in the sequels.The Final Verdict With one of cinema's greatest endings that is really shocking and a big body count for the time, this is a very underrated film. Fans of the time frame will eat this one up, but fans of the sequels may find it odd that there is none of the goofy sense of humor apparent in this film.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence, and full male Nudity "},{"Title":"An okay movie, but then end makes up for it's negatives.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie has okay acting, an average plot, a creepy setting, and a few likable characters. But the ending is the most weirdest ending I've ever seen! It was scary the first time but after watching it a few times it's funny! I mean it was so cheesy and stupid looking! The deaths were pretty lame, they all had no blood, no gore. Overall an okay movie with a weird-ending that makes up for all the negatives. Oh and by the way it is not a rip off of Friday the 13th although Friday the 13th was a great movie and so were all it's sequels. Overall, you should rent/buy this cheesy 80's popcorn flick if you have nothing else to watch. "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The teenage slasher/revenge flick!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp (1983) is a good horror movie. Unlike most of those that ca,e out during this era, the film makers actually spent some time in making a decent script that had a few good scares and one hell of an ending. Too bad two sequels and a fragment of a third were made that sullied this film's reputation. It's a shame that those sequels were ever made. The film makers took a good movie and nearly killed it's popularity.The movie is about a quiet girl who goes to camp. There she witnesses the pecking order and the caste system that exist in such places. She also meets a boy that takes a liking to her. But there's also a evil figure who's stalking campers and the counselors. What is wrecking havoc on the kids? Who's responsible? Will I like this movie? You'll have to find out these answers for yourself when you SLEEPAWAY CAMP!A good horror film that entertaining. Just stay away from the sequels. Soon to be followed by an official sequel! Stay tuned! "},{"Title":"Best horror movie ever","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My friend and I rented this movie in 7th grade cause we thought it'd just be a stupid 80's horror flick. For the most part, it was the most ridiculously hilarious/formulaic horror movie I'd ever seen. The costumes! The dialogue! The plot! But I digress . . . It was the most ridiculously stupid 80's horror movie I'd seen until the very end, when there came upon the screen the most horrifying image I have ever seen in my life. This image is ingrained on my brain forever and ever. A friend of mine watched it at my recommendation, and he was watching it on a TV across the room. When this image came on the screen, he leaped to his feet, ran screaming to the TV and shut it off, continuing to scream. This film is not for the faint of heart. It is, without a doubt, the greatest horror film of all time. Enjoy . . . "},{"Title":"Awesome and above-average slasher film!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SLEEPAWAY CAMP (1983)starringFelissa Rose, Jonathan Tiersten, Christopher Collette, Karen Fields, Mike Kellin, Katherine Kamhi and Paul DeAngelo.plot8 years after a horrible accident killing her father and brother, shy 14 year old Angela Baker (Felissa Rose) attends Camp Arawak with her overly-protective cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten). Angela is quickly the butt of every joke by the camp assholes and bitches, including Judy (Karen Fields) and Meg (Katherine Kamhi). Angela is also falling in love with Ricky's best friend Paul (Christopher Collette). Meanwhile, a sneaky killer prowls about murdering Angela's tormentors in brutal ways. But who is the killer?the goodWow, this slasher film is not like the other ones from the early 80's. This is a mix of a teen comedy, a warped psychological drama, a cute romance story and a brutal slasher film. Each of the kills are done perfectly and brutally. They're not very gory but they are very creative. I also love the central characters. Angela, Ricky, Paul and Ronnie were all awesome, and Judy, Mel and Meg were fun to hate. One other perfect thing is the ending. It's one of the most shocking, scary and effed up scenes in film history and it may stay with you for a while.the badThe direction was basically point-and-shoot and you could always predict when a murder was about to happen. Also, this ends kind of abruptly and out of nowhere which bothered me a bit.9/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  any fan of 70's 80's slasher movies will love this. it is very creative and has killer POV, like halloween and Friday the 13. it was fun to watch and it was very creepy. and let us not forget about the ending. oh, the ending. now THAT is a scary ending. don't watch it alone in the dark or you won't be able to leave your room for the rest of the night(better hope you have a cooler of soda). the whole movie over all is just great, creative, it is just great. i recommend buying the survival kit. it has the first 3 movies, which are all great, but it doesn't have the 4th and 5th ones, that are so stupid. they don't even have angela in them. as a matter of fact, i think i am going to go have a sleepaway camp marathon right now. go do the same.  "},{"Title":"Truly hilarious.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the cheesiest, most hilariously bad slasher movies i have ever seen. Also incredibly strange and weird, is all the homoerotic things that seem to be popping up all over the place. All the guys are wearing short shorts, everyone has a HUGE bulge, and the ending! My god the ending!The ending alone is worth admission. Find this movie, rent it, buy it whatever. I guarantee , if your looking for something to pull a good IL' MST3K on, this is it. Anyone and EVERYONE will come up with at least one funny line. You could take shots each time you see a guy with shorts shorts, although you cant hold me responsible for alcohol poisoning. See it, you'll laugh.  "},{"Title":"Holy Shockers! Friends writhing in agony","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm basing my review on what happened to my friends as we all sat and watched it. I won't spoil it for you but there's a scene in the middle that made my friend Dan gasp NOOO! and at the end, the final scene made many of my friends howl in agony and disgust. This, and the cheesy 70's quality of the film along with the deliciously bad acting, makes this a #1 smash in the bad movie department. Have some beers and invite some friends over and be in for a disgusting chill ride!If you don't like bad movies, get the heck away from this film! "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First let me say that in general, I am NOT a big horror movie fan anymore--I can totally do without that kind of gore in my life now--but I used to be. Sleepaway Camp lacked the good acting that Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Pleasence brought to Halloween. But the murders were a bit different i than in most movies. Also, the character of the girl's aunt WAS very creepy and weird--that was kind of neat! The main thing Sleepaway Camp had that most movies of this genre lack is a surprise killer. In Halloween and Friday the 13th you know from the beginning who the killer is--in fact, in Halloween, even the people pursuing him know exactly who they are looking for! Even if you figusred out the identity of the killer, it is not blatantly advertised and it is not officially revealed to ANYONE till the last few minutes of the film. For that alone it deserves a few points! "},{"Title":"Complete Genius.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Some Points.1. This movie is completely brilliant.2. It is disturbing3. The ending is awesome, one of the best ever according to Anthony.4. The movie depicts summercamp perfectly. I swear to g-d they filmed it at the beach of my summercamp. Also, the owner of the camp was perfectly portrayed.5. I have heard that the next 2 movies are not like they first but have not seen them.6. I watched this movie after toking. I don't do that a lot anymore because it makes me paranoid but i did for this movie and it was awesome. I think it will totally enhance the movie.10/10!  "},{"Title":"Mindblowing","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  How such an ingenious piece of work gets lumped together with typical 80's slasher fair is beyond me, but this is by far, the pinnacle of American horror cinema. The basic plot may not be that original, but the underlying story and the way it unfolds is simply brilliant. Flashbacks throughout the film, paired with a very unsettling intro keep you riveted to the film, constantly analyzing and trying to dissect what that nagging 'something isn't right' feeling could be. Of course the climax itself is so unbelievably devastating, so staggering, it easily ranks as one of the best finales ever put on film.A complete blast from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Well above average; one of the best B-horror movies ever made!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why the film gathered such a low rating.  This is definitely better than most of the B-slashers I've seen.  First of all, it's pretty well-done.  Most films like these are pure guilty pleasures, but this one has quality.  The death sequences are all quite creative and left to the imagination.  Sometimes it seems like people are robots and are quick to regard any slasher flick as gratuitously violent.  Have you seen the Friday the 13th movies?  Were any of those death scenes left to the imagination?  And that's not to say all the Friday movies are bad; it's just this movie had a certain tastefulness to it that most movies of its kind lack.  As a matter of fact, the shower scene is the only scene that contains any blood.  And I like the gradual way in which the corpses were revealed.  And like I said previously, the scenes are creative.  Though it's a slasher flick, very few victims actually get slashed.  This isn't the run-of-the-mill slice-em-dice-'em flick.  There are exciting ways to kill the victims that don't have to include kitchen knives.The acting is adequate at best, but I've seen much worse.  After all, bad acting is a B-movie tradition.  But sometimes the acting could be so bad it makes you want to puke.  Not the case with this film.  The characters, though cliched, are well-developed and that's another reason why it stands out among many slasher flicks.  The romantic and jealousy subplots are sophomoric, but they're not taken way over-the-top.  (PROBABLY NOT A SPOILER, BUT YOU CAN'T BE TOO CAREFUL; POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD)As for the plot twist...definitely unexpected!  At first when I read the comments on Netflix about the plot twist, I thought the identity of the killer would be a surprise.  The killer's identity is pretty obvious throughout, though the death scenes are shot from the killer's point of view, never revealing who he or she is.  But the real twist is the final shot.  Boy, was that haunting...and disturbing.  But what can I say?  It was unexpected.  And made sense, since it was foreshadowed.  Even the song at the end was really creepy.  And the overall score was pretty creepy in itself.  Sleepaway Camp is not as campy (pun intended) as you'd expect.  Hopefully, many will be very impressed by it.  It seems like it had received cult status (with a website and all), and I'm proud it did. My score  7 (out of 10)         "}{"Title":"...You won't be coming home!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THE PLOT The shy young Angela and her older cousin have just been sent to Camp Arawak by their crazy aunt. It seems okay at first, tennis, swimming, archery, murder? Several accidents have been occurring to unfortunate campers and counselors. But as the bodies pile up it appears a killer is on the loose.THE ACTING Watchable but bad. While viewing Sleepaway Camp you can't be too critical or else the bad acting will ruin it for you.THE BLOOD Overall there wasn't much blood in Sleepaway Camp. But there were a few bloody scenes.THE BODY COUNT 6+THE RATING This film is pretty good if you don't take the acting too seriously. Actually, this is quite a serious film, it's just the performances that mess it up. That said, the ending to Sleepaway Camp is the most shocking and scary in cinematic history. I give this movie 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Take it for what it's worth","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Many of the other reviews have spoilers, so if you have not seen this film, and are the slightest bit curious, you shouldn't read much further and just check it out!  The best way again is to not know anything about it, and just watch it.But if you must read, don't worry I won't give anything away.This movie was really shocking, because I had no idea what was to come at the end.  And that's the best way to see this film, is to not know anything about it. Just watch the film for what it's worth, and don't expect it to be a masterpiece, and I almost can guarantee that you'll have a fun movie experience.The movie consists of cheezy 80s dialogue, funky 80s clothing style, and very very cheezy love story, all rolled into one.  There isn't really any gore or nudity at all in this film.... well not really.What most people discuss is the blow your mind ending, I was actually really shocked, surprised, and even creeped out because of the the way the film ended.  The ending definitely will spook you if you don't see many horror films.  But if I say anymore, it would give too much away already. I'll just say that I've seen many horror flicks in my time, but it's been a long time since I've been so entertained and best of all shocked by a wacked ending.I gave this film a 10/10 for great entertainment.  This film didn't try to be a masterpiece, but I can see how this film is known as one of the greatest slashers ever. I was actually really surprised to have enjoyed a film that looked like cheezy crap. Felissa Rose performed very well as the quiet Angela.  She definitely was the key to making this film work as great as it did.A must see for anyone who's looking for a eerie, surprising, fun, movie. Definitely one of the most underrated gems to come out of the 80s.-GenX "},{"Title":"Good, trashy , brainless, fun!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A friend of mine brought this movie to a sleepover during the summer. I have never heard of this series and i havn't seen too many 80's flicks except Porky's I and  The Breakfast Club, both really good movies. When I started watching it, the acting was terrible, there was no suspense, and their clothes?...you'll see what i mean when you see it, they certainly flaunt the 80's with pride; but the more I watched it, the more funny and just plain fun it was to watch. It turned out that it was one of those movies that are are so stupid, it's actually good, like Showgirls! (It's Ver-sase!) Now what this movie really made this movie special was the ending. I kind of got the feeling that SPOILER..................................................................... ..............................he/she was going to do it. END SPOILER; but the way they executed the scene was top notch; from the lighting to the way the killer's face looked was creepy and gave me a chill. So for everyone who hasn't seen this movie, rent this movie with a few buds, drink a few beers and snacks, and just laugh yourself silly at how bad this movie is it actually good! "},{"Title":"There was a reason that I never went to Summer Camp as a child...","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...and this movie was it!!  You can't deny that this film remains one of the most disturbing in the genre.  From the pure savageness of the murders, to the more-than-shocking ending, it completes its purpose with flying colors.  Better than any of the Friday the 13th sequels after Part 2, Sleepaway Camp is your standard, by the book camp slasher film that was obviously inspired by Friday the 13, The Burning, and Madman.  But don't jump to this conclusion just because it takes place at a summer camp.  Nothing is what is seems with this film and the ending will shock you.  Sleepaway Camp in my opinion, captures the true atmosphere and shenanigans of the summer camp better than any of its predecessors.  The teens look like teens, not 30 year olds, the dialogue and jokes are very typical of youngsters, and the quant, picturesque Camp Arawak looks like a camp you would find near anyone's hometown. In the opening sequence, we witness a father and her two children get brutalized by a freak boat accident.  Flash forward to a few years later where we meet outspoken, smart-mouthed Ricky and his shy, odd cousin Angela on their way to summer camp.  As soon as they arrive, Angela becomes the target of many of the other campers because of her shyness and demeanor.  But soon, those who taunt her turn up dead...murdered in very gruesome ways, from boiling water, to beehives, to a curling iron.  Is the obvious person, Angela, the killer?  Or will little Ricky defend his cousin to the point of murder?  Or is the killer someone totally different and unrelated??  That is the beauty of Sleepaway Camp and when, in the last scene, when we find out who the killer is, out jaws are on the floor.  As mentioned before in other reviews, the acting is hokey and silly in many parts, and the main story gets distracted in a few places by overly-long pranks and cussing matches among the kids.  But overall, the film works and it works well for the genre.  Trust me...you could do MUCH MUCH worse!!!  I give Sleepaway Camp a 9 out of 10.  It remains one of my favorite horror films of the 80's and really took quit some risks with it's subject matter for the time period and managed to turn them into a downright creepy, disturbing little film.  "},{"Title":"Shocking!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw this independent film as a teen and it scared the hell out of me. Now, I look back and mostly laugh at it. But, I'll never forget how creepy the ending was. The story is pretty much the same as all teens who go camping horror films. This one is set at Camp Arawak and there is a killer amongst the kids. Again, the ending is too twisted to reveal, but all the flashbacks will catch you up to speed towards the end of the film. Felissa Rose seems to be the only player in this film who can act. Though she doesn't have many lines, she does appear in most of the scenes. The other actors for some reason, just don't get it right. The creative murder scenes and some bad soap opera lines make this fun to watch, just for the camp of it. Warning Watch the last 5 minutes at your own risk. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This review applies to the version released by Media. Several kids are murdered by an unknown killer at a camp, but wait there is a twist to all this mayhem that makes it slightly different from the Friday the 13th. films. And depending on you it will be either, shocking or unintentionally funny. I thought the latter about the twist, so that makes it so the whole film doesn't work. Among its other faults is the zero budget, the homoerotic references in the film, and that it is extremely exploitive. Skip it and rent Friday the 13th. instead. "},{"Title":"Words alone cannot describe......","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Words alone cannot describle how awful this movie actually is.  I am a huge horror movie fan but even I could never come to the rescue of this disaster. When watching this film you can't help but think that the director just found these people on the street the day of shooting and and said Do you want to make a movie?.  I kept asking myself, Is this a satire?  The story line, the acting you name it, it's horrific.  There is not one redeeming quality and that's no exaggeration.  As far as the ending goes, which is supposedly the film's trademark scene, had me laughing so hard that I quickly had to run to the restroom to prevent a disaster of my own.Without sounding histrionic, this is definitely the worst film that I have ever seen in my life!  It is not surprising that not one person who worked on this project went beyond it.  "},{"Title":"The most underrated horror movie of all time!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is a great movie! It is too bad that either most people have never heard of it, or that those that have seem to dislike the movie. It is NOT a Friday the 13th rip-off. It is far superior to that film. I like Friday the 13th, don't misunderstand me, but SC is more than your typical slasher film. It is full of emotion, drama, mystery and a genuinely scary atmosphere. The murder scenes are original and gruesome. The acting is WAY above average by ALL those involved. Felissa Rose especially gives a phenomenal performance as the shy messed up teenager Angela. You will never forget her!. But all in all the whole cast delivers the goods and then some. The movie really pacts a punch. The shocking climax has been well documented, but every scene in this movie is a treasure to behold. I strongly recommend it to all open minded people out there. The music is great as well. Both the score by Edward Bilous and the three songs by Frankie Vinci are perfect for it! Sleepaway Camp gets a well deserved 10 from me. Forget the lousy sequels, discover this obscure masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th meets Psycho !","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADThere is a lot of flak over the integrity of this movie. It comes across as a rip-off of the first Friday The 13th but then the closure with the realization of the killer's true identity almost nearly redeems the whole movie with a plot twist that rivals the end of Psycho. The majority of the deaths don't have the flair or the gore of traditional slasher films a boy is drowned, a pedophile cook in scalded from head to toe but survives and there's an unclear shot of three kids who have been chopped up. One boy is stung to death by bees but he is so panic-stricken that he doesn't think clearly enough to crawl out under a toliet stall door barred against him. There's a vague shot of a girl getting intimately impaled on a curling iron and a rather puerile shower murder more or less violent than the one in Psycho. None of these scenes are very scary or suspenseful, but the closing shot of the killer's identity will give you nightmares. the flashbacks disclosing the killer's wierd past interupt the flow of the already tedious script. Nevertheless, this movie has become somewhat of a cult film inspiring two unnecessary sequels. My only advice is don't rent these movies, buy them ! "},{"Title":"One of the BEST movies ever!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I probably saw this movie about 50 times, starting in 1985.  It was like a cult film for a large group of us.  I haven't seen many movies of this type, the type that makes you watch it again and again...yes, it was a bad movie, but the way it was bad, the story, the acting and all of that just made it one of my favorites, EVER!Watch this one if you like the type!  (I need a copy of it!) "}{"Title":"The most unsettling hour and a half ever put on film!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  We've all become jaded when it comes to horror films.  We respect Psycho, but we can never quite believe it was really THAT scary.  Halloween doesn't make you jump; rather it makes you smile as the slow-moving killer attacks shirtless girls.  However, Sleepaway Camp is a scary movie.  In fact, it's probably the scariest movie I've ever seen--just not for the reasons that it intended to be scary.Sure, on paper, it looks to be just your run-of-the-mill cheap slasher flick, but, in actuality, it is so much more.  It is the most unsettling hour and a half ever put on film.  Everything about Sleepaway Camp makes one uncomfortable.If one ignores the much talked about secret ending, there is still plenty in the film to act as nightmare fuel.  There's the creepy aunt who's a community theater version of Joan Crawford with man-hands.  There's the disturbing relationship between the much-older camp owner and one of the teenage counselors.  There's an unexplained element of gay parents. There's a weird moment of two young children touching each other in bed.  There's a pedophile cook, his Uncle Remus-like assistance and the world's largest pot of hot water.  There's an untimely death from a curling iron.  There's male counselors who wear shirts that only cover half their chest along with shorts that cover even less.   All of these things, and more, combine to form a film experience that wears you down.  Watching this film is a tiring, arduous process.Film historians claim that showing a toilet flush in Psycho unsettled the audience--making the murders in that film even more shocking.  Whether intentional or not, Sleepaway Camp does the same thing.  In fact, it surpasses Psycho in its disconcerting ways.  Forget toilets flushing. Sleepaway Camp eats away at the viewer with creepy image after creepy image.   I dare anyone to attempt to find a film with more creepy elements in it.The supposed horror of the film won't get to you, but everything else about it will leave you highly unsettled.  Sleepaway Camp is not a film that you can quickly forget. "},{"Title":"what's up with that whacked out ending?!!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i mean it, what the hell is up with that?  i saw this movie almost three years ago, when i was a freshmen in college and living in the dorms.  i had read somewhere that it had one of the most shocking endings of all time. i rented it from the videostore i was working at and watched it with my roommate.  wow, this was a terrible film...even by cheesy horror film standards.  my roommate and i both needed alcohol to get through the first eighty minutes or so, he ended up passing out before the end and i was pretty much plastered by the time the film ended and, after i got over the immediate shock, all could say was huh?.  looking back now, through the hazy memory of an drunken stupor, it was one of the most surreal moments in my life.  the ending probably wouldn't have been as effective if i had been sober, but i'll never know since i don't plan on ever watching it again. despite the bizarrely whacked-out ending, i would still not recommend this movie to anyone, since the product as a whole is so totally wretched. besides the aforementioned whacked-out ending, the only other memorable thing in this movie is the performance of the woman who plays the mother. she gives a performance that manages to be both cheesy and creepy at the same time.  i remind you once again that i was drunk, so don't hold that statement to me. "},{"Title":"SC","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  AAAhh Sleepaway Camp The ending!  Yes it is the most shocking ending of a movie I've seen.  I actually bought this movie and returned it the next week.  This is possibly the worst horror film of all time.  BAD acting BAD directing BAD ending. "},{"Title":"Horribly excellent (or excellently horrible?)","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ah, Sleepaway Camp--how can I sing your praises?  In the face of your shining example, how can any other killer-at-camp movie begin to compare? Amongst your myriad pleasures are 1) The cook who calls the campers baldies; 2) The incredibly whacked-out ending; 3) The jokes played on the nerdy kid; 4) The ending; 5) The way Angela gets pasted with a water balloon; 6) The very strange, Mary Gross-on-acid-like mother at the beginning of the film; 7) Did I mention the ending?; 8) The death by curling iron scene; 9) The great quantity of foul language used by the young cast members; and 10) The ending.  Although I am but unworthy to lift up thy name, somebody has to, and it might as well be me.  "},{"Title":"Should Please Fans of Jerry Springer, Monster Truck Rallies and the Severely Brain Injured","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If I were to suffer a catastrophic stroke and find myself in a vegetative state facing a television screen on which was shown Sleepaway Camp I probably wouldn't mind. Worse case scenario I'd be praying for a larger cerebral hemorrhage to spare me the mental anguish of having to sit through this turd of a film. It's a low rent slasher made by simpletons for simpletons which tells the badly written tale of a series of disgusting murders which occur at a summer camp. In addition to the lousy screenplay, it's poorly directed, acted and produced. Inexplicably followed by a few equally cheap and worthless sequels designed to part fools from their disability money. "},{"Title":"Probably The Most Brilliant Slasher Movie Ever","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie makes the most of its resources, and then some. It is NOT some cheap, mindless slasher film for its own sake. It IS cheap, with a budget of $350,000 in 1983. However, the key points in the film do an excellent job of using what they have. The more disturbing parts are not graphic, but imply the very uncomfortable horror in their ideas. The actors that really matter do an excellent job. Felissa Rose as Angela does an outstanding job without hardly uttering a word.This is a disturbing film, and that is a compliment to its credit. It is DEFINITELY worth the watch, if you are an enthusiast of the horror genre. This movie certainly understands the special storytelling advantages of this genre and uses them. If you're interested in such things, I highly recommend this. "},{"Title":"The Worst Slasher Flick Ever Made!!!","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" From the late 70s to around 1984, the first batch of slasher movies would hit the cinema in force. Right at the end of the 70s, we got HALLOWEEN- the creme-de-la-creme of all slashers in my opinion- which was shortly followed in the 80s by MY BLOODY VALENTINE (the original), Friday the 13th, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, and THE PROWLER. These early works were marked with a certain degree of innocence that later slasher flicks threw out in favor of smart-ass characters and more elaborate bloody deaths. Granted, at times, the earlier films could be wild and unhinged. But not like later installments in any one of the series I mentioned above. However, there is one truly bizarre series that emerged during that early period. SLEEPAWAY CAMP is a genuinely horrific movie, but in this case that's not an advantage. In order for a horror film to be successful, it must play a balancing act between grossing out the viewer while keeping the viewer entertained and glued to his (or her) seat. On the first count, SLEEPAWAY CAMP delivers in abundance. Unfortunately on the second count, it's not happening with this film! There is a perverse atmosphere surrounding this whole thing. The setting is a summer camp for young children. All the adults seem to be child molesters, rapists or otherwise some-kind-of-predators. The main character is quiet young Angela who was traumatized years ago. She witnessed her gay uncles in bed, among several other events. At camp, she makes friends with a young boy named Paul. (Bad name to have in a horror movie!) Bodies start cropping up, and yet the owner of the camp still refuses to close down. The deaths are pretty inventive, but ugly as sin! And please don't get me started on the shocking and thoroughly disgusting ending. To this day, some ten years later, I still have that last image emblazoned on my mind. Please gentle viewer, hear my cry DON'T WATCH THIS FILM... EVER! Don't even bother with the sequels, they're just as bad! "},{"Title":"Slow-Burn To A Big Surprise","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first ten minutes of this movie are so bad, I almost switched the movie off. The acting is atrocious and so are the special effects (the film clearly had a zero budget).However, once you give a movie a chance, it can surprise you and this one does. When the characters reach the summer camp, it all suddenly clicks into place. The writing starts getting good; characters start to develop, there are some funny snippets of dialogue and realistic scenes of life in a summer camp.Angela is a highly unusual heroine for a slasher film. She hardly speaks until about midway through the picture. She is mercilessly bullied by the other girls, like Sissy Spacek was in Carrie.The funny thing is that the people who run the camp all seem to be on the edge of insanity, from the ranting owner to the paedophile cook. The director must have saved his entire effects budget for the scene involving the boiling water. It is easily the best effects shot in the movie.The twist at the end is the best twist in a slasher movie since the original Halloween in 1978. The final shot is bizarre, terrifying and the stuff of nightmares. I only saw this movie recently. Had I seen it in 1983 when it came out, I would have been shocked. Many other movies have stolen the twist since then, however, and it's not so shocking these days.Stick with it past the first dodgy ten minutes and you have an above average slasher movie to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very Unhappy Campers","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember viewing this movie when it came out, me and my friends snuck into the theater when we were like 13 or 12, and we were dead afraid but we were defiantly given a huge slap to our sexuality when we saw the ending. We left the back entrance of the movie theater wondering what the heck just happened and if we should brag to our school chums about what we just viewed. Needless to say, we did and we got ridiculed. But I loved this movie anyway. A bit graphic and weird, but a great movie nonetheless.This was another great cheesy, sleazy 80's slasher film that would forever strike me as one of the best horror movies with a great twist ending. Essentially this movie is about a girl who falls for a boy while she is at camp, then thing begin to go horribly wrong and people begin to die. Oddly enough, the romantic rivals of this girl are the ones being offed. The end when she is stroking the head of her lover and she is holding his head aloft just gets you. You aren't not expecting at any stretch of the imagination, and its just completely out there that it's haunting. As one critic once put it Before Crying Game brought it to art houses, Sleepaway Camp brought it to Grindhouses, and boy was he ever true. It vaguely hints towards it near the beginning but even still it's a great twist. I also want to mention that the face that Angela makes at the end has left an imprint in my head forever.As far as the technical details are concerned, the acting is pretty good, the screams were ear piercing and the scares were pretty good but it had the feel of Friday the 13th, but because of the ending, it was masterfully turned around into a great American cult classic with an unforgettable twist ending. This movie hit me hard and introduced me to a special kind of B-movie that I never knew existed and it ranked up there with The Rats, Scream, The Usual Suspects and Planet of the Apes. The flashbacks, especially near the end had a feel of a Broadway play or musical with a disturbing 1950's feel to it and the mother of Angela is so horribly creepy with her sweet talkative voice and her nicely dressed body. I think that some of the acting was a bit over the top (i.e. when the kids put shaving cream on some other kid and he poorly attempts to kill them with a knife). So thank you Sleepaway Camp for not letting me forget that classic ending. I Think it's one of those movies were you have to watch and be amazed at how cheesy this movie is but it all leads up to a fantastic ending. I think that it's just a great B-movie with some campy, no pun intended, humor and great yucks and chucks. "},{"Title":"I had to change my pants!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There have been only two movies in my life that have given me nightmares after watching them. This is the second. I knew about the ending before I saw it, but no words can truly prepare you for...that. Be warned You will never forget THAT SOUND as long as you live. I enjoyed the rest of the film very much. The performances of the children didn't really feel forced, and the horseplay and language were true to life when I was a kid. The viewer gets to have real sympathy for poor Angela, and it just makes the ending all the more horrific. The death scenes are interesting, because they all use a blend of POV shots from the killer,the pivotal moment of the kill is usually half or fully off-screen, and the viewer is presented with a wonderfully horrid aftermath shot. The meat of it all takes place in your mind, which is ultimately more nasty than anything that could be shown. I will ask that you ignore the bad reviews, and give it a chance. You'll be glad you did. "}{"Title":"NOT your typical slasher film!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Upon first viewing, one might readily assume that Sleepaway Camp is your typical teenage slasher flick. However, after viewing it for a few minutes you will realize that it is much more than that. This is a rare type of horror flick that commands the viewer's attention and keeps it from beginning to end. Because of the surprisingly superb performance by the young cast, this film keeps you just as interested in the subplots involving the campers as it does the blood and guts. The murder sequences are truly horrific...a cook is boiled in water, a young man is attacked by hornets while taking a dump, there is a brutal shower murder and a seamless arrow-through-the neck effect. On top of all of this, Sleepaway Camp boasts one of the most shocking and surprising twist endings in horror history. This film was followed up by 2 campy sequels, an aborted sequel, and the Return to Sleepaway Camp is currently in production, featuring many of the stars of the original. "},{"Title":"Not your average teen-slasher","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Really beautiful imagery here, and some beautiful 80's aesthetics. Strange colors and lighting. Crazy clothing (everybody's jumping around in their underwear) and funny hair. Deranged hillbillies. Beautiful nature as the background. Some pictures are pure poetry. I think the acting is generally better in these 80's not-so-masterpiece movies than today's. This is more interesting than any other teenageslasher-movie I've seen (be it Friday the 13th, Scream or anything like those); This has more depth in the portrayal of these young people's culture and their relations. And the killing scenes are not very big part of this movie, which is good because they are always the same and always boring. And even those required killing scenes that are here, are imaginative (and short) enough. And the ending... Well, quite surprising, strange and shocking movie, I would say. "},{"Title":"Love, love, love this movie!!!!!","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the horror film I've probably seen the most! Yes, it's a Friday the 13th clone, but with an ending so sick, so bizarre, it works on an entirely different level.When I was a kid, this movie used to scare me. But now, I look back on it with fond memories - and can laugh at the inane wardrobe and poor dialog (all which heightens the fun - it IS a horror movie after all).The murders are all effective, using first person perspective and appropriately nasty effects.Looking forward to the fourth entry, Return to Sleepaway Camp, as it is the first true sequel - parts 2 and 3 don't count as they seemed to forget Felissa and cast Pamela Springsteen in the role of Angela.This is one of the most overlooked horror films of the 1980's, and a true gem.Make sure to pick up the DVD for a great commentary! "},{"Title":"If Ed Wood made an 80s slasher horror..","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  it would be pretty close to this. Very very low budget. A lot of wide shots and one takers. A whole lot of bad acting.The kill scenes aren't too graphic, but that's only because they couldn't afford Tom Savini.Very slow moving. I could barely get through it, and it was only 85 minutes!A lot of homosexual stuff in it, from muscle guys in short shorts and belly shirts to a weird sequence with two guys in bed. Not to mention the Crying Game ending.Also there's a lot of pedophilia references. You have this whacked pedophile cook drooling over the fresh meat running into the camp, and the rest of the staff are just yucking it up over this freak's comments.Fans of 80s horror would do best to avoid this and just go watch Friday the 13th for the 100th time.  "},{"Title":"Sleep---AWAY!!!!","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I vaguely recall seeing this movie at a drive-in when it was released in 1983. Obviously one's memory is much kinder than you would think, as it was completely erased from my memory .thankfully. I must agree that the end - which it seems everyone and their Mother comments on - is indeed truly chilling. The shot which pans out along with the incredibly ghoulish sounds, creates a memorable, sudden and super-creepy ending which really sticks with you long after this train wreck has ended. BUT. One must endure 85 minutes of bad over-acting, gay and Jewish caricatures, super-duper- short-shorts on out of place muscle boys posing as camp counselors, rehashed situations lifted from `Friday The 13th', giant oversized ponytails on tiny irritating ultra-sour women, and semi-homoerotic situations all wrapped around bad writing and dreadful acting. Is sitting thorough this mess REALLY worth 1 minute of horror at the end? Well, not really--- but if you CAN make it through the ending is indeed memorable and may keep you up at night.  I had to pop the DVD back in to re-watch it since I couldn't stop thinking the image it left me with. However you really would be better off renting number of other horror movies from that period which are a lot more fun. In either case, a cocktail or two will certainly help you through this and enhance your viewing pleasure.. Sleepaway Camp?.you' d probably be better off sleeping and keeping this movie AWAY from your DVD player.  "},{"Title":"I need a life","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw Sleepaway Camp, I was hanging out with some friends,  it was somewhere around four in the morning, and I was the only one in the group with a fetish for b-movies.  I rented this one without knowing anything about it other than it had some really nifty cover art.  I was expecting some of my usual rubbish with the campy dialogue, scant 80s cloting, and some hilarious death scenes.  Well, I got that and so much more. Nevermind what my friends thought of the flick (shocked, appalled, disgusted, disturbed), I got what I came for.That was seven years ago and I know I should have grown up by now, but what's wrong with me,I'll never know.  In my mind, this is the definitive 80s slasher.  The series managed to find a permanent place in my library and I just can't get away from watching these movies.  There's not much for me to say in the way of plot.  It seems that there are already plenty of other sickos out there who felt that it was their purpose on earth to ruin the legendary ending for anyone who hasn't seen the flick and was unfortunate enough to read a few reviews before checking it out.  If you call yourself a horror fan and haven't already seen this one, then it's going to be okay.  Go get a copy and while you're at it, get the sequels as well.  The Survival Kit DVD set is worth buying twice.   "},{"Title":"The most SHOCKING/DISTURBING ending of any movie I have ever seen !!!!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SLEEPAWAY CAMP. One of those movies you always use to see at the video store in the late 80's, but never rented. I read about it here, at imdb.com, and started looking for it. I read commenters saying how shocking the ending was.  I couldn't find it at an rental store.  I found it at a store for $9.99. I took the gamble and bought it.  I never watched it for 4 weeks after that ......... UNTIL TONIGHT. I have to say, it has been 8 hours since I watched it, and my stomach still hurts from the disturbing ending and, THE FINAL SHOT OF THE MOVIE.  It was creepy. A MUST WATCH !! 10/10 !! beware though........... IT IS VERY VERY DISTURBING. "},{"Title":"Spoilers, Of Course. I Still Love This Movie","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the theater when it first came and since then, I've gotten a tape of it and still have it and watch it from time to time.  First of all, I really wanted to clear something up that no one seems to have caught onto in all the other comments about this film.  The Mother figure in the film--has much in common with Ru Paul.  Take a closer look at it.  It's a guy in drag.  This is the basis for the story.  It actually took me awhile to figure that out, but if you see it again, there it is.  So it wasn't just that the Mother was nuts, there was alot more going on there.  To better explain the plot, it was about a gay couple, one get's killed, the other goes nuts over it and turns into The Mother.  This is actually one of my favorite horror films.  It's just so classic.  You get all the interesting, creative death scenes and a wonderful shocker of an ending that has never been duplicated successfully in any other film.  Yes, the acting and most of the story is ridiculous, however, that's what makes it so cool.  It's a fun to watch film, a true cult classic.  Forget the sequels, this is the one to see. "},{"Title":"Prolific and unforgettable for all the right reasons","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The VHS cover of Sleepaway Camp at the local video store haunted me as a kid&#x97; so much so that I dreaded going to a week-long camp excursion with my sixth grade class&#x97; I hadn't even seen the film&#x97; and I didn't need to. There's just something about camp that is unsettling for kids. You're away from home, and away from your parents for what is often the first time in your life; there are older kids in charge of you; there are bullies, there are pranks, there are lots of outdoor activities, and musty old bunks&#x97; but at Camp Arawak, that's not all you have to worry about, because there is a mad person slashing kids and adults left and right.Robert Hiltzik's cult shocker is indelibly one of the finest and most thematically weighty oddballs of all slasherdom. It's a dark film that begins in a dark way&#x97; a man and one of his children are killed in a gruesome boating accident. The daughter, Angela, survives, and, eight years later, is sent to camp with her cousin Ricky by her batty Aunt Martha. But it's clear something's not right with the blank-faced, impassive teenager, and when murders start occurring, things spiral out of control, derailing toward a gobsmacking conclusion.What could be incorrectly perceived as a ripoff of Friday the 13th is actually an extremely creative slasher film we have here that dodges the budding conventions of the genre; it's campy in many respects, but a Friday the 13th ripoff it is not. Despite its low budget, there are convincing special effects and creative camera-work that make the film feel far more sophisticated than you might expect, and a jarring and eerie score underlines this. There is plenty of hammy acting from the young kids, but Felissa Rose's doe-eyed performance as the catatonic Angela earned her a cult stardom that is well-deserved, and Jonathan Tiersten backs her as her foul-mouthed, overprotective cousin. All that said, the film's real strength hinges on its script, which is daring and unconventional for a number of reasons; it manages to deal with an array of taboo topics, such as gay parents, gender confusion, child abuse, sexuality, and bullying&#x97; all implicitly, mind you&#x97; and does so under the protocol of a horror film. Furthermore, it delivers what is inarguably one of the most legendary conclusions of any slasher film, with a twist that would have impressed Hitchcock. And, while it may not reach the cosmopolitan ranks established by the Master of Suspense, as a low budget '80s slasher production, it does a damn fine job trying. 9/10. "},{"Title":"the odd-ball of 80's slashers","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is a bit of an off-beat edition to the wave of early '80's slasher films. The story is this a disturbed little girl and her cousin go off to summer camp, where someone begins killing the various characters who offend them. It sounds like business as usual right? To a point it is, but this movie is different from the average slash-fest. The storyline falls into teenage drama from time to time. Much of the leading cast is quite young! In fact, at times it seems like it could be a cross between after school special and slasher flick.But the real strangeness of this film is its leading character. The movie is built around this young girl and the question of her part in the killings. It all builds to a climax and a revelation that has made this slasher a memorable one! The direction, natural locations, and subtle music score help to give this movie some good atmosphere, especially during the final night of the story. The youthful stars are quite good, even though as a whole the casts performances are uneven.Like the Friday the 13th films, the original Sleepaway Camp is the best of its series. Thus far this film has been followed by two raunchy-comedy sequels that are strictly for laughs (and groans).Sleepaway Camp is one you won't forget!*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th clone.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is about a killer in a summer camp, so yes this is a bit of a clone of Friday the 13th.  This movie is also not very good, if you like it fine, but it just is not my thing.  For one I did not find the ending all that shocking as I saw it coming even as a kid (let's face it, the movie shows you clearly who survived the crash).  This movie is the typical slasher for the most part, with a person being killed here and there.  If you like slashers it would probably be worth checking out.  As for me, I just can not believe how high the ranking of this is here.  This site is notorious for being hard on horror films yet this one has a somewhat good score.  I don't know, to me it just wasn't anything all that special, even if you couldn't figure out the ending and it was a surprise, there was more to the movie than that.  This one also tries to be funny here and there and it fails, I absolutely hated the mother's performance and she isn't even in the movie much.  I am betting the sequels were not much better.  So check it out if you are a slasher fan you may enjoy it.  I just didn't. "},{"Title":"If you're looking for something alarming,then you've picked a winner","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At first you think it's going to be just another 80's slasher movie about a homicidal maniac going around and killing teenagers at summer camp, and at first it seems that way. With the cheesy music, and those first kiss scenes, it comes off as corny, but once you get to the ending you are in for a shock. The first time I saw this I felt like I was going to throw up, it's very surprising and gross. But what makes the ending even sicker than what it already is, is the closing song. If you're searching for a shocker, then Sleepaway Camp, is just what you've been looking for. "},{"Title":"*shudder* Must wash film off me... *shudder*","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I must admit that I am a bit surprised that so many people have even seen this movie, but I am not particularly surprised by the reaction.  Even sneaking in to watch this when I was 11 (my parents thought I was going to see ET for the 50th time or something, ahh theater security used to be so lax), I was shocked by it.  Everyone else I have talked to has had pretty much the same reaction, sitting in the theater in a daze and gradually coming to realization that this was a really messed up film... then seeing the end and simply sitting silently in the theater and thinking 'yecch...With that said, I really don't know how to address SC as to whether it was good or bad.  I think it was bad, and I don't think it is in the so bad it's good category.  Instead, I think it is in the so messed up (and original) that it must be seen in order to be really understood and then sort of thought about, and perhaps seen again.I dunno, it was very hard to really get a grasp of this film in one shot, but it loses most of its punch on subsequent viewings.  This will always be one of those movies that my friends and I talk about in hushed tones and with darting eyes, but I cannot say that it was a genuinely good film.  Overall, it was easily the most surprising and one of the most disturbing of the early wave of slasher films.  Worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"Sorry, guys, but the ending was not original.","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The majority of Sleepaway Camp is just an average slasher movie, as could probably be guessed. Kids and camp workers get killed off in creative ways&#151;you've seen the plot in every slasher movie ever made. But as the movie tries to ask the clichéd question of who did it, I could only ask who cares? It will just be the person the director thinks we'll least expect, so why even bother trying to figure it out? And, seriously, why can't the killer in slasher movies ever just be a random guy who used to sell soup but thought killing was cooler? Why do slasher movie killers always HAVE TO be someone who at least gets half the screen time? In that aspect, Sleepaway Camp is a clone of every other slasher ever made. You can guess what scenes will end up kills and what scenes will end up wannabe Lifetime TV drama scenes. You can guess who the killer is by the end of the first 10 minutes. There is nothing new here, and what isn't new isn't any better than other slashers. I'd take Friday the 13th over this any day&#151;it was better done, less cheesy, had more blood, and was less predictable.Though the last few moments reveal one of the weirdest possible endings the movie could have had, it was yet again nothing new or original. The twist has been done in countless 50's movies, along with some modern dramas. Just because the twist in the end was the first time it was done in the horror genre doesn't mean it wasn't done and done again in other genres. The lack of originality and the lack of quality make this just another slasher. But at least it tried.The only reason I don't give Sleepaway Camp the worst possible rating is because it was entertaining for the most part, and it tried. It tried to be different, and I like that. This movie tried and failed, but that's better than not trying at all. (Sorry to sound like a cliché football coach.) Can you remember the last movie that tried to be different?2/10 "},{"Title":"If you liked this, you have more issues than Sports Illuatrated.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I recently bought the Sleepaway Camp trilogy on DVD. After I got home I popped in the first one and sat back for some 1980's B style horror. What I got was a lot of slack for even watching it, not to mention the constant ribbing I received when my friends found out I actually owned it. The movie was slow, filled with horrid acting, and the bullies acted really gay, and by gay I mean homosexual; always talking about being undressed with their friends.....that's too much to handle while watching a bad movie. It took 4 sittings to finish watching this nightmare. The owner was occupied with the murderer being a wimpy, whiney little boy, the cook trying to get his rocks off with the little girl, and the cheesy as hell scary score......Thank God the other two movies are o.k.Anyone that likes this movie should be tied to a chair and given a few hundred shock treatments and get their head examined. I finally found a movie worse than Jeepers Creepers. I gave this movie a rating of 1 because there is no 0 option. "},{"Title":"dull, gross, unnecessary rip off of Psycho and Friday the 13th","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw Sleepaway Camp some months ago, and it was okay at first, but i just saw Psycho, and i found something wrong. but i'll get to that later. Robert Hiltzik's Sleepaway Camp was nothing more than homosexual content peppered with super evil bitches and bad acting. the scene in the beginning with the 2 teenagers on the speedboat was the dumbest scene i've ever seen in a horror film, as it was also hilarious. the character Aunt Martha was annoying as much as she was creepy. what kind of psychotic idiot would deliberately turn her own nephew into a girl??!!! if my aunt was like that, i'd secretly remove her from the family tree. felissa rose does a decent performance as Angela, the main character/villain, Johnathan Tiersten does okay acting too, but the rest of the acting is atrocious. it's like the characters knew they were in a movie, but were trying to cover it up with cheap cliché dramatics. the ending was just unnecessary, and was really creepy. the music in the background was amazing, but it was ruined by the moans coming from Angela, which was the loudest sound in that scene. and now onto the rip off conflict. people say that the only way this film has a similarity to Psycho is meg's death in the shower, and the film rips off Friday the 13th in every way possible. that is incorrect. SC and F13 had very few similarities. the only thing they had in common was that it took place at a sleepaway camp, and that someone was going around murdering campers and counsellors. but here are ten things that SC stole from 'Psycho'.1. The killers in both films were dressed up as the opposite sex for a majority of the films.2. there are scenes in both films where a woman is brutally killed in a shower.3. Both killers had maniacal mothers.4. Both films have an eery who-done-it theme.5. both films end with a shot of the killer, with their faces twisted into a creepy and intimidating smile.6. SC and Psycho both take place over the course of 2-3 weeks, where as the events in Friday the 13th only occur in one day.7. It was the killer's mothers who drove them into insanity and murder.8. There are scenes in both films where a body is disposed of in a lake/swamp, and is eventually retrieved by the authorities.9. Both killers were orphans.and finally...10. Both killers could imitate the voice of a woman/girl.So basically, SC was rip off of Psycho more than it was a rip off of Friday the 13th. if you want to see this movie and you already saw PSYCHO, watch the film carefully, and you will find the similarities.My rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"This is either god awful trash or really really deep and I just don't get it )","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  -SPOILERS.........but who cares, this isn't The Usual Suspects read on )-You could basically sum this movie up as an 88 minutes of homosexual innuendo. The boys in this movie wear very feminine clothes. You see dozens of naked guys and even a homosexual love scene but not a single breast shot in the whole movie. In almost every other scene the guys seem to be touching on one and other. If I remember correctly the chef was a pedophile.Then the ending where we see Angela is really a boy, by a full frontal nudity shot.Juxtapose this with the horrible acting and low budget it might be kind of hard to swallow (pun intended HAHA) that the director would have mixed a commentary on sexual identity in low budget ultra B-movie schlock but seriously sit down and watch this, you be the judge. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Memorable Slashers","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp (1983) *** (out of 4)Angela (Felissa Rose) goes with her cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten) to a summer camp where she's constantly picked on and harassed by the most popular girl in camp (Karen Fields). Over and over again Angela is picked on due to her shyness, which causes Ricky to have to defend her and before long dead bodies begin to pile up.SLEEPAWAY CAMP is a pretty notorious entry in the 80's slasher genre due in large part to a terrific twist at the end, which I obviously won't spoil here. If you want to play a uptight critic it's easy to really cream this film because there are some pretty bad things throughout including some at times hideous acting. However, if you're a fan of the genre, which I am, there's no question that this film has a lot going for it and it fits nicely into the genre, which at times delivered one cliché after another. There's no doubt that SLEEPAWAY CAMP has some clichéd moments but there's still no doubting it's impact on the genre and the all around good time you can have with it.I think the best thing about the film is that it just feels so much like the 80's. The movie has the basic set-up taking place in a camp with a psycho running around but there's a lot of other stuff thrown in including a bizarre subplot dealing with a pedophile and there's even some stranger stuff that I won't go into so that I avoid any spoilers. The film also shows how bullying was handled in the 80's, which was usually with a big fat nothing. The film manages to really make you feel the time that it was set in and I think writer- director Robert Hiltzik deserves some credit for putting some of the more bizarre things in here.It also doesn't hurt that you've got a group of characters that you can root for and against. One can't help but feel sympathy for Angela and you also can't help but like Ricky and Paul. The villains in the film are so over-the-top cruel that you also don't mind seeing them get knocked off one at a time. Then there's Judy who's certainly one of the most memorable villains in the history of the slasher period. Fields performance is just so spot-on that you can't help see the glee in her as she torments Angela. Rose is also quite charming in her role and there's certainly not a better slasher actor than Tiersten when it comes to saying profanity.The murder scenes are mostly off-camera, I'm sure due to budget reasons but they're still quite memorable and especially the aftermath when we see what actually happened. The make-up effects are quite simple but effective enough. I also liked how the main goal of the film wasn't the gore and violence but instead the characters and especially the mystery. I'm sure some will guess what's going on but if you go through the film without knowing and just guessing who's doing the killing, it certainly adds to the entertainment level. SLEEPAWAY CAMP has a lot of nostalgia going for it but it's also one of the more entertaining films in the 80's slasher cycle. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Meets Lord of the Flies","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Welcome to camp Arawak, the surliest summer camp in history.We're in Lord of the Flies territory here, where it's every man for himself and the atmosphere always feels like it's one step away from boiling over into outright gang warfare. A homoerotic softball game nearly becomes a rumble, while a world-weary female counselor named Meg (M.E.G. she specifies when she's introduced, as if there is any other way to spell Meg) and her evil, ubiquitous henchman, a camper called Judy, make life hell for the girls. Though to be honest it's hard to tell the campers from the counselors, since most everyone looks like they're thirty years old, and all of them look like actors who didn't get cast in Fame, except for the male counselors, who all look like they COULD be cast in a gay porno.Sleepaway Camp is a bad movie lover's delight, a film that can be fully enjoyed both as a bad movie and as a cult classic that relative to other movies in its genre displays a moderate amount of creativity. It's got a reputation as having one of the most shocking twist endings in horror movie history, and I will say I did not see the twist coming at all. It's not a scary movie at all, and I'm not even sure it was really trying to be. For that reason, though it's clearly modeled after Friday the 13th, it's not really a rival to that movie, as it has a completely different tone and sensibility. It also happens to be a much better film than any of the Friday the 13th movies.Grade B- "},{"Title":"An essential piece of slasher and horror genre history","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 1983's Sleepaway Camp has everything one could want in a genre piece and more. Not only does the movie have one of the best surprise endings ever conceived, it also does a better job than most at establishing characters you can truly identify with emotionally.After a tragic boating accident, Angela is taken in by her kooky Aunt Martha and Cousin Ricky. Angela and Ricky are sent to summer camp to enjoy themselves and make new friends. Not long after arriving, a series of accidents begin occurring. Are they all mishaps or has someone returned to the camp looking for some type of retribution?Writer / Director Robert Hiltzik has fashioned one of the finest examples of the slasher genre with Sleepaway Camp. All the right ingredients are here. There's suspense, mystery, gore, and characters you actually feel sorry for. Don't get me wrong. You also want to see several of them die as well.I can't think of a more perfect film to sit next to your copies of Friday the 13th and The Burning on your shelves. The new Blu-ray edition of Sleepaway Camp is an essential piece of slasher and horror genre history. If reflected upon through the mind of someone watching it in 1983, you begin to realize just how pioneering its surprise ending was. "}{"Title":"A well directed slasher with an extremely shocking ending!","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As a child, Angela Baker (Felissa Rose) witnessed her family get killed during a horrific boating accident. Eight years later, the still traumatized and slightly disturbed Angela and her cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten) have been sent to Camp Arawak by their eccentric Aunt Martha (Desiree Gould). Angela and Ricky quickly notice that this summer camp is full of cruel bullies and pranksters who just wanna ruin everyone else's fun. Angela is constantly harassed for being so shy and introverted and Ricky is very protective of her. Angela opens up to a nice fellow camper named Paul (Christopher Collet) and develops a relationship with him. Meanwhile, a mysterious killer has been stalking and killing the numerous jerks at the camp responsible for tormenting poor Angela. As the bodies pile up, it becomes apparent that anyone with less than honorable intentions won't be leaving this camp alive!On paper, this film looks like it would just be another generic 80's slasher film set at a summer camp. It contains all the ingredients commonly found in this type of film complete with the camp setting, POV shots, obnoxious teens, atrocious acting/dialogue, and even the token slut character. But don't just shove this one aside as another standard Friday the 13th knockoff, as beneath all these clichés is a very unique and compelling story. One in which I was actually invested in from the start and was anxious to see how it played out. Another element that sets this film apart from the others is the character of Angela, competently acted by the lovely Felissa Rose. It's rare for a slasher film of this ilk to contain such a complex and interesting character. I really felt for this poor girl and wanted to see the ones who bullied her pay for what they had done. I should also mention the mind blowing ending, which is truly one of the most shocking I've ever seen. I won't give it away, but know that it's something you won't soon forget. This movie is truly something special and is a must see for all horror fans who appreciate a slasher that offers a little more than just meaningless slaughter. "},{"Title":"Dr. Drew says...  4 out of 10","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp (1983) The Good, the Bad and the Twist Synopsis A very shy and awkward young girl named Angela attends a summer camp with her cousin. Soon, the teasing ensues and campers start winding up dead. Gee, I wonder who it could be? The Good Honestly, it's kind of hard to find a lot of good qualities in this movie. It's not scary. It's not very disturbing. It's not funny. Oh wait, this is supposed to be my list of good qualities! Okay, so how about.... ummm.... yeah, I got nothing. It's not that the film is horrible, it just doesn't do anything new or different. It's just kind of there. I guess some of the make-up effects on the dearly departed weren't too bad. The dead kid in the boat was even a little disturbing, but the problem is that all the killing is done with shadow effect (killing occurs off-screen), so it kind of ruins the gore and after all... this is supposed to be a slasher film. That was a pretty poor list of good things.The Bad This will be easier. So we are at a youth camp of some sort where it looks like the kids are around 10-18 in age range. Pretty hard to tell what the camp is for, because they are always just hanging out and swimming... or playing baseball. Why they have the long, drawn out baseball scenes in this, I'll never know. Maybe to show the good guys from the bad? Either way... kids start dying. And not just dying, but being murdered in diabolical ways. Where are the angry parents? Where are all the police? And the camp is not only remaining open, murder after murder, but all the kids are still goofing around like nothing has happened? They even host a movie night after about the third kid is murdered. The only cop that shows up is a tad suspicious, but doesn't really do much. Musta been that super realistic mustache. The kids are all very unlikeable, foul-mouthed punks in redonkulous short shorts and various other 80's garb (especially the camp counselor that looks like Journey's Steve Perry on steroids). Angela, who is supposed to be the focus of this film, just stares... at everyone. Says nothing. It's like, just do something!.. say something! Finally, after half the movie, she opens up her mouth and then her stilted dialogue becomes worse than the silence. Then you're like, just stop talking! All the kids are just whiny and fighting and it doesn't make much sense for the most part. Angela gets picked on and retaliates... that's about it. And there's other creepy, odd stuff like the pedophile cook and the teen camper asking out the 70 year old owner? Like, what is up with that? And he's excited about it? Get me outta here. I gave it 4 stars simply because it was good enough to view in it's entirety and it somehow made you care to see how it would end. There was enough there to want to find out.The Twist Okay, so since I put the spoiler tag on my review, I am going to spill the beans on the twist. So if you haven't seen it, maybe it's a good time to stop reading. The twist is that Angela is a boy. They reveal this by showing her freaked-out, standing over a freshly killed dude and stark naked. Then the movie ends. Uh, okay. They honestly spent about 5 minutes total on Angela's back-story, which from what I can gather is that her cousin's parents took her in after hers died(?) and they really wanted a girl, not a boy. So apparently, they made her live like a girl or something. Traumatic... sure. Enough to make you a total weirdo and start slaughtering other campers? Hm. I didn't buy it. Maybe if they had spent more time showing what had happened to her, err.. him, we could have seen her/him endure the torture that made her/him go crazy. Instead, she/he just comes off as an oddball the whole movie and killing for what just appears to be mild to moderate hazing and then BOOM, we are just told that all this torturous mind-screwing is really the reason why. Like I said, I didn't buy it and it's probably why I didn't let a lot of the other weaker plot points go, because the main twist didn't work for me... so the movie fell apart. Can't wait to watch the sequels... lol. "},{"Title":"Better than the crap they show today!","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First off everyone says you'll never guess the end to Sleepaway Camp! I guessed the end to Sleepaway Camp. Yep predictable, though maybe not for the time it was made. Now I will say this movie was good and defiantly deserves a viewing if you like slasher cheese. Best part is almost everyone who dies deserves it so it adds a little guilty pleasure to the film. The movie itself is about shy Angela who is accompanied by her cousin to summer camp. Enter unbearable counselors, boring activities, camp bitches, and a perverted cook. So it's a regular Summer camp till everyone who picks on Angela start dropping like flies. The kills are inventive and entertaining and you won't be disappointed. Check it out because even if you guess the ending, you will still have a fun ride. "},{"Title":"This film is one that will stick with me for a long time.","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When I first heard of Sleepaway Camp, I thought 'Hey. That looks like your typical teen slasher film'. I bought it and stuck it in the DVD player.As the credits rolled 90 or so minutes later, I was stunned to say the least. For a majority of the film, they push you to believe x is the killer, then, in the last 10 - 15 minutes, BOOM! Your mind is blown. Plus it's such a shock to the system when the little secret they've been keeping is uncovered.You won't be able to think about anything else for days.This film was overall about a 7 or an 8 but I've bumped it up to a 9 just for the total mind manipulation and one of the most controversial endings in movie history! "},{"Title":"sleepaway yawn","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well what can I say about this film, disappointing yes, acting poor yes, as a slasher movie I have seen more slashing when I chop veg!! Its all about the quiet girl who goes to camp for the summer and kills people who get her upset. The actress in the title role comes across as the perfect quiet girl who would not say boo to any goose, she spends most of the film just sitting and staring at potential victims. Her cousin who goes with her tries to protect her from being bullied but he need not worry as she deals with it by killing them ho ho. Her love interest if you can call him that takes a shine to our murderer and is kind to her and she slowly comes to like him, but unfortunately for him at the end of the film she takes his head off nice! The last bit of the film is the weirdest bit and a bit eerie, you see her standing naked holding the blade that killed the poor lad with her mouth open and then you see it she has a penis!!!!! The poor girl is a boy brought up as a girl by her weird aunt when he and his sister were in a boating accident which killed the sister and so the aunt decided I know you can be the daughter I never had and so the story unfolds. "},{"Title":"Don't let the ending fool you","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Is it really this simple? A C movie (worse than B movies!) + a lame surprise ending = high rating and raving reviews about how genius it is? I admit that the ending was a surprise that I did not see coming, but does this really mean anything when the twist is purely random and totally irrelevant to anything? So, she is a boy! Great, but how does this fit into the plot? I mean if she was killing Boys or Girls who she envies for being normal and able to have relations with the other sex, then it would have been relevant. But what is the point of a boy forced to live as a girl killing people who humiliate him? I mean if you or myself were being harassed and humiliated systematically like that, we might lose it and kill them too. We do not need to have our shafts taped down and be forced to wear braziers in order to go banana on our assailants, or do we? What we have here is basically a cheaply executed and badly acted slasher film with a random ending that could as well have been just anything. There simply wouldn't have been any difference if at that end we find out that the girl is in fact John Rambo, that alien from ET, or even a menstruating Octobus with 4 cow breasts and a small Kangaroo in a belly sack!! Yes, the ending twist is that random and irrelevant.Should I wonder how that dead girl in the shower fell out at the exact moment the coach stepped in looking for her? No, I won't complain about it because this is what slasher movies are supposed to be; stupid and make no sense.Would have given it one more star had it followed the tradition of respectful cheap slashers and offered a couple of naked chicks. But -with the exception of a quick nipple exposure in the shower killing scene, visible only in full screen VHS- we are only treated to a bunch of butt naked underage boys which is not my cup of tea!! (It's not supposed to be your cup of tea neither or you should now be sitting in a federal penitentiary where you can't access IMDb!!).Silly. "},{"Title":"Sometimes a first time director can't do it all","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Robert Hiltzik's cult 1983 slasher could very well be the most uneven entry in the genre that had its heyday from 1978 to about 1984.It's virtually undebatable that the film's gender-bending ending is shocking, well-executed in both production and acting, and even iconic in its grand-guignol style imagery (remember, this was before Crying Game). But can you hang an entire movie on it, or a legion of drooling fans who seem to know every inch of the celluloid in obsessive detail? And indeed, there's a lot to know about Sleepaway Camp --- a bit too much, if you want to know the truth. It seems to be a film that was written backwards, around the shocking ending, and so much intricate detail was fussed over and invented that it eventually became too much for the script or the cast to carry off successfully in a little over 80 minutes.It's one of those movies that end and you still have many unanswered questions. I believe the answers are there but the script doesn't allow for enough scenes to adequately render the clues. It's an especially galling problem in the opening scene upon which much of the coherency of the movie later rests. Another chronic problem is the abysmal level of the acting. Desiree Gould is either a spectacularly bad actress or she was trying way, way too hard. Mike Kellin's performance careens from incoherent to embarrassing way too often to be salvageable, and Karen Fields as the standard bitch-girl has all the wit and depth of a bridge and tunnel extra on Jersey Shore. What SC does have going for it is Felissa Rose. Her woodenness actually works to her advantage and her deliberately invoked catatonia really works to create some interest and mystique around her character in the few times she does verbalize. I also found the opening credit montage eerie and well photographed. Some of the murders were inventive and refreshingly brutal for its time period, others are biz-as-usual.It really adds up to a big case of first-time director-itis. Hiltzik desperately needed someone to tell him to look HARDER for better actors, to CUT 2-3 minutes off the five minute softball scene that adds nothing to the movie, to ADD scenes that more explicitly spell out the nuances in his overly complex, if not intriguing, storyline. In short, it needed another producer besides Hiltzik to shape things a bit more.It could have been the slasher genre's answer to Psycho, if it had been a little more finely crafted. Instead, it's a cult fave for people with an obsession over the character of Mozart, who has a total of about 3 lines in the picture. Whatever works for you, I guess. "},{"Title":"superior slasher pic","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A young girl watches her father and brother get killed in a boating accident (or does she?). Eight years later she is sent away to a summer camp with a suddenly high fatality rate.The plot borrows elements from Friday the 13th, but this slasher pic is superior in every way. There isn't really any suspense, but the story is fun and compelling, the visuals have a sense of style, the killings are creative, and the movie ends with a properly shocking image.Karen Fields and Desiree Gould go over the top in their roles as, respectively, a slut and a nutty aunt, but aside from them, the acting isn't bad at all. The high camp factor is icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"A real carpenters delight...","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a horrible boating accident kills her family, Angela, a shy and sullen young girl, moves in with her eccentric aunt Martha, alongside her protective cousin Ricky.One summer, Martha sends the kids to Camp Arawak.Soon after their arrival, a series of bizarre and increasingly violent accidents begins to claim the lives of various campers.Who is the twisted individual behind these murders? First off, after the initial flashback at the start of the movie, has to be the worst five minutes of acting by anyone i have seen on screen. The woman who plays Martha is either an absolute genius, a relative of the director, or someone off the street. It's not even laugh inducing, it's pretty hideous.The rest of the film is your predictable, horrible people on the camp getting killed, in pretty boring ways to be fair, whilst an old man appears every now and again with a really big cigar laying down the law.Poor old Angela, she gets marched around for a lot of the film by some man who wears really tight trousers promising her ice cream.The plot and story is incoherent, and the script is dire at best.So why five stars? The freaky totally unexpected ending. Wow. if you haven't seen this and thought you'd seen the best twist movie ever, see this.It's probably the most freaky thing you will ever, ever see.This final shot makes the rest of the film passable. "},{"Title":"A Somewhat Campy Sleeper.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Whether Siskel and Ebert liked it or not, slasher films were big business in the 80's and it seemed to be that if you had a cast of young, horny adolescents to wipe out, you were guaranteed success. One of just many films to capitalize on this, Sleepaway Camp followed in the wake of the highly successful Friday the 13th franchise in bringing yet another campy tale of horny campers and the slaughter that ensues. Although seeming cheap and exploitive on the surface, the film attempts to differentiate itself from the competition by introducing a young girl in Angela (Felissa Rose) to root for, instead of the usual cardboard characters that usually pad out this sort of film.Now granted, there's plenty of bad acting and stereotypes to go around (especially when it comes to the camp counselors) but with credible performances by the younger end of the cast, the film rises above it's somewhat cheap nature. The death scenes are creative and are effectively achieved by some classic POV shots, but unfortunately they occur mostly off-screen and are consequently rendered ineffective. It certainly can't match the suspense of Halloween or the inventiveness of the original Friday the 13th, but writer/director Robert Hiltzik makes sure you at least have fun while feeling for its main lead, giving the film a bit more soul than the average slasher.What Sleepaway Camp will be remembered for, though, is its twist-ending that is likely to leave your jaw on the floor and beg a repeat viewing. Even though the film hints at it from time to time, it's careful not to completely give it away, and what results is a final image that will haunt you for days and which has been talked about incessantly for the past three decades since its release. Genre fans will appreciate its charm and be rewarded by something just slightly left-of-center. Four sequels were produced -- all of varying quality and success -- with a fifth currently in the works. "}{"Title":"A Memorable Standout for Camp Slasher Movies","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay, I'm not sure how to sum this one up. I would like to call this movie a forest slasher such as The Prey (1984), Don't Go in the Woods (1980), Just Before Dawn (1980), or The Forest (1982) but since this movie barely even takes place in the forest, I would consider it more in the Friday the 13th (1980) or The Burning (1981) field. This movie is pretty much Friday the 13th with more creative death scenes, more plot holes, younger characters, less of a budget, and a shocking twist ending.The movie starts out with a man and his two children, Peter and Angela. The family is playing around in a lake but end up in a boating accident caused by some young water skiers. The accident kills the father and Peter. Eight years later, Angela (the survivor of the boating accident) has moved in with her aunt Martha and her cousin Ricky. Angela and Ricky are going to a summer camp for a few weeks but once they get there, Angela is regularly tormented by the mean counselors and kids at the camp. The kids and counselors that pick on Angela, specifically rude ass counselor named Meg and a bitchy girl named Judy, start getting killed off. This unfolds into a twisted climax fueled by creepy, homosexual subtext and driven by a deep, dark, secret.This movie is pretty messed up when compared to other slashers, but this isn't necessarily in a bad way. The characters are mainly the kids at camp which makes it more disturbing to watch when thinking of the standard body count this film includes. The deaths are actually very unique, such as a man (presumably) dying after being scalded with a vat a boiling water, a young girl being impaled on curling tongs (nobody can really explain how the curling iron kills her...), a young man is locked in a bathroom stall with a hornets' nest, etc. To be completely honest, I found myself rooting for the killer because the victims were extremely mean. I'm not saying it's right for somebody to kill somebody else because they're bullies, but I was happy when some of them died. The ending isn't really an ending to be fair. It's more like an enormous plot twist that ends right in the middle of the climax. That doesn't make the abrupt ending less amazing, in fact that just makes it more interesting because it makes you ask yourself what's next. All in all, the movie is quite a nice little horror opus. It gives gritty atmosphere, good suspense and shock, and a big curve ball of an ending. "},{"Title":"Almost bad but too clever to be ordinary.","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is one word to describe Sleepaway Camp and that is astonishing. In one scene the movie goes from derivative to slasher classic. A huge plot twist revealed at the last moment solves a mystery we may not have even been trying to figure out. The whole film follows the conventional slasher formula and convinces us of the killer's identity. None of the pre-final shot is frightening or even suspenseful. The director relies on a provocative ending that reveals the actual killer to save the film. I'm surprised to admit it, but it works. It really, really works.Many character archetypes are visible and rightly killed. All of them are linked to a shy girl named Angela and her cousin Ricky. The perverted camp counselor, bully, jock, slut, and slut's best friend are all killed by a mysterious entity and the leading authoritative figure (a camp director in this film) assumes Ricky is responsible for the murders. He savagely beats Ricky, who we presume is dead, until the last shot. As panic has spread throughout camp, two counselors discover Angela on the beach with the severed head of a boy and are aghast to observe her penis.This is but one of many horror films that occurs at a summer camp. This one isn't particularly isolated nor do many of the murders occur at night. Several years ago, Angela and her brother Peter were swimming with their father when a boat struck them. Peter and the dad were assumed dead. We are shown a bloody life vest at the beginning and then the flashback ends. Just who was killed? The dad clearly was. Peter actually survived and was raised as Angela by his wingbat aunt. During the whole movie, Angela is never seen socializing with the other girls and doesn't swim. She does develop a crush on a boy who later betrays her. Despite her presumed unhappiness in not being viewed as male, Angela adjusts to life as a girl. Only people who tease her are victims, including young children.Sleepaway Camp isn't stylistically different from many of its contemporaries. None of its cast is skilled in effectively convincing us this isn't a slasher movie nor is the terribly sophomoric dialog they spew. I also like how none of the murders are preceded by long chase sequences. It adds authenticity to the excitement of seeing baddies ripped apart. You would be challenged to find slasher films that don't come off as cheesy with elaborate chases required before our masked hero strikes.The movie also varies significantly from the standard genre requirements. Most of the campers survive the film and the Final Girl is actually the killer. The said killer also has a realistic back-story instead of some generic traumatic experience. People with gender identity disorder like Angela become confused and angry when they can't be themselves. One of my friends in high school was in the process of becoming female and was decisively unhappy as a man. He also hides under the mask of mistaken gender instead of a physical mask.What a clever way director Hiltzik took the slasher requirements and crafted an intelligent and terrifying film. A plot twist within a plot twist is able to hide 85 minutes of drivel. Even today the film still satisfies and warrants repeated viewings. The general entertainment provided by the slasher venue is enough to hold us until the last shot. Seriously, take a look the final part clip on youtube. It's one of the best moments in any American horror film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first ran across this film while checking my channel guide for what movie was going to be shown on IFC Grindhouse that week. The plot description said the generic stuff about a killer loose at a summer camp. Having previously watched, and enjoyed, The Burning and Madman on previous episodes, I went in having a rough idea of what to expect. I was wrong. The first thing that shocked me was the staff members were clearly pedophiles which is terrifying in itself before all the violence starts. Even when you think you have figured out who the killer is, you get hit with a finish so stunning that you can't help but think about it for a long time.This movie deserves to be better known. "},{"Title":"Fade To Green The History of Sleepaway Camp","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Back In the early 80's, the flood gates opened for anyone and everyone who fancied themselves a Horror director. As usual, mainstream ruled with such bores as A Nightmare On Elm Street. Then, you got your standard B-Horror, with greatness like Basket Case. And even the amateurs got in on the fun, with shot-on-video atrocities like Horror House On Highway 5, yeah, Z-Horror The point is, there's a hell of a lot of 80's horror out there, probably too much, but one in particular has always stuck out in my mind. Sleepaway Camp is a bit different than other Camp-Slashers from that era. Sure, it takes place at a typical camp, with typical kids getting into typical trouble. Sure, there is a killer, and yes, everything seems really predictable, and to an extent, it is, but you don't know, if you haven't seen this, you just don't know. There are bad things going on at Camp Arawak, and who is doing this is not what makes Sleepaway Camp so Earth-shattering, it's why. Why would someone want to do those terrible things to innocent kids and counselors, and even that cook? Ultimately, It may not turn out to be a very good reason, but there is one, nonetheless. All I can say (without spoilers) is that, regardless of what you think of Sleepaway Camp, that final image will be branded into your mind forever. And then there's the sequels. Parts 2 and 3. Different director, different Angela (Pamela Springsteen), different vibe, different everything. Sleepaway Camp 2 and 3 are your typical watered-down. late-80's slashers, packed with cute puns and lifeless killings. Part 4, on the other hand, was never even finished, which I find funny, yet not all that surprising. And then there was Part 5, Return To Sleepaway Camp. Don't listen to the nay sayers. This film has many enemies, which makes no sense, because I found it to be quite hilarious, as well as brutal. There's even a part 6 on the way!! The masses would consider Jason Voorhees as THE 80's icon of horror, although I know the truth, but no matter what they do, I'll never tell. For more in underrated, yet traumatizing 80's Slashers, Silent Night, Deadly Night. should do quite nicely. I would recommend a double feature with this one. What started as completely mediocre, turns out to be a flat-out masterpiece of terror, and the cult it has developed over the years is much deserving. This is essential 80's Horror if there ever was such a thing. This is Sleepaway Camp. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The greatest twist of all time","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie starts off like a normal 80's cheese movie. Cheesy acting, in a cheesy opening scene. Guys in short shorts. A cop with a mustache made of clay. Cheesy kills. But the last frame of this movie, you will never, ever forget. The thing that makes Sleepaway Camp an outstanding slasher film, is it's original kills, including a blood curdling scene with a curling iron, and it's ending. I do not want to give away the ending. They don't make endings like that anymore. Up until the end, the whole movie is mediocre, but even if you think the movie sucks, watch all the way until the end. It comes out of nowhere. It will shock you. Trust me. Definitely watch this one, it is cheesy and funny at times, with the greatest ending in cinematic history, next to Nekromantik's ending. "},{"Title":"I was left with a rather sour taste","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Just caught this on the three film box-set. Never seen it before and I think I have always been put off by the UK 15 certificate suggesting a distinct lack of sex and violence. And I suppose it is peculiarly lacking in this department for an eighties slasher movie, but it disturbs nonetheless. The film is rather uneven with some very good bits and then some unbelievable bad moments, it seems for a second that neither you nor the cast can believe. And yet or perhaps because of the erratic direction we are never 100% comfortable that we know where this is going. The opening with the boating accident and the later leaving for camp 8 years later are both eerie moments and then when the film settles down we get so much bitching and bullying it is as if we have a WIP film. I do think Angela's silent staring and the constant need for her to be asked if she is OK is irritating but then, I guess, without it the film wouldn't work at all. The killings if not full and in your face are ingenious and effective. It is just that I was left with a rather sour taste in my mouth and I think that had to do with the unresolved trauma that proves to be essential to the plot. "},{"Title":"Full of Flaws, for Sure....Ohh, but the End, the End....","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I had never actually heard of sleepaway camp until one night I was flipping through channels and came across the doco 'Going to Pieces The Rise and Fall of the Slasher Film'. Now horror is my favourite, genre. The reasons why I love horror are many, but when I tell this to people and get a negative reaction, the kind thats like 'you seem like an intelligent person. Why horror??'. I usually retort with an explanation of how, in my opinion, horror has the most diversity within any one genre. There's the high art, for example the paintings of Zdzisław Beksiński, or the writings of China Meivile. There's really popular stuff, that is really well crafted and deserves it's popularity, let's say the work of Stephen King, Wes Craven's films, old EC Comics etc. And then there's the pure pulp, the Friday the 13ths and the Sleepaway Camps. They are all great depending on what mood you may be in. (I also feel that it can be mixed with other genres much more successfully. Sci Fi-Aliens. Period Piece-The Others. Comedy-Shaun of the Dead. Kids-The Lost Boys or Goosebump books. etc etc). (wow rant). What I was saying when I was quite rudely interrupted, by myself. Was that I hadn't heard of 'Sleepaway Camp' until I saw the documentary (And that that was weird as Horror is my fave genre). They talked about the end, showed the end, and I was like 'What the CRAP!!' and I had to see it. So I went to ebay and bought it (for $1.20, but I live in Australia so it was $10 postage. Being here in Oz is probably also why I had never heard of it before, it might not have come out here, because I had NEVER seen it anywhere). I received it today and watched it, it would've been awesome if I didn't know how it ended, but it still had mass effect, I was watching it with my sister and her b/f, who hadn't seen the doco. They like me, went 'What the CRAP'.But, every positive comment on here praises the ending, so if you've read them you'll know that it is the main thing the film has going for it. The acting is ahem, bad. Truly awful, but in that bad horror film way, that you can watch it and chuckle, rather then be annoyed by it. The deaths were good, and I was surprised by the quality of the make up and prosthetics. The pacing was good, and even though the acting let it down, I also really believed the way the kids were being mean to each other.All round this'll be a movie I'll probably watch quite often, once a year or something thereabouts. Instant classic to me.7/10(reviewed after first viewing) "},{"Title":"OK but way too grim","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten) and quiet cousin Angela (Felissa Rose) attend summer camp together. Angela won't talk until nice handsome Paul (Christopher Collet) talks to her and makes her feel welcome. However there are also somebody murdering people in the camp. Who is it and why are they doing it? This has a HUGE cult following. It bombed on its initial release but developed a strong following on video and led to multiple sequels. It's not a bad movie but I can't see why it's such a big hit. It's VERY grim in tone (the teasing of Angela borders on sadistic) and has very few murders. The acting is pretty bad too with the sole exceptions of Rose, Tiersten and especially Collet. The murders themselves are bloody but cut down to nothing (the MPAA really went after this one). I also saw the twist at the end coming a mile away. It does end on a very disturbing shot also. But, all in all, I found this too unpleasant and badly acted to like. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"A Reviw Sleepaway Camp (1983)","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp (1983)*** out ****Directed by Robert HiltzikWith Felissa Rose and Karen FieldsRose is the Carrie type girl , at the same time campers are being stalked by a crazy maniac. Maybe, the weirdest slasher ever made, confusing in form but at the end is something well made; here the central topic is not the killings. Full of gay subtext, different special effects, teenage drama, more of the accustomed young actors and one of the favorite endings of most of horror fans. Avoid if you don't want a bizarre thing, for the rest you must see it! "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Very good movie, When I first saw this I could not believe this was made in the 80's. This film is way to awesome. Whoo, Whoo, Whoo. Sleepaway camp has awesome gore scenes. Below average acting. (the gore scenes make up for the mediocre acting) Fellisa Rose does an outstanding Job on this movie. I hear there is going to be another coming out in 2007. The only problem I had with this movie was the gay sex scenes. Gross! But the ending is on my list of best twist endings ever. While Fellisa is standing at the end after stroking Paul's hair from his decapitated body we can all see that she is a... (dramatic moment...) a boy! So overall besides the gay sex scenes and the below average acting I recommend this movie for all you hard core horror fans out there. Pick up this movie at your local blockbuster. 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"For lifelong fulfillment watch this right now!","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm going to keep this short, this is the best piece of cinema that's ever existed....in the history of mankind....ever! If I say much more it would only lessen any particular part you will soon see when you treat yourself to this masterpiece. I'm a massive fan of the Friday the 13th series, Halloween series, Nightmare and so on, and I love the absurdity of those sequels at their peaks, but none of them can come close to the moments of unimaginable joy that this movie brought me. During this movie I had a roommate run out of our house in the middle of the night in the snow screaming at the top of his lungs and didn't see him come back for 5 minutes because it was so shockingly good. SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Classic Camp Slasher","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ultimate Classic. This may have even been the first slasher that got me into collecting. Of course, I had been into the Friday the 13th series that always seemed to play on TNT but everyone seems to forget all those other films. You may think of them as rip-offs to Friday the 13th and Halloween, but some of them are actually a lot better. Im not trying to say that this is better than any of those though, just know that there ARE good ones out there. This one is cheesy and stupid but it did take place at summer camp which is a great aspect in a slasher. If anything, I'd recommend the DVD commentary over the actual movie, because I really enjoyed hearing Felissa Rose and Robert Hiltzik talk about the making of this. "},{"Title":"Simply Amazing","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the best horror movies you and a group of friends can watch. Just amazing how ridiculous this movie is. You will spend the entire movie rolling in laughter at the homoerotic counselors, the sexy girls lopsided stuffed chest, and the insane deaths, only to be truly shocked at the end. This is one of the few movies that will leave you with the shocked/hilarious feeling of What, the hell? A must see. The acting is truly horrible, but not near bad enough to be distracting. Watch this!!Plain great, get your friends, get some booze, and watch. Twice MMMmmm Where I come from we call them baldies. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie bad DVD","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a classic horror film. If you liked Friday the 13th you'll like this quasi-clone.One comment is that the DVD quality is horrible. It was finally released on DVD but looks as if the menu's were done with freeware, and the actual video looks as if it was video captured from a Beta/VHS. You can even see the distortion at the bottom of the movie like you get with video capture.On the odd side, this adds to the cheese of the movie. Sometimes when you see newly remastered versions of a film it takes away from the quality you remember as an early teen. So watching this in degraded quality in an odd way is fun; akin to those people who still prefer vinyl over CD because the pop/static brings back memories.Cheers. "},{"Title":"The Cult Horror Classic.... Sleepaway Camp!!!!","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is great. Good acting. Good plot. Cool death scenes. I couldn't want more out of a horror movie. This is definitely my favorite horror movie and I'm pretty sure it will remain my favorite horror movie forever. (I won't give anything away, but someone has probably all ready said... there is a twist ending.) Many have said that it's the most shocking climax to a movie that they have ever seen. But that's all I'm gonna say. I don't want to give anything away. This movie definitely deserves a 10 because it is a great horror film and it still has many fans. (After 23 years!!!) This is a really good film and is worth buying. Happy camping and... you won't be coming home! "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a good film that has little to say but a lot of blood to spill. The reason my title for this film is Decent is because that is what this film is. This movie in my opinion is hindered by it's better sequel. I would much rather watch Sleepawy Camp II Unhappy Campers before this film just because II is such a classic and one of the first real slapstick horror films. This is just your average fair. It has a lot of death and that is a good thing, it just does not have that much originality to it. I know a lot of you will be saying what about the ending that was real original. I say besides the graphic male genitalia shot it has about the same shock factor that Wes Craven's Deadly Blessing had and that movie came out about three years earlier. Both films have the same conclusion for the killer's motives. This film just serves as a blood bath and that is what it is good for, if you want a crowning achievement watch Sleepaway Camp II Unhappy Campers or the next follow up in the series, Sleepaway Camp III Teenage Wasteland (Love That Title!). Watch the first one just for the blood and violence as that is all it has going for it. "},{"Title":"Horror? I think not","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you're looking for a scream your lungs out, haunt your dreams, cover your eyes horror flick, look elsewhere. If you're looking for a rioting good MST3K kinda laugh, you've got it! While the so-called shock ending is a bit of a frightening image, I think the most frightening image is that of the boy George-esquire aunt. No, that wouldn't do at all. Less scary, more cannot stop laughing. For those of you who thought this film was actually horror-filled, I can see your point. Some of the murders are a little vivid, but all is horror is exceeded by hilarity with the random zoom-in after the boat accident of the man crying, John. Obviously worried about his friend, his face looked like it had been practiced for hours (Ok, if I nail this, this could be my big break!). And sexy teens? I don't remember who wrote that, but ahem, R. Kelly alert. The kids, no older than 15-or at least look that way-defy being sexy. To be honest, the wardrobe-so classically 80's-is enough to take away the scary.While this movie's concept is,in actuality, a frightening one, the execution fails miserably. It may have looked good in an outline form, but the corny dialogue, shockingly inappropriate music-the ending credit song is what kills me, tight short shorts, lack of an age limit for campers,curiosity of how someone could die in some of the creative ways invented in the film, and the question of why the counselors are such jerks to the little kids really ruins the air of shock and fear. The movie, when approached with a This is Spinal Tap view of gag films, can actually entertain. My friends and I have made a tradition to watch Sleepaway Camp every summer.That's why I gave it a 7-comically, it's brilliant.In SummaryScary? no. Funny? Absolutely. Want a sarcastic laugh at what film-making has come to? Rent SLEEPAWAY CAMP! "},{"Title":"there's a lot to be said about movies with sleep in the title","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Contrary to how it may appear, Sleepaway Camp is not just another litany of guts getting torn out. For starters, there's the ending; I sure as hell didn't see that coming! But beyond that, you do actually get a feel for the characters throughout the movie - particularly after what happens at the beginning - and there are some creative murders (does it make me an awful person for saying that?). As main character Angela, Felissa Rose creates a girl with whom we can all identify. The rest of the characters gravitate between bitchy and asking-for-it...you'll know what I mean if you see the movie. A pretty cool flick.Also, I wonder what is it about movies with sleep in the title? There's this one, but many different kinds accompany it Sleeping Beauty, Sleeper and Sleepers, to name a few. It's just something to think about the next time that you go to sleep. But will you be able to after watching this movie? "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp Sequels","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this movie so much I did my first film paper on it. This is a slasher movie, but it has a psychological twist (Gender benders, a crazy Aunt). Its also a whodunnit, since many argue over which characters committed which murders. Note the homosexual overtones, and the Loverboy poster. Guys should not wear middriff shirts... I had to make a comment after reading the comment posted on the page saying that its followed by 2 funny sequels. Director Robert Hiltzik did NOT have anything to do with Unhappy Campers or Teenage Wasteland. There is a sequel coming out this year (Return to Sleepaway Camp) with Felissa and the guy who played Ricky, that is directed by Hiltzik. I can't wait to see it... "},{"Title":"Dull Friday the 13th Knockoff With A Twist","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Joe Cool Review For Sleepaway Camp(1983)Starring Felissa Rose as Angela, Johnathan Tiersten as Ricky, Karen Fields as Judy and Christopher Collet as PaulPlot After an accident which kills her father and her brother, Angela goes to live with her crazy aunt and her cousin Ricky. The aunt sends them away to Camp Arawak when they're older. Ricky fits in and Angela is picked constantly by her peers. Soon after murders start happening within the camp. Who is killing the kids, and who will get out alive?Openers Well this movie is pretty infamous. Not so much for the main story as it's pretty much a Friday the 13th knockoff. Killings at a camp by a mysterious killer. In fact this movie wouldn't be infamous at all if not for the shocking, and extremely disturbing ending. I won't give it away because I don't do that but the true question is, is it worth sitting through the weak attempt at a camp slasher? Well I'm going to say yes, but be prepared to sit through a lot of crap before you get to it. The Good This movie has two things going for it. Felissa Rose as Angela, who does well playing the shy scared little girl. And of course, the big ending. Also, while this is indeed a F13 ripoff(and yes I'll keep calling it that, because that's what it is), it has a more mean tone to it. You can tell that by the way all of the kids at camp are assholes and bitches, there is a pedophile who works as a cook, and the killer is also very mean. The Bad But this movie's mean tone also hurts it. I mean, really, what's the point of having a pedophile camp cook when he's used in one scene? Just for shock value? What's the point of making EVERYONE bitches and assholes when you are just going to make the audience want to see each and every one of them die. You can't be scared if you have no sympathy for who's being stalked after. Also the fact that everyone except for Felissa Rose does terrible with their roles makes me want them to die even faster. Ricky especially grated on my last nerve. Plus the plot moves way too slow and in-between the killings not much goes on and it's all very dull. The Ugly Luckily the majority kills are implied, because I don't think I could stomach some of the mean spirited kills. For example, he makes a girl lose her virginity to a hair curler(which was turned on, by the way). And no I won't go into detail. We also get some stabbings, an arrow in the neck and a severed head. Final Verdict Sleepaway Camp is worth at least one viewing for the ending only. In fact I'd recommend skipping past the majority of the flick unless you're really bored, although if you're having trouble sleeping, it's a great cure for insomnia. Just don't want the end before you go to bed because it will haunt you.Rating *1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After a boating accident kills one of Angela's two dads and her sibling. She goes to live with her crazy Aunt who proceeds to send her cousin and her to Camp Arawak. But soon enough grisly murders start to befall the crew and other campers in this low budget early '80's flick which is pretty hamily acted and is notable mainly for the ending, which granted IS a tad bit disturbing. That's the only real surprise of the film as the identity of the killer is pretty much a foregone conclusion. Not awful for an 80's slasher flick, but not particularly a classic either. Followed by two unofficial but much better sequels and an as yet still unreleased official one.My Grade C+ DVD Extras Commentary with Director Robert Hiltzik, Actress Felissa Rosa, & moderated by Jeff Hayes; and Theatrical Trailer "},{"Title":"A great teen slasher movie","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really liked this movie. I have seen most of the movies in the horror section at my local movie rental facility and this remains one of my all time favorites. From the insane Aunt Martha to the temperamental counselor, I love all of the characters. I particularly liked the taciturn Angela, the movie's central character, and her cousin Ricky. The end of the movie also contains a shocking twist, which I really enjoyed. Unlike most teen horror movies, there isn't a lot of nudity; however, there is quite a bit of profanity. I'm not sure it merits the R rating. If you're like me and enjoy slasher movies based around summer camps, rent Sleepaway Camp. "},{"Title":"Not a *Great* film, but a great slasher film","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While I'm not going to pretend that this film was in any way revolutionary or incredible, I will say that it's quite possibly the best slasher film of the 1980's.The movie differs markedly from the people getting murdered at camp genre and in many ways seems to be making fun of it. The characters spend the entire movie over-acting, but in a way that makes you laugh (compared to movies where you just sit there in shock at how bad the acting is). The film was original in many ways Instead of 20-something camp counselors getting killed, the victims were actually the teenage campers. Instead of some psychotic masked killer with a chainsaw, the killer was one of the main characters (something not often seen during this time). And more so than anything, this movie doesn't contain excessive nudity or gore! Which, for the heterosexual male, is probably a drawback. But gay males and straight females will probably enjoy the 500+ unintentionally homo-erotic scenes in this movie.In short, I realize I've done nothing to actually explain the plot of this movie. But you can read the plot on your own! Just to sum it up, it's a great film, completely hilarious due to being completely drenched in the 1980's, and is the best slasher film I've ever seen due to it's rampant originally, campiness, and (rather shallow) depth! "},{"Title":"~'*+*'~Awsome~'*+*'~","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I can't even begin to tell how much I loved this movie! First off, the child molesting cook dies right? First you think, well, is it Ricky? Then kids slowly start dieing, but their the kids who gave Angela a hard time. You think it's either Angela or Ricky. At one point, I thought it was Angela's boyfriend, but it made more sense if it was Angela or Ricky. Than pieces fall into place, and you know that the killer is Angela. Like when the girl who gave her the hard time was brushing her hair and someone opened the door. If you look close enough, it's Angela. Then it starts getting weird at the end. Like a flashback of the aunt talking to her. I always wanted a little girl. Angela...oh what a pretty name..I think it means Angel, yes it must! Like wtf? Wasn't she always...Angela? Then finally at the end when the consolers found her, she had her bf's head in her lap...and when she went to stand up, she had a penis! wtf? Sad that my cousin actually GUESSED the ending! "},{"Title":"An Awesome Horror Flick","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Alright, so it's way cheesy, and at times it can get a little bit boring, but SLEEPAWAY CAMP is also very fun, and very entertaining at times as well. The acting is a little off, but that adds on to the fun cheesiness of this great campy horror film.It takes place at this sleepaway camp for pre-teens. (Kids around ages 11 to 13) And one of them, is a deranged killer. Kids are dying left and right, and the paranoid owner of the camp covers them up every time to keep the camp from getting shut down, therefore resulting in more kids dying every time. Nobody is safe, at SLEEPAWAY CAMP!Here are some ups and downs on the film The kids in this movie really can't act all that well at all. But, all the death scenes are believable, and a couple of them are gory. I am a horror EXPERT, and there is one death scene that gets me every time. I just can't figure out how they did it. It's absurd. Now, there are some parts in this film that run kind of slow, and it can get boring at times, BUT, no matter how bored you get during this movie, the ending will SHOCK THE LIFT OUT OF YOU! Not SCARE, but SHOCK!So if you like campy, cheesy little horror flicks, check this one out. "},{"Title":"Became a comedy after 5 minutes","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is strange, very strange, i watch the first 5 minutes its got a good opening which was creepy with the excellent score in the background, but then it goes all downhill as far as the horror theme is concerned, the acting is poor very poor, it was funny just watching the actors trying to be serious about killing people, some actors just seemed as if they weren't bothered that someone had just died such as the camp owner which in my opinion was funny the way he thought that phoning a parent to tell them that there child had been murdered was just an every day thing, truly hilairious, Felissa Rose was poor hardly any lines to say apart from OK HI NO and the disturbing ahhhhhh at the end which probably wasn't her anyway, a strange and unpredictable ending which again was leftfield completely, never followed the plot of the film!! it was boring also but the comedy made up for it sometimes AKA poor acting, poor camera angles and tonnes of mistakes!! This film has become one of my great comedy films but overall 5/10  "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Angela Baker is a shy, lonely, and not-very-outspoken young girl. After her parents are killed, she lives with her hilariously peculiar aunt. Her step-brother and her go to a summer camp where mysterious murders are being committed. Chaos ensues.This movie is great for many reasons. This is a great movie for you and some friends (or a girlfriend)- there's some suspense, gory effects, and creative ideas throughout. Yeah, there's a twist ending which is totally 'out of left field' that is great, but the movie itself is a classic. The acting is sub-par, but most of the cast are kids.If you don't like slasher films or anything like a horror film, then it makes a perfectly good comedy in that it is very low budget and there are many mistakes.***** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"One long buildup to a fantastic final frame","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The plot is simple; Teenagers are getting sliced in a summer camp.  Who's behind it?  If you know very little about the movie or it's sequels, then the ending will surprise you quite a bit.  It's disturbing to say the least.  However, the 79 or so minutes that preceed it aren't very noteworthy.  It's basically like Friday the 13th, only less suspenseful and it actually has worse acting performances.  But if you're a fan of the genre (80's slasher flicks), then you might wanna check it out, especially for the sick and twisted final frame. "},{"Title":"LGBT Agit-prop?","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    This film, unlike many others of this genre, provides queer/trans/generally gender disaffected folk with the cathartic vengeance that films such as Death Wish and Dirty Harry provide straight white conservative males. It is also a well-crafted, disturbing horror film of Shakespearean-scope that our cynical generation fails to appreciate.SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS           The film, I believe, serves to elucidate the malignancy of gender roles, as these arbitrary distinctions, when enforced by the unhealthy, psychotically coercive family and equally pernicious, Lord-of-the-Flies-esque, Hobbesean society found in the titular vacation spot, lead to mental illness which often has a profoundly negative effect on the entire community (eg., Many murders of relative social utility) as well as the oppressed person in question (who's sole attempt at physical connection results in decapitation and complete catatonia for these would-be lovers forced, like all of us, to be something that they are not). Sex is used as a weapon, and is the driving force of any and all decisions made by the dubious (often depraved) authority figures as well as the brutal and pack-like children. Those that work to tolerance and change emerge relatively unscathed, while those that provide venom, and staunchly narrow minded opposition meet with the violence and insanity that is the most logical product of their handiwork (though the Aunt-cum-abusive-mother exists only as a catalyst and receives no comeuppence, hammering home the nihilistic nature of the whole film (though, as all people in the film are seen to be products of their environment and therefore devoid of blame).  See it, great violence and social commentary abound in this finefine film...               "},{"Title":"unique movie","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is a pretty cool movie. I really like the totally early 80s vibe is has. it has some good scares. And the ending of the movie is very surprising and uniqe, and also quite disturbing. And as cheezy as I know it is, for some reason, I really like the song that plays during the end credits of the movie...hehe. (  "}{"Title":"A Creative Original Story","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I first saw this movie on video, I thought to myself that it's one creative original story that's so cool and creepy at the same time. I bought this movie and still to this day when I watch it, I get that same thought in my head.  They should make more movies like this one instead of those typical slasher movies. "},{"Title":"Very well made film.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp was first introduced to me last year when I saw an ad for the box set in an ad and I said I had to have it.  I thought that maybe I saw it many moons ago and that I may not have realized it and my wife assured me that it was a good movie.  A couple of weeks later low and behold as I am unwrapping birthday presents what do I find?  The Sleepaway Camp box set! I couldn't wait to get home to see them.On a quiet Sunday afternoon my wife and I sit down to have a Sleepaway Camp marathon.  The first movie on tap, Sleepaway Camp I.  I was very impressed by this movie considering it is a low-budget film.  The movie starts with two men out on a lake with their kids and a boat accident leads a series chain of events.    The girl that was present at the accident goes to camp years later to get revenge on anyone who gets in her way.  I found all of the deaths to be very original and very well displayed considering the limited budget.  The ending was probably the most frightening image in film history.  You must see this film.  If you don't buy it, at least go out and rent it.  "},{"Title":"One of the most creepy endings in slasher history!!! A true cult classic!!! Can't wait to see Return to Sleepaway Camp!!!!","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I first watched this film I hated it as I was expecting a Friday the 13th film and I just graduated from highschool and had to put up with bullies so I found the film disturbing but then this movie totally grew on me and now I own it along with the ripoff sequels SC 2 Unhappy Campers and SC 3 Teenage Wasteland as they bite the dust compared to this one. A homesexual father and one of his children are killed during a motorboat accident and the survivor Angela lives with her molesting Aunt Martha (Desiree Gould) and 8 years later she goes to camp with her temperamental cousin Ricky (Jonathan Tiersten) and Angela (Felissa Rose) hardly says a word to anyone there and people decide to pick on her but end up getting killed whoever is mean to her and the camp owner Mel (Mike Kellin) gets suspicious thinking it's Ricky committing the murders as he always tries to protect Angela. A realistic look at some mean highschool kids and a great imagination of whoever was tormented in school thinking they'll turn up dead for their nastiness. The ending scene is my favourite and you'll see why once you watch it if you've haven't already. Mike Kellin who played the head camp owner Mel did many film, TV and stage shows but passed away from cancer shortly before the theatrical release of this film, Jonathan Tiersten who played the tough as nails Ricky did a few stage shows, TV commercials and an afterschool special called Seasonal Differences before he dropped out of acting cause he was sick of the business and became a singer & guitarist for many underground folk-rock band's in Colorado, Felissa Rose who played the shy and disturbed Angela stayed in the business doing Off-Broadway shows around Manhattan and is now acting in several independent horror film's that's riding the film festival circuits like Horror, Nikos the Impaler, Zombiegeddon and Corpses Are Forever, Christopher Collet who played Ricky's friend Paul made a success in screen acting first doing afterschool specials and then moved on to film's like Firstborn, The Manhattan Project and Prayer of the Rollerboys as well as the mini-series Stephen King's The Langoliers as well as guesting in TV shows and is now doing Broadway, Katherine Kamhi who played the bully counsellor Meg has done well herself with her acting career as she was in the daytime soap All My Children while she was doing this film and then was in another daytime soap called The Guiding Light and several stage, independent film's and TV appearances including 7 of the 12 episodes of the first season of the new series Dragnet, Tom Van Dell who played one of the bullies Mike did some stage shows and TV commercials as well as singing in a band called Exit and now works as a composer for other musicians, Loris Sallahian who played on of the other bullies Billy has been in the business doing several on and off Broadway shows (Mainly musicals) and then sang in many jazz bands signed by big record labels including a group called Legend and still does the odd stage acting and changed his last name to Diran, John E. Dunn who played another bully too named Kenny who smoked dope in the film with Mike used to be in the daytime soap with Katherine called All My Children and after SC left acting to work for HBO as well as an internet company, Robert Earl Jones who played one of the cook's at camp named Ben is the father of James Earl Jones and has done a bit of acting himself since the 30's and of course our very own Aunt Martha Desiree Gould did a TV pilot before SC called You Can't Go Home Again as well as some stage shows but dropped off the acting field and became a Real Estate Agent but however did do an independent film with Felissa Rose called Under Surveillance which is coming soon. Also a sequel to this one called Return to Sleepaway Camp will be in the making soon and can't wait to see it. "},{"Title":"It's okay, but not worthy of cult status","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (** out of *****)--Possible Spoiler Alert--This derivative camp-killer slasher is decent, I guess, but not nearly good enough to deserve the cult following it has built since its release.  It's a cross between Friday the 13th, Meatballs and The Crying Game (no kidding), in which a boy (Jonathan Tiersten) and his traumatized, shy and creepy cousin, Angela (Felissa Rose), go away to a summer camp where an unseen killer starts knocking off Angela's enemies (gee, I wonder who it is.)  The acting ranges from pretty good to obnoxiously bad (for example, check out Desiree Gould as Aunt Martha.)  On a cheese factor, this is much more enjoyable than if you try to watch it seriously.  Some of the murders -- though mostly off-camera -- are fairly creative (scalded by boiling water, stung to death by bees, death by curling iron), and Karen Fields and Katherine Kamhi play great, stereotypical bitches, Judy and Meg.  But, Mike Kellin (Midnight Express, Just Before Dawn) steals the show as camp director, Mel, who starts to lose his mind trying to maintain control of his dwindling camp and has a couple of great breakdown scenes toward the end, one in which he starts beating the hell out of Tiersten, because he thinks he's the killer.  Also, check out Frank the cop's painted-on, shoe polish mustache.  Unbelievable.HIGHLIGHT  The ending IS predictable (if you're paying attention), but it's still one of the more effectively disturbing final shots you'll see in an otherwise routine &#145;80s slasher. "},{"Title":"Great horror flick","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Im pretty sure that this was the first real Friday the 13th ripoff, but with kids. For those who have only heard about this movie they know of the infamous ending which I will keep secret. The ending of this flick is great and comes from out of no where. They just released this set on DVD in a cool box set that I just bought, but what sucks is that even the new DVDs are edited. Scenes were apparently shortened or just taken out. No real reason was given. One such scene is when one of campers is found dead under a kyack. In the original video pressing there is a long shot of his face with a lot of sea creaturs crawling all over it. In the DVD its shortened to maybe a second...it looks like a jump cut. There was also sound parts that were taken out for no apparent reason. It kinda sucks to say but if you find Sleepaway Camp on video anymore check that out. The DVD is still great, but you get just slightly extra on the video. "},{"Title":"MY FAVORITE MOVIE EVER!","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  People that like this movie are a special breed. This movie is the best movie ever! It has everything that makes a movie good, in my opinion. IT is so entertaining, I could watch it every day! The twist ending, the crazy characters... everything is awesome about this movie. The killings are incredibly funny. the guy that get killed by boiling water screams for way too long. The gay innuendo about the father is really interesting. The head manager guy is one of my favorite actors, I love his Huckleberry Hound style! Angela is so awesome! Judy is such a jerk, her killing is the best! The scene where guy that gets killed while taking a dump is really funny. Meg (I mean M-E-G) is the total example of teen angst at its best. I love every single scene in this movie, I have seen it a million times and own the video. It is my favorite movie ever, and everyone should see this movie. Everything about it is genius! This movie has been overlooked for so many years, I do not know why it is not a classic. It is the ultimate movie!!! See it! You wish you were Angela!!!!!! If my life were this movie, I'd be happy forever! "},{"Title":"The end of this film will disturb you greatly.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I began watching SLEEPAWAY CAMP, me and my friend were laughing our asses off at the creepy, pale-white, freaky woman who looks like a scary 80s version of Marilyn Manson. But as soon as the body count began to rise, we started to pay closer attention. The actors of this film are totally unknown, and many of them have probably not been in another film since.Thus, SLEEPAWAY CAMP was one of the most successful horror movies of the 1980s, as it was actually quite disturbing when it gets to the very end. The death scenes are pretty elaborate, but I must say that I was not expecting the climax to be as truly frightening as it was. I recommend FRIDAY THE 13TH and all of its many sequels, BLOODY MURDER and all of those other movies where kids go to camp and get killed. You know the films I'm talking about. But, SLEEPAWAY CAMP gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"Extremely Under-Rated 80's Slasher!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway camp is one of the most underrated slashers of its time. Director Robert Hiltzik pretty much made a movie that was well before its time.Spoiler Alert  I wont give away the story, but Hiltziks concept of the killer is awesome. Throughout the whole movie you think you know who is killing everyone, but little scenes like the curling iron scene really throws a wrench into the gears. Ricky is clearly seen in the doorway. The ending really packs a punch that will make you say what the..? The end is greatly done and I have to give major props to Hiltzik for pulling it off. Anchor Bay has released this classic on DVD, I suggest you go and check it out. Its well worth it. od I miss the 80's slasher flicks. They dont make um like the used to anymore. "},{"Title":"I bought the boxed set, and I still have no idea why...","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, first I'd like to say this... I don't really know why I bought this boxed set.. I went in originally for Re-Animator (I forgot about, and didn't see it around the shelfs as I did last time), and Big Trouble in Little China (which they were out of... supposedly next week they'd be getting in a special edition, go figure).. The packaging is pretty nice.. and the price was right.. 25 bucks for 3 movies, and production footage for the unfinished 4th...I'd seen the first Sleepaway Camp like last year, rented it at Blockbuster... thought it was pretty bad.. course, seeing the Crying Game a long time before didn't help it's 'shocking' ending.. regardless of what came first.. But a movie shouldn't be dependent on a shocking ending to be good.. Look at Sixth Sense, the film is good with or without it's supposedly 'surprise' ending.. Now, for the ending.. I wouldn't exacting call it shocking.. maybe to anyone who's never seen a decent horror flick, or who can't stomach them..I'd been in horror films for quite some time, though it hadn't been until 2000 that I opened the door to any and all horror experiences... the early to mid 90s I loved critter/gremlin movies.. I watched all the ones I could get my hands on.. Ghoulies (all the way up to 3, or maybe 4), the fantasy adventure Troll, the House movies.. the only real cult horror films I'd experienced were Texas Chainsaw 2, Re-Animator (very vivid memories of it from watching it back on cable at some point), and Phantasm 2 (the ball, which later prompted me to rediscover it and pick up both at Best Buy.. eventually 3 and 4 off the internet).. That was my basis for horror.. then 2000 came, where I went crazy at the video rental place.. chose horror flicks at random.. sitting through dreadful crap like Subspecies and Puppet master.. but making it also to the good stuff, which made it worth it, like the Hellraiser flicks (all five of which I now own on tape, and will the 6th when it comes out.. cause, even a bad Hellraiser is far more entertaining than most other 'good' horror flicks..) ..I also went to Phantasmania, which was a great experience.. got to meet Don Coscarelli, Reggie Bannister, and Angus Scrimm, and getting my 4 Phantasm movies signed by each... oh, and can't forget Freddy.. I started on part 2, then Freddy's Dead when they showed it at summer school one time.. then bought the Nightmare collection on tape in 2000.. he has to be my favorate monster.. period.. just ahead of The Tall Man..Now, recently, I've come to a morbid appreciation for slasher flicks, good or bad.. course, the key here is.. Slasher films can't really be considered good, how can they be? They aren't exactly high art.. so, I began watching them, for better or worse.. through Friday the 13th part 1, to that Birthday flick, to like 4 of the Halloween flicks (part 1, 2, 6 - I think, H20, and Ressurection).. Now, I've accumulated some kind of twisted entertainment, from each of these.. sometimes because of how bad they are.. I can't even explain why.. which brings me back to buying this Boxed set.. again, price was right.. and I had only seen the first..If you are a fan of the series, or of slasher flicks in general... I'd say it's worth it.. if you take into account current dvd prices.. The feature list is pretty slim here.. trailer and commentary for each, small making of documentary for the 2nd, and the making of garbage truck sequence for the 3rd... and still galleries for each.. but the price is low for 3 films, so you pretty much get what you paid for.. maybe a tad bit more..First film, for this viewing I just went ahead onto the commentary track because I'd already seen the film.. and you get to hear the director and the girl who played Angela (her 20 years later).. the other listed voices don't speak much, so it's basically these two for the most part.. not very informative, but enough to keep it interesting..Basically, the 2nd one.. I thought it was a pretty nifty slasher flick.. had all the right elements, high energy... even though the ending was a little weak.. but hey, how can it really out do the first ending? Even if I wasn't too impressed with the first film, I'll give it it's due...The 3rd was kind of a waste.. filming right on the tail of the 2nd, a week after the 2nd wrapped up.. It just didn't seem to have the energy, the death scenes, or the pacing that made the 2nd film a cool slasher flick.. Now, I don't mind difference in new outings.. it can be fun.. but doing it differently doesn't make it garunteed if done poorly.. Not only were the campers one dimensional, which is ok in most slasher flicks, but for the screentime they get, they managed to emmit an 'assholish vibe', almost every single character.. all of the ones from the first two camp groups.. At one point, I thought they might go a little more into Angela's psychy, but all they do is have a crappy rememberence session.. they never do anything with that.. which seems to be the soul of this film.. --then again, it is called Teenaged Wasteland.. so what did I expect?Now, finally.. the worst part.. the production footage for part 4.. aweful, I couldn't believe it.. thank god it got cancelled.. It was like a badly done soap operish short.. I don't even think it's worth further mention, so I'll leave it at that... "},{"Title":"I lie awake at night thinking about this film...","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sure, you may laugh at the acting, 80's outfits, dialogue, etc etc, but there's something more. Aside from the ending which shocks and disturbs many, I find myself contemplating this film long after I've finished watching it.  Questions are raised... but never answered.I recommend this Watch this film with a group of people. Separate and think about what themes were presented in the movie (you could even write a 'response' paragraph).  Regroup and discuss.Or you could just watch the movie and go to bed. "}{"Title":"Horror classic that started it all","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp  is easily one of the best slasher flicks to come out of the eighties. You can't call yourself a true horror film buff if you've never enjoyed the camp movies. The film is full of early eighties clothes, chessey dialouge but what makes the film a classic is the shock of a ending. "},{"Title":"A true horror classic.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, I think everyone would agree that this movie will not win any major awards, but it's still a classic movie. Sleepaway Camp has the standard 80's slasher movie plot, and that is.1. Teens go to a camp. 2. Anoyne who picks on a certain camper gets killed. 3. Others who do Bad things are killed.What really separates Sleepaway Camp from the other slasher films of the 80's is the ending. I won't give it away, but it's still burned in my head, it's that creepy. Nothing really ever shocks me watching horror movies but that ending will give you nightmares (those who have seen this movie know what I'm talking about.)Chances are you've seen this movie in your local video store and overlooked it, but if you are in the mood for a good slasher flick, then rent this movie it will surprise you. "},{"Title":"A Horror Movie Classic","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There is no Doubt in My mind that This is The Best Series of Horror Films (Besides Puppet Master). Everything is Good. The Plot, The Women, The Murders, The Suspense, The Sequels, and Most Importantly, The Ending! When I Think of Sleep Away Camp, I Think of the Last 20 Seconds. I Would love to Comment Further on This Perfect Slasher Flick, but I am Afraid I Will Spoil too Much. I Would Recommend this to ANY Horror Movie Fan. A Big 10 Out Of 10. Recommended For Fans of This is Bloody Murder, Slumber Party Massacre, and Sorority House Massacre.  "},{"Title":"Everyone should watch this shocker!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp might just sound like another camp slasher it is but with the most shocking ending you would not believe! Angela has this look thats sends shivers down your spine with her wide eye's and scary stare.  Judy (Karen Fields)and Meg (Katherine Kahmi)play good parts  as the film's bitches their fate (especially Judys death) is horrible she has a rather horrible intimate moment with a curling iron! It scared me to death the end of the film that growl and that sight. This is a film id recommend every one to see an ending that lingers long in the mind after been watched! "},{"Title":"Decent movie with a killer ending!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Every once in awhile, somebody gets a really great idea for a movie and then just squanders it like a couple of bucks in a casino.  This is pretty low budget material, and was probably just a project that the camp worked on over the summer.  Kevin Hiltzik could have made something extra special here but never quite got it right.  Sleepaway Camp is the story of a girl at a Summer Camp.  Angela (Felissa Rose) is really shy and doesn't participate in any of the games and doesn't even talk to anyone except one or two people.  The other problem is that people are getting murdered at the camp.  Naturally when people are getting murdered, the camp continues as normal, which is good because that allows the killing spree to continue unhindered as well.   One of the camp leaders knows who is responsible for the killing and is going to put a stop to it, but how many people are going to die before it ends?All things considered, this really isn't that bad of a movie.  Most of the actors involved were the kids at the summer camp and they are all pretty good.  The film quality is terrible though, and if there is one person involved in this movie that is due for a horribly painful death, it's whoever was in charge of the lighting.  This movie might have the worst lighting ever put to film; just about everyone has the lights shining right in their faces during every scene.  It's as distracting as it is painful to watch and it's too bad because it really wrecked an otherwise decent movie.  The basic idea behind the movie is a good one, but the writing that delivers the idea is pretty poor.  There is quite a bit of substandard material to sit through, but if you can make it, the ending is one of the best I've seen.  You have to give Hiltzik credit for this one because the ending is up there with the Sixth Sense as far as blowing you away.  If you are in the mood to try something a little out of the ordinary, check this one out if you can find it. "},{"Title":"An 80's Horror Classic!","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp 1/26/2010After Friday the 13th redefined the horror genre in 1980, it set off a load of imitator's. Sleepaway Camp was made in 1983 and is the best of these. Sleepaway has also spawned several sequels with varying degrees of quality. The story is quite simple; it involves a mysterious killer in a summer camp (Camp Arawak). Unlike the Friday movies these kids are only 12 year olds and probably could not be made in today's prudish, politically correct society.Camp Arawak is very reminiscent of real 80's summer camps. The kids are free of parental supervision and totally unrestrained to do whatever they want. The counselors are young twenty something's who really do care for the kids and take their jobs somewhat seriously. Our main character is a painfully shy and withdrawn girl named Angela. He dad and sister died in a boating accident when she was little. One summer her crazy aunt Martha sends her and her cousin Ricky to Camp Arawak. Being an outsider Angela is mercilessly teased and picked on by the other girls, especially the popular girl Judy. Ricky and the boys all have crushes on Judy, mainly because she has boobs. The story takes an honest and true to life perspective of what it's to be a twelve year old boy. Ricky does his best to protect his cousin from her tormenters but he has his own agenda. Angela eventually becomes friends with Paul, a nice kid who really wants to be her friend and maybe more. The supporting characters from the other kids to the counselors are all very 80's and are very New York. The hair, the fashions, and some of the dialogue is quite laughable but also very endearing. It is very honest about what really goes on at summer camps, except with the murders. As people start dying off in pretty creative ways, the suspects start to mount up and the camp owner wants to keep the news private. But when the murders continue and people start freaking out they all go into survival mode. There is a mega shock ending on par with The Sixth Sense that really made this movie a horror hit. On of the reasons this movie was so good is that the characters act like real people and we really care about them as the viewer. This is something that the horror genre has lost in recent years. Surprisingly there was little to no blood in Sleepaway which is also another testament to its unique appeal. "},{"Title":"Interesting Eighties slasher","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This seems to be one of the best loved old school slasher films, what with the famous end twist and the couple of sequels. I saw this one after the sequels, so knew the twist ending before watching. I didn't feel hard done by though as the twist isn't all that clever and doesn't have too much bearing on the rest of the film. In fact, it was interesting looking out for hints about the ending during the course of the movie. The film is slower paced and less bloody than a lot of slasher films, though the killings are usually pretty gnarly anyway, so the low gore doesn't matter too much. A lot of the movie follows the kids, and camp life, with good acting and a reasonable script. The film thus is fairly engaging, and the characters watchable and sometimes fairly sympathetic, especially Ricky and the kid that gets with Angela. Felissa Rose as Angela is as good as the hype suggests, a real compelling child actress. In the end the film delivered less than it could have though. The film goes into pretty dark places towards the end but the peters out into the shock ending, which ain't that shocking and is certainly too terse. I would have liked more darkness and killing, a speedier pace and less padding scenes too. Nonetheless, this is one of the best known Eighties slashers. It's a little better made than many with some twisted parts and good performances and well worth at least one watch for the real slasher fans. Finally it's ideal not to know the ending, so see this one before the sequels. "},{"Title":"great movie !","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is great ! There are many funny scenes, good actors/actresses and  a shocking end !!I just love this movie ! If you don't know Sleepaway Camp, please watch it !! "},{"Title":"Definitely makes you want to.....","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ......Sleep.  Another slasher flick set at a youth camp.  Wow! This is a can't miss right.  Unlike like all of the Friday the 13th films there isn't one memorable moment in this film - that is until the ending.Uninspired and unoriginal should be the tagline for this low budget rip off. I will admit the ending was good, but could not save this movie from the garbage dump of teen slasher flicks.  Oh yeah, pay close enough attention throughout and you can figure it all out.Bottom Line Pros  Good Ending Cons  Boring and uninspired3/10 "},{"Title":"Offbeat but repulsive.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The characters are idiotic, the acting is pretty terrible, the identity of the killer thoroughly predictable and the film repulsive and unpleasant. Of course, some viewers may consider those qualities good. I admit that it was offbeat, and the killing involving bees was original enough, but the surprise ending is no surprise for anyone who KNOWS that there is going to be a surprise and pays CLOSE attention to the (idiotic) opening sequence. "}{"Title":"I know it was supposed to be cheesy, but....","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I recently purchased Sleepaway Camp on eBay, more as a curiosity than anything else as Parts 2 and 3 were broadcast on IFC a few months ago. I am not a huge fan of horror movies, more so a fan of cult movies. I felt I had to check this movie out after watching the other two parts. Compared to the rest of the series, SC 1 is a more serious horror movie. While I found SC 2&3 aimed more for a comedic angle, SC 1 had the feel of a classic 80's slasher film. While my expectations were not that high to begin with, I have to say I was a little disappointed in the film.To begin with, the copy of the DVD I purchased was released by a company called Legacy Entertainment Inc. I found the quality of the video very poor, in all aspects. The sound and picture were of a very low caliber. Maybe that was all they had to work with, and normally this can add to a movie's charm. But not here. It was more of an annoyance and a distraction. Secondly, after reading some of the other user comments on SC 1 I think it's fair to say I was expecting more in the way of gore. While there were some clever ideas, I thought they wern't explored as fully as they could have been. All in all for an 80's horror film it was halfway decent. At a fairly short 88 minutes it was an OK time filler, but really only worth checking out if you have an interest in cult movies. Rating 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Laughably bad movie","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  To think that this movie spawned two sequels just sends shudders down my spine.  The plot concerns Angela, a shy girl, who is spending her first summer at camp with her cousin.  Angela is constantly teased and humiliated, and it seems anyone involved in the teasing ends up either dead or close to it.  The only thing that really sets this movie apart is the bizarre ending that is totally out of place with the rest of the movie.  It does not make this movie any better, it just is very odd to say the least.  In terms of acting and writing, it seems that this movie was made with some child's lunch money.  The plot jumps around constantly and the actors seem to have been picked from the reject list of The Gong Show so wooden and awful are their performances.  It's better that you just save yourself the agony and avoid this movie.   "},{"Title":"Absolute rubbish","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Quite simply the worst film I have ever sat through. Shocking said another reviewer. What? I can't stress enough that this piece of rubbish should be left in the bargain bin and not be given any time. Abysmal acting......no build up of tension.....weak characters......etc. etc. Not worth even attempting to enjoy.... on any level. All that 80's, retro, bad acting, camp stuff is nonsense. If you like this film.....you were probably in the cast or crew! Avoid this tripe at all costs. If you want a slasher/teen flick.....try Friday The 13th. If you want to watch a horror spoof....try the UK series Garth Merenghi's Darkplace. "},{"Title":"Not as good as i remembered","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" it's another the movie I have only seen once before that was years ago.This movie as some of the most nasty vile people in any horror movie, there was not more then one person that was like able in this movie.And the acting in this movie was so bad that it was really funny and the deaths in the movie were not great but they were some decent death scenes for 80's.It's was shame that some of the deaths scenes were off screen and we only saw the aftermath of them.The ending was decent twist, it didn't have the same impact since the first time I saw it, I Still a little shocked by it but when face of the the killer is revealed with mouth open for like ages, i could not help but laugh. I do think this movie feels a little outdated now and for some reason I did not find it as cheesy as before.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"creepy aunt sends kids to a camp where kids are murdered one by one","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is the funniest and most ridiculous scary movie I've ever seen. When I first came across it, I bought it for $5 because I loved scary movies. When I started to watch it at home, I got about five minutes into it and the acting was so bad, and the gross pedo joke the guy made at the beginning was so distasteful to me I turned it off, figured I just wasted five bucks and put the tape in the basement. How wrong I was! A few years later, I was so bored at my house and since we had watched every other movie we owned, I remembered the tape in the basement and decided to sit through it.The acting in this movie is the worst acting I've ever seen and we had to just laugh at it to stop the pain of watching it. The special effects on the murder victims and the ways they are murdered are absolutely hilarious. But the twist at the end was what really made the movie. It made all the stupid stuff totally worth it and this is now one of my favourite movies for Hallowe'en. Cult classic. "},{"Title":"By Tina && hilarious things we don't think of","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If ever there was a movie worth watching 85 minutes of pure crap for the last 3 seconds, this is it.This movie is disturbing. And not because it's scary in a The Ring, or even A Clockwork Orange kind of way.It's not disturbing because the acting, writing, dialogue, and cinematography (like, three minutes of random outdoor shots in the beginning which have nothing to do with opening scene of the movie) are bad enough to be downright confusing.It's disturbing for anyone with a background in school counseling, legal issues, or childcare in general. If you're like me, questions will run through your mind that will keep you awake at night. Questions likeWhy were pedophiles running a children's camp? Did places like this really exist in the '80s?Why were children allowed to play on a slanted roof?Why were 13-year-olds hanging out in a bar (canteen)?Why are all the adults cursing in front of the children?Why do all the adult characters have camel-toes and wedgies, even the men?Why didn't anyone think it was weird the cook was zipping up his pants as he was coming out of the walk-in cooler?Why is everyone so angry?Is it legal for 11-year-olds to say the F word that much?Was I just watching child pornography?Then are the Why can't they...?? moments in the film. Like, Why can't he just crawl out UNDER the bathroom door? Why can't the lifeguard hear her screaming from 10 feet away? Why can't they give him a more realistic-looking mustache?The dialogue further confounds. Who says Oh, that's too bad, when they find a dead body? What teenager says, What say you and I go for a walk later? And why does Meg need to spell out her name (M-E-G!) in introductions?The casting, characters and tangential plot lines further serve to confound. How did John Waters miss out on Dr. Aunt for Desperate Living? What kind of doctor was she supposed to be anyway? Why are all the male counselors dressed for a Olivia Newton-John Let's Get Physical video casting call? Why does dead dad have a gay lover? The answers to all of these question remain unknown.There are a few nuggets that make the first 84 minutes almost bearable Death by curling iron, for instance. (No, she didn't use the cord.) And when ... well, there was that scene where ... I like the part ... OK, there is only one moment in the film that makes the first 84 minutes watchable.Yet, there is a reason this director (who apparently never saw Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho) and this film has developed a cult following. There is a reason this movie has four sequels. Robot Chicken devoted 12 precious seconds to a parody. Bands have written lyrics (Meet me at the waterfront after the social), entire songs (Angela, Angela's Secret) and even named themselves (CKY-Camp Kill Yourself) after this movie. SocialTechPop lists Angela Baker as No. 2, just after the iconic Freddy Krueger, on its list of Top 10 Horror Movie Villains. Almost 30 years later, fans maintain several websites for this film.It's for the last 3 seconds. Watch it and thank me later.Better yet, thank Michelle Minervino.(And no, you shouldn't just fast-forward to the end, for the same reason you don't open your gifts until Christmas morning, the corpse pose doesn't come until the the end of the yoga routine and Jesus waited three days to be resurrected. It gives meaning to all the waiting, pain and confusion. In fact, it makes it just precious. As precious as Angela's ... well, you'll see.) "},{"Title":"Horror Movie is an easy way to make money","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Horror movies are worth watching because no matter what the movie's story is all about, people are exited for the terror that they would face in the theater..... That makes sense to me as well.Horror movies are getting remade, this is a fact that fans just need to accept. There are currently over 60 different horror remakes in different stages of production right now. The genre, which once thrived on creativity and originality, has become a machine, churning out the same old movie again and again. Studios think that with better CGI they can update old (and not so old) classics for a new audience. Most of the time (Amityville Horror, Black Christmas) they are wrong, but once in a while (The Thing, Dawn of the Dead 2004) a new masterpiece emerges. Some classic horror movies have become stale and dated and could probably use a good sprucing up.--------------------------------------------------------------Tom Jacksonhttp//www.discountcampertrailers.com.aucamper trailer "},{"Title":"I shouldn't like this so much","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a pretty terrible movie, but I'd be lying if I said I didn't find it entertaining anyway. And actually, this movie is pretty damned shocking at the end, too. But I won't spoil that for you. Sleepaway Camp has some pretty bone-headed characters, but most of them are actually kind of fun to watch, as you'll see by the end, and they're better than a lot of the stock characters in the Friday or Halloween films. The romance is silly, and the gore is badly done for the most part (except the bee hive scene, that was cool) but the camp setting is charming and you'll feel at home there, oddly enough, once the movie is over and you're staring with your mouth agape at the screen at the disgustingly shocking ending. The whole thing seems infinitely more screwed up once you know the twist, too, and yet you still can't stop watching.I really did try to dislike this, but Sleepaway Camp is just too likable, even despite its bizarre nature and crazy gore. It's like that annoying cousin who won't go away, and yet who you end up loving anyway. God dammit. "},{"Title":"profoundly lame","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" why did i spend so much of my adolescence in pursuit of the means to view movies such as this? a status symbol of ones coolness, slasher flicks, or almost any other 'r' rated movie, was proof of ones position in the middle school social hierarchy. not bad if you persuaded a parent to take you, better if an older brother/sister brought you along, best if you somehow snuck in or, gasp, so cool, somehow managed to get the person working in the box-office to sell you the ticket directly. then what happens when we get to these movies, we realize they suck. sure, there were classics, 'nightmare on elm street,' but not part two, 'halloween,' but these movies were more or less abandoned for the eighties, and 'friday the 13th,' due in large part to the impact the first three in the series had on the generation directly before ours (high-school kids when we were in middle school.) "},{"Title":"Dull horror film, but one of the scariest endings ever","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp (1983) D Robert Hiltzik. Felissa Rose, Jonathan Tiersten, Karen Fields, Christopher Collett, Mike Kellin, Katherine Kamhi, Paul DeAngelo, Tom Van Dell. Yet another slasher film taking place at a summer camp, with an unseen killer murdering teeny-bopper campers at Camp Arawak. The bloodless death scenes are still done well, but the film is incredibly dull and uninteresting&#133;until the bizarre, twisted, and one of the scariest endings in horror movie history. This ending gave this film a cult status and spawned two direct-to-video sequels. RATING 4 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, grisly images, strong language, nudity, and sexual situations.   "}{"Title":"Skip it and go straight for the sequels.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While not overly bad, this film is dull and badly acted. Not that the sequels are Gone with the Wind in comparison, but they are much better then this one. A few good moments a great song(Angela's theme) and a good ending do not a good film make. "},{"Title":"Whoever made this movie should die","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I know it's a little harsh yes i admit but god you cannot tell me that this movie didn't suck? I mean sure it's like ten percent entertaining but god have mercy. The plot line is really lame and this movie was corny as crap i hate it just as much as Children of the Corn, and who turns out to be a dude, honestly? That's just someone with to much time on there hands either that just really bored. Another thing is this film took itself seriously. That's what really got me there. This is more bogus then Rob Zombie trying to remake a good horror movie. Over all this movie just pisses me off. Plus, i didn't like the killing scenes they were dreadful! I just ask you why? WHY DID YOU MAKE THIS? "},{"Title":"Boring as hell until the end...","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As soon as Sleepaway Camp ends it is instantly obvious that it will always be remembered for it's shocking ending and probably nothing else. The performances are horrendous, as seems to have been the style in 80s horror films, the story is as thin and tasteless as tissue paper, and the killings are nothing memorable, with the exception of the first one, where a man gets boiling water dumped all over him (in an overwhelmingly unrealistic situation, but the lengthy shot of him screaming is pretty effectively unpleasant). I watched the movie by myself at night in my apartment on my university campus in central China, where I work as a teacher. At the moment we are nearing the end of our winter vacation, so on the entire campus there are only a handful of other people. Pretty effective environment to be affected by a horror movie. I'm a horror veteran, so I didn't expect to be unnerved at all by a cheesy old slasher movie, and I was right, until that ending scene. The shot of Angela with her mouth so wide open and her eyes bulging and peering to the side was one of the creepier shots that I've seen in a movie, especially an old 80s horror movie. There was a point in the movie where I was getting increasingly bored with Angela's endless silence, because I saw it going in one of two directions. It could turn out that she was totally innocent and was just a bonehead plot device to distract the audience's attention away from the real killer, or she could really be the killer, in which case the movie commits that age- old sin of the prime suspect acting extremely guilty because they ARE extremely guilty. I hate that. Oh and I have to say one more thing. The clothes that the characters wore were AWESOME. Especially the characters that were supposed to be tough guys, wearing tight cut-off jean shorts and tiny t-shirts that are cut off just below the nipples. HILARIOUS! I can only imagine those guys' kids laughing hysterically at the way their fathers used to dress! "},{"Title":"Hilarious fun for the whole family!","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yeah, if your the Manson Family. This movie is really MST3K fare, basically 90 minutes spent just to have a surprise ending. The only supriise i got was her devilish expression as she /he stands in the nude at the end, as she makes a weird sound too. Also, too many plot holes..what happened to the murderous camp counselor, Angela's cousin? All in all very funny, but not on purpose, watch out for the rapist cook, money hungry/horny camp owner, very old looking teenagers, the gayish buff counselor, the camp whore who is uglier than sin. Oh wel... Horrible acting, bad dialogue, 80s stereotypes, unlikeable characters, and bad script dog down this flcik, my recommendation Madman (1982) "},{"Title":"the climax saved the movie from the scrap heap","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a horribly made movie with bad directing and acting.  The camp setting has been used to much in horror flicks.  The only good thing that can be said about this movie is that it had a good climax.  But even the climax didn't help warrant the film as being good. "},{"Title":"What is the matter with you people?","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I consider myself a HUGE horror fan, and I have watched all genres, from all Countries, all kinds, and this ranks amongst the worst movies in the genre ever. I am about to throw up looking at the incredible reviews here. Honestly, these reviews have to be relatives or producers of this flick.The acting is beyond atrocious, and this is straight across the board, everyone in this flick sucks. The writing is miserable, pretty certain it was written by 8th graders, and I am pretty certain 8th graders would execute the script better. I just don't get it, people write this is an excellent slasher flick? WHAT???? What are you watching, it barely even fits the genre of slasher flick.. I know it's the 80's, but the wardrobe is hilarious and clearly directed by someone with homosexual tendencies. And, at least in the Friday 13th movies they show the killing, in this piece of trash they only show the body afterward.. I have written to much as it is, avoid this at all costs.. Horrible.. "},{"Title":"Sleazeaway Camp","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Someone out there must have loved it, or so many sequels never would have gotten the green light. Sleepaway Camp is a vile, disturbing, and cheap attempt at making a horror film. The story deals with an extremely quiet young girl getting tormented at summer camp, and those who torment her quickly getting offed. The film would like to think of itself as a mystery, but it's too lazy to even set up halfway decent red herrings. The acting, writing, casting, and everything else is considerably sub-par for the genre. There were dozens and dozens of better films of this kind made back then, and the fact that it spawned so many sequels is truly baffling.The main character is a young lady(?) named Angela. Early in the film we see her father and a sibling apparently die in a boating accident, then the next thing we know, she and a cousin are off to summer camp together a few years later. The woman playing her aunt gives one of the most truly ridiculous performances this critic has ever seen in a film. She only gets about five minutes of screen time but before its over, the film has already gotten off to a bad start because of her.The film is not scary at all. At the very least, a horror film must in some way be frightening. This one isn't even tense. It's just a parade of sleazy characters and situations from the moment the kids arrive at camp. First off we see a perverted cook looking over the kids getting off the buses and drooling over them. Most of the kids at this camp don't seem to have gone through puberty, and that only seems to incite this creep even further. Though he quickly gets what's coming to him, his character leaves a rotten stench that seems to only intensify as the film moves along. There are other disgusting aspects of the film. Most of the young men wear the kind of tight clothing that leaves nothing to the imagination about the size of their packages. Former Congressman Mark Foley would have enjoyed visiting this set, it's safe to say. Another scene has a rude young woman raped with a hot curling iron. There is male frontal nudity in the final scene, as well.Had the film been at least a little scary, then it would have been easier to ignore some of the sleaziness. The film just isn't scary, however. There isn't even much gore. There is a big twist at the end, but it's only there for shock value. Nothing we learn in the final scene adds any new dimension to the plot. It just comes as one more in a long line of sleazy occurrences.Most of the cast never went on to anything else, and their poor performances here generally show you why.For curiosity seekers only. This film is worth 3 of 10 stars to the Hound. "},{"Title":"This film could be a violation of the Geneva Convention","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow!  Forcing someone to watch this film could be viewed as a crime against humanity.  This is pain at its worst.Let us set aside, for the moment, the really bad acting (complete with New Yawk accents) and focus more on the lack of believability of many scenes.*** NOTICE OF SPOILERS AHEAD ***The killer (who during the film we know is one of the campers - so obviously a kid) could not have pulled the head chef off the stool since he weighed close to 300 pounds and was standing squarely on the stool when the killer was pulling on it.If Angela (later revealed as the killer) is so deathly afraid of the water (we learn this when Meg throws her in), how did she get in the water and kill the kid under the canoe?When the beehive is thrown into the bathroom stall, the kid cannot get the door open because of the broom handle.  I have two problems with this scene.  First, we only see his legs under the bathroom stall while he tries to open the door.  Am I the only one who thought why not just crawl under the door since it at least a foot and a half off the ground??.  Second, when he first goes in the stall, it is very obvious the door in extremely flimsy and could have easily been broken down (broom handle or not) by anyone in an agitated state.You cannot EVER make me believe that a cute young girl like Meg would EVER want to go out with Mel, the camp's owner, who wears black socks with shorts, or horrid plaid polyester pants with white shoes.  I would sooner believe this film would be nominated for a Best Picture Academy Award before I believe that.Now, on to the really really bad acting.  This becomes apparent very early on in the film when Aunt Martha is sending Ricky and Angela off to camp and gets even worse as the film progresses.  The worst of them all has to be Karen Fields as Judy.  She is bad bad real bad.  She is closely followed up by all the boys in the baseball, skinny dipping, and water balloon fight scenes.The only small ray of acting sunshine in this downpour is Christopher Collet who played Paul.  Not great, but much better than the rest.I love good cheesy 80's horror films.  But there is good cheese and bad cheese.  Sleepaway Camp is one big ole piece of stinky green cheese!  "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Exceptionally vile. cheaply made slasher flick that is awful in every department. Dialogue is babble,  the acting terrible and the plot...typical for the slasher genre.  "},{"Title":"Hooo boy...","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wow... This movie is a true representation of all things wretched in the 80s. Putting aside all the present clichés and such that this movie borrows, the acting...my word... It sounds like a bunch of middle school dropouts sitting in a classroom reading a play. A little of this fault goes to the director, as it's evident just from the lines and what they're doing that they were being given quite counter-productive direction. Also, I give a little credit for a twist at the end (the only reason my rating went to the middle of the scale), but the obviousness of who the killer is throughout is beyond stunning. I kept asking myself if maybe they were doing that on purpose to turn it upside down...but then I'm sure they would have run into some serious consistency flaws... However, the gimmicks and unoriginal plot line of this movie show that those involved making it were not all that astute about...flaws... If you want to watch an average depiction of a plot diagram that is so infantile, one could predict the thoughts of the creators as if they were guided by blind instinct, then go on, laugh at them while watching this movie. If you're looking for something to grip you in any way, pout at the lack of resources. "}{"Title":"Oh My Gosh!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp is not your average slasher, it's worse. I was with my friend at our local video rental store and being the horror movie fans that we are, we decided to get it. My friend had saw the movie before and said it had a creepy ending but he couldn't remember it completely. So we popped in the movie and started to watch it.  A third of the way through the movie we were completely bored out of our minds, so we fast-forwarded through the boring parts, and there were a lot. Finally we got to the end, what everyone was talking about. All I have to say about the end is Oh My Gosh, this is without a doubt the most disturbing thing I've ever seen in a movie. If someone strapped me to a chair and forced me to watch the ending over and over I would go crazy about the third time around. Overall the movie was horrible; the acting was horrible, the kills were horrible, and the story was horrible. But the ending will shock you unless you are a sick demented freak.Mel's advice Rent it and watch it even if you have to fast-forward through the boring parts. Like I said the ending will shock you so make sure you have a clean pair of underwear handy.Overall I give this movie a 3/10 and the 3 is for the ending. "},{"Title":"The WORST movie I've ever seen!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the most atrocious films I've ever seen, Sleepaway Camp is a good example of talentless people having too much money and time on their hands.  While I know that many low-budget horror movies are often cheesy, cliched, and campy, this one really takes the cake in terms of sheer stupidity.  Whoever thought up that ridiculous ending (where we learn the truth about Angela) is in dire need of therapy!As for the actress who played Angela, I'm sure this flick pretty much destroyed any hopes she had of pursuing a legitimate career in film & television - she'd be lucky if someone even hired her to play a corpse!  And to think that they actually made sequels from this piece of excrement?  "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Worst movie of all time. And it has the worst ending to any movie ever created. Do not watch this movie. It is total crap. Trust me. If you rent this movie you are wasting your money. If you have friends who are telling you it's the greatest horror movie ever, they are lying to you. That is not true. So many people think this movie is great and it is honestly the worst piece of film ever made. Your friends might think it's cool, but that is only because they think it is funny. It is actually not funny and it really sucks my balls. The rating given to this movie of a 5.1 out of 10 is about 5.1 points too high. It deserves nothing more than a 0. I personally refuse to vote on this movie because IMDb will not let me give a score of 0. I will not stoop so low as to give this movie a 1 out of 10. Please do not watch this crap. Love, The Playa Haters Ball "},{"Title":"Worst Acting + Script...Ever.","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If I was an acting coach, I'd bring this film in and advise my students that all the what-not-to-dos as an actor can be found within this one film.The acting is absolutely dreadful. I haven't seen acting this horrible since the parents in Degrassi Jr./High! Case in point Angela's mother or whoever that lady is that ships her off to camp. Or when Judy tells off Angela - it's something out of a Russ Meyer film! Oddly enough, the acting had a kind of Reefer Madness quality to it.The casting is also terrible. The campers almost appear TOO YOUNG to recite the script. At one point, there is a camp counselor (in her 20s) who asks out the camp director (who is at least 50)!The script and plot line are totally disjointed. Angela's family was killed in the beginning, so what? Gay dads? WTF? So many pointless scenes. Whadda waste of film! It's a jigsaw puzzle that a blind person tried to piece together. And there are many, many missing pieces.The only good points that I can mention are Angela's creepy stare - her acting though is another story, mood music - way too much at times, and the cheese factor.If you're totally bored and don't mind sittin' through an 80s, cheese, camp-slasher, be my guest. Otherwise steer that powerboat away from the dock of Sleepaway Camp! "},{"Title":"Campy Sleepaway.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The title delivers not on one, but two promises the movie truly is campy, in the goofiest possible 80s way. And it does induce sleepiness, or at least mild drowsiness.Did I say this was a campy 80s film? An understatement. You can spot those idiotic tight shorts and cheesy haircuts from outer space. The cast look like rejects straight out of a failed, low-budget TV pilot about skinny rebellious-without-a-cause teens. The poor bastards couldn't have had much fun running around in clothes tight enough to strangle a bull. The dialogue seems to be a collage of discarded comic-book balloons.But none of these stand a chance against the idiotic end-twist. Forget the ugly T-shirts, the bleak/unappealing cast, the cretinous dialogue, the asinine characters, and the corny haircuts. Who is the killer? It is the shy girl, Angela. She's Angelo, get it? Raised as a girl, (s)he somehow gradually started looking like a girl - a morphing process which was very convenient for the movie's brainless director. No idea how Angelo's voice became girlish too... That isn't explained, either. But expecting explanations or an ounce of intelligence regarding anything in a slasher film is certainly stretching one's optimism a bit.The last scene has Angela/Angelo screaming like a blood-sucking vampire who'd just been awoken from its B-movie grave, as her/his dong breathes some fresh air. (Hint, hint, viewers ding-dong.) But it served its purpose it woke me up. It was too stupid not to laugh at. Hence, ironically, the ending is good in a two-fold manner it signifies the much-anticipated end of a truly bad movie, and it made me laugh. All bad things can end well, you just never know...How must Felissa Rose feel, having been thought of as a perfect choice to play an androgynous, sexless creature? You look so much like a boy!... Gee, thanks... I'll take that as a compliment. "},{"Title":"Surprise Ending Does Not Save This Bad Movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A Really bad slasher movie that is exactly what it looks like.  A low grade rip-off of FRIDAY THE 13TH with no suspense or atmosphere.  Yes there is a surprise ending, but it's kinda dumb and implausible. Besides the rest of the film is so completly meaningless that the ending becomes that way too. Forget it. "},{"Title":"Oh my God...","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sleepaway Camp must have been directed by someone's dog, because no human being could have actually produced such a piece of trash!  The story was completely stupid and the acting horrendous.  Normally, one would be looking forward to the end (just to end the agony of watching such an abomination of movie), but then they had to go and have that horrible horrible ending (did they buy that prosthetic from an adult sex shop)!Words cannot accurately describe how atrocious Sleepaway Camp was.  This movie should be buried in a landfill.  "},{"Title":"Too young to slash?","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'll definitely be the first to admit that this Sleepaway Camp contains some really ingenious plot ideas and several very grisly images but, regretfully, NONE of these promising elements were processed the way they should have. This might very well be one of the most successful Friday the 13th-clones of the early 80's (maybe even better than F13 itself&#133;) but still all that remains is a poorly produced and clumsily shot horror movie with more bad aspects than good ones. Many fans of the horror genre put Sleepaway Camp among their favorites because of the exceptional plot twist at the end of the film. Granted, the notorious climax is rather inventive and sick, but also very predictable, especially if you anticipate some kind of out-of-the-ordinary plot twist (and we all know there will be a twist, don't we?). Moreover, this terrific denouement is preceded by 80 long minutes of clichéd situations, imbecile dialogs and absolutely awful acting performances! Several years after a traumatizing boating accident, young and silent Angela is sent to summer camp where she's the victim of bullying and vicious laughingstock. Strangely enough, everyone who messes with Angela ends up sadistically murdered. As you can see, the subject matter is very routine and not even the most shocking climax can possibly turn Sleepaway Camp into a good film. Still, there are some unique and hugely disturbing aspects about Sleepaway Camp that are rarely ever mentioned but stand as the only reason why this 80's slasher is memorable, in my humble opinion. The murder victims in this film are the youngest ever! They hardly even hit puberty if you ask me! The boy who loses his head, for example, is just a child and even the irritating Judy character is way too young to be killed off like this (even though she proudly shows off with her perky pubertal breasts). There also are serious insinuations towards pedophilia and a sexual relationship between the camp owner and a female teenager that are way too controversial for a film like this. Odd little horror movie, to say the least&#133; "},{"Title":"Real camp B-horror.","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is kind of slow and it's also really a B-type of movie but yet the manages to be not completely horrible. It's a pretty maintaining movie that features all of the right required ingredients and also throws in some originality of its own.Even though it is of course a quite formulaic movie they still did a pretty good job with its story. This is mostly because it picks a pretty nice approach with its killer. Problem is perhaps that the movie has too many slow and pointless moments in it and it also starts to repeat itself a bit at times. It also doesn't always handle its character well enough. Sometimes a character gets put down as a carrying main character but then he or she will suddenly disappear out of the movie again for quite some time. The movie has some difficulties finding its right balance at times.It's a movie that has B-movie written all over it. It has a campy look and its silly '80's atmosphere and look of course also don't help much. But foremost the movie is a real B-movie with its acting. The movie has some real bad acting in it, also due to the fact that most characters are being played by inexperienced teenagers. But somehow it also really seems to fit the movie and it hardly becomes a big complaint while watching the movie. It helps to make the movie a more light and entertaining one to watch.The movie still takes itself serious though, so the movie is no ridicules one to watch. It has swearing and gore in it but nothing that will impress the most hardened horror movie watcher too much, though it's all still good looking.The movie tends to become a real slasher toward the end and perhaps also feels a bit rushed, since it's in contrast with its more slower first halve. It's not really a problem though, since it actually provides the movie with some good genre moments and a great ending.Certainly watchable, especially of course if you know how to appreciate an '80's B-movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"if you like gay horror films you'll love this...","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this is the gayest horror film I've ever seen...if you're into that kind of thing great! just a word of warning if you're not, get ready for a surprise ending and be ready to cover your eyes! I'll deny ever having seen this film if this goes to court...on a lighter note the sequels are better and 3 is actually quite good...there's a couple of good kills in this one though and the story is at least original, I can only imagine what the new return to sleepaway camp ending will be, if you like alan partridge then he'll already have given away the ending when he talked about the crying game to the 2 irish fellas...i.e. 2 fellas with eyebrows on their cheeks and badly tarmacked drives...in this country anyway...end ramble "}{"Title":"minimal narrative","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The fact that the narrative was minimal (perhaps even sub par) is a legitimate complaint, but I found that the utter wackiness and charm it exuded was a wonderful relief from recently Hollywood endeavors.Heat sucks, Mark Cuban rox.The fact that the narrative was minimal (perhaps even sub par) is a legitimate complaint, but I found that the utter wackiness and charm it exuded was a wonderful relief from recently Hollywood endeavors.Heat sucks, Mark Cuban rox.The fact that the narrative was minimal (perhaps even sub par) is a legitimate complaint, but I found that the utter wackiness and charm it exuded was a wonderful relief from recently Hollywood endeavors. "},{"Title":"One of the better 'lower-key' slashers","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sleepaway Camp is one of the most clear-cut cases of Friday the 13th mimicry in all of horror cinema. It's so clear cut because it's so shameless - we have a holiday camp, a murderer on the rampage because of something that happened at the start of the film, a completely unlikely killer etc etc; yet despite all this, Sleepaway Camp does manage to put all of these elements together to form a fairly decent slasher flick. The first half of the film won't lead you to believe this, however; as it's really quite boring, but once the film gets going, Sleepaway camp starts to justify it's reputation as one of the best of the non-Friday/Elm Street slasher films. The plot is a simple excuse for lots of butchery, and sees a camping holiday turn to tragedy as a father and child are killed in a boating accident. We then fast-forward eight years, and it's time for Ricky and his cousin; the survivor of the accident at the film's opening, to partake in the all-American tradition of spending the summer at camp. Unfortunately, a ruthless killer has decided to do the same thing...This film has been described as an essential film for horror fans; but that really isn't true. Sleepaway Camp is merely another entry in the eighties slasher tradition; and I would say that it's only worth seeing once you've run out of actual classics to watch. I do have to admit, however, that I've never been a big fan of this sort of film; so slasher fans are welcome to disagree with me. The murders here aren't all that bloodthirsty, but they are quite vicious, despite the vast majority of them happening off-screen. I do have to give credit to this film, however, for the fact that it doesn't merely go with the boring knife killings that many of its peers adhere to. Modes of dispatch include scolding, beheading, drowning and my personal favourite - the beehive! There is a knife sequence, but it's actually quite well done. This leads me to the film's ending. The ending is here is often touted as being one of the most shocking in American horror cinema history, and it's easy to see why. However, it isn't that shocking when it comes to mystery - as the twist becomes all too easy to guess at about the halfway point. Still, this certainly isn't a bad film - and while it's not essential, it's a decent way to spend eighty-odd minutes. "},{"Title":"Hear me now...    SPOILER","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Read this despite the possible *spoiler*...I'd really hate to be an asshole but in this case I just have to. The big secret that no one wants to spoil in this section is ...<snare drums> ANGELA IS THE KILLER AND SHE IS NOT ANGELA AT ALL - SHE'S GOT A GODDAM PRICK!!! Yep boys & girls that's what the whole fuss was about with this, yet another 80's slasher that no self-respecting-horror-fan should care about. Tell me one thing all you people if this movie is so great how come there's no logic in it whatsoever? What I mean is hey, we had three unexplained dead bodies shouldn't we like close the camp & send the kids home or smth? OK,let's pretend that the first death might have been an accident... what about the guy who drowned<!?!?> Did he later swam under the boat & crawled to the shore? I'd hate to bum ya all down - I'm a great horror fan myself,but this one was plain all IDIOTIC.4 out of 10 <I'm a pedophile...;)> "},{"Title":"Sleepaway Camp","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Really strange slasher flick with psychological undertones of transvestism and homosexuality. It's quite simple really..anyone that dares mess with a very quiet young girl named Angela(Felissa Rose)dies horribly. It's possibly suggested that perhaps Angela's cousin Ricky(Jonathan Tiersten), with quite a filthy mouth, may be behind the murders. Angela has a way of staring right through women who speak to her aggressively or insultingly not even batting an eyelash with these blank, cold eyes that are chillingly black. Those who suffer some murderer's wrath are a pederast cook whose face and arms are burned by boiling water, a punk prankster who receives a swarm of bees, another young prankster is drowned, a young girl gets suffocated, and a mean councilor gets a knife blade stabbed down her back.I personally didn't find any of the murder sequences that horrific..mostly every death is more implied than shown, and some of the death sequences aren't even really that effective until the aftermath such as the pedophile cook's holding out his scalding hands as he screams with terror, agony at fever pitch, as we witness his burnt face. The murder with the curling iron is completely executed off-screen with only a shadow of hands on a wall reaching out as she dies a horrible death. And, the arrow through the neck of one victim really pales in comparison to the arrowhead kill in Friday THE 13TH. The film's bread-and-butter is the closing scene and certainly leaves and open-mouthed shock of disbelief...an indelible mark is left on the viewer wondering if they can believe what they just saw. Without that ending, though, I'm not sure this particular slasher flick has a whole hell of a lot else to truly offer a die-hard slasher fan. Nostalgia, maybe? Like in many a slasher flick, there's psychological damage resting within the psychopath. We get a glimpse into the psyche of the person responsible for the killings..how this person grew up with a parental guardian whose nuts and bolts weren't screwed in tight enough, the traumatic loss of your sibling and father, and dealing with sexual confusion that erupts violently where there are plenty of victims to lash out on. I think, though, as I mentioned above, for me the main ingredient that works is what lies behind those cold and dark eyes of Angela. That stare..what truly lies in wait for those who push and push when there was no need? I can't say I think this slasher overall is that good, but it has some elements(..like the camp director's lunacy deriving from an exodus of kids as the murders add in number, unleashing on Angela's cousin believing he's the culprit)that lift it above many camp slaughter flicks. And, quite a rarity of films of this sort, Sleepaway Camp actually has real kids who swear..not olders pretending to be kids. I'm still amazed, though, that this flick has such a fervent following. "}]