[{"Title":"A TREMENDOUS ACHIEVEMENT","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"57 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Reading the few awfully and derogatorily negative reviews for this film here on the IMDb, it still befuddles me about the total oppression and negativity that people throw out of their mouths without expressing themselves in a more precise and intelligent manner, mainly on a film that presents such important issues and social commentaries. Even though the film is set in the past, all it says is still very noteworthy and easy to relate to in the past few decades and definitely in the decades to come.YENTL is a film to be shared and enjoyed regardless of ethnicity, religion or background. Its universality speaks and raises voices to different generations and social groups.Motivational, moving and exquisitely shot with rich period flavor and mood (AND THIS IS WITHOUT HAVING SEEN THE DVD YET, SINCE IT IS NOT AVAILABLE, AND MS. STREISAND HERSELF NOTED THAT THE COLOR TINT ON THE VHS TAPE IS INCORRECT, SOMETHING SHE HAD CORRECTED FOR THE UPCOMING DVD), this is the type of story about conquering your fears and stop at nothing to achieve your dreams that is fatally missing from films in our present time.If there is an aspect to this movie that is the most formidable, it's the music and songs in it that's what is most successful about it, since they carry the story as it progresses through its tale of passion, love, struggle and perseverance.Ignorance has kept the film from being enjoyed and appreciated by several groups and individuals. Hopefully someday they will find the courage and wit to understand such incredible gem.NOTHING'S IMPOSSIBLE  "},{"Title":"Blazing a New Professional Trail for Women","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Barbra Streisand has referred to herself as 'an actress who happens to be a singer'. I doubt I am alone in viewing her professional legacy in the reverse as a great singer who happens to be an actress . . . director, producer, screenplay writer, musical score composer, humanitarian, and lately, concerned with using her production and direction talents to bring out important social issues (like ageism--The Living Century is about centurions--people a hundred years old or more).Yentl marks the beginning of a woman blazing a new trail as a director, singer, composer, her hands in the screenplay, and production. She's spoken in a segment on The Directors, about how various cultures have treated her as a result of her deliberate transcendence of Hollywood's gender-biased boundaries. One of her most interesting points reveals how well she was treated in England by the British filming crew. Since gender-bias against women is not even comparable to gender bias in the US, because England is so far advanced beyond gender discrimination because one is a woman, Streisand remarks how much easier it was for her to accomplish her goals on the set because the British film crew treated her without gender-bias, and with the respect she is certainly due.Yentl royally upset the AFI in the US because Streisand entered into no woman's land when she had a hand in nearly every aspect of the motion picture. Yentl has some of the most memorable, touching, humanely familiar music and lyrics, yet it received no Academy Award. The direction was brilliant--no Academy Award. The screenplay was one that was serious, hilarious, religious, spiritual, and even addressed the issues of gender-bias head on--no Academy Award. Streisand's and Amy Irving's acting was stupendous--no Academy Award.Streisand paved the way and took the non-recognition by the Film Academy without stopping. This musical motional picture pales many that are classics. The story is an extra interesting one, the likes of which have not been reproduced with anything close to as much skill and class.I'll give this classic about six Academy Awards, including several that go to Streisand alone. "},{"Title":"An absolute triumph","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Streisand's directorial debut is easily her most passionate and personal film to date. It was hailed by Steven Spielberg as the best directorial debut since Citizen Kane, and I am in complete agreement. Streisand worked for more than 15 years on bringing this film to the big screen, and it was well worth the effort. YENTL is an absolute triumph Every single aspect of the film works flawlessly the story is clever, the dialogue is extremely well-written, the cinematography is beautiful, and the performances are first-rate.Many critics and fans found Streisand's performances in A STAR IS BORN and THE MAIN EVENT to be labored and overly-mannered. However, there is little doubt that she once again emerges as a true actress in Yentl. As a matter of fact, Streisand's pitch-perfect portrayal of Yentl/Anshel is quite possibly the best performance of her legendary career - I simply cannot think of any way her performance could be bettered. Broadway tenor Mandy Patinkin is terrific as the object of Yentl's affections; it is a role which should have made him a huge screen star. The character of Haddass could have easily turned into a thankless role, however Amy Irving brings a layered depth to the part that many other young actresses could have glossed over.YENTL is also showcase for the wonderful music of Michael Legrand (with outstanding lyrics by Marilyn and Alan Bergman), and the film uses these songs to brilliant effect. There are no production numbers, nor singing out in the street. Except for the finale, Streisand only sings when she is completely alone or silently as a voice-over. The songs take the place of spoken soliloquies and represent Yentl's private thoughts. This device has a great Shakespearean feel to it and (along with Streisand's ever passionate singing) help cement the film into the realm of fantasy. Though YENTL was infamously snubbed by the Academy Awards, justice was served when Streisand was awarded with the Golden Globes for Best Picture and Best Director, the first female to ever win the latter honor.Appropriately for a musical, the film's song score is first-rate. Composer Michael Legrand is an unrecognized genius, and his score is both complex and inviting. Alan and Marilyn Bergman have penned the lyrics to many of Streisand's best-loved recordings (the #1 hits The Way We Were and You Don't Bring Me Flowers, just to name a few), but they really outdo themselves here. Their words and Legrand's music complement each other perfectly, and their collaboration is largely the reason the film's score is as consistent and as cohesive as it is. However, the main factor to YENTL'S artistic success is the phenomenal vocal performance of Barbra Streisand. The songs for this film were recorded twenty years after her official studio debut, and she has never sounded better than she does here. Whether the tone of the song is anguished (Where Is It Written, Tomorrow Night), euphoric (This Is One of Those Moments), or incredibly sensual (The Way He Makes Me Feel), Streisand's hushed restraint and dramatic range are nothing short of incredible. Her phrasing is put to excellent use in Will Someone Ever Look At Me That Way and the three renditions of No Wonder (each with different lyrics and a different meaning), while both No Matter What Happens and A Piece Of Sky are terrific showcases for Streisand's astonishing vocal prowess. YENTL also marks the first appearance of Papa, Can You Hear Me, which instantly became one of Streisand's signature songs due largely to her intensely soulful performance. YENTL is a motion picture that is very close to the heart of many Streisand fans. It is a project that Streisand believed in with all her soul, and both the film and its soundtrack remain near the top of the list of the best things any popular artist has ever done. "},{"Title":"Classic Still!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Just watched the movie on our local PBS-TV here in Bflo., N.Y. tonight. (Fri., Feb. 17, 2006.) Have seen it several times before, the 1st when it was released in 1983, the year my own father died.With Streisand dedicating the film to her dad, who she never knew, that, the music & story deeply reached me at the time & still does. Coupled with this, I was assigned by Billboard Magazine to interview composer Michele LeGrand here when he was appearing with the Bflo. Philharmoic Orchestra. I'd always admired his dream-like work, like Windmills of My Mind & What are You Doing the Rest of Your Life? I learned he was working on a film with Barbra & it turned out to be Yentl. I was thrilled when I later saw the movie & heard the score. Streisand should have been recognized for her directing abilities with an Oscar nomination. OUTRAGEOUS! But then, her film can still touch us & that is worth more than ANY Oscar! Thanks Barb ... "},{"Title":"Interesting Exercise","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I discovered this film recently when it came out on DVD in France at a knock-down price. Picture quality is no more than average and seems to have a little over-dominance of sepia. I assume the film was originally destined for a Jewish audience as many of the references contained therein concern the Jewish religion of which I know nothing ! All that said, I was very very satisfied with this film, Barbra Steisand gave a magnificent performance, you could see that she put her heart into this, apart from being really cute, her voice and songs were magnificent. There's also quite a lot of humour and potentially embarrassing situations which is normal, given the fairly original plot line. I think that the end is a satisfying one indeed the only satisfying one possible. I know little about Jewish culture but do, as an outsider find it attractive. Indeed this may indeed be a prerequisite to fully appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"awful and way too long!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"34 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A seemingly endless movie that really deserves a zero rating. The premise seems simple enough Yentl, a girl interested in studying the Talmud, wants to go to school. But only boys are allowed to study, so after her father's death she decides to disguise herself as a boy to get in. She does and becomes close friends with Avigdor, who is to be married to a beautiful woman named Hadass. Hadass' family learns Avigdor's brother committed suicide, and the wedding is called off. Yentl, now calling herself Anschel, is then selected to marry Hadass. She does but it is never consummated. Yentl/Anschel and Avigdor go away for a few days, and Yentl/Anschel reveals her secret to him. The movie ends with Avigdor returning to (and marrying?) Hadass, and Yentl going to America to continue her studies although she will have to continue to do so in disguise.The plot above seems interesting at first for a movie over 2 hours long, but there are several things that ruin it. For starters, there is the constant SINGING. (I can already hear the critics shouting.) Yes, I know this is a musical so there are supposed to be lots of songs and dance numbers. But the movie could have been improved if it were directed and played without them. The songs become tedious after a while, and there isn't as much dancing as one would expect. Many of the songs are forgettable, with no real memorable lyrics, and those with any significance could easily have been substituted by a voice-over. Only one song stands out from the rest, Papa Can You Hear Me. It is obvious that most of the others were deliberately placed so Streisand could simply have a reason to show off her vocal abilities every five to ten minutes. Chances are anyone who will see this film will already know what a superb singer and actress she is, so the songs really aren't necessary. Second, Streisand's makeup, which can be seen during her scenes as a man (the lipstick, enhanced lashes, and traces of blush are all obvious) makes it hard for the audience to believe in the Yentl/Anschel character, that she is actually serious, and fooling her new friends, colleagues, and even Hadass, into believing she is a man. Yet we are asked and expected to believe that very thing. There seems to be a contradiction, as her character talks, or rather sings, of how she doesn't think she can pull it off, but is surprised that everyone seems to be fooled because she is wearing men's clothing. This means that we are then expected to believe the other characters are so naive they can't see the other differences, such as her actions, which are clear giveaways. The facial differences alone cannot be included, as other characters in the film mention that some of their male relatives or friends didn't have a beard or other facial hair. Nevertheless, in the 1900s, if a woman dressed as a man, but wore as much makeup as Streisand's character did, and still tried to pass herself off as a man solely because she wore men's clothing, it would have been deemed unacceptable and caused an outrage. Chances are she would probably be forced to leave the town, or even the country. Therefore the feminine makeup on Streisand does not lend to the character's credibility, and only weakens the plot. If it was only applied to make Streisand look more beautiful, it should have been scrapped. Thirdly, when Yentl/Anschel herself reveals who she truly is toward the end, we are then asked to believe that the other characters are not as smart as Streisand's and only when they learn the truth do they become a little wiser. By now it becomes more and more apparent that the whole plot is so far fetched that it is nothing more than a custom-made vehicle for Streisand to fuel.Lastly, there are those who are fans of Streisand who will find no fault with this film, its plot, or the songs. To those I must respectfully disagree. While she has excellent vocal and acting abilities, I am not a fan of her style of singing. However, I have enjoyed many of her other features including musicals. There are even some songs of hers that I like, so I am not a hater nor have set out to bash her. I have written this review from an honest perspective, from someone who has tried their best to watch this movie - several times even - and has noted the problems within. If Streisand was interested in creating a great or even believable film, she could have done so here by not injecting her need to show off and prove how talented, beautiful and smart she is at nearly every turn. This movie does nothing more than hurt her abilities, make her appear self-absorbed, and thus turn the film into a laugh-fest unworthy of her fans or audience. "},{"Title":"just  beautiful","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" for basic idea of equal rights out of any feminism. for the flavor of 80 years and for slices of shtetl life, for Jew space in Russian Empire as place of interior freedom, for music and for the delicate story. for last image of a way to happiness. for fabulous role of young Yentl/Anschel and for fragile performance of Amy Irving. it is difficult to define it.because it is a profound humanist pledge for normality. not accusation against a community. not stone against rules.but a open window.that is all. central piece - courage. central message - nothing is impossible. axis - force to be yourself. after 20 years, it is more important today.because in time of globalization, time of positive discrimination, Yentl is a wise advise. and good model to build personal trip in life. "},{"Title":"A great story!","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" An excellent film, it has a wonderful complexity in the characters' personalities and relationships that maintain a level of enjoyable tension and curiosity throughout the film for the viewer. Excellent performances given by Mandy Patinkin, Amy Irving and Barbra Streisand. Great songs throughout. Not a brainless ha-ha movie. It is a thinking person's film, in the same vein (in my opinion) as Fiddler On The Roof. Well directed by Streisand. And I'm a Republican! I have been waiting it seems for ages to buy the DVD (pirated copies sold on eBay a few years ago for $45+), but it seems legitimate copies are now available with special features to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Phantastic","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yentl is a young Jewish woman who shall be married, but she is too curious, she wants to know more and she wants to learn all about the Talmud, which is forbidden to women by this time. So she dresses herself like a young man and goes to the yeshiva, always frightened to be discovered, and there she meets Avigdor, a brilliant student, who is meant to be her mentor, and she fells in love with him. He is in love with a beautiful Jewish girl (Amy Irving) but he cannot marry her, because his brother died of suicide. So he asks Angel (Barbra Streisand) to marry her, and she does....It's a real Barbra Streisand masterpiece, I think no one could have done this picture more sensual and beautiful like she did. A story, that never should be forgotten, of a woman that fights against the male world, wants to be more than the role that was meant to be hers. Brilliant songs, perfectly written by Michael Legrand, brilliant directed and also the sets are chosen very well, the picture of a Jewish world like it was in former times is set originally. Also Mandy Patinkin and Amy Irving are brilliant actors who can show their different faces in this movie. Thios movie is a MUST for everybody. "},{"Title":"Oy gevalt","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yentl is based on the story Yentl the Yeshiva Boy by the late Isaac Bashevis Singer, the last great Yiddish author. Yentl is the bright, intelligent daughter of Reb (Rabbi) Mendl, a widower, played by the great Nehemiah Persoff. She looks after her father's household and almost by osmosis learns the Torah (Pentateuch) and the Talmud by listening to the lessons of the young men who come to study with her father. She also wants to become a Jewish scholar, but in the rigidly patriarchal society of Eastern European Jewry, only boys are allowed to study. After her father's death, she decides to disguise herself as a boy to get into a yeshiva (school). Now going by the name Anschel, she succeeds in getting into a yeshiva, and becomes close friends, and eventually falls in love, with fellow student Avigdor (Mandy Patinkin; Avigdor is Hebrew for father protects), who is in an arranged betrothal to a beautiful young woman named Hadass (Amy Irving). But when Hadass's family learns Avigdor's brother committed suicide, the wedding is called off. Yentl/Anschel is then selected to marry Hadass. Avigdor supports this, because he sees this as a way to remain close to his friend Anschel (Yentl) and Hadass. Yentl/Anschel goes through with the marriage, and manages by clever subterfuge to live with Hadass but never consummate the marriage or reveal himself to be a woman. Eventually, Yentl/Anschel and Avigdor go away for a few days, and Yentl/Anschel reveals her secret to him. But rather than accepting her as a woman and returning her love, Avigdor rejects her. Avigdor returns to Hadass, and the movie ends with Yentl on a ship to (we suppose) America to make a new start, where presumably she will change her name to Fanny Brice and become a big star in vaudeville, then years later, as an old woman, be reduced to visiting Max Bialystock's office for some lovin'.Visually, Yentl looks perfect. The village, the landscape, the people, their language and dress, are a convincing reconstruction of the lost world of the shtetl and its denizens. The actors look perfect, too, although there are problems It's a stretch to believe that Barbra Streisand could pass herself off as a boy for an extended period, but if the Hilary Swank character in Boys Don't Cry could do it, I guess we can suspend disbelief for the duration of Yentl. Streisand puts in a capable performance, as do Mandy Patinkin and the actors in the other major roles. You have to figure that Hadass was pretty dumb to be hoodwinked the way she was, but I guess that's supposed to be part of the charm of the story.However, Yentl suffers from a major problem The music. What cabbagehead decided that Michel Legrand would be the right composer for this movie?!? His score was completely inappropriate, and Streisand's constant singing under the action drove me crazy. Barbra, shut up once in a while and let the action speak for itself! It was like Fiddler on the Roof collides with The Umbrellas of Cherbourg, and that's the kind of road accident I'd rather not see. I suppose that in order to get the project made, Streisand had to agree to sing in the film. Would making Yentl into a typical musical, à la Fiddler, have ruined it? Probably a whole lot less than it was ruined by Legrand's music. After all, Fiddler, which came out 12 years before Yentl, had a number of dark moments as well as some light and humorous scenes, and the songs worked. But the score of Fiddler on the Roof deliberately used musical motifs and themes derived from and inspired by the rich musical tradition of Eastern European Jewry. They should have stuck with that very serviceable approach. The clash of the music and the rest of the film is a fatal flaw from which Yentl does not recover. "}{"Title":"Sorry, was as I suspected","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I would like to be a Barbra Streisand fan. She has a spectacular musical instrument in her voice. Her politics are my politics and her heart is in the right place. That being said, I finally watched Yentl. It was a beautiful looking film, fresh from the dry cleaners. What bothers me is that albeit far fetched, it is a wonderful story. It needs more than a Readers Digest sensibility. In any kind of reality the facts of the storyline are frightening and fraught with dire consequence, not mildly upsetting as played. In any kind of reality the Yentyl character would have moved heaven and earth to be a convincing boy and certainly not looked so cloyingly cosmetisized. But that was not for our Barbara. I kept on wondering how Meryl Streep would have played it ....and how about Robert Altman directing? They would have captured the motivation behind the progression of misbegotten choices. Meryl would have not been afraid of smearing some dirt on her face and yucking it up with the boys. Robert Altman would not have been afraid of exploring sexual tension and ambiguity ......but not our Barbara. And Oh! How's about a Philip Glass score. Let's do a remake. "},{"Title":"Schmentl","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Babs directed and starred in this matza ball soup about a Jewish chick (Babs) who goes incognito as a boy (not a far stretch) so she can get an education at an all-male school.Unintentional humor abounds including Babs' easy transformation into a guy (since she looks like a guy anyway), her penchant to sing too many songs about being Jewish, the inevitable boredom resulting from an ultimately weak script, and the moment when Babs' new male schoolmate playfully throws her to the ground, gets on top of 'him', and looks lovingly into 'his' eyes . . . . . eeeeewww! Strictly for Streisand fans and bored sacrificial chickens. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie of all time","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"26 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  My personal vision of hell is being locked in a room without the ability to close my eyes or block my ears and have this movie play for eternity on every available surface in that room.  The whole notion that Streisand plays a boy/man only begins to scratch the surface of how ridiculous a premise this movie is. The single most important thing about watching any movie is the concept of willing suspension of disbelief .  .  . it is impossible to do that in this movie. "},{"Title":"Could this be the worst movie ever made?","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"28 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I know, I know, Plan 9 from Outer Space is the worst movie, or maybe Manos, the Hands of Fate. But I can't get worked up over those sock-monkey movies. Of *course* they're bad. How could they be any good? But if you're talking about movies with respectable production values and bankable talent, the T. rex of all turkeys has to be Yentl. All the treacly phoniness, all the self-absorbed asininity, that stains everything Barbra Streisand has done since 1964, reaches its culmination in this movie. From its lonely summit of awfulness, Yentl looks back to A Star is Born and forward to The Mirror Has Two Faces. There is nothing else quite like it. What emotional undertow dragged Streisand out to make this movie I would rather not speculate, and what audience she was playing to I cannot possibly imagine, although I'll bet there's a nine in ten chance you aren't a member of it.Nobel Prize-winner and saintly guardian of Yiddish literature Isaac Bashevis Singer was so outraged by what Streisand did to his story that he blasted her in public for it. It is a tribute to Streisand's impenetrable vulgarity that she not only didn't commit suicide, but went on to make more awful movies. "},{"Title":"An ugly woman has to show her breasts to prove it because otherwise no-one will believe her.","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"30 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" (Honestly, Barbra, I know it's you who's klicking all those NOs on my review. 22 times?? How many people did you have to instruct to help you out here? Don't you have anything better to do, like look at yourself in the mirror all day?)Steven Spielberg told Barbra that this was the best movie I've seen since 'Citizen Kane'. That pretty much says it all - and serves as a dire warning!What are the ingredients for a sure-fire cinematic disaster, and one that will haunt you, never letting you forget the tears of both laughter and pain? The ingredients Barbra Streisand's face, a musical, feminism, Barbra Streisand's voice, Barbra Streisand directing, and an ultra-corny/idiotic premise.Hollywood is full of egomaniacs, this much we know. In fact, nearly everyone &#150; by definition &#150; has to be an egomaniac in Hollywood. Why would anyone want to act? For the art?!? Well, if you're dumb enough to believe what they tell you in their carefully prepared interviews&#133; And Streisand has the biggest ego of them all! This is quite an achievement. To be surrounded by narcissistic cretins, and yet to manage to top them all &#150; remarkable.The movie, like all her solo endeavors, is an ego trip straight out of hell. Every scene Streisand is in is automatically ruined. Stillborn. But as it that weren't enough, she sings a whole bunch of Streisandy songs &#150; you know, the kind that enabled the Mariah Careys, the Celine Dions, and the Whitney Hustons of this world to poison our precious air-waves for decades now. Just for that she deserves not one but 100 South Park episodes mocking her.The premise, Streisand dressing up as a man to study to become a rabbi, sounds like a zany ZAZ comedy. Apart from it being a cliché, the obvious problem is that Streisand doesn't look like a woman nor does she look like a man &#150; in fact I'm not even sure she's human. The way she looks in this movie, well&#133; it cannot be described in words. E.T. looks like a high-school jock by comparison. She looks more alien than Michael Jackson in the year 2015. She looks HORRIBLE.The songs. They made me shiver. Particularly Papa Can You Hear Me Squeel Like A Demented Female Walrus In Heat? and Tomorrow Night I'll Prepare the Sequel, YENTL 2 THE RETURN OF THE BITCH.Did you know that Streisand considered having a nose-job early on in her career, but changed her mind when they told her her voice might change? Can you believe that? She should have done it! Killing two flies with one swipe, that's what it would have been.If you're interested in reading my biographies of Barbra Streisand and other Hollywood intellectuals, contact me by e-mail.SHOULD BARBRA STREISAND FINALLY GO INTO RETIREMENT? CLICK YES OR NO. "},{"Title":"yentl -- not gentle...on the ears","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"34 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This might be the worst film ever made, and is possibly worth seeing for that reason alone. Streisand is laughably unbelievable as a young woman posing as a man in order to study Judaism. The soundtrack is torturous, featuring Barbara belting out some of the weakest blather ever put to film. And don't even get me started on the plot. You will actually get more chuckles out of this film than many comedies because it is soooooooo terrible. The rampant ego of Streisand, thinking she could somehow raise this stinker to Oscar heights, led to this disaster. I'm pretty sure the novelist, Isaac Bashevis Singer, hated this film and never forgave Streisand. I can't blame him. This movie is like watching a car wreck in slow motion for two hours with the soundtrack of 'The Sound of Music' being played backwards on an old turntable. It's truly that bad. I'm amazed that anyone from Streisand enjoyed this movie on the level that it was intended. "},{"Title":"Amazing, a total triumph","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Streisand's directorial debut is a triumph. Everything works in this movie. The naysayers panned it before it came out (Tootsie on the Roof) and it did not get the attention it deserved from the Academy, although Amy Irving did score a Best Supporting Actress Nomination. To this day I am unable to figure out how in the world the eminently forgettable theme from Flashdance - What A Feeling beat out Papa, Can You Hear Me? for an Oscar. Streisand is charming and engaging as Yentl, the young woman who yearns to break free of societal convention and study Talmud. She is believable as a young boy when Yentl engages in the ruse of posing as a boy to gain admittance to a Yeshiva. Of course, complications arise. These are not played for cheap laughs, but are dealt with sensitively as well as with humor. The film is a love letter to old style filmmaking that depended upon good stories and actors. The color of this movie is gorgeous. Streisand employed top notch talent (David Watkins) to ensure this film is a visually stunning as the soundtrack (by Michel Legrande and Marilyn and Alan Bergman). Watch this movie. You will want to see it again! "},{"Title":"Does Streisand's Concert Overshadow Singer's Voice?","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Rules are made to be broken. Don't let anyone tell you that you can't do something. A thirst for knowledge. All of these drive the title character of Yentl, based on a story by Isaac Bashevis Singer. Back in the time of when women stood in the foreground and were subservient to men, Yentl wanted to be her own person and think for herself. She wanted to read books that were only privy to men. She takes care of her Papa, but when he dies, she must learn to be self-sufficient, if she's not willing to marry and settle down. So, logically, the thing to do is cut her hair and pass for a man. The story itself is very intriguing and the attention to detail of the time and place was first- rate. The viewer is in the story. The blending of the dramatics with music works well within the story, as it helps to delve into Yentl's mind, but it's the song at the end that seems a little too unnecessary. It might would have been more effective dramatically had it ended without a high note, but this was Barbra Streisand's show all the way. As director, producer and star, she was totally in the driver's seat with powerhouse attention to all aspects of movie-making. I really got into the moment with the story, the feelings, the songs, and Mandy Patinkin and Amy Irving's characters. But after the fact, I felt a little manipulated, like it all was a bit much. Streisand is not subtle in any way, shape or form. While I admire her mindfulness of life and being aware of always trying to better yourself and others' lives, she does it in a preachy way and (it is) a little off-putting. I know I will get dislikes for these comments, but I did like the film a lot. Yentl is a very love-it-or-hate-it experience, and I do acknowledge this is a testament to Barbra Streisand's talents. Nevertheless, the show-stopping number at the end (in homage to Funny Girl) gives the film a more Streisand concert feel (you see Barbra there and not Yentl), than a film adaptation of the Singer story. Period. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Streisand Vanity Piece","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Barbra Streisand's ultimate vanity piece was definitely 1983'sYentl, a drama with music for which Streisand served as executive producer, director, co-screenwriter, and star and began Streisand's penchant for presenting stories and characters with extremely strong feminist leanings, that may have strained the credibility of some of her on screen storytelling, but at this time, Streisand was the only woman in Hollywood with the juice to get a studio to back her personal vision and let her have the creative control she tried to have with A Star is Born but lost to then boyfriend Jon Peters.Based on a short story called Yentl, the Yeshiva Boy by Isaac Bashevis Singer, this is the story of a Jewish girl in Poland named Yentl who is secretly being educated regarding the Talmud by her father, a sort of Jewish version of the bar exam, which, by law during this time, was only to be taught to men. When Yentl's father suddenly dies, she wants to continue her study of the Talmud and decides the only way she can do so is to leave her village, disguise herself as a man and actually gets admitted to a Yeshiva, using her late brother's name, Anshel, to study the Talmud and the Torah and becomes immediately attracted to another student there, a brilliant and sexy scholar named Avigdor (Mandy Patinkin) whose competitive chemistry with Anshel is swift and immediate, but there is something else that pulls him to Anshel that he can't explain and provides awkwardness between the two. Their relationship is further complicated when Avigdor asks Anshel to look after his fiancée, Hadass (Amy Irving) when her family rejects him as a future husband because they learn his brother committed suicide and Hadass finds herself immediately attracted to Anshel. This convoluted love triangle and the sexist politics of turn of the century Poland are what make up the crux of this story.Streisand has, of course, brought her own contemporary feminism to this Fiddler on the Roof-type story where long dormant rules and beliefs are challenged and threatened. And since Streisand is the star, she decided to internalize Yentl's dreams and frustrations through the use of the musical score and having Yentl be the only character who sings in the film. Whether this works to the film's credit or detriment is most likely the individual viewer's opinion, but I do think it is odd that Streisand would hire a gifted singer like Mandy Patinkin, who has recorded several albums and won a Tony Award three years prior to this for EVITA, as her leading man and not allow him to sing a note.Michel Legrand and Marilyn and Alan Bergman have provided some lovely songs for Streisand here, including The Way He Makes Me Feel, Papa Can you Hear Me, and another finale that bares way too much of a resemblance to Don't Rain On My Parade in Funny Girl called A Piece of Sky which finds our heroine, once again, belting out the tune on the deck of a boat.Streisand the producer and director work very hard to make their star look good here and personally, the film's appeal is dependent on your feelings about the star. Streisand clearly poured a lot of money into the film and it all shows on screen. She won the Golden Globe for Outstanding Direction of a Comedy or Musical but was ignored at Oscar time, though I still scratch my head over the fact that Amy Irving did receive an Oscar nomination for supporting actress for her work as Hadass, a nice performance in a thankless role, but hardly Oscar-worthy. Streisand fans will eat it up, others...be afraid, be very afraid. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a good musical but not a great one. It's over rated. I thought the music was depressing. Babs is Fab but I don't want to hear just her singing for over two hours. They had actors like Mandy Patinkin, a pretty great singer, singing NOTHING..HELLO? Furthermore; I know Amy Irving won great reviews for her role but her character was as dead as a door knob. It was a good story line but not a great musical. See it for the historical aspects and make your daughters see it so they can gain a valuable lesson. Women can do everything and history didn't always allow women to shine. It's a nice moral booster but that's all. This is not Babs best and someone must say it. "}{"Title":"a truly dismal movie","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I worked in a movie theatre in 1983 where Yentl was the only film playing, and I was forced to see it dozens of times in the course of my job. The plot is ridiculous, the pathetic moral point of the film is nauseating, and the songs comprise possibly the worst soundtrack in movie history. Barbra Streisand is madly in love with herself--something that is evident in every frame of this movie--and unless you're equally wild about her I strongly suggest doing anything possible to avoid this painful suck-fest of a flick.  "},{"Title":"This is it!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Excellent, excellent, excellent. Barbra Streisand is a master at work. I saw the movie last night and I was blown away, I enjoyed Barbra's other movie, The Mirror has Two Faces just as much. Barbra Streisand just won herself a new fan. Keep on keeping on girl! This movie is the same age as I, 23. And it is as much enjoyable today as I would think it was then. I am from South Africa and we don't get to see a lot of old movies, and I really enjoyed this one, I think it is a master piece. Barbra Streisand is a true diva, she got it all, the voice, the looks, the acting talent, the sense of humor, I like watching her in movies even more than some young actresses of our time. Make us proud. "},{"Title":"Oy!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"21 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Another abominably self-indulgent monstrosity from the empress of unabashed kitsch and narcissism.  What in the world is The Nails thinking when she picks these little projects for herself?  And why does she have to direct, act, write, sing, do the costumes, the catering and the gaffing?  Does she know any limits?  No!  Which is why this movie has nothing to do with the original story.  Instead, it has everything to do with what Streisand hallucinates she is (young, beautiful, greater than female and male combined, limitless) and what she hallucinates the world is about (glory, triumph and more glory).  But who cares.  I just hope she can keep me laughing, because these turkeys she bakes are so preposterously hilarious there's nothing to match them in the laughs department. "},{"Title":"Still a very enjoyable film","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I can't believe this film is almost 30 years old. I remember all the hoopla when the film was released given that people considered Streisand such a perfectionist. Seeing it in the theater was great, but seeing it again at home all these years later is just as great.The story moves quickly. Yes, suspend a wee bit of belief that Streisand has to disguise herself as a teenage boy. Like my mom says, that's why they call it a movie. LOL The story of love, freedom, choice, wisdom, and adventure is wonderfully told by all actors. Maybe Oscar wasn't kind to this film, but so what. It's nice to see that the Golden Globes were kind (Hollywood politics, perhaps?). The music truly propels the movie forward, and the movie doesn't feel dated at all. No doubt Streisand fans have already seen this, but any movie buff would likely enjoy the 2+ hours of escapism that this film offers. "},{"Title":"Piece of sky?Let me fly! *SPOILER*","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" The pioneering sexual complexity of the storyline of Yentl allowed for much later gender- bending films including David Cronenberg's M.Butterfly ALSO MADE IN ENGLAND (1993) and John Cameron Mitchell's Hedwig And The Angry Inch (2001) ALSO A MUSICAL. The plot mixes this bit in with the idea of a young woman wanting to be a student and study, just like a man. When the young man she studies with finds out she has disguised herself as a man in order to do so, he rejects her as a sexual partner, not because she has been lying to him all along about her gender, but because she STILL WANTS TO JUST STUDY. My form of The Yentl Experience was that I found out that there were none of these women, even among university professors, a fact explicable from my finally understanding that there are NO MEN WHO JUST WANT TO STUDY either. So my Yentl experience developed further into my real work being what Yentl wanted to escape from - housework or mundane chores or exhausting drudgery traditionally for women, so that I could be alone enough to do what I want, which is to just study. Why? The MGM studio's trademark slogan around the roaring lion is ARS GRATIA ARTES. I do this free and I'm grateful. "},{"Title":"Barbra Streisand's Dream Movie","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" You may love her or hate but the truth should be admitted - Streisand is an extremely talented artist. Yentl' is her baby of directing, producing, co-writing and starring as a girl who wants to study and become a rabbi and who has to disguise herself as a boy to be accepted in a college. Streisand had fought the studio for 15 years to get it made, and she put her heart into this. Barbra is a gifted director, and the film is beautifully shot. I liked her acting - I thought she was convincing and touching when her character started to fall in love with a fellow student (very appealing Mandy Patinkin, Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father prepare to die of The Princess Bride) and had to hide her feelings. I also like her singing and I think that the songs belong to the film and can not be taken out of the context.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Girls don't study the Talmud.","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" That was her motivation. Then she met HIM and the rest is history.Back at its release, I'd thought the film was great. I especially liked the lyrics and still do. I even bought the soundtrack. But I am not a Streisand fan. She has a wonderful voice but the woman and opinions attached to it are hard to take. The fact too that this movie had her ego all over it is also hard to take. For instance, Mandy Patankin has an awesome voice of his own so why didn't he get a song? Come on, one song? Couldn't she spare it? If you can stand her for the duration, it's worth it. It really is a sweet and moving story and it's held up over the years. "},{"Title":"Barbra, we can hear you!","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" O.K., I have to start this review by revealing that I am not a Barbra fan of an obsessive nature. I adore her music and respect her desire to show her creativity and passion in no matter what way she chooses to do so. But when I was 20 years old, Yentl came out in the movie theaters, and I had the pleasure of seeing it at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood. I was transfixed by its poignant story of a young Jewish woman eager to achieve an education in a man's world (early 1900's Russia) and the lengths to which she would go in order to reach her goals. Of course, along the way, Yentl finds out what it is like to really be a woman, and longs to mix her desire for knowledge by finding a man to love who will allow her to do so.Hollywood cynics took Barbra to task for daring to direct herself, exploding with insults of ego and obsesive, but not seeing the goals which the woman had reached. Yentl went on to world wide fame, but when it came time for the Academy Awards, Barbra was snubbed, not only with no nomination for Best Actress, but for Best Director itself. While the voting procedures of the Academy make it appear that it was the voters themselves who shut Barbra out, it is somewhat obvious that word of mouth kept many of the nominating committee from even giving her one nod in either category.Certainly, this looks a lot like the movie version of Fiddler on the Roof, and the fact that Fiddler's Tzeitel (Rosalind Harris) looked an awful lot like Streisand pointed out that facsimile. But if you can get yourself to look past that similarity (as well as the Russian setting), you can see an individual story that glorifies the desire to learn and understand why Yentl had that desire. You can also see why she would be attracted to the likable Mandy Pantikan, engaged to the simpler, more womanly Amy Irving, who promises to be the perfect wife but in today's world would offer no challenge to a man other than the expected need of giving him the perfect household. For Yentl, being a wife and learning from him in secret isn't the answer. She wants to be in no educational closet. She wants to be out in the open.The tender performance of Nehemiah Persoff as Yentl's ailing father leads to the profound Papa, Can You Hear Me? as she mourns his memory and sets out on a mission of her own doing. Streisand does all the singing here; Even if Pantinkan was already known in musical theater, he gets no songs. But that's forgivable, because this is Yentl's story, and the songs are mostly through her own heart and mind, and as you have her story patched out, it is her voice you truly wish to here. Streisand puts a lot of passion into her performance and into her direction, and 30 years later, this film is as equally as powerful as that December day in 1983 was when I first saw this as a 20 year old. "},{"Title":"Best musical/motivation","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" There are at least a couple of movies of each genre which make that genre shine like a sun.Yentl is one of them, sounds like a musical but it's actually a motivational movie for....women?No, it's for all, the best lines in the movie are in the beginning when Yentl says she wants to know the mysteries of the universe, of life and not be a house wife.It's about learning the important things in life and to follow a dream against all odds.It's not a happy movie, it has some things i don't like...some weirdness with homosexual thoughts but it's a movie that all should see and to learn to enjoy the study of life/in life. Overall, very nice story, it's not about a girl who wants to be a boy, it's about a woman who wants to be a human, an intelligent human. "},{"Title":"Barbra Streisand","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I've read all the craic on here about how awful the movie was. Maybe it really wasn't all the rage according to some people. It's wasn't the normal American movie about football heroes or whatever it is that strikes your fancy.It's got a tad of truth to it with the presentation of the Talmud only being studied by a Jewish male. Girls weren't permitted to study it unless it was in secrecy.In a sense it resembles a Cyrano scenario. Hadass is not so interested in Avigdor at one point and becomes infatuated by Yentl/Anschel. Avigdor encourages the wedding of Hadass and Anschel because he knows that he will at least be able to see her and be near her as long as he and Anschel are friends. It's strange.But, Barbra poured a lot of herself into her role and I applaud her for her efforts. The songs, I remember them all, were fitting in the story though many will disagree. It was a good film, I think. "}{"Title":"I couldn't hate it","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Now I watched this movie because I heard it was so bad it's good - and I love movies like that. Now definitely Streisand has no idea how to act, and the score is overblown, and the whole movie is quite stupid, and the plot has holes you can drive a truck through... but I just couldn't hate it. Please let me explain I hate soppy romances as much as the next guy (especially soppy romances that pretend to be intellectual, but are not, like Yentl), however Mandy Patinkin's brilliant performance as Avigdor kept me interested. He had so little to work with due to a poor script and a ridiculously contrived plot, but he manages to bring such sincerity and strength into his role that it saved the movie from being complete sop.Yentl did not deserve its Oscars or nominations; Irving looked good but displayed no range of emotion; the songs were pitiful and repetitive with the sole exception of Father please forgive me (which would have really worked if not for Legrand's terrible score). Having said that, Streisand (who can't direct) CAN sing, and if you tune out of the lyrics there is some pleasure to gained from this (at least on a first viewing).Intellectually, the movie says nothing positive about women, and it implies that women who want to pursue education will get so sidetracked by their emotions that they'll get nowhere. Two cheers for feminism, I guess. Nonetheless, the production, set design and costuming are very good, and although Streisand can't act her way out of a paper bag, Patinkin adds a notable dimension of depth and interest to this silly, but well meaning, movie. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but touching","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I'll be the first to admit that Barbra Streisand is not my favorite performer--I can take her or leave her, depending on my mood.  However, I enjoyed Yentl immensely, despite its flaws.First of all, the music is magnificent.  Michel Legrand wrote songs that are both perfect for the movie and can be taken out of context as concert material (some of them, anyway--Papa, Can You Hear Me? is somewhat of a stretch).  However, I was supremely disappointed that Mandy Patinkin doesn't sing a note in this movie.  Obviously, the movie was meant for Barbra--it was HER baby--but still.  Why cast Mandy as your leading man (and he was very appealing, I must say) in a movie-musical and not write a single song for him?  Gah.And to everyone who says that the movie is not credible because Barbra could never pass as a man, I say listen to the soundtrack.  There's a lyric in Tomorrow Night (the one about her wedding to Hadass) that says They may have eyes but they don't see,/They never really look at me./People are blind!/How else would everyone believe me?  Yentl didn't think that her plan would ever work, but people are easily deceived by her man's clothing.Anyway.  I liked this movie very much, and I certainly recommend it, but I can see how, if one can't stomach Barbra Streisand, it might be a bit jarring and obnoxious.   "},{"Title":"I don't care... I LIKED Yentl!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I absolutely LOVED Yentl.. I saw it after it first came out in '83 and remember like it was yesterday. I was living on my own and sat one night and watched it and it was the first time I ever wanted to write a FAN letter. I thought Barbara did a great job!! Granted, the premise is kinda off beat and she really DIDN'T look like a guy much, but the music, Mandy Patinkin, and what's-her-name that played the wife were all good in this. I think this is the first time I ever saw Mandy Patinkin (I couldn't believe - a GUY named Mandy, but hey, I thought he was good looking!) It just hit me at the right time, I guess. Heck, my 16 year old daughter watched it with me last Christmas and thought it was great, too! (And SHE usually hates MY choices!!..) "},{"Title":"Brilliant Directorial Debut From Streisand.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A very different type of musical/drama.  If you watch unbiased, I think you will find it has a little something for everyone.  The film has beautiful direction, wonderful performances, lovely music, some sly humor, and is truly inspirational. Barbra Streisand had wanted to make this film since 1968, but everyone in the industry told her she was crazy.  In 1979, she was still determined to make the film, even if the studio's weren't.  She was turned down by every motion picture company at least twice, until finally in the early eighties, MGM/UA picked up the project.  Made on a then-above average budget of about $14 million, YENTL was released to mostly positive reviews and eventually grossed a surprisingly strong $50 million in the US alone and did twice as well around the world.  The only disappointment is that Streisand was snubbed by Oscar.   "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is a very difficult film to categorize. Drama? Well, sort of. Comedy? Well, maybe a little. Adventure? Kinda, maybe. Action? Nope. But it's sort of a little of all of them (except action). Barbra Streisand stars as a young girl barred from becoming a rabbi by her gender. She wants to learn so she disguises herself as a young boy and goes for it. I won't spoil the ending by telling you whether she makes it or not, but she does a marvelous job in this film. If she ever stops singing, I hope she becomes more active as an actress because she's quite good! "},{"Title":"Prodigious Labor of Love Still Holds Up Due to Streisand's Heartfelt Approach","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" As the first of only three films she has directed (so far), Barbra Streisand's 1983 labor of love still holds up as a charming turn-of-the-last-century fable that blends a contemporary sense of its three principal characters with an elaborately orchestrated soundtrack. The movie plays out very much like the way she uniquely sings a song - beautifully lush, emotionally intimate and a bit overdone albeit forgivably so. Regardless, what makes this film genuinely successful is the heartfelt manner in which Streisand chooses to tell her version of Isaac Bashevis Singer's short story, Yentl the Yeshiva Boy. Co-written by her and English playwright Jack Rosenthal, the plot focuses on a young Jewish woman in Eastern Europe who has been tutored on the Talmud by her scholarly father. Since women are forbidden to receive a formal education, it remains a clandestine vocation until her father dies at which point she cuts off her hair, dresses like a boy, and seeks passage to the nearest Talmudic academy.En route, under the guise of Anshel, she meets Avigdor with whom she falls in love. Complications ensue since Yentl cannot reveal her true identity to Avigdor, who is in love with comely Hadass, and Hadass becomes attracted to Anshel through the machinations of Avigdor when he is forbidden by Hadass' father to marry her. Streisand directs this romantic roundelay with warmth and sincerity rather than cheap laughs, and naturally, as a dramatic means to bridge her performances of the big ballads penned by Michel Legrand and her favorite lyricists, Alan & Marilyn Bergman. The songs reflect interior monologues to express how Yentl feels in any given situation, and the conjoining technique works beautifully since the songs are so well crafted and Streisand is in glorious, emotionally unfettered voice. The best are the solitarily prayerful Papa, Can You Hear Me? under a starry night sky, the lusciously unrequited passion driving The Way He Makes Me Feel, and the triumphant declaration of No Matter What Happens.As expected from as meticulous a novice filmmaker as Streisand, the production values are superior, especially David Watkin's burnished cinematography and Roy Walker's production design. In truth, Streisand looks too old as Yentl the yearning woman, but in full drag as Anshel, she looks ideally boyish. As she traverses genders back and forth with a fumbling grace, it is probably the most subtle acting she has done in films. Mandy Patinkin, then more famous as a singing Ché Guevara in Evita, makes for a potent romantic lead bringing a surly intellect and smoldering passion to Avigdor. As the third corner in the triangle, Amy Irving convincingly plays the subservient bride-to-be with sly intelligence. Veteran character actor Nehemiah Persoff (Some Like It Hot) makes his few poignant scenes count as Yentl's father. A bit overlong at 132 minutes, it isn't a perfect film but it remains an impressive directorial debut and the first film that validates Streisand's exalted standing as a multi-hyphenate entertainment figure. "},{"Title":"the earth moved","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" yentl is one of those movies that sticks to one's head. it has a whole lot of ideas that plant themselves like seeds in the psyche--it opens the eyes, widens the perspective, and can change thought patterns. well, in my case, it changed the way i felt about barbra streisand from lukewarm to gung-ho. and more profoundly, it made the depressed fresh grad that i was feel like she can do anything and be anything. that was just too cool to forget.the music makes the film, i think. the melodies are moving and are widely appealing, and yet if fits soooo perfectly against the turn of the century, rural Jewish village background of the film. but the lyrics are the ones that make the film truly earth-shaking. there's poetry and there's the punch of emancipating ideas, and there's the beautiful poetry in the way they are expressed. "},{"Title":"Great storytelling, great music, great performances...","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This could be Streisand's greatest film. The story is always interesting. The music from the Bergman's and Michel Legrand is nonpareil. Streisand's portrayal is very good as a young man. I don't see why people compare her to Dustin Hoffman in Tootsie. Do they criticize him for not being able to sing like her? He's a fantastic actor....she knows that she's not in the same class. She excels in different ways. I'm not of the Streisand-can-do-no-wrong school. I just think this is a really great story, well done and definitely impacted my life in a meaningful way. I don't believe you have to be a Streisand devotee to enjoy this.Really, a gem of a movie that is too often criticized. "},{"Title":"This was an excellent musical that was thought provoking at the same time.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  At first, you think that this is going to be any other musical. But, besides the wonderful score that is beautifully sung by Barbra Streistand, the movie has heart. There is a message and a beautiful love story. Even though the ending may not be what we all want, it is for the best. The movie is an all around great film with great acting. "},{"Title":"Barbra Streisand is the star, directer, producer and co-writer of this brilliant movie.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Barbra Streisand plays Yentl, a Jewish woman, who studies the Torah. When Yentl wants go to Yeshiva, she is not allowed to, as it's only for men, so Yentl disguises herself as a man, so she can do the religious training, she really wants to do at Yeshiva. Everything is going great, until she falls in love with a male friend at Yeshiva.Yentl stars the brilliant Barbra Streisand, who also directed, produced and co-wrote the movie with Jack Rosenthal. She gives a great performance as usual. As do the rest of the cast, including Amy Irving and Miriam Margolyes. Yentl is an extremely great movie. It's heart-warming, funny and interesting. If you're a Streisand fan or just want to see a good movie, then Yentl is for you. The soundtrack is great too. "}{"Title":"In a time, when the world of study belonged only to men...","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Yentl is Barbra Streisand's adaption of an Issac Bashevis Singer short story. Set in Eastern Europe at the turn of the century, it tells the story of a woman who must disguise herself as a man in order to study scripture. Along the way she falls in love with a fellow student, Avigdor, who is engaged to be married. Due to a family secret he is prevented from doing so by the bride's father. In a desperate bid to keep him from leaving, Yentl, now known as Anshel, marries her instead.The story has been modified for the film in that the role of Yentl is somewhat older and her internal dialogue is fleshed out in the form of songs. A sort of musical narrative solely from her perspective.The opening song Where Is It Written, the soulful Papa, Can You Hear Me?, The Way He Makes Me Feel and the closing A Piece of Sky are some of the stand-out performances. This is Streisand's first directing effort and she was the first woman to win a Golden Globe for it. She pulls solid performances from everyone and tells her story with a fresh sense of style rarely seen in film today. There are moments when Streisand lingers a bit long to make sure you feel what she is trying to convey. Her subsequent directorial efforts, the 1991 The Prince of Tides and the 1996 The Mirror Has Two Faces are more fluid.  Avigdor's concern over his affection for Anshel is not adequately explored, but the girl marries girl theme is approached with great humor and tact.For music fans, check out the  Yentl Medley from the 1994 Barbra - The Concert and the soundtrack album, which contains studio versions of The Way He Makes Me Feel and 'No Matter What Happens.  Her 1991 box set Just For the Record includes The Moon and I which was written for this film but never used.At the end, Streisand dedicates this film to her father, and all our fathers... I'm sure he would be very proud.*Academy Award for Best Score* *Grammy nominations for TWO songs* "},{"Title":"Surprisingly frisky","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Despite an ostensibly somber tone and an autumnal look that gives the film a burnished coffee-table feel, Barbra Streisand's directorial debut Yentl, about a turn-of-the-century Jewish girl disguising herself as a boy to study the Talmud (religious writings for men only), has a lot of heart, a romantic soul and a ticklish sense of humor. Streisand's strengths as an actress are never more apparent, and as a director she's thoughtful and careful, though perhaps too anxious to display her sentiment (leading to a woebegone conclusion which peaks and ebbs before the fade-out). Streisand is the only actor who sings, and the songs--though mostly ornate and melodramatic--are cleverly interwoven into the narrative. The final number (something about rebelling against a piece of sky) is simply too much, but Barbra is in strong, assured voice throughout and she gets wonderful acting support from Mandy Patinkin (in arguably his finest performance, which should have netted an Oscar nomination) and Amy Irving (who did receive an Oscar nod). An enjoyable film with a surprisingly light-hearted quality which catches one off-guard. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Girl posing as boy for social recognition","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I think this was may be Barbra's best work. The complex social structure of the Jewish religious family is very strict indeed. She wanted to become a person that was recognized for her intelligence and knowledge of the scriptures.This is not allowed as a woman in the orthodox Jewish community at least of that time period. A lot of character interaction and a very good study of human nature. I was both impressed and moved by this work. The only reason I gave it a 9 was the very long length of the film. However I could not pull myself away. The interaction of the characters was done very well. The family sitting at the dinner table speaking of the day's events and the progress of her/his studies of Holy Scripture were dissected talked about and learned at the table. What a paradox from the current day's common house hold with the Television on or near the dinner table. We are entertained instead of interacting with our family.Restricted from possible learning and potential closer relationships with family members,that could play an important role in our future, especially if one of the children of the family.The movie is somewhat deep and very emotional. Get a copy and take an afternoon without interruption, and you will be drawn into it like I was. "},{"Title":"Pure Evil!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"20 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  How could hell be any worse? Barbara Streisand dressing up as a man and singing for feminism... JESUS CHRIST! Throw the TV out of the window! If there was any possibility to rate Streisand herself i'd give her 1/10 points for every movie she has ever made (and of course for her terrible howling). This movie was made in hell. It's even worse than The Horsewhisperer or City of Angels! "},{"Title":"Acting problems","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" I love this movie but I always felt there was many problems in it. And one of them comes from Barbra's acting. At the beginning of the movie, the Yentl character comes across as so strong and assertive that not only does it feel like an anachronism (women of that time wouldn't argue so strongly with male merchants), it also makes her Unschel character look even more feminine in comparison. As a man, she becomes this vulnerable, soft-spoken character that heightens the fact that not only she doesn't look like a man (she even wears make-up!), but never did Barbra ever acted so feminine in her entire career! I think her insecurity about her looks made her sacrifice the beleivability of the story by consciously choosing to make her male character looks more attractive and cute so that years of efforts to make her audience think that she is beautiful wouldn't be compromise. Had she chosen to reverse the acting choice, not only would Barbra would have given a more truthful and less conscious performance but it would have brought more credibility to a story already plagued with unbelievability. "},{"Title":"An inspirational tale with great music!","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  I recommend you see this movie if only for the singing at the end!  It is wonderful!  I am only a new-comer to Streisand movies, but I loved her in 'The Mirror Has Two Faces', and 'The Prince of Tides'.  I saw the end of 'Yentl' when it was on TV a few months ago and absolutely loved the singing, and after seeing 'The Prince of Tides', I had to borrow it out just to see another Streisand movie!  'Yentl' is inspirational, and the singing is great!  I recommend it! "},{"Title":"musical about a woman who wants to study with the men","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Excellent musical about a jewish woman who is blocked from studying by law. To bypass this problem, she poses as a man and goes off to college, becoming attracted to a man who befriends her. The man's fiancee becomes attracted to her, causing all sorts of difficulties. Very good story which plays out well. In case you are not a musical buff, this one didn't have an overabundance of music. One of Streisand's best.  "},{"Title":"Good intentions, but....","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Streisand was FORTY ONE when she made that movie. You don't think she could have maybe found a nice young Jewish girl in no more than her 20s to be the star? Oy! Seriously, although you can't fault the storytelling, and Babs is a fair actress and a great singer, there was a little too much ego in the idea that a grown woman could pass herself off as a teenage girl. I know the TV show Smallville, for example, is guilty of the same thing -- Tom Welling is actually older than Brandon Routh (Superman Returns) -- but it detracts from credibility. An adult woman CANNOT look like a teenager, no matter HOW much makeup she wears. A teenage girl CAN pass off as a boy, with the right facial structure -- it's been done in real life. But Bab's ego got in the way of the story here. "},{"Title":"Woman's right","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Woman was forbidden to learn and read book in Europe in early 20th century. Clever girl Yentl could not bear it. In fact her father had been teaching secretly her for many years. But she was not satisfied with it because she wanted to learn and discuss with other people in school. After her father died, she decided to find a school to continue studying.Due to the unreasonable rule, she had to disguise herself as a boy. On the way to school, she knew handsome Avigdor. She successfully enrolled in the school where Avigdor was studying. Step by step she was falling in love with Avigdor. But Avigdor was going to marry a beautiful girl Hadass. After their marriage was cancelers because Hadass's father found that Avigdor's brother was died of committing suicide not pneumonia, Avigdor begged her to marry Hadass for him. Yentl was caught in a dilemma.It is ridiculous to see that a woman can't learn like a man. People are born equal. If the phenomenon still exists at present day, the civilization is far from satisfaction.Barbra Streisand revealed her first class singing voice. As to directing, she is not bad too.A thought provoking musical. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better than the original story!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  It hardly ever occurs that a film is better than the novel it is based upon; this is the case of Barbra Streisand's 'Yentl'. The characters' psychology is extremely well defined and the historical background too is remarkable.In my opinion, you will enjoy it even if you dislike Streisand's songs! "}{"Title":"Not a truly great film, but one of the best musicals","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"    Pop culture icon and legendary vocalist Barbra Streisand suffered 18 years of rejection from every major movie studio to finance this intriguing film (based on Isaac Bashevis Singer's 1962 short story) of a young Eastern-European Jewess who disguises herself as a yeshiva boy in order to study the Talmud and its commentaries. Then finally, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and United Artists agreed to back the project and Streisand was at last able to go ahead with her dream project.    Yentl is the young Jewess living with her father (Nehemiah Persoff) just outside a small village in Eastern Europe in 1905. Her father, a local rabbi, realizes that she is unlike all the other village girls who seem only more than willing to become a woman and fall into the stereotyped trap that's been set for them since birth that a man's home is where they belong, venturing to go no where beyond the duties of a housewife. But Yentl, in true Striesand fashion, is just the opposite. Since her childhood she has required a thirst for knowledge, and her father, seeing this passion, agrees to secretly teach her at night with the curtains drawn and the doors bolted. This aesthetic is applied due to the belief that in those days Jews saw women who wished to study where demons of the evil nature.   Many months later, Yentl's father dies and eight days later in the late afternoon, elder women of the village come to prepare her for life as a housewife and mother. There is a slight accident in moving her father's books and Yentl becomes somewhat defensive while the women quietly leave to give Yentl some time alone saying they'd be back later, one saying she'd keep the girl so busy she'd be unable to think of anything else. After moments of silence and thought, Yentl crosses over to the bureau mirror which has been covered my black mourning cloth. She rips it from the glass and stares into the mirror. She then takes a pair of scissors lying on the bureau, says to her father's spirit, Forgive me, Papa, and begins to cut her beautiful hair until it's a boyish cut. This affirms her only choice In order to continue studying, she must go out into the world by herself disguised as a man.   Shortly after sunset that evening, a covered wagon is traveling west from Yentl's village. A young boy dressed in the suit of a yeshiva and carrying a suitcase is walking in the same direction and asks for a ride. The boy is Yentl, now assuming the name of her late brother Anshel. The driver requires fare and Anshel gives some willingly but as he tries to get in the back three other passengers refuse him a seat and the wagon drives off into the gathering dusk. Anshel then has no  choice but to go halfway across the field to a small thicket to sleep for the night. A few hours later, Yentl lights a candle and in spite of her great fear of being alone in a big world she speaks to her father in the film's most memorable tune, PAPA CAN YOU HEAR ME?   The next day Anshel arrives at an inn for Yeshiva students. There he meets Avigdor (Mandy Patinkin) who befriends him and invites him to join him on his trip to Beshiv, a city where one of the best Yeshiva schools in Eastern Europe is. Once there, Anshel and Avigdor become best friends and they share each other's great passion for study. But soon, Avigdor reveals to Anshel his love for a beautiful girl Hadass(Amy Irving-- in her Oscar nominated role), one of very well-to-do family and returns Avigdor's affection. At the same time, Yentl has begun to fall madly in love with Avigdor but naturally, due to thecircumstance she has put herself under, she can never tell him. Meanwhile, Hadass' parents refuse to allow them to marry due to their discovery that Avigdor's elder brother had committed suicide therefore leaving his family with the evil curse of bad luck. Eventually, Avigdor talks Anshel into marrying Hadass. Anshel doesn't agree to this until at the last minute Avigdor prepares to leave Beshiv and live his own life alone. Yentl fears the thought of life without her love and yells after him as he goes, Nothing's impossible!         Several weeks later, Anshel and Hadass are married and if you want to know how Yentl gets away with the wedding night, you'll have to see the movie. Soon, Yentl is filling Hadass' head with the idea that she too should study Talmud and the commentaries. But as time goes by, Hadass begins to get over Avigdor and learns to love Anshel. Now, Yentl can not keep her deception going on any longer and must make a decision no matter what the cost.    The film is a standing testament to the great progress women have made since 1905 and even today are still realizing more and more emancipational possibilities about themselves. Streisand's singing quality in this film is surpassed only by her legendary renditions in FUNNY GIRL. Mandy Patinkin's portrayal of Avigdor is one of good delivery and a good balance between quiet pensiveness and sheer frustration. But the film's best performance belongs to Amy Irving. She is the perfect image of the innocent, stunningly beautiful virgin who realizes all the great potential she has in herself. There are too many great songs to single just one among them, by the way. This movie is too good to miss! "},{"Title":"How stupid do you think the general public is?","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" What can I say? A woman wants to know more about her religion so she dresses like a boy/man to get into the schooling. OK, so I can buy that. But when she gets married to a woman and starts living with her and the story continues like we are not supposed to realize that sex between husband and wife is not going to happen because??? and this is not going to cause problems and ms. Striesand or Brolin or whatever expects us to be entertained by such nonsense. I couldn't stand the insult to my intelligence and will have to admit that I didn't watch the whole movie. Well I didn't like 'A Clockwork Orange' either and I walked out of Tom Hanks miserable 'Lady Killers' because of the foul language and just down right un- entertainment of the experience up to the point where I couldn't take it anymore. Whatever happened to good movies? "},{"Title":"A MASTERPIECE","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Movies like this are indeed rare and so will rarely be appreciated for the masterpieces that they are.  Barbra Streisand made a movie that was 20 years ahead of it's time.  It was set to music only for Yentl to express her thoughts---it is NOT a conventional musical in that sense.  In order to appreciate this film it is important to look at its themes. You cannot watch every movie and take them literally, no expect them to mimic reality.  You have to step outside your box here----yeah Barbra isn't completetly convincing as a boy, but that is not important. I challenge anyone to watch this---open your mind to it and you will leave the movie feeling great. This film is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  A great feat of achievement by Ms. Streisand. This film is warm and funny, with beautiful music that underlines the film extremely well. It left me with a feeling of hope, expectation and thoughtful joy as I watched Yentl fly. I loved it! "},{"Title":"Reach out for opportunity.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  This movie is also about making your own opportunities. Don't let people tell you it's impossible. And also this movie makes you reflect on your relationship to your family, to your parents. Barbra's song Papa Can You Hear Me has stuck with me all these years. If you are in a situation where you need to make amends with your parents, listen to this song. "},{"Title":"Yentl was wonderful","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Yentl was a beautiful story about a girl struggling in to learn in her own religion. It showed a woman's strength and ability to go forth in what she believes. All Yentl wanted to do was learn more and more about her religion and she was constantly held back by the law. She then did what she had to do and dressed like a boy. This gave her the ability to explore her religion. It also turned out to be a beautiful love story. It teaches Jewish women of the hardships that come with being Jewish. I think every Jewish woman should watch this movie and gain the same courage and persistence to achieve what she wants in life. I give this movie two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"My Favourite Film of All Time","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" A brilliant, brilliant film by a wonderful actress/singer. I just love this film. The fact that Yentl is offered who she wants for the sake of what she wants is such a powerful message. I recently managed to get hold of the short story after years of searching and was amazed that Barbara was able to create such a moving story from a story that lasted only 50-odd pages. I hate the discussion and confusion that this film hints at lesbianism. Yentl did what she did to keep the man she loved close. The sacrifices she made for the dreams that she wanted is a great lesson to us all. "},{"Title":"Leave Babs alone","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  When watching Yentl, there is one criticism that you have to throw to throw out immediately, or you will not make it.  And this criticism applies to any film ever made about a man or a woman who tries to pretend he/she is of the other gender.  Barbara Streisand/Yentl is a woman, not a man.  She does not look like a man, no matter how hard she tries (and she didn't try very hard in this film).  And those who make consistent close contact with he/she should be horse whipped for not knowing the difference.  But I gradually just ignored that fact as the movie got better and better.No one can deny that this is yet another vanity project for Babs.  Or that the music in Yentl pretty much all sounds the same.  Or that Babs has no problem showing overly gratuitous male nudity, but won't even give us a glimpse herself.  But Yentl is a very deep character and film, which are always hard to come by.  Not just of one character, but of three, which is really hard to come by.  Babs herself is servicable as an actress, but it is Amy Irving and Mandy Pitakin who really shine in this film.  Both really laid it all on the line.  It shows, and they make this film. As a writer, director and producer, Babs tries to make her mark (as she does in all her films), but who doesn't?  She makes her mark with reliable different techniques in dialogue and direction, but doesn't try to throw it in our face.  She's serviceable as producer, director, and actress.  Of course, you're crazy if you try to deny the woman her musical talent.  All the songs in Yentl SOUND the same, but they are not written the same.  All the songs fit well within the framework, and tell us what Yentl is feeling at the time.  Exactly what they were meant to.  Perhaps the film shouldn't have ended in a song.Not that affirmative action has any place in Hollywood, but Babs has really gotten the shaft over the years.  With Penny Marshall, she's arguably the most accomplished female director in Hollywood HISTORY and has nothing to show for it.  I'm not saying that everything she's ever done is even worthy of attention, but surely this was.  I have a feeling that if Yentl had been directed by a man, it would have had a picture and director nomination, especially in a year where The GOD AWFUL Big Chill was so recognized. Yentl is a film that tells a story of a turn of the century Jewish girl who wants to study like the boys do.  It's a somewhat interesting story, but the real meat of the story is what happens as a result of Yentl's decisions and the performances of Pitakin and Amy Irving.   "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad musical","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Barbra Streisand is talented, she absolutely is. Even straight men who hate her with every fiber of their being have no choice but to admit that the broad can sing and she ain't too bad in a movie either. And one need only see this film to see how good a director she is. This film is beautiful. Every frame is like a Renoir painting. The script is intriguing and original, the performances (especially Mandy Patinkin's) are great and overall it's a lovely film...Which would've been about a hundred and ninety eight times better if BARBRA STREISAND HADN'T SUNG!! Don't get me wrong, as I intimated above, I love hearing Barbra sing, but this movie didn't need it. The songs (sung mostly by Streisand in the title role in the form of inner monologue which is to say that they play in her head and her lips don't move or out loud to an empty room or a reflection in a mirror, which gets old pretty quick) are superfluous. They do little to move the action or explain the characters, Yentl just sings what she feels at semi-regular intervals throughout the movie. I mean, they're pretty enough songs and keep in mind, this is coming from an openly straight musical theater lover who knows Broadway and Hollywood from Oklahoma to The Producers.Bottom line Watch it as a beautifully shot movie about a girl trying to be more than society wants her to be. If you want a GOOD musical in which Streisand does at least ninety-five percent of the singing? Pick up Funny Girl.  "},{"Title":"true for all time","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  this is one of my all time favorites.  the situation of a woman who loves to read, study, discuss scriptures and issues in a world where she is expected to cook and raise babies is not fiction. my favorite scenes are at the dinner table. i also love the music. i wish they would make more movies like this!! "}{"Title":"watch it","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Streisand is always worth watching and Yentl should be watched. Traditions and how they affect people are as pertinent today as yesterday. Yentl's desire to learn brings her joy and heartache and the scenes with Yentl and Hadass are sensitive and moving.  Pity Barbra has to sing as I think the film stands up well as a serious piece of film making.  Watch it and enjoy.  "},{"Title":" This movie raises very important issues about the emancipation of women and  makes women reflect on where they are now.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Barbra Streisand, (The Mirror Has Two Faces), directed, produced, co-wrote, acted and sung in this turn of the century movie. I have the video tape and the soundtrack. I like it very much indeed.  This movie raises very important issues about the emancipation of women and  makes women reflect on where they are now.  I am glad I was not born back then. Women were viewed as housewives/homemakers only and could only read romance novels,  and magazines with pictures.  Women could not read anything with depth and substance. Not to say that as we approach the second millennium A.D. many women are so far from away from that.  I have met many women that have not evolved much from that era, but we have a little more of a choice now. I am glad I did not have to dress like a boy to go to college.  I did wear pants, though but I guess those days they were called bell bottoms.Yentl is a  woman who is  close to her father who teaches her about religion and teaches her the scriptures. They have a wonderful relationship. Very similar to how I felt about my father.  I had real encouragement to develop myself from my parents. I love the music written by many time Oscar winner  Michael Legrand (Summer'42) with lyrics by Oscar winners Alan and Marilyn Bergman. Streisand made a great choice in picking those people because they are wonderful. I have the record! Speaking of things from the past!Avigdor,  Mandy Patinkin (Chicago Hope, The Princess Bride) could not marry Hadass,   Amy Irving (The Competition),  nominated for the Best Supporting Actress Oscar,  because his brother suffered from some type of depression and committed suicide.  No education, no mental health!   Not knowing for sure that Yentl was a girl, but yet suspecting that there was something wrong in there he asks Yentl/Anshel to marry Hadass. That is when things got complicated and you must see the film if you have not yet seen it. My favorite scenes All the boys swimming naked and Anshel not knowing what to do.  The ship scene where she sings Papa, can you hear me? This is a very moving scene. Yentel finally embraced freedom. My favorite quote Yentel Why do I have to hide my studies from my neighbor when I don't hide from God. Father Because God will understand but the neighbors won't.  I recommend it! "},{"Title":"Poor musical but a touching and amusing tale","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" This is an entertaining and touching, if not brilliant, story of a young Jewish girl, who follows her forbidden dream to study the Talmud. I view it mainly from an entertainment perspective, not seeking deep feminist meaning, though of course I firmly agree that women should be given equal opportunity as men for study and appreciate having had college opportunities myself without facing Yentl's problems.Set in the early 1900's, the Jewish girl, Yentl, lives in Eastern Europe and is the daughter of a widowed rabbi. Her father appreciates her intelligence and secretly teaches her the Talmud, which only men are permitted to study. After her father dies, the village ladies begin to prepare her for her presumed eventual role as a housewife. However, Yentl disguises herself as a boy named Anshel and sets out for a Yeshiva, a religious school for Talmud study. During the course of her travels, she befriends a young man named Avigdor, whom she finds herself falling in love with, but Avigdor is engaged to marry Hadass. However, Hadass' parents later call off the wedding when they learn that Avigdor's brother committed suicide. Avigdor suspects something may be amiss with Ansel so pleads with 'him' to marry Hadass, threatening to leave Beshiv (where their Yeshiva is located) if 'he' doesn't comply. Eventually, wanting to keep her beloved Avigdor close to her, Ansel agrees to marry Hadass, planning that 'he' will eventually disappear.Of course the gender disguise makes for some pretty amusing scenes and embarrassing situations, such as nude bathing and of course the wedding night between Ansel and Hadass! Barbra Streisand is certainly interesting in her Yentl / Ansel role. She may not look much like a boy, but is really cute playing the part with her short boyish haircut. Amy Irving is lovely of course as Hadass and received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress.Of course Streisand has a fabulous voice, but I'm not generally a huge fan of musicals. The music here is intended for Yentl to express her thoughts, but I generally found it sort of extraneous (sometimes even a nuisance), though I did like the moving, Oscar nominated song, Papa, Can You Hear Me? I figured this just reflected my penchant against musicals, but note that another reviewer agrees with me that this particular film didn't require the songs. Generally, they all sound the same and it isn't difficult to read Yentl's thoughts without them.The movie gives an interesting glimpse into the Jewish culture, in general but especially of that era. All in all, I wouldn't call this a memorable or masterful film, but it is entertaining...at times quite amusing and at others moving. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, touching, and funny film","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":" Barbra Streisand directed, produced, co-wrote and starred in Yentl, the story of a young woman who wants to study the Talmud but can't because she's a woman living in middle Europe in 1908. However, she is secretly taught by her father who encourages and appreciates her intelligence at a time when all a woman was supposed to do was wait on her husband hand and foot. When he dies, she takes off, disguised as a boy, so that she can study. Along the way, she meets an engaged couple, played by Mandy Patinkin (Avigdor) and Amy Irving (Hadass). She falls in love with Avigdor. WhenHadass' family finds out that Patinkin's brother committed suicide, they call off the wedding, as he is now considered to be from a bad family. To help him out, Yentl, still disguised as a man, agrees to marry Hadass. Under Jewish law, because two men are like or are brothers, if one dies, the other has an obligation to marry the widow. The plan is that at some point, Anshel (Yentl's boy name) will disappear.This is a sumptuous production- absolutely beautiful. The studio wanted Streisand to sing, but she didn't see this film as a musical. Instead, the music is performed as a series of inner monologues, and it's very effective. Some of the scenes are very funny - when Anshel has to sleep in the same bed as the Patinkin character; when he wants Anshel to go swimming in the nude - and of course, the wedding night!Barbara Streisand makes an adorable, albeit small young man, and gives a touching performance. Also, her comic timing is excellent. Fantastic performances are turned in by Mandy Patinkin, the beautiful and delicate Amy Irving, and Steven Hill.The very gifted Barbra Streisand is often the subject of backlash, as many powerful women often are, but the fact that some people don't like her (and I wouldn't describe myself as a rabid fan) doesn't change what a staggering achievement this is for a first-time director. When Orson Welles did this, he was revered. It took Streisand15 years to get this made, but she finally did, and it is an excellent film, a wonderful tribute to fathers and an inspiration to young women. We live at a time and in a country where there are so many possibilities. Streisand should not be criticized for taking advantage of them. "},{"Title":"Striesand The Movie","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical, Romance","Review":"  Yentl suffers from the stars over indulgence of herself. Striesand has a great talent, unfortunately she also has a great ego. In this film she needed someone to restrain some of her excesses.I'm not saying Yentl is a bad film. On the contary I think it is one of her best. Striesand is not a very good actor and none of her previous films have done her any credit. In Yentl we can see her potential, unfortunately we  don't see it realised.Working with major talents like Jack Rosenthal, one of the great writing talents of the late 20th century, Mandy Patinkin, Amy Irving etc, this ought to have been a much better film. Striesand directs, acts, sings ALL the songs, and produces and it is just too much. A little restrent is called for.Having said that, I do enjoy the film. The ingredients are good, but not well enough mixed to create a great film. "}]