[{"Title":"A Winner...It Caught Me By Surprise","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not the true Vietnam experience. For that, see only 2 films Apocalypse Now and Hamburger Hill. All the rest are baloney, or worse. (OK, it's now 2008 and I'm editing this to include We Were Soldiers as another great Vietnam movie. It captivated me utterly and took me back, as did Apocalypse Now. When it was over I was unable to move from my seat until after the cleaning crew had finished.)Uncommon Valor, however, is still a great Vietnam movie for all to see. It's uneven as hell, so you have to be flexible. I suggest you have fun with the goofball stuff, appreciate the combat bonding stuff, gloss over the obligatory linkage stuff. Watch closely as each Vietnam veteran is recruited and introduced, and learn. Then enjoy what you will of the characters and the actors who bring them to life. (I mostly loved them.)I was an Infantryman in Vietnam. This movie is the only Vietnam movie, the only one, that ever brought tears to my eyes. I was amazed at the power of its ending. It was overwhelming to me.When it comes right down to it, take this movie seriously. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this supposed trash 'Nam actioner with low expectations and had a pleasant surprise. It's actually one of the better Vietnam films out there, simply because it combines both and drama evenly without an over-reliance on either aspect.Colonel Rhodes (Gene Hackman, A BRIDGE TOO FAR) recruits a band of Vietnam veterans to head back to Vietnam and rescue POWs. The team includes memory-plagued Wilkes (Fred Ward), young hotshot Blaster (Reb Brown, STRIKE COMMANDO), rough-'n-tumble Sailor (Randal Tex Cobb, THE DIRTY DOZEN DEADLY MISSION), decent guy Johnson (Harold Sylvester), and aging Charts (Tim Thomerson, ZONE TROOPERS). Joining up at the last minute is new recruit Scott (Patrick Swayze, RED DAWN)The film is pretty well-paced, dedicating the first 30 minutes to the recruitment of the men. Each on establishes their unique character as Hackman recruits them. Some jump on immediately; others don't want to return to Vietnam because of haunting memories, but do the decent thing in the end. There are some pretty efficient training scenes, and then it's off to Laos for the explosive finale.The high point of the film is the climactic POW rescue, which involves a well-planned raid on a huge prisoner compound. Complete with lots of gunfire, explosions, shouting and one especially good bridge destruction shot, this tense scene will keep you on the edge of your seat. Instead of completely relying on guys getting shot for impact, though, there's also a few men who sacrifice themselves for their fellow soldiers - even though it's no longer their duty. There's plenty of comedy, supplied by Tex Cobb as a slow-witted, incredibly strong oaf who participates in some good sight gags. I also liked the part in which the men get their weapons confiscated, so they must purchase a crate of dusty, WWII-era weapons to use. The most powerful scene is when Hackman heads to recruit Fred Ward, who is at first unwilling to go back to Vietnam. His wife looks and acts the part of a troubled veteran's spouse perfectly as she tells of how she had to live through hell as her husband suffered nightmares and the like. Ward makes an impact throughout as he sleeps outside rather than in the barracks with the men. Why? It turns out he was trapped inside an NVA tunnel in the dark. He felt two bodies and knifed them. It turned out they were a mother and child. And even after he realized it, his men couldn't pull him out for hours because they were under fire. The way Reb Brown recounts the story made my jaw drop.Hackman also delivers the good. I forgot to mention that he is so passionate about the mission because his son is one of the POWs. The grief is evident on his face as he runs throughout the burning camp finding other POWs - but not his son - as time runs out. This film made me realize just how tough it was on families and comrades in arms to lose a son, father or husand in action.Overall, a solid, well-directed, excellently acted and plenty entertaining helping of action and drama.  "},{"Title":"Did this film provide the inspiration for Rambo First Blood, Part II?","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Gene Hackman is always a pleasure to watch, and he lifts this implausible POW-rescue escapade with a mature and convincing portrayal of a father strugglingto come to terms with the fact that his son was listed missing-in-action during the Vietnam War. The whole cast is quite impressive actually, consisting of old pros (Hackman and Robert Stack), future stars (Patrick Swayze, Fred Ward) and familiar bit players (Tim Thomerson, Harold Sylvester, Randall Tex Cobb, Reb Brown). Hackman plays a retired army officer - a veteran of the Korean War - who desperately seeks closure on the matter of his son's disappearance in Vietnam. In the early '80s, he receives photographic evidence that American POWs are still being held in the south-east Asian country of Laos. In fact, one of the prisoners on the photo looks like his son. He assembles a team of ex-Vietnam vets, trains them for a return to combat, and heads off with them to Laos on a clandestine rescue mission. This film seems to have been the starting point for Chuck Norris's 1984 offering Missing In Action, and Sylvester Stallone's 1985 hit Rambo, First Blood Part II. However, Uncommon Valor is much better than both of those overblown comic-strip follies. Although the action in this movie takes liberties with credibility, the character development is at least quite decent and the mental impact of fighting and losing friends in a war is explored. The cast give good performances (Swayze in particular, still a relative unknown here, gives the best performance of his career to this day). Ted Kotcheff directs well, conveying disparate moods - angst, humour, horror, excitement - very nicely in a variety of scenes. Uncommon Valor is hard to swallow in terms of believability, but it is a well-made, well-acted and entertaining jungle rescue film. "},{"Title":"One of the best Vietnam flicks","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nothing sticks out more than the opening sequence The chopper extraction, all those men left behind. The view from the chopper as the handful left behind are captured. That has to be one of the most memorable scenes of any film I've seen.I think this movie is terrific. A band of Vietnam vets organized and trained to rescue the POW's our government left behind. It's not a perfect film, in places it's just horribly directed. But the chemistry of these brothers in arms works well. The film is as humanistic as much as it is an action flick. The topicality is rooted in an emotionally charged, contemporary issue which still resonates to this day. What happened to all those MIAs? Why has the US government refused to find them? Well, the film isn't really about answering those difficult questions. But it also doesn't let you forget them, either.There is nothing revolutionary here. This topic has been handled before by less than memorable flicks like Rambo, and Missing in Action. This is much better written and acted. Gene Hackman makes the film what it is; human. You can imagine this rescue mission as a dream come true for every father who received that MIA telegram from that military. But, for me, there are some very moving moments that just stick with you. it's really good to see you. stutters one of the POWs on the chopper. You know, every time I see that shot, I get a little misty. Because I think he speaks for every man who finally made it back from that hell on earth we call the Vietnam War. "},{"Title":"It's really worth a watch. Really.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of the best movies I have watched. Period. I'm not gonna dwell into the plot (a bunch of other guys here already did). So what I will say is that it is indeed as realistic - in terms of the actors who played the veterans called upon to settle some unfinished business, the fears that viet vets harbor even after all these years, and the realistic nature of the POWs (who I must say performed really well, one not being able to speak English, another can't leave the garden he is forced to tend to). Even to the point of the senator not wanting to see that old MIA colonel again. From what I have read on the issue over the last 20 years, the film (to me at least) hits it right on the nail. And who can forget French restaurant owner with his parrot. The directors made it look to seem that he has been around since the French were in Vietnam, and who managed to crave a little business for himself, gun dealing. And the introduction! Awesome! Awesome! (Marines under fire dashing across the field being pursued by NVA as choppers hover overhead; all in slow motion with haunting music). It's a great movie.None of that nonsense like what was featured in Missing in Action and Rambo II; now those are bad comedies. They are just an example of a good story that's mishandled to turn into complete garbage.My thanks to all who were involved in the research and making of the film. You've done a great job, Ted, Gene, Reb, and all you others.  "},{"Title":"an interesting VIETNAM movie...the one that started the return to Vietnam film fad","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  UNCOMMON VALOR is perhaps the most believable of the return to Vietnam to rescue the POW's films. The film ceters on the attempts of COL.RHODES played by GENE HACKMAN to find his boy missing in action in Vietnam. He gathers a small group of Vietnam vets +one recent military veteran to go back into Vietnam via THAILAND. Along the way the THAI police and the CIA confiscate their weapons so new weapons are purchased...WW2 vintage. The team goes in to the area and hijinks ensue. This is a fine war film and a great action adventure film. Of note are GENE HACKMAN, TIM THOMERSON, and FRED WARD. These three actors give fine performances as Vietnam vets who must come to grips with the war and their return. In fact, everyone in this film is good. This film departs from the phony heroics of RAMBO and tells a more human tale. The character og MACGREGOR is symbolic of someone like H. ROSS PEROT. This film is worth a viewing and has excellent production values and is well directed. Of note is the fact that WINGS HAUSER, had a role in the production of this film. "},{"Title":"Exciting and stirring film in which a brave unit returns Vietnam to rescue POWs","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Box-office hit of the 80s about a misfit team re-reunited by Gene Hackman to carry out a suicide mission behind enemy lines . A group of Vietnam vets are drafted to go on a near-suicide mission and to rescue one of their own left behind and taken prisoner by the Vietnamese . ¨Uncommon valor¨ is an entertaining film with Gene Hackman who aware his son can still be alive and decides to go in after him . As Hackman is a tough officer along with the ordinary and troublesome team of unadapted ex-soldiers of Vietnam . The retired military man himself training a group of rebel and misfit soldiers for a dangerous assault on Laos. In the hands of hardboiled director Ted Kotcheff and a tough-as-leather cast headed by Hackman , that's all the plot that's needed to make one rip-roaring wartime flick . Supported by a rich businessman ,Robert Stack , whose son was also a POW, the bunch engages in a perilous and violent adventure attempting to rescue the POWs and at the same time re-direct their lives . Hackman's mission is two-fold and in violent style  first turn his soldiers into a hard fighting unit and later on they go to invade Laos in search of prisoners , still Missing in Action . The unit formed by diverse characters include a cocky hunk as Reb Brown , Harold Sylvester as a chronic malcontent , Randal Tex Cobb as a ready-to-blow nutty , Fred Ward as a lame-brained soldier , Tim Thomerson as old veteran and a beginner Patrick Swayze . The first half of the film allows the colorful cast of character actors to have their fun as they get their tails whipped into shape and develop shaky relationship with their leader . The final part is all action, as the commando wreck havoc and then run for their lives. The relentless assignment is set against strong training, risked adventures and hazardous feats . The dangerous mission includes a two-fisted group formed by a motley and diverse squadron played by all-star cast of the 80s . This is a rugged actioner concerning about an experienced officer , Col. Rhodes , he undertakes training the valiant unit of soldiers that get a chance to redeem themselves . At the end they must participate in the suicidal mission behind the enemy lines , to wipe enemies and rescue prisoners by means of a violent assault over a strongly protected camp.Gene Hackman as Colonel Rhodes who gathers a motley crew assumes the character of the leader in this thrilling war movie stunningly directed by Ted Kotcheff , being well scripted by Joe Gayton and uncredited by also actor Wing Hauser. This is a routine Actioner with prestigious star Gene Hackman as the Vietnam veteran resulting to be one of the best roles he'd made in the 80s , as he's fine as tough , cold , obstinate Colonel . This formula action/war/thriller packs frantic movement , perilous adventures , relentless feats , and buck-loads of explosive action and violence . The noisy action is uniformly well-made, especially deserving of mention the rip-roaring final scenes on the concentration camp , including some spectacular shootouts and bombing . Apart from the values of team spirit , cudgeled by Gene Hackman into his rebel group , the film is full of feats , suspense , and thrills . Rough Hackman is good as leader of the motley pack together to thwart enemy camp , as well as the largely secondary cast with special mention to Randall Tex Cobb and Patrick Swayze . Atmospheric and exciting musical score by James Horner and appropriate cinematography filmed by cameraman Stephen Burum in several locations from Bangkok, Thailand ; Hanalei, Kaua'i, Hawaii, USA (Vietnam rice paddy);Indian Dunes, California, USA (Texas training camp); Lumahai Valley, Kaua'i, Hawaii, USA (Laotian POW camp). This is is a wartime typical vehicle and into the ¨ Vietnam war genre¨ and regarding ¨rescue commandos¨, which also belong  ¨Rambo II¨ , and ¨Colonel Braddock¨ trilogy with Chuck Norris , all of them dealing with relentless soldiers attempting to free some American people still held prisoners in a far prison camp into Vietnam . Although the movie has some aspects a little tough to take , this moving film still has its fine moments getting an adequate atmosphere with agreeable results , furthermore grossed lot of money at the box office . "},{"Title":"Held up by strong, believable performances","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gene Hackman plays Colonel Rhodes, a frustrated veteran who rounds up a gang of the roughest men he can find, all to lead an invasion of a Vietnamese Prisoner of War camp at which he believes his son is still held captive. Seemingly far-fetched plot isn't as overblown as one might think, while the cast gives great, solid, and most of all believable performances, including Patrick Swayze, Fred Ward, and Randall Tex Cobb. Includes a high energy action-filled climax. Recommended for fans of gritty war-dramas. Besides, it's always interesting to see Tex Cobb doing a ballet improvisation. "},{"Title":"Reb Brown  WUAAAAAAAAHHHH!!!!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  highly trained mercenaries + precise tactical mission + lots of explosions + Reb Brown!no, Reb didn't exactly star in this film.  In fact everyone's favorite beefy slab of machine-gun toting girlie-screaming mayhem has a pretty minor role in this one.  Gene Hackman gives possibly his best performance as a disgruntled father of an MIA who leads a bunch of 'nam vets back to 'nam on an unsanctioned, privately-funded mission... by Robert maybe you can solve a mystery Stack no less!This film has an outrageously fun concept, and it's also done remarkably well with half the film spent with the guys practicing their mission in an elaborate training-ground, and the second half with them pumping round after round into gook soldier.  Sure the premise proved popular enough to inspire several later films like COBRA MISSION, MISSING IN ACTION, and RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART 2 (Director Kotcheff directed FIRST BLOOD)... but it's just so fun in an escapist, outlandish, Swiss-Family-Robinson sort of way you just have to love it.  On the plus side, Uncommon Valor also features a wealth of your favorite B-actors, like Fred Ward (Tremors 1 and 2), Randall Cobb (Golden Child), Patrick Swayze (Steel Dawn), and the aforementioned Reb Brown (Robowar, Strike Commando, Yor, etc.).Any film with Reb Brown happily chanting bouncin' betty blows their balls off! can't be that bad... it's just hilarious to see him so caught up in his role that his dialog becomes unintelligable later in the film amidst all his screaming and yelling.One of Kotcheff's better films, certainly a step up from FIRST BLOOD... would've benefitted from a better musical score (since there really isn't much of one to speak of). "},{"Title":"The original POW movie!","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Chuck Norris and Sly Stallone really has nothing on Gene Hackman & Company as Hackman can act, first of all. Despite liking Norris and Stallone. But, Hackman knows how to act! He plays Colonel Rhodes, a career military man as his only son, is a POW in Vietnam. Despite the government and everybody else saying to him that he needs to give up. Still, any and all hindrances won't deter him. As he rounds up a group of men from his son's team in the Vietnam War. That have gone onto other things, meaning other jobs, in hopes of saving his son and others left by the war as POWs. And with financial backing from a billionaire, played by Robert Stack, also having a son that is a POW. As the camp is built like a POW camp in order to prepare them for the worse. There, they meet young rookie, Marine reject Patrick Swayze. The first part deals with their training, as the other five vets that aren't sure about Swayze and after not taking lightly being bossed by a rookie young Marine. They mutiny and Sailor, who steals the movie played brilliantly by, Randall Tex Cobb teaches the rookie a lesson in a fistfight. As it is revealed by Rhodes, he has a father that's MIA, shot down in Vietnam. There the young Marine is taken in by the vets and also learns to work as a team member, rather than a leader. He learns that he needed to be a team member, not a team leader all along. Second, despite a few obstacles and more government bureaucracy, Hackman's character and the now organized six men, won't stop until they rescue the POWs. Won't give away how they do it or the end, but it is pretty bittersweet. But all in all, it goes to show us, that we shouldn't leave out the POWs. Don't know why Cobb could had been a bigger name and given bigger roles after this. I admit the Swayze character was kind of jerk but then, mellowed out a bit. As well as started to learn to, become a team player. But it is Hackman's movie as he is brilliant in this. As well as the other supporting players. That build support around him. "}{"Title":"Valor Uncommon, Film Routine.","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gene Hackman is a former Marine Corps colonel who musters a handful of private Vietnam vets to go back to Laos and rescue some Americans who have been listed as missing in action. Hackman suspects that, in actuality, the half-dozen or so MIAs are secretly being held in a remote camp by Laotians to be tormented and to provide more hard labor. Hackman is being paid by the wealthy Robert Stack, whose son, like Hackman's son, is thought to be among the MIAs. But the circumstances are such that Hackman can only manage to buy old and out-dated weapons, though he manages to pick up the help of a fervid anti-communist Loatian and his two daughters along the way.I don't think the movie was deliberately concocted to endorse the myth of the Vietnames still holding our MIAs for propaganda purposes. The myth was real enough. If anyone remembers, there were many bumper stickers in 1982 and 1983, BRING BACK THE MIAs. I think, instead, that the film was made partly in order to cash in on the myth. It was absurd on the face of it. Why would our former enemy refuse to return MIAs? Propaganda? Where is the propaganda value in something that's kept secret? To add the labor supply? They need a hundred extra laborers in Vietnam and Laos? The motives behind this movie -- with its triumphant music and high body count -- were scurrilous.But how about the movie itself? Stripped of its theme of rescuing mythical mistreated MIAs, it's a routine paramilitary actioner, no better and no worse than dozens of others that appeared in the 1980s. Gene Hackman's performance is the only one that manages to keep its head above water. He's just about always reliable.Of the others, this being a formulaic plot, derived from The Dirty Dozen among others, I kept trying to guess which of the gang would sacrifice themselves for the mission. Of the three anti-communist Asians, I figured one or more were dead meat. That's why Asian helpers appear in movies like this. (I was right two times out of three.) I also figured Patrick Swayzie as the rookie ex-officer, the youngest of the group, who'd never earned the respect of the others because he'd never seen combat, would also have to go in some heroic mode. Wrong. He becomes a hero, true, but survives intact. I thought there was a fifty-fifty chance that Hackman would have to go too, but he makes it out okay. The formula doesn't really stretch for originality either. Charles Bronson's claustrophobic POW escapee from The Great Escape is here in Fred Ward's ex tunnel rat, a claustrophobe who is forced to crawl through a drainage pipe with a snake inside it, so that he can do a recon on the Laotian POW camp.The title, Uncommon Valor, is from a tribute that Admiral Nimitz made to the men on Iwo Jima -- Uncommon valor was common that day. Nimitz was certainly right about that. Whether or not the men who fought in Vietnam were all equally valorous is remote from the point. Anyone who saw combat or even came near it, putting their lives on the line for the guys in the line next to them, were heroic enough. This movie, and the way it exploits our bitterness about the Vietnam war, doesn't really do them justice. "},{"Title":"Solid action film, notable for its fine cast.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Colonel Jason Rhodes (Gene Hackman) is one of many worried Americans who've received notice that a loved one of theirs is listed as still Missing in Action after the Vietnam War. In Jasons' case, it's his brave son Frank (Todd Allen), who wouldn't leave a wounded comrade behind. Many years later, Jason is determined to find out the fate of his son, and other American soldiers. So he gathers together the rather motley crew that were his sons' comrades Wilkes (Fred Ward), Blaster (Reb Brown), Sailor (Randall Tex Cobb), Johnson (Harold Sylvester), and Charts (Tim Thomerson). Funding their recon and rescue mission is oil man MacGregor (Robert Stack), and joining them will be young Kevin Scott (Patrick Swayze), a soldier as yet untested in combat.Some people may see this as being manipulative, but this viewer saw it as an appealing, well meaning fantasy-action picture. It's all too easy to sympathize with people like Jason, and to want this offbeat team to succeed. A fair amount of the running time is devoted to their preparation in America, where a reproduction of the prison camp (where Frank is supposedly being held) has been built. The veterans don't have to worry about not getting along, because they've been through this all before, but they have to learn to put their faith in Kevin, just as he needs to learn that, for any expertise he may have, they have the experience that he doesn't.Technically well made, with fine location work throughout and generally competent set pieces. Lots of things blow up good; while there is a fair amount of violence, there's not enough gore to turn off more squeamish members of the audience. The climactic raid on the prison camp in Laos is reasonably exciting, with a pleasingly high body count.The performances are the main attraction of the movie. Hackman is under-stated and excellent, and gets fine chemistry going with his co-stars, who are pretty convincing as old war buddies. Cobb has the most colourful role in the picture as a man who was a trouble making brawler as a civilian, but who is loyal to the core. Viewers are sure to dig his dance moves. In addition to those actors mentioned, there's a number of familiar names in the supporting cast Gail Strickland, Jane Kaczmarek, Constance Forslund, Charles Aidman, Jeremy Kemp, Michael Dudikoff, Barret Oliver, and Juan Fernandez.Uncommon Valor is directed and executive produced by Ted Kotcheff, who of course had previously done First Blood. The stirring music score is by James Horner, John Milius was one of the producers, and actor Wings Hauser was one of the associate producers.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"I talk to polar bears......","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Marine Colonel was dismissed because he wouldn't give up on his son who's MIA in Vietnam. Nearly 10 years later, he obtains evidence of where he might be. So with financial backing from the father of another P.O.W. he recruits the men who served with his son. With photos he obtained, he makes a replica of the camp, and they work out a rescue operation. When the government tries to stop them, their weapons are confiscated. So they have to find other weapons......Hilarious from beginning to end, for all the wrong reasons, Uncommon Valor beat Rambo 2 by nearly two years for being one of the most overblown pieces of propaganda bigging up the vets in the eighties.The first act and a half are pure filler, Hackman getting angry, sad, and other emotions, before recruiting his rag tag team of people with wonderful names.But the real reason to watch this is because the moment we see the most fake looking bones ever committed to celluloid,the film goes bonkers, and it's really worth seeing for the last half an hour.It might have been myself, but it appears that Hackman spouts only one line from this part of the film, Swayze gets really, I mean really, emotional when he kills someone, or sees someone die, the camera literally stays on him for the best part of ten seconds each time to show his sadness.But when Tim Thomerson survives a helicopter explosion, he loses it, runs really fast to the river, and stops.Randall 'Tex' Cobb is the comedy value here, and when he realises it, he uses his necklace to help his friends.No prizes for guessing how a character called Blaster buys it, and all the POW's look like Klaus Kinski.It's not a bad film by any means, it's just daft propaganda, telling the USA that it was okay that we didn't win, because Gene Hackman can still get out there and kick butt. "},{"Title":"One of These Little-Known Vietnam War Films!","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Being such a movie geek, I have generally heard of nearly every film out there. But somehow, this film sneaked under my radar and when I finally came across it, I was astounded to realize I have never heard of it before, especially with Gene Hackman in the lead. While not the greatest film on the subject, Uncommon Valor is a marginally effective war film and is a story on friendship, courage, and what it takes to see the ones they love again.Ted Kotcheff, who you many recognize as the director of First Blood, directs a film about a retired colonel who spent ten years trying to find his son, who is listed as missing in action. After all his efforts fail, he organizes a team that includes former colleagues of his son and they begin a courageous effort to bring back American heroes from Vietnam.The acting is pretty good, actually. Gene Hackman is always good so it was no surprise here to see him give a committed performance. The other guys, you may not be so familiar with. My favorite character was played by Randall Tex Cobb and his character was so dumb and silly, but always made an effort to get the job done.Overall, Uncommon Valor is a decent war movie led on by the values of family and friendship. It's not the greatest war film because of it's uneven pace, spotty directing, and loose plot points. But with all these values and how the actors are able to bring these values across, this turns out to be an irresistible war film. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Personal Mission","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ted Kotcheff directed this exciting adventure film that stars Gene Hackman as Marine Col. Jason Rhodes, who has become frustrated with his own(U.S.) governments refusal to launch a rescue mission into Vietnam to rescue P.O.W.s he believes are still there, including his own son. He is approached by a rich businessman named McGregor(played by Robert Stack) who agrees to finance his own rescue mission which he wants Rhodes to command, since he too has a son who is a P.O.W. Rhodes then recruits some marines(now civilians) to help him on the mission(played by Patrick Swayze, Tim Thomerson, Randal 'Tex' Cobb, Fred Ward, & Reb Brown) First they must train and prepare, then launch the rescue mission, which is quite dangerous for many reasons... Rousing film with a good cast and interesting premise(which would be re-used many times later!) A bit far-fetched perhaps, but good fun. "},{"Title":"A Cut Above the Others","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Capitalizing on the strong emotions Americans held towards the Vietnam War, filmmakers in the 80's produced dozens of films ranging from well-done to disastrous. Uncommon Valor, while certainly not depicting the real war experience with anywhere near 100% accuracy, rises above the average shoot-em-up flick made during this time. It does so with an honorable storyline, good characterizations and pretty good acting given the subject matter.Gene Hackman plays a former Army Colonel whose son is among those who served in Vietnam and is now missing in action. Determined to learn his fate and bankrolled by a wealthy businessman (Robert Stack) whose own son is among the missing, Hackman reaches out to members of his old unit when he receives photographic evidence that some of these MIA are alive and being held captive in Laos. We see each of these ex-soldiers in their current lives- some living conventionally, while others are unfulfilled and tortured from memories of the past. Tex Cobb, Fred Ward, Reb Brown, Harold Sylvester, Tim Thomerson and Patrick Swayze each provide entertaining and believable characters representing the men who will spearhead this rescue. Hackman meticulously trains the soldiers at a facility authentically resembling the POW Camp they must raid. The final third of the movie depicts the rescue and both the elation and heartbreak that follow.Throughout the movie, we see these soldiers as human beings rather than cardboard cut-outs used to advance the plot. It allows us to like them, feel for them, root for them and ultimately feel sadness when fate intervenes. Because of this, Uncommon Valor shines above the many comic-book movies of this genre which offer little more than a high body count.Gene Hackman, an excellent actor if there ever was one, does a nice job conveying the nobility of the mission- and ultimate heartbreak when we learn the fate of his son. He receives good support from the other cast members who believably portray hardened soldiers whose vulnerability and moments of tenderness shine through. Tex Cobb- a guy not known for his acting chops- has a memorable, touching scene when rescuing a young man reluctant to leave the garden he's tended for years (We'll take the garden with us).While the notion of unaccounted for POW's was never proved with any degree of certainty, Uncommon Valor is an entertaining movie and a respectful nod to those who had loved ones serve in 'Nam and not come home. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!!","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I originally saw this in the theater when it opened in 1983.It is now August 2010 and I just watched it again and I was surprised at how well it stands up 27 years later. It is far better than the macho crap of the time, Missing in Action , Rambo and it's ilk. I don't consider this or First Blood Vietnam war movies, because they take place after the war. They show the aftermath and the effects the war had on individuals and their families. The acting performances are quite good and believable. I think it may be one of Gene Hackman's best performances and that is saying something. The direction and filming in general are excellent. Definitely a movie worth watching then and now. "},{"Title":"A band of Vietnam vets reunite and attempt to rescue their friend who they were forced to leave on the battlefield years ago!","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Even after all this time, the action and suspense scenes are riveting, the camaraderie between the characters is believable and touching and the conclusion is both heartbreaking and bittersweet. Uncommon Valor delivers more than your average war film and boasts a perfect all round cast. The action scenes are first class and quite frankly outweigh the efforts in the likes of Hamburger Hill, Full Metal Jacket or Platoon. One of the few war films that truly affects its audience and successfully deals with the issues of post-traumatic stress. Very rarely does a film boast such realistic character acting on a wide scale and it's thanks to the actors that the film packs such a punch, emotionally and viscerally! "},{"Title":"Comments and Corrections","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" CommentsIn my opinion, this is an excellent movie, primarily because it shows the camaraderie and exactly why such teams are so close knit. The scenes in Thailand (Laos) are excellent. Very reminiscent of the back country anywhere in South East Asia. The cast was well selected and worked very well together. I particularly enjoy the part where Sailor is asked about his money, as there are many, manydistractions in places like Saigon, Phnom Penh and Bangkok, as any veteran can tell you...LOLCorrections Gene Hackman plays the part of a Marine Colonel, not an Army Colonel.In many Armies, a Full Colonel is considered equivalent to a General. Meaning that a civilian calling a Colonel a General may be a mistake and may not.For example, in the Thai Army & Air Force, there are Colonels and there are Senior Colonels. The Senior Colonel is considered the equivalent of a General 'select', but may hold that position for years until there is an opening. To treat him as less than a General would be an affront of great magnitude... "},{"Title":"Good flick, certainly plausible, fans of Red Dawn would like it","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'd actually seen Red Dawn first and it would have to be my preference over this one but that said, this is an excellent film. Admittedly I'm a sucker for these type of films and I also have the utmost respect for our military. Even though this film was fictitious, this sort of thing happened many times, some stories have been told more often then others etc.The idea is definitely plausible. Young guys just barely out of High School join The Army and get shipped off to Vietnam only to get captured and then shipped off to prison camps. This couldn't have possibly been cast any better. The late and great Robert Stack (R.I.P.) and Gene Hackman were particularly well suited for their roles. Randall Tex Cobb is fun to watch for the entire time he's on camera and (spoiler alert) it's especially sad when he dies.The training scenes were extremely well thought out and executed. The mock-up prison camp in Texas and the morning wake up rituals that Gene Hackman puts them through are fun to watch. The fight scene between Tex Cobb and Patrick Swayze is definitely worth a few laughs.Two thumbs up, definitely worth watching a few times. "}{"Title":"Jingoistic but very touching","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all it has to be conceded that this film has a very macho 80s/Reagan era view of war. Most Vietnamese characters are cannon fodder whose deaths have little or no impact, while American characters are granted either tragic or glorious deaths. But if you can tolerate, ignore or (to be fair) enjoy this aspect of the film, you will find a very moving look at people dealing with the idea of their friends and family never coming home and/or being forced to live as Prisoners of War. This is the main thing which separates this from other POW rescue fantasies (along with a certain, though modest, degree of realism). The most touching scene is at the start of the film, with Hackman pondering over the whereabouts of his son, but there are also some very poignant moments at the end of the film. Uncommon Valor is also worth watching for a memorable cast including one of Patrick Swayze's earliest and best performances. Hackman is, as usual, excellent. "},{"Title":"Good Start Ruined By Commercial Interests","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On the surface this is basically an action adventure movie featuring a load of Americans with guns , but it gets off to a very powerful start as a former Korean war hero finds that his son who has been captured by Vietnamese forces in 1972 hasn`t been returned home . This is very touching helped in no small measure by Gene Hackman`s acting and James Horner`s score. You really do feel for this character as he gets shunted to pillar to post and as he gets ripped off by South East Asian scam merchants . This movie is well on its way to being a powerful human drama dealing with the grief caused by war   Alas ... ... after the first ten minutes the producers decide that powerful human drama is for a bunch of pansy assed liberals give their characters a load of weapons and send them off to the `Nam to rescue their captured comrades and more importantly to slaughter lots and lots of goddamned commies .It`s very strange to watch this movie play out since the start does show that the production team posses some talent on pulling the audiences heart strings but decide to go ahead with making a movie that contains lots of gun fire and explosions thereby appealing to a large unthinking audience . It`s also extremely dumb in places where Hackman`s character manages to get some acid head biker out of prison just like that or where characters survive spectacular copter crashes I gave UNCOMMON VALOR five out of ten and if it wasn`t for the moving opening ten minutes it would probably have got a lot less   "},{"Title":"Cheesy as hell, but not bad","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" American forces going back into Vietnam to settle a score, now there's a well-worn premise for an '80s movie. But in all fairness, Gene Hackman blazed that trail for Norris and Stallone. Uncommon Valor is as manly as they come, wielding a righteous cause and a well of brute testosterone. And for a great deal of the running time, it's a by-the-numbers war movie. I have to admit, that's not really my thing, so I started drifting after awhile.It's a good cast, but Hackman deserves high praise for his sympathetic performance. The damn thing opens with him stalking the streets of Bangkok in hopeless search of his POW son. Washington's no help and his desperation is palpable. The stake are a lot more real when he's around.6/10 Stray thought what is with the milquetoast pop songs that end these '80s 'Nam movies? "},{"Title":"Uncommon Valor","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A straight basic plot that doesn't mess around with complications. This flick is more of an action flick really, its set after the Nam war and not within the actual war. I did kinda expect a Nam war flick given the films poster but its not really, whether or not its actually based on any truths again I'm not really sure. I guess its possible, I think there were many US soldiers held after the war had finished and there certainly were many soldiers MIA. Whether anyone actually tried this idea without proper official backing I don't know, possible though.Lets not beat around the camouflaged bush here though, this premise is ripe for a ripping action flick, a real Rambo style emotional roller-coaster. I will give the film its due it does exactly that, you get exactly what you'd expect, it doesn't try to sugarcoat anything or be overally flashy, its clichéd and corny at the best of times but its a real crowd pleaser if you ask me.Gene Hackman's son is MIA in a remote area of Laos ten years after the Nam war, he believes he's still alive and wants to rescue him but the government aren't interested. So off he goes to find a team of Nam vets to dive into Laos, rescue any POW's and bounce back across the border before anyone knew they were there...oh and kill a whole load of natives.Cue your obligatory recruitment sequences as Hackman snoops out soldiers from his sons platoon and other war torn troopers. Then cue your obligatory training sequences as the men are brought back up to scratch. Then cue your standard drop into Laos and preparation for taking out the POW camp. Its all very easy and by the numbers plus you have seen this kind of thing many times before. One could almost say its an 'A-Team' version of 'Predator' when Arnie and his boys take out the hostile camp at the start. You know what I mean by that...there's plenty of friendly fire, action is violent but you don't see anything, lots of cuts, little specks of blood and lots of extras leaping through the air.What makes this film so damn fun is the cast, oh boy what a cast! its a classic character actor line up. Under Hackman we have Tim Thomerson playing another Nam vet chopper pilot (before 'Air America'), Fred Ward in his year of recognition with two other major film releases, Harold Sylvester as the typical 80's token black character, Captain America himself Reb Brown, Randall 'Tex' Cobb surprisingly trying to act being a good guy and a very young Pat Swayze. Naturally each man has his own skills for individual moments in the action...Cobb would be the wild strongman type in case you might not have guessed it.But lets put the action man gung-ho action aside for a mo, its not an all out ham fest by any means. There is a lot of actual emotion and heart in this film, its based on reality, real events and probably struck a cord with many real vets. The action is a bit hokey and tame by today's standards sure, not overally realistic or well coordinated at times but it tries to be gritty and accurate. I do wonder how they didn't all manage to get killed really, they were hardly an example of special ops but hey never mind. The ending is weepy, its gets you, but the most important thing is you care about the characters, the film gets that right, you want them all to make it back.The whole thing feels very much like a TV movie really, it has moments of good production values with some nice explosions in the finale but overall it felt a bit restricted. The musical score seemed very cheap to me, as though it was a selection that you can rent and has been used in many action films. Hell Hackman's character looks like he's out for a good hike in the Alps when we see him in the jungle for the showdown. Still I can't deny I really enjoyed this film, I got hella pumped for the finale POW bust out, that got me going. I really wanted to see the guys succeed, really liked that team and the film is so heartfelt and sweet. Yeah i know that sounds pathetically lame but its true! such a pleasant Nam war flick.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen go to Vietnam","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This DIRTY DOZEN reimagining sees army colonel Gene Hackman leading a crack squad of former soldiers into the steamy jungles of Laos in search of American soldiers declared missing in action a decade previously. The story template is familiar but the central theme of hunting for MIA soldiers in Vietnam is good enough to have inspired later, more popular action films like the Chuck Norris MISSING IN ACTION vehicles and the Stallone-starring RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART II.Uncommon Valor is both similar to and different from those populist movies. In terms of last reel action, it more than holds its own with an explosive climax that involves storming a prisoner of war camp. However, there's much more to it as this film follows the DIRTY DOZEN mould closely, with plenty of time being taken up with recruitment and training. The characters are well drawn and there are enough decent actors around to make this a highly entertaining viewing experience. No-frills director Ted Kotcheff also handled the first Rambo outing, FIRST BLOOD, and he does another confident and assured job here.And&#x85;what a cast! One of the most interesting ensembles from the early 1980s. Hackman, as always, is the highlight of the film tough, no-nonsense and yet filled with emotion lurking beneath that hard surface. Fred Ward (ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ) shows up as a soldier suffering from post-traumatic stress, while bargain-basement muscleman Reb Brown (STRIKE COMMANDO) handles some comic scenes nicely. Then there's the larger-than-life Randall 'Tex' Cobb making an impression, Tim Thomerson prior to his B-movie career with Charles Band and, last but best of all, an extremely young Patrick Swayze giving a subtle and nuanced turn as the rookie of the group. You can see why Swayze went onto bigger and better things on the strength of his performance here. "},{"Title":"The ones that went back","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Retired Marine Colonel Jason Rhodes' son Frank is listed Missing in Action in Vietnam.About ten years later he gathers up a team to get him, and a few others, back.Uncommon Valor (1983) is directed by Ted Kotcheff.He's the same guy who directed the first Rambo movie.There's certainly some relation between Rambo and this movie.Gene Hackman is pretty tough guy to play the lead.He may not have the muscles of Sly, but he's still pretty tough.Patrick Swayze, who is sadly no longer with us, plays Kevin Scott.Fred Ward plays the part of Wilkes.Red Brown is Blaster.Former boxer Randall 'Tex' Cobb plays Sailor.Robert Stack portrays MacGregor.Tim Thomerson is Charts.Harold Sylvester plays Johnson.This movie, despite being a classic masterpiece, isn't lacking in cool action scenes.I mean, when they hit the location of the missing soldiers, all hell breaks loose.If you dig these manly action flicks, then this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic and not good popcorn fun either","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1972, Frank Rhodes got left behind in Vietnam and taken prisoner. His father retired Col Jason Rhodes (Gene Hackman) keeps pushing for years to get him back. He's gathered up intel and a target. Then he gathers up Frank's brothers-in-arms to go into Laos for a rescue. He has even built a replica of the camp in Texas and hired Kevin Scott (Patrick Swayze) to get them into shape. All the plans are thrown out the window when the government takes away all of the weapons.The story is bad unrealistic 80s fare. It tries to be better than the various Chuck Norris or Rambo movies. That's why they bought in Hackman. However this exists somewhere in between. It's far too unrealistic to be compelling drama. There's even a sweaty white guy with a parrot. It's also not action oriented enough to be good mindless popcorn fun. It doesn't work either way. "},{"Title":"Action movie with a heart","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This forgotten little movie was probably inspiration for much more famous movie made later &#x96; &#x84;Missing in action with Chuck Norris (1984) and Rambo 2  with Sylvester Stallone (1985) . All three movies have a similar story , but it was Ted Kotcheff's (director of &#x85; Rambo  First blood  made in 1982 ) movie that first used such story . Furthermore , it's actually based on real life story of Green Beret Colonel Bo Gritz (read the F.A.Q.) . From this three movies I think that Rambo 2 is the best movie and Missing in action the worst. Uncommon valor is forgotten , but fun movie that is worth watching.It's always a pleasure to have a Gene Hackman in a movie . His character is a strong , quiet and determined man who will do a lot to find his son . He's a true heart of the movie . Patrick Swayze also appears in this movie and gives a heartfelt performance, the best in his career . It was also good to see Randall Tex Cobb . He brings a lot of humor into the movie , while never making it campy. A silent hero of the movie for me is Fred Ward who plays a man with traumatic war past. The rest of the cast is also good. Watch out for Michael Dudikoff (American ninja) in a small role of Blaster's assistant.The movie mainly concentrates on the characters and the relations between them . The training takes a lot of the movie time , yet it's never boring. It's interesting to watch it , because the filmmakers invest our feelings into the characters . When the final of the movie appears we care about what happens to the characters . That's a big plus for the movie. Still , people who like action might be disappointed. I wasn't. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Bring Them All Back This Time","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Uncommon Valor stars Gene Hackman as a retired US Army Colonel who still wants an accounting of his son who was listed as Missing In Action when the Vietnam War ended in 1973. Rumors on rumors pile up as to whether we still have men kept as prisoners of war from the late conflict in Southeast Asia. Hackman thinks he has a lead and he goes to multi-millionaire Robert Stack who also has an MIA son with a plan of action that involves leading some veterans as a volunteer mercenary force to get their comrades out.I'll say the same thing I said about Rambo II which touched on the same subject. Does it make any kind of rational sense that the Vietnamese or in this case the men are being held in Laos would keep prisoners of war after the conflict has ended? My guess is, sad to say that prisoners that we could not account for being held by the enemy at the conclusion of the war would probably have been just simply murdered. But the idea that we could go back and win one in the extra innings of war certainly had appeal which accounts for the popularity of Uncommon Valor and Rambo II. At least Gene Hackman was not going to do it singlehanded the way Sly Stallone did.Bearing all that in mind, Uncommon Valor is a nice action war film if taken on its own terms. The men that Hackman selects, all veterans from the conflict, Randall Cobb, Fred Ward, Tim Thomerson, Reb Brown, and Harold Sylvester are all professionals. The film never goes down to the rollicking and somewhat dopey hijinks of the A-Team. They have one youngster on the mission, a young Patrick Swayze on the cusp of stardom. He's there to rescue his father if possible.The cast has a nice chemical camaraderie to it. Uncommon Valor is a decent enough action film, not to be taken too terribly serious. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies I've seen! A bit better editing/directing and it would have been a mega-hit.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Other than a little rough editing/directing this movie is my all-time favorite.......the only movie I ever choked up on and the only one I've ever owned.......I think Gene Hackman is great, but Reb Brown and Randall Tex Cobb really stood out in this movie for me.  I think the biggest problem was that it was too short and didn't completely live up to it's potential........I wanted it to last longer!   "}{"Title":"For guys only","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gene Hackmans' presence makes it worth seeing. Typical guy movie but well worth seeing. Leave the girls at home, rent it, go to your buddys' place & watch it. Even after 16 years it's still a good catch. I watch it every 2 years and still enjoy it.   "},{"Title":"An enjoyable men on a mission flick.","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Uncommon Valor' Directed By Ted Kotcheff who also directed 'First Blood' the film has Hackman cast as a Colonel veteran (Korea) who teams a group of Vietnam War veterans to re-unite to rescue some of their own who were previously left behind and taken prisoner by the Vietnamese.Hackman is driven by the mission as his son is a POW, Robert Stack whose son is also a POW plays the Oil magnate who finances the daring mission. The late Patrick Swayze is mis-cast in the role as a Ranger who joins the mission purely for the fact that his own father is a POW. apparently the far more ferocious James Remar was originally cast in the role. Genre favourite Randall 'Tex' Cobb is an odd ball Vet who is an absolute riot in his role. Fred Ward and Tim Thomerson also appears. John Millius wrote the script which explains a lot of the Gun-ho militaristic theatrics. one wonders if the makers of Rambo First Blood II lifted the idea for that film. "},{"Title":"an interesting VIETNAM movie...the one that started the return to Vietnam film fad","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  UNCOMMON VALOR is perhaps the most believable of the return to Vietnam to rescue the POW's films. The film ceters on the attempts of COL.RHODES played by GENE HACKMAN to find his boy missing in action in Vietnam. He gathers a small group of Vietnam vets +one recent military veteran to go back into Vietnam via THAILAND. Along the way the THAI police and the CIA confiscate their weapons so new weapons are purchased...WW2 vintage. The team goes in to the area and hijinks ensue. This is a fine war film and a great action adventure film. Of note are GENE HACKMAN, TIM THOMERSON, and FRED WARD. These three actors give fine performances as Vietnam vets who must come to grips with the war and their return. In fact, everyone in this film is good. This film departs from the phony heroics of RAMBO and tells a more human tale. The character of MACGREGOR is symbolic of someone like H. ROSS PEROT. This film is worth a viewing and has excellent production values and is well directed. Of note is the fact that WINGS HAUSER, had a role in the production of this film. "},{"Title":"Uncommon Valor","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hackman is excellent as a rough-tough Marine colonel who leads a gung-ho band of vets through the Laos jungles to rescue American troops listed as missing in action during the Vietnam War. High on macho and action, this is a well done film from director Kotcheff, who has a great handle on the technical in this picture, compared to First Blood. Along with Hackman, there is also great support from Stack, Ward, Swayze and Randall Tex Cobb.   "},{"Title":"Gene Hackman was Outstanding","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Always enjoy Gene Hackman,(Col. Cal Rhodes), who portrayed a retired Marine Col., who was bound and determined to find his son and rescue other Vietnam captives for over ten long years missing in action. Cal Rhodes got tired of trying his Congressmen for their assistance and decided to get together some of his old devoted Marine buddies to come to his aid. There was lots of hard work to obtain Helicopters (UH-1H), weapons and men determined to help their fellow vets once again. Robert Stack appears in the film and is able to furnish financial support with his ability to secure vehicles. There is a so called young Marine who tries to assist the Marine Vets and is given a hard time, which is rather interesting. There is lots of action and a wonderful film about our fantastic Vets of the Vietnam War. However, this is a sad film which gives some horrible details concerning the torture our Brave Men had to endure. "},{"Title":"hmm yet another let's go get the MIA's out from Vietnam","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  But to be a little more precise I do not think that it is as bad as it actually could be. Eventhough the actors (famous to semi-famous) didn't do a very great job. Directors fault? Could be the script as well hard for me to say? Anyway, if you are after a lot of cool guns and action this is not the movie for you but they do run around with a lot of ww2 vintage guns. Sort of fun ) Well I guess I could say more but it just doesn't feel as if it's worth it. If you are desperate enough or a Hackman freak see it otherwise don't!Live well and prosper  "},{"Title":"Someone changed the ending to this movie. Warning this movie has been spoiled","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this film at least 5 times before. I just saw this movie again on cable and the ending has been altered. In the original at the end, they fly into the united nations compound pow negotiations in hanoi, land in the parking lot and they help the rescued pows into the actual meeting bursting into the room just as the Vietnamese are saying There are no more american pows subsequently proving the vietnamese are Mistaken.Right after that they roll a written eulogy stating the number of pows mia's still left in Nam. This altered version ends the film in a totally different manner with the film cutting from the in flight rescue right to some nonsense showing the pows at home on crutches in uniform.Who changed this movie? What in the name of heck is wrong with these panty waists? Has being politically correct become more important than the truth? this film has been altered and that is sneaky, deceitful, underhanded, Insulting, and just plain wrong.not only have they left all of those brave americans in that asian sewer for more than 30 years. Now they are lying, changing history and altering movie endings in order to cover their guilt.I do not have the words to express how Furious this betrayal of the honor and sacrifice of those veterans makes me feel. It's ok to let them rot over there, just so long as we alter history and movies to hide our shame. SHAME ON WHOEVER ALTERED THIS FINE FILM!  "},{"Title":"A bit hokey but entertaining.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every decade has it's share of various fads. The 80's had American POW's are still being held in SouthEast Asia and the U.S. needs to go and rescue em This film had some good potential especially with Gene Hackman but ended up just being the standard action fair not far off ala Chuck Norris. I did find it amusing that a wealthy individual like the Robert Stack character MacGregor would have had a son who fought in Vietnam. Viewing it when it first came out made one feel that U.S. POW's might still be held captive but now that it is obvious none are still alive there it's taken on a sort of hokiness. It's still good entertainment and has it's share of action. Next to Gene Hackman Randall Will you ever fight Larry Holmes again? No his hands couldn't take the punishment Tex Cobb stands out in his role. "},{"Title":"A credible film with a mediocre director.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Uncommon Valor' has a great premise about an American father (Gene Hackman) trying to rescue his son from a Vietnamese POW camp ten years after he was taken prisoner.  He is aided in his mission by his son's former military buddies and the mission is bankrolled by a wealthy oil executive (Robert Stack) who is a friend of Hackman's.The movie shows the various levels of experience each man has for the mission in making it a success or failure.  The characters are somewhat stereotyped but they're extremely likable which makes it easy to over look this and some other rather minor flaws.Director Ted Kotcheff makes the film technically flat and lowers the value of impact one may experience in a film with action involving explosions and gun fights.  Kotcheff made this mistake in 'First Blood' with Sylvester Stallone one year before this film and duplicates it here.  "},{"Title":"Effective film","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ted Kotcheff's post-Vietnam film tells the story of a father. Determined his son is still alive and imprisoned in enemy territory, he endeavours to gather together a small band of ex-commandos in order to conduct a suicidal search and rescue.Gene Hackman is convincing, and the supporting cast work very well together. Kotcheff tackles his subject well, and while the movie is never incredibly moving, it is very effective.Uncommon Valour was one of the first in what turned out to be a spate of 'Vietnam War films', some better and some worse than this one. Perhaps the inspiration for Stallone's Rambo came from this particular work. Worthwhile viewing.Tuesday, February 25, 1992 - Video "}{"Title":"The Dirty Dozen it isn't!","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is sad to have to say that a film is truly awful and one tries to find ways around saying this. However, this is a dreadful film. Gene Hackman wastes time (and one suspects, many dollars) on re-playing his most famous, and oft recreated, role as Gene Hackman. Otherwise, television actors are given the chance to become film stars, and successfully, resist the temptation. Patrick Swayze has a minor part and went on to greater things, for which he must be eternally thankful.I watched this film, as a result of someone else's review and I felt that another point of view was merited. You may not agree with my review but now, at least, you have been warned. "},{"Title":"Was this made for TV?","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe our standards for Vientam movies have increased since Born on the Fourth Of July, Full Metal Jacket, and Platoon. This movie has a predictable plot, bad writing, bad acting, bad directing, bad special effects, etc. Compared with other Vietnam movies this one is completely unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Yet another film glorifying Vietnam","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know these types of films sell tickets and make a profit for the film makers but it just won't do as a film about Vietnam. Viet Nam was filled with horrors for the men who lived it day in and day out.This film stars Gene Hackman who is Korean war vet assigned to train a group of rag-tag Viet Nam Vets for a return trip to that country to rescue a group of American POW's held at a camp there. These men include a former tunnel rat, a crazy acid dropping sailor, a blond tanned surfer from California and some inexperienced kid (Patrick Swayze) who just so happens had a dad that was killed in Nam. They train first at some camp in Texas and once in Nam they are found out and lose all their weapons. They are able to find replacement weapons and continue on their way to free the captured men. Most of the men are found and saved but the rag-tag group is mostly wiped out.This movie played like a video game in which you could figure out what was going to happen next and who would pop out of behind what bush, and who was going to die and who was going to live. Viet Nam I'm guessing was not like a video game.... "},{"Title":"Vietnam after-party...","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS AHOY !!! Uncommon Valor is a decent - you might even say good - war movie that in fact was one of the first films that portraits the pain and depression after Vietnam. The movie mostly sets in the same year as it was shot - 1983 - a good 10 years after the last troops returned from Vietnam. At the time of the story, there still are many P.O.W kept hidden in the jungle of Laos. One of them is Kol. Rhodes' son Frank. Rhodes ( Gene Hackman is a great role as always ) feels that his son is still alive and can't go on living with the thought that he's kept prisoner. Therefore he convinces and recruits a whole platoon of veterans to go back and release the M.I.A's. On one side, they're sponsored by the government because one big man there also has a missing son but on the other side they're being boycott because the government still is negociating with Laos to set the prisoners free without a battle.Three quarters of the movie is filled with the training and recruiting of the veterans and it's pretty needless to say that involves a lot of sentiment, emotion and even some funny moments. In that point of view, Uncommon Valor isn't really innovating or memorable but it does contain an interesting character portrait of veterans in general. We see how one soldier is faced with his old phobia again ( Fred Ward, still a very underappreciated actor in my opinion ) and another one going crazy once again because he was addicted to painkillers back in Vietnam ( Randall Tex Cobb in a very well cast role ). Uncommon Valor also stars a young Patrick Swayze ( even before his Dirty Dancing role ) as the enthusiast young warrior who never fought in Vietnam but sure wants to help now in releasing the prisoners.  The film is directed by Ted Kotcheff who knows his way around Vietnam stories...He was the one who also brought us the Rambo franchise.Uncommon Valor doesn't belong to the top list of Vietnam war movies but it certainly is enjoyable and worth a watch. Good cast and especially the locations and settings leave an impression on you.  "},{"Title":"Having Such Soldiers Presented in Movies Like That, How Americans Lost the Vietnam War?","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Col. Cal Rhodes (Gene Hackman) is a father who does not accept the loss of his son Frank in Vietnam. Frank was considered `missing in action'. He tries to gather evidences that his son is alive and is a `pow' (prisoner of war). He does not convince Washington and decides to reunite other veteran ex-militaries and organize a raid in the field in Laos where Frank is supposed to be arrested. With the financial support of MacGregor (Robert Stack), a wealthy father in the same situation as Rhodes, they prepare a small but experienced team for the action. First of all, I do not like this type of movie. It offends my intelligence. The usual arithmetic works this way the life of Blaster + Sailor + two Asians > the freedom of four deranged and very sick prisoners. Further, having such soldiers like presented in movies like that, how Americans lost the Vietnam war? Anyway, the action is great and entertains and at least the author made a decent end. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) `De Volta ao Inferno' (`Back to Hell') "}]