[{"Title":"Just don't let them take me back to the institution","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"73 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho II is, without a doubt, the greatest sequel of all time. Having to make a follow-up to a film as unique and wonderful as Psycho seems like an impossible task, but director Richard Franklin and brilliant writer Tom Holland knew how to pull it off. This isn't a rip-off of the original like some sequels are; this really stands on its own. It's unpredictable, chilling, gruesome, exciting, interesting, and surprisingly touching.With Psycho II, we are able to see exactly what kind of man Norman is. We get such a clear feeling of how he thinks and feels, and we realize what a fascinating character he really is. He is no longer the villain here, and instead, we just wish that everyone could leave the man alone. Anthony Perkins' performance is too good for words, and the other actors shine as well, especially Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia, and Dennis Franz.The only real misfire in this movie is that they showed the shower scene from the original Psycho at the very beginning. It doesn't serve any real purpose, especially since there is so much more to Psycho than that one famous scene. However, it recovers quickly during the opening credits when we see the sun set upon Norman's creepy house, making it look lovely. One of the best things about this movie is the music. Jerry Goldsmith contributes some really lovely scores, and they are used perfectly throughout the movie. I honestly can't get enough of the main score; it's beautiful.Try to avoid seeing this on TV. USA does a lot of editing, and they completely cut out a couple really special parts, in my opinion. The parts they cut out are the most sensitive/sentimental parts of the movie, so try and rent Psycho II instead!!!Just as good as the original, in my opinion. ***** (out of 5) "},{"Title":"Psychological Horror at it's best.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"51 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the most frightening movie I've ever seen.  I was expecting it to be kind of funny in a bad horror movie way but it plays with your mind to such a masterful extent that every time I've seen it I've been shaky afterwards. Anthony Perkins does such a good job of playing the rehabilitated Norman Bates who for 2 hours you have to decide if what's going on is in his head or really going on.  That puzzlement stays suspenseful for the entire film until the very involved ending.  This is really a top notch psychological suspense/horror movie which is very underrated. "},{"Title":"It's a wonderful sequel to Hitchcock's masterpeice!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho II is a great horror sequel. Not only is it entertaining, it has many wonderful twists and turns through out which make it even more enjoyable. Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, Robert Loggia and Meg Tilly are all great and turn in very good performances. Vera Miles turns in a very eccentric performance, it shows how much she hates Norman. Anthony Perkins makes the viewer feel sorry for him as he slowly becomes confused again. Meg Tilly has a lot of charm and Robert Loggia is very good as the very caring Doctor. It's a well done thrill- ride, highly entertaining and full of suspense, thanks to director Franklin. Well done to every one involved. I think this is the best Psycho sequel.  I love it a lot! You'd think that as it is the sequel to the classic Psycho, it would suck, it does not!My personal rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ranks as #1 in the better than you'd think- category","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"54 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Safe to say that Psycho II suffers from all the prejudices possible. Numberless elements could be used as an excuse to avoid this movie and to place it among other pointless and money-making sequels. Brought out 22 years after the original masterpiece by Hitchcock himself, I can imagine that many fans refuse to give a subjective look at it. Very wrong, though!! Number two is a very worthy and underrated sequel, which brings perfect homage to the Master of Suspense best film. Even though Franklin can't fully live up to Hitchcock's style, he shows a pretty intense and mind-blowing story here. Franklin obviously worships Hitchcock (which was also clear in one of his previous films - Patrick) and this sequels is made with nothing but respect and goodwill. The very creative script - written by Tom Holland - has more than enough positive aspects and perplexing twists to consider the entire movie a triumph. Sure, some of the twists are far-fetched but overall the continuation of the Psycho couldn't be better. It actually takes place 22 years later with Norman Bates judged sane and released from the mental institution. Some people immediately want to forgive and forget but some others are convinced that Norman will soon go crazy again. This last group of people also has a complete plan worked out to make Norman snap again. Soon there are people dying again in the infamous Bates ' Motel but who is the vicious murderer this time???  Psycho II manages to keep you guessing the entire movie and the terrific acting performance by Anthony Perkins keeps you even closer to the screen. If you were a fan of the original masterpiece ( and I can't imagine anyone isn't a fan of that ), make sure you catch this sequel too!! There were made two more sequels after this but you can easily skip then....and whatever you do...keep your hands off the Gus Van Sant remake of 1998. I wish I had!!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is released after over 20 years in an asylum, supposedly cured. He goes back to Bates Motel...but then he starts seeing his dead mother again, gets phone calls from her and the murders start up again. Is it Norman going crazy again or is someone trying to drive him to it?A very good, intricately plotted sequel to Hitchcock's classic. This could have been a disaster, but it isn't. The plot has many twists and turns and moves quickly. Director Richard Franklin does an excellent directing job, setting up some very eerie shots and duplicating some of Hitchcock's shots from the original. Perkins is just OK (he should have toned down on the twitches) and Meg Tilly is her usual blank self but there is a strong supporting cast including Vera Miles and Robert Loggia. One minor problem--was it necessary to get so violent and bloody at the end (although it's restrained for a 1980s horror film)? Still, worth catching. Great final shot too. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly good","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie as a horror loving kid, and I loved it. But then, as a grownup, I was reluctant to watch it again since so many films I loved as a kid turned out to be junk, after all. Since I'm a big Meg Tilly fan, I kinda wanted to keep my good memories... so I watched it again, for the same reason (go figure).Well, it was even better than I remembered. Anthony Perkins gives a truly moving performance, and it's an accomplishment in itself considering the fact that it's an 80's horror movie - not to mentioned the legacy of the first. But the actor proposed a completely convincing continuation of the character. And yes, Tilly is quite good; not at all your average damsel in distress. I wish she'd consider a comeback (she was the ultimate wicked step-mom in Body Snatchers).All in all, a very nice surprise, and certainly no disgrace to the original. "},{"Title":"Great sequel. PSYCHO in the 80's resulted a good idea.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Back in the 60's the genre wasn't popular or hadn't a definitive film to represent it. PSYCHO came and gave a name to the genre. Now picture Norman, his mother, and the elements that PSYCHO had mixed in the 80's craziness. It worked.  This has to be one of the best sequels to a horror masterpiece.PSYCHO is probably the most important horror film of all time and doing a sequel to it deserves a honorable mention. This sequel is by no means better or even close to the original Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece, no. But the result is a great and important horror film influenced by the slasher genre of the early 80's.  PSYCHO II has everything to succeed good acting (Anthony Perkins is great!, Meg Tilly delivers and does it right), mystery, gore, a terrific script by Tom Holland (the master behind Fright Night and Child's Play), and a shocking ending.  Watch this movie if you think sequels are always a disaster when trying to match the original. This film delivers expectations and I'm proud to say that it's one of the best horror movies from the 80's, the decade when horror was at it's peek.Now in color Norman Bates manages to convince everyone that he is normal and ready for a normal life which is highly doubted by police and townspeople that still remember the events in 1960 when Bates started a murder spree.Norman returns to the Bates Motel and gets a job as a waiter. In the place where he works he falls in love with Meg Tilly's character and soon the murders begin to start once again.Norman's mother is back as well (?) and this time it won't be easy to blame Norman for the murders.  Who's behind Norman's actions? How far will he get? 8/10. Excellent sequel.  "},{"Title":"Actually not as bad as I expected, but it defeats he whole purpose of the first classic thriller","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"47 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't know why, but when I was shopping for DVD's at Best Buy I found the triple feature for all the Psycho sequels, it was ten dollars, so I figured what the heck? So I bought it and I watched Psycho 2 last night, it actually was not as bad as I expected. It was an interesting plot and made the story work, I'm not going to say that it was un-necessary, yeah, Psycho did not need a sequel, but it wasn't a bad movie to watch. My only problem with the film, the blood, Hitchcock did something that made the first film scary, he left things to the imagination, the mind's power and thought is more powerful than seeing something and jumping so quickly to conclusion. Psycho 2 shows a lot more blood and gore. But Anthony Perkins performs well and makes Psycho 2 worth the watch.Norman Bates is back in business, he is released from the mental institution, but when Lila Loomis finds out about this, she freaks out and sends her daughter, Mary into undercover duty to try to get Norman back where he belongs. But something is odd, Norman seems actually like he could have a normal life, just everyone is playing tricks on him to where he's loosing his mind once again, or is he? Mary tries to keep a cool Norman so she's not the next Marian Craine.Psycho 2 is over all a decent sequel, I wouldn't mind watching it again actually. The story keeps your attention and there are some chilling moments. It was a little predictable I think, I had a feeling with Mary, that her story wouldn't end so well, but it's all good, you'll have to see what I mean. Psycho 2 is worth the watch if you loved the first Psycho, just like I said, I think they did mess up on showing too much blood and gore, Hitchcock got it right by leaving it to the imagination.5/10 "},{"Title":"a fine follow up to Hitchcock's original,","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II is a fine follow up to Hitchcock's original, Anthony Perkins returns as Norman Bates After twenty-two years of psychiatric care he returns to the Bates motel the scene of his previous crimes. But the sister of one of his victims Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) Vera Miles vows revenge on him and plots to send him back to the asylum, Bates befriends the troubled Mary (Meg Tily) and the pair form a friendship which see's the troubled girl reside with Bates at the motel. Psycho II has some fine suspenseful scenes and also some clever gore which remains typical of the 'slasher' period and their are some clever twists and turns which are clever. "},{"Title":"As far as blatantly unnecessary sequels go this isn't just good it's great...","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's 'Psycho' is a classic piece of cinema. It has become one of the defining iconic pieces of film that is heralded as a holy grail. What I admire about it is it's simplicity and the audacity it has to create a bizarre character like Norman Bates. I can only imagine what audiences must have thought going into that film because the implications of such a character for an audience coming out of the conservative fifties must have been truly unsettling. What makes Norman such a great character is how clear the divide is between Mother and Norman. Norman is a likable guy. Anthony Perkins does not scream psychopath, he could just as easily be your friend or neighbor. There is a large chunk of Psycho were we even are encouraged to identify with Norman and I imagine that is what made the film so endearing to 60's audiences. Flash forward twenty years to 'Psycho II'. Norman's secret is out of the bag and you don't even need to see 'Psycho' to know it. 'Psycho II' was released in the sea of Freddy Krueger wanna be's and going into 'Psycho II' I expected something along those lines. I put off seeing it as sort of an exercise in film snobbery as I thought the attempt to do a sequel should be shunned. I feared Norman Bates would be turned into a Freddy Krueger. That isn't to say I don't like Freddy Krueger I just saw 'Psycho' as above it. This may have been my great mistake in looking at the film. Hitchcock probably wasn't setting out to make a Holy Grail with 'Psycho' and Robert Bloch's initial novel was nothing more than a dime story scandal novel. It makes perfect sense taking Norman Bates and putting him in the culture he created. I expected Norman to wield a knife with no motive other than shock value and going in with little knowledge of the film I was pleasantly surprised to see that the film does not take this approach, in fact it violently rejects it as it's main arc. Norman Bates wants to be cured and turn over a new leaf and surprisingly the audience wants him to too. Norman is our hero here. Anthony Perkins gives an absolutely wonderful performance as Norman Bates. The character is multi-dimensional and has grown since the last film. Perkins plays up all of Norman's good qualities, he is a polite and kind man with a horrible alter ego. We see that the last thing Norman wants in the world is to become Mother again. In a way 'Psycho II' is kind of a tragic film. With Norman we see an addict whose addiction completely dominated his life. In 'Psycho II' he starts off clean and sober but slowly he begins to relapse and we can't help but feel sorry for him. Perkins brings Norman to low points. He becomes absolutely pathetic and powerless by the climax of the film and we feel for him because Perkins shows that Norman has genuinely tried to overcome the demons in his closet.There are grisly killings in 'Psycho II' and I expected them. 'Psycho II' feels like an 80's slasher when the bodies start littering the screen. Frankly, this is the least interesting aspect of the film. 'Psycho II' is a character study and the murders merely serve to mess with Norman's sanity. It doesn't matter who the killer really ends up being in 'Psycho II' because we know it is not Norman. One thing that really strikes me about the original 'Psycho' and indeed any good horror film is that it is not the monster that we fear but the presence around the monster. 'Psycho II' is all about presence. 'Mother' is an entity. I would be perfectly fine with 'Psycho II' if all the killings took place in Norman's imagination because the weight of the violence is so strong. Stylistically, the killings have more in common with a Friday the 13th film than Hitchcock but what matters is this isn't a film with a body count for the sake of having one.The film isn't really completely about Norman however. 'Psycho II' does a very good job in showing how the community and Norman's victims were affected by what he did. The plot involved Lila Loomis and her daughter Mary is pitch perfect. Bringing back Vera Miles was a wonderful choice as her character has become just as disturbed as Norman. And really what reaction does someone have to such grisly events? No one has any faith in Norman to come back from the depths of insanity and it really is symbolical of 'Psycho' and it's slasher clones. By the end of 'Psycho II' Norman is back for good and it is satisfying to see the cost it has on the character and the fruitless battle he put up to save himself from this fate. "}{"Title":"A Terrific Sequel!","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A Sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's Cult-Classic 'Psycho', 'Psycho II' lives up-to the expectations & turns out to be A Terrific Sequel! Also, Anthony Perkins once again plays Norman Bates, amazingly.'Psycho II' Synopsis After twenty-two years of psychiatric care, Norman Bates attempts to return to a life of solitude... but the specters of his crimes -- and his mother -- continue to haunt him.'Psycho II' has a superior start, middle & end. The Thrills are top-notch! Tom Holland's Screenplay is gripping & very well-written. Richard Franklin's Direction is eerie & unsettling. Cinematography is good. Editing is sharp. Art Design is excellent.Performance-Wise As mentioned before, Anthony Perkins once again plays Norman Bates, amazingly. He's impeccable in here! Vera Miles is first-rate. Meg Tilly is impressive. Robert Loggia leaves a mark. Dennis Franz is passable.On the whole, 'Psycho II' is a High-Class Sequel, that Thrills, Scares & above all, Entertains Big Time! "},{"Title":"Not just another run-of-the-mill sequel","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One thing that most of our greatest films directors don't like to do is repeat themselves. Sequels are of no interest to them because they feel they covered everything the first time. This however has not stopped them from being made by someone else, which can go either way. Alfred Hitchcock never made a sequel to any of his films, so it's interesting that a few years after he passed that someone has the guts to do it. Though it may not be considered his greatest film by all, 'Psycho' is undoubtedly the one that gets talked about the most. A film like it is a tough act to follow and fortunately II is not a disaster.Pros Excellent performances from all involved. Beautifully scored by Jerry Goldsmith. Richard Franklin proved himself worthy as director. Stunning cinematography. Suspenseful. Pace moves right along for the most part. Memorable kills. Brilliantly written by the underrated Tom Holland. Some great twists and turns.Cons Some of the effects don't hold up. Pace drags at times.Final thoughts What could have been just a tired retread turned out to be a worthy follow up to the classic. The film was released when the Slasher boom was going strong and instead of conforming, the studio and makers of the film gave us a classy and suspenseful movie. It may not equal the original, but don't let that spoil your enjoyment.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Psycho II","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II does a great job continuing with the story of Norman Bates. I was surprising to me how well done this was, most sequels fail to entertain as much as the original. This one is not as good as the original, but does add way more tension that kept me more on the edge of my seat. It's 22 years later and Norman Bates is being released from the psychiatric hospital he's been locked away in. Lila Loomis (Vera Miles) who was Marion's sister from the first is absolutely appalled that they would release Norman after all that he did. Nevertheless, Norman returns home and finds out that someone has been running the motel while he's been away. It's turned into a seedy place involving drugs, which Norman finds out when looking through one of the rooms. He gets a job at the diner and meets a lovely young girl named Mary (Meg Tilly). He overhears her break up with her boyfriend leaving her with no place to go. Of course, he invites her to spend the night in his house. We quickly find out that Mary isn't who she says she is. We also see a few people murdered by what appears to be a woman. Is Norman up to his old tricks, or might it be someone else all together? I loved Psycho II. I love the mystery element to it. You see a few people murdered, but the whole time you think in the back off your mind it can't be Norman, not again. Despite the clues all pointing to him, you get the sense that it might be someone else. And the suspect list is pretty long. The kills were well done in a way that they weren't overly gory, but brutal enough to get the reaction across to the audience. Norman Bates becomes a character that you feel for in Psycho II. He's been locked away 22 years, and you cannot help but feel for him as the movie goes along.The acting was very good in this as well. Anthony Perkins and Vera Miles reprise their roles and do a terrific job. I like Meg Tilly in this one as well. Their are so many twists and turns in this sequel, it really keeps you guessing and wondering the whole time. The ending is rather shocking but adds to the back story of Norman Bates and his family. Psycho II is a brilliant sequel to the legendary original. One of my favourite 80's movies.8/10 "},{"Title":"Spacy Meg Tilly the perfect ally for Norman Bates!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Anthony Perkins reportedly felt threatened as an actor playing opposite Meg Tilly (portraying a slightly-dazed cupcake who befriends Norman Bates, just out of the asylum); if true, he had good reason, for Tilly is very appealing in her role and this sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's classic screamer gains a spirit of its own--away from its predecessor--every time she's on-screen. The plot is business-as-usual, with a lot of repetitive, cornball dialogue (It's my mother! No, it's MY mother!). It's great to see those famous sets again, and the filmmakers try to create a stylish, old-fashioned atmosphere at the outset, but a gory, dispiriting conclusion and a dumbbell tag at the end (designed for another sequel) weakens the whole shebang. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A great, underrated sequel","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" PSYCHO II (1983)directed by Richard Franklinstarring Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, Meg Tilly, and Robert Loggiaplot Twenty-two years after the ordeal in the first film, Norman (Anthony Perkins) is finally released from the mental hospital while Lila (Vera Miles) protests over this. He returns home and visions of his mother begin again. With the help of his doctor (Robert Loggia), he gets a job at a diner where he meets and takes in troubled young Mary (Meg Tilly), who has demons of her own. This coincides with someone leaving notes and making calls claiming to be Norman's mother and a series of murders at the motel again.my thoughts This sequel is, in my opinion, almost just as great as the original.Everything that makes a great sequel is here having the surviving characters return and go through new changes; having new, interesting characters brought in; returning the story from the original and exploring new revelations or answering unanswered questions; and not totally copying the original.Norman is put through so much more in this film as he tries to redeem himself, but when someone else is stalking around, busting chops and Lila is trying to drive him over the edge, he begins to question his sanity again and even thinks he may still be doing the killings. Lila goes a bit loony herself trying to avenge the death of her sister. Meg Tilly as the sympathetic young woman with her own secrets, Robert Loggia as the caring doctor, and Dennis Franz as the sleaze ball also do a lot for this film.Richard Franklin also does a good job directing. I especially liked the opening of a flashback to the Shower Scene and then showing the Bates Mansion during the credits, how it switches from night to day with sad music playing.Definitely check this sequel out. I know it sounds strange that the sequel to the original PSYCHO actually works, but it's true. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good sequel!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 22 years after the incident at the Bates Motel, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) has finally been released out of the mental institution for the criminally insane and is back home. Even though he's back, he is still haunted by his mom's voice and has a second job as a cook at a diner, he's gotten strange phone calls and notes by something trying to play Mother so he or she can drive Norman back to his original state of insanity.Very good sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece of horror has good acting and has Perkins reprising his role as everyone's favorite loony with Meg Tilly, Vera Mills ( from the original) Robert Loggia and Dennis Franz co-star. Jerry Goldsmith's score is half as good as the original's music score and there's plenty of good scares to make one hell of a sequel to an all-time masterpiece, there's a nice twist in the end to the film.For anyone who loved the original classic, i suggest you try this one you might like it. "},{"Title":"We all go a little sequel crazy sometimes.","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 22 years after the murderous and maniacal events at Bates Motel, Norman Bates, freshly released from a mental institution, is back home; and the spectre of Mother is waiting to greet him.We could say it was a cynical attempt at latching onto the coat tails of the 1980s slasher boom, but in spite of having the unenviable task of being a sequel to a masterpiece, Psycho II is a rather nifty sequel.Director Richard Franklin is helped by having Anthony Perkins and Vera Miles heading up the cast list, this gives the film instant credibility, and while the mighty spectre of Hitchcock looms large, Franklin doesn't copy the maestro and brings his own visual smarts to the piece.Tom Holland's screenplay doesn't mimic either, expanding the Bates story with a series of quality twists whilst keeping the mystery element strong and the gripping factor on the high heat. Dean Cundey (cinematography) and Jerry Goldsmith (music) round out the strong points of the film's tech credits.Not to be dismissed as a lazy cash in, this is well worth a look. Great ending as well! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly decent follow-up","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Of course, PSYCHO II can't hold a candle to Hitch's original masterwork, but then what film can? The surprise is that it turns out to be a decent little film in itself, purely because it isn't a slavish copy but instead a stand-alone psychological thriller that takes its plot in a different direction to most.Instead of emulating the then-popular slasher craze of the 1980s, PSYCHO II plays out as a whodunit for the most part. Norman's back on the streets and back in his motel, and the grisly slayings start up once more. But who's the killer? Is it Norman himself, or the young, seemingly innocent girl (Meg Tilly) living with him? Could it be the returning Vera Miles as Lila Loomis, seeking vengeance for her sister's slaying in the original by setting Norman up? Or somebody else with an axe to grind? While there is the expected bloodshed in this film, for the most part it's deeper than that, working hard to build up a creepy atmosphere. Anthony Perkins is on top form as his most famous creation, and he succeeds in making Norman a sympathetic protagonist; watching this guy losing his mind for the second time is truly a tragic occurrence. The presence of supporting players like the reliably sleazy Dennis Franz and the solid Robert Loggia help to make this an effective horror film all in itself. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" At first glance, making a sequel to the most celebrated psychological horror film of all time, directed by the master, might not appear to be the best idea of all time. But it turns out not to have been a bad idea at all.Mind you, there are a number of things working in its favour. Number one is Anthony Perkins reprising Norman Bates. Looking not much older, despite the passage of 22 years, Perkins succeeds in giving us the very best type of screen monster one whose monstrousness is not his own fault (as established in Hitchcck's original), and one who is persecuted as a result, more victim than perpetrator.Then there is the return to the original sets and dressing - seeing the motel, the house, and Mother's room, all in colour, is very gratifying.Vera Miles' contribution is welcome, although Lila Crane's actions, no matter their motivation, are perhaps the least credible element of the movie.Meg Tilley is very good and, most of all, the story is very strong. It trades on the original movie, echoes it, reverses some elements of it, assumes the audience's complicity in knowing Norman's story, but it never copies the original, it always keeps you guessing, and it saddles you with a couple of shocks at the end which are nearly on a par with the shocks of the original.Plus it's pretty good at building and maintaining suspense. Hitch would have been pleased, I think. "},{"Title":"Intelligent follow-up  to the classic film with a sensational Perkins","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Picture talks about Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) who has finally been released from the mental asylum where he has been for many years . But he's chased by mistress Loomis (Vera Miles), sister of Marion (Janet Leigh) Crane (murdered previously in the shower). His preceptor doctor (Robert Loggia) will help him for the return . He goes back to the Bates motel and the mansion and the assassinations begin happening again . Meanwhile , he meets an enticing Young (Meg Tilly) who's invited to stay at home . The doctor (Loggia) will try to solve the awful and ominous killings .The movie is plenty of grisly murders , stabbing shots , horror , suspense , shocks and great load of blood and gore but also a little of dark humor . It's a sequel to Hitchcock's classic continuing cleverly the plot (scripted by Tom Holland) of the former film . In 1960, psychosis (1960) made over 32 million dollars in worldwide box office returns where as this film made over 34 million dollars . The original house set was used and the motel was reconstructed . The killer/Perkins does an authentic slaughter and are utilized in the gruesome and creepy murders axe , knife , cleaver until the amazing final carnage . The motion picture was rated ¨R¨ for crude and brutal killings and scabrous violence and isn't apt for squeamish but abounds blood and guts . Anthony Perkins makes a terrific acting in his classic role . He'll be forever Norman Bates . Jerry Goldsmith music is good , but he copies to Bernard Herrmann classic score . Dean Cundey cinematography is excellent . The film , shot in 32 days , was well directed by Richard Franklyn who has made various fine terror movies (Patrick , road games , visitors) . "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a pleasure it is to see good old Norman in this rather decent sequel to the acclaimed the movie 'Psycho' - Anthony Perkins' role in this film is one fantastic, also an interesting and unpredictable plot buffers up the quality of this film, a great film, and a hidden gem....RECOMMENDED  "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels known to man","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I went to my local video store a year and half ago, I noticed that there were no less than four psycho movies there.  Having seen the original, I figured that they would all be cash-ins.  Two weeks ago I finally hired psycho 2 in to finally prove my point to myself.  I was wrong. This movie has everything a sequel to psycho could need. A great plot (probably better than the first one's), excellent direction, and great acting.  Perkins is so much better here than in the original psycho that one can't help thinking it's a shame that he passed away. There are heaps of reasons to see this movie, and very few not to if you're a suspense fan.  If you liked the original you'll love this, and even if you didn't you'll still love it. "},{"Title":"An terrific, underrated suspenseful sequel.","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's been twenty-three years that Norman Bates (The late Anthony Perkins) has been locked up in a mental institution. Now he's released from the hospital, thanks to his caring doctor Bill Raymond (Robert Loggia). Norman returns to his former life, but very soon... He starts hearing his mother's voice again. Since he has an job at the local diner, he becomes friends with an seemingly nice young girl (Meg Tilly). But not everything, what it seems... When Norman is been receiving mysterious phone calls claiming to be his mother, seeing strange notes and seeing his mother by the window! Slowly Norman is going crazy again but it seems that, there is mysterious strangers are playing with his life.Directed by the late Richard Franklin (F/X 2The Art of Illusions, Clock and Dagger, Link) made an surprisingly good sequel with some terrific suspenseful sequences and dark humour. The highlight of the sequel, of course, is seeing Perkins reprising his famous role. Perkins brings humour, strangeness, creepiness and oddly affecting in his performance. Tilly gives an strong performance in this. Loggia is fine, i wish, he had an bigger role. Vera Miles reprising her role from the original and Dennis Franz seems to be having an great time with their roles.The new DVD from Universal has an terrific anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 4.0 Surround Sound. DVD's only extra is a teaser trailer. It would have been nice, if there was an commentary track by the filmmaker or by screenwriter Tom Holland (The Beast Within, Class of 1984, Fright Night). Psycho 2 was an box office hit back in 1983 with well received reviews. Fans of the original seemed to love it as well. But there is an few flaws from otherwise first-rate script. Some fans were not happy with the unexpected conclusion. Some see it as being extremely silly or not being faithful to the original. Still Psycho 2 is one of the most underrated sequels ever made. It was one of the last great roles for Perkins along with Ken Russell's Crime of Passion. Don't miss it. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Rise and fall of Norman Bates.","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It took me awhile to get into Psycho 2 &#150; to stop constantly comparing it to its predecessor &#150; and accept Psycho 2 on its own terms. Once there, I was more or less satisfied with what this sequel had to offer, and I feel Psycho 2 is definitely one of the better sequels in the slasher genre.Perkins returns as the restored Norman Bates, seemingly cured of his psychological distress. I like the general approach of Psycho 2 &#150; while Norman is better, the world around him has not forgotten, nor forgiven, and one might argue that the trauma Bates' brought to the survivors of the first film pales in comparison to the trauma society can dish out. Norman has gone from psychopathic killer to a victim &#150; he wants to go on with his life and be left alone, but how can you re-enter the community who remembers? Even if Fairvale's beef with Bates has nothing to do with the murders of Marion and Arbogast twenty years ago, it's just more ammunition against him. If human nature has taught us anything, it's that pricks will dig up anything and everything and to hell with relevance.It's a testament to the combined efforts of Bloch, Stefano, Perkins, and Hitch how enduring and sympathetic Norman Bates is on the screen. He was never a man who wanted to kill or a man who realized he was a killer, rather he's a man once faced with an overwhelming psychological disorder that compelled him to murder &#150; a man with two personalities, both fighting for dominance. A man who knows his own history, and finds himself nervous whenever circumstances mirror events from twenty years ago &#150; he's afraid of what he was, and what he might again become.There's a touching scene where Mary Loomis comforts Norman, reassuring him that he isn't becoming confused again and he snaps at her (with knife in hand), Don't lie to me! Not you! And his voice isn't so much threatening as it is paranoid; he understands that he can't overcome his inner demons if he denies them. After a moment she gives him the answer he wants to hear, Yes, Norman. You are becoming confused. Then he finds comfort in her arms, pleading with her, Don't let them take me away again. The central conflict of Psycho 2 is not the obligatory murders of a slasher film, rather it's Norman Bates' sincere struggle to hold onto his sanity which he fought twenty years to regain.The revelation behind Mary being the niece of the deceased Marion Crane was a nice touch, and her emotional attachment to Bates worked effectively. I loved the conflict between Lila and her daughter as Lily rabidly attempted to put poor Norman back into the mental hospital, which plays into one of the most effective moments in the film. Norman answers the phone, and lo and behold, it's mother on the line. He looks up at Mary, and he pleads with mother, Why? I don't want to kill her! And while the conversation carries on, Mary systematically tries everything she can think of to convince Norman that his mother is not on the line, growing more and more desperate with every passing moment. Would Lila indirectly kill her own daughter in her attempt to put Bates away for good? The bomb is armed, and waiting to go off.Bernard Herrmann infamous frantic strings are gone, and (I never thought I'd be writing this) rightly so. I adore Herrmann's score for the first film; however, Psycho 2 is an entirely different picture, requiring an entirely different musical signature. And this puts the music in very dangerous waters, but Jerry Goldsmith pulls through with a touching piano theme that beautifully captures the new emphasis on Norman's victim hood.Psycho 2 is not without fault, however. The writing at times feels clunky, as if Holland was a little too eager to catch the audience off guard (as the original caught its audience off guard) and didn't smooth the narrative out. Interestingly, I felt the biggest flaw was the desire to blatantly pay tribute to the Master. While its willingness to acknowledge its predecessor is a nice and appreciated touch, I feel as though Franklin brought the entire film to a complete stop to do it. A simple nod to Hitch's film would have sufficed.Side note - Gus Van Sant should have learned from the Psycho sequels that imitating Sir Alfred's camera techniques and angles doesn't necessarily capture the spirit of Hitchcock, nor will it necessarily capture the tension.When everything is said and done, though, I like Psycho 2 because it's a sequel that actually brings new material to the table (which I can't say for many slashers.) Psycho 2 understands who Norman Bates is, it further explores this complex and fascinating character, and delivers a new arc for him to complete.In closing the Bates Motel is still open for business, and business is good. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film starts two decades after Norman Bates was first arrested for murder. He is now sane and ready for normal life. Normal life is not ready for him! Lila Crane-Loomis doesn't want to see Norman released and she would do anything to make sure that he's not-- and she does. (Possible Spoilers) Norman gets a job at a diner as a part of a rehabilitation program, there he meets Mary Samuels, a girl with boyfriend troubles Norman notices that she no longer has a place to stay because her boyfriend kicked her out of his house. Norman offers Mary to stay at his motel F.O.C. of course, so she does and soon mother is talking to the so-called stable Norman. Mary Samuels turns out to be Mary Loomis the daughter of Lila and Sam (from the original Psycho). Despite all of the killings that take place Norman is always vindicated by the town sheriff. In the middle of the story we learn that Mary and Lila are trying to make Norman go crazy again calling the house as his mother, leaving him notes, and yes-- even killing people. Also, in the end we learn that Norman's mother is NOT dead, Mrs. Bates just took care of him-- Mrs. Spool-- the lady from the diner is in fact Norman's real mother. Well-- like a loving son, Norman poisons her tea and kills her, and like his stuffed birds, stuffs mother and starts doing just what he did before. Believe it or not, this film has some dramatic moments and you actually feel sorry for Norman in most of the film (watch for the Toasted Cheese Sandwiches scene) don't get me wrong the film has suspensful moments and is much more intense than the original. Anthony Perkins does such a good job in this, as in the first one and the two next sequels. Psycho II gets a WELL deserved 10/10. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Bates is back in business, with a story that takes place over 20 years later and Norman is declared sane. He starts work at a diner with some unfriendly people. He just wants to get on with his life and forget the past.I wish Alfred was around to see this thriller, he would be proud! The film was fast paced, from beginning to end. Jerry Goldsmith's music added an eeriness, like the strings did for the first one. And Frank Richard showed his skill was on par with Alfred's. Overall I think that Psycho 2 exceeded expectations. This will be going to the top of my horror movie list.  "},{"Title":"Norman is back","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Most of the time sequels are just bad ideas. Writing a sequel to Hitchcock's masterpiece Psycho must not have been an easy thing to do. But it did work out great. The sequel has the same plots and twists, with the necessary suspense and great sound effects. Anthony Perkins is still the perfect actor to impersonate the psychotic Norman Bates. You would kind of feel sorry for him in this movie. But then again you can see there is a thin line between normal life and insanity. He plays that part beautifully. Okay nothing will ever equal the original Psycho because that was for that time an absolute hit but nevertheless Psycho II is certainly worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Original Psycho is one of my all time favourite films. I was therefore very worried, that this film would either not pay enough respect to the original or worse yet just repeat it. It fortunately does its own thing, and I appreciate it for doing so. It's even a very interesting premise. The murder mystery is suspenseful, and Anthony Perkins is great as always. Seeing the motel in colour was also a delight, and it looks as beautiful as it did in black and white.The film does have its problems. Most are spoiler related, and therefore I will not go into detail, but point is the ending is not really satisfactory. The beginning is also clumsily executed, and there are certain spots, where it does not really seem to make sense, such as when Bates is unable to get any knife other than a big, dangerous looking one. His kitchen must have a supply of knives in all shapes and sizes. The character of Mary is also weirdly inconsistent. She is interesting, but her motivations are often unclear or even contradictory.But I really enjoyed how it was executed. It's not as great as the first one, obviously, but it has plenty of good moments, and it is very engaging. I would recommend it for fans of the original. "},{"Title":"I didn't see that coming!","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When people decide to make a sequel to an already dubbed horror masterpiece it almost every time disappoint. Since the first one is a masterpiece in horror cinema history I thought this was going to be a boring sequel but man I was wrong. Often movie sequels (no matter what genre) that come out more than 10 years later after the previous one end up like garbage but this was a very well made sequel, I think it needs more love and respect than it actually got. Fans of the first one either hate this or love this movie but Im one of those who loved it. I liked how they managed to move on from the first movie and I thought all of the characters was likable. The only problem with it is that it runs for 113 minutes which made it a little bit too drawn out. "},{"Title":"Interesting mystery 80's slasher mother","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After twenty-two years of psychiatric care, Norman Bates attempts to rebuild his life but the ghostly presence of his mother still haunts him, is he mad or could she be real?Anthony Perkins returns as the inescapably lovable Norman Bates. Perkins is on form and the continuity (Perkins now aged and the same sets used) from the first film works perfectly in director Richard Franklin's favour. Quirky Meg Tilly is notable as Normans younger love interest and Vera Miles cameos. Jerry Goldsmith excellent score captures the Psycho-esque feel of Bernard Herrmann's original.Writer Tom Holland's offering plays out as an interesting mystery (with moments of 80's slasher) and while the passage of time that Norman has been away isn't fully taken advantage of there's enough to peak attention especially as Norman is haunted by the events as depicted in Psycho (1960) and the murders resume.Put Alfred Hitchcock's classic at the back of your mind as there will never be another movie like it, but in colour and by default brought up to date, Psycho II is probably one of the truest horror sequels. Underrated and worth viewing. "}{"Title":"A sequel worthy of the original...","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When Ed Gein was finally arrested for his depredations, he was sentenced to Life in a mental institution; he lived to a ripe old age, and died of natural causes. Kind of an anticlimactic end for one of this country's most notorious serial killers, don'tcha think? In his novel, PSYCHO II, Robert Bloch (who had chronicled the axeploits of our boy Norman in PSYCHO) pulled the rug from under readers with a twist ending that can't be called anything but a cheat. It was deliberate and probably not done without good reason, but it was still a cheat, nonetheless. The makers of PSYCHO II, I think, did it better. (Blasphemy? Perhaps; but Honest blasphemy.) To turn Norman loose on an unsuspecting world after all them years was exactly the kind of thing that happens all too often in this country. (I've always thought that mentally ill patients who commit heinous crimes of the Norman Bates variety should be considered Guilty by reason of Insanity and dealt with accordingly. And, yes, I think the Death penalty is a viable option. I've known too many psychopaths in my life to think otherwise.) PSYCHO II, besides a realistic Real World approach to the question of Life after Life in prison, is also surprisingly touching. Meg Tilly deserves a great deal of the credit for this hers is one of the BEST supporting roles ever written, and as an actress she DELIVERS. In fact, there's nothing I'd bother to criticize about this one at all... except perhaps the notion of once again unleashing a notorious serial killer on an unsuspecting society. "},{"Title":"Psycho 2","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was initially interested in seeing how Norman Bates was going to be let out of the loony bin. It was going to have to be a pretty good start and smart beginning to the story and order for me to accept the film. Right from the get go I was happy to see an established actor like Robert Loggia in the film. Also, besides Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles was a huge get to do the sequel as Lila Crane/Loomis. I won't go into much detail plot wise because I think it would be better to watch the movie with little expectation and knowledge. Psycho 2 is a great psychological who done it movie with the only negatives being too cheesy of dialog and at times poor acting. Anthony Perkins brings back Norman Bates better than ever and I suggest seeking out this film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good sequel","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is universally accepted that sequels never live up to the originals and are usually a big let down.However for Psycho 2 I have to make an exception. While it does not match up to the sheer brilliance of Alfred Hitchcock's original , this is a very good movie and a more than acceptable sequel.Set 20 years after the infamous Bates Motel murders, Norman Bates has been released from the institution and must attempt to get his life back together again.I strongly urge you to watch this sequel and I can assure that you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Mama we're all crazy now.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" With the gory slasher craze in full swing, it's not all that surprising that the early 1980s saw the return of Norman Bates, the granddaddy of all knife wielding psychos; what is surprising is how good this belated sequel turns out to be.Rather than simply mimicking the dumb 'teenagers in peril' format so popular at the time, Psycho II actually proves to be an intelligent sequel worthy of the original, benefiting from a smart script by Tom 'Fright Night' Holland that introduces clever twists and turns aplenty, excellent direction from Richard Franklin, who respectfully pays homage to Hitchcock's genius while adding in some nifty tricks of his own, and terrific performances, with cutie Meg Tilly impressing as 'girl in peril' Mary, and Perkins putting in a wonderfully twitchy central turn as neurotic nut-job Norm.It was always going to be a very tall order for the film to measure up to the original classic, but this is an extremely good effort, providing atmosphere, thrills, a couple of inventive kills, some dark humour, and one hell of a memorable ending. Hitchcock would have been proud. Oh, and for those wondering if lovely Meg Tilly strips off for a shower scene&#x85;. yes, she does (a body double providing the T&A), but unlike Janet Leigh, she makes it out of the bathroom alive. "},{"Title":"The Bates Motel is back in business","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Some 20 years after Alfred Hitchcock released the thriller PSYCHO, they finally decided to make a sequel to it. It's been 22 years since the events of PSYCHO and Norman Bates has just been released from psychiatric care, apparently cured from his mental illness. However the sister of one of his victims Lila Crane-Loomis is outraged and swears revenge. Norman is returned home to his motel, only to make another enemy when he fires Mr. Toomey who'd been hired by the hospital and had been running the place as an adult motel. Norman begins to adjust back to normal life and even takes on a permanent lodger, a young girl called Mary Samuels who works at the local diner. But things start to go peculiar when he starts receiving phone calls and notes from his dead mother. His therapist doctor Raymond does some investigating and finds that Lila is behind the malicious calls, but when she and Mr. Toomey both vanish, apparently the victims of a mysterious old lady wielding a knife, we see that something else is amiss. Questions are also raised as to whether the late Mrs Bates was actually Norman's real mother. Norman's guest Mary is also not who she seems as she is the daughter to Lila and is also drive Norman to insanity again, you also find out who Norman's real mother is!This film starred Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles & Meg TilleyIn my opinion I think that this film is better than the original. I was not a fan of the first film, however I am a fan of this film. The director took a massive risk in directing this as it could have been a massive failure, however it was a enjoyable film IN MY OPINION.***/***** Good film. "},{"Title":"It's still great even after Hitchcock's first!","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Even though Sir Alfred Hitchcock left us in 1980, his honor and memory lives on in the film. Psycho II begins where we left off 22 years ago. Norman Bates(Anthony Perkins) is released after his stay in a mental institution for the murder of Marion Crane(Janet Leigh) and several others. His release draws the ire of the sister, Lila Loomis(Vera Miles). Norman goes back to his motel home, where the manager Warren Toomey(Dennis Franz) runs it while Bates was institutionalized. Prior to returning, he goes to work at a greasy spoon diner where he meets Mary(Meg Tilly). That night, Norman takes over his motel after he fires Toomey for turning it into an adult motel. The next day, Toomey drunkenly accosts Bates. And just say, he was fired, permanently. Here we go again. The murders are back. Has Bates gone back to his murderous ways? Apparently. However, Mary does cover for him when the sheriff comes by. If Norman was locked in the attic, who killed the teenage boy and Toomey? Well, Lila did have a daughter, and she's helping Norman. Lila wanted Norman to suffer and re institutionalized, but Mary has other plans. In this movie, Norman was more victim than villain. If Alfred was alive, he would have been proud. It was not bad! 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Norman Bates Returns.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Richard Franklin directs this belated sequel to the late Alfred Hitchcock classic that sees Anthony Perkins return as Norman Bates, released from a mental asylum after 22 years, seemingly rehabilitated and repentant, but that doesn't satisfy Lila Crane(returning Vera Miles) who is outraged at this, and still(understandably) hates Norman, who returns to his home, and reopens the motel, with the help of old family friend Mrs. Spool. He gets a job as a dishwasher in a local diner, where he meets a beautiful young woman(played by Meg Tilly) who befriends him, but strange events start to happen, and new murders occur, making it obvious that Norman has reverted to his old ways, or has he? Surprisingly good sequel is better than you would expect, with fine direction and acting, and a good script that keeps the viewer guessing. Does go for graphic violence towards the end, and the ending is a bit silly(though effective), but still remains a memorable and respectful sequel. "},{"Title":"If imitation is the best form of flattery, Hitch would be blushing if he were here today","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 22 years after being institutionalized for several murders (including his mother), Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) returns to his home and the motel he ran. Settling back into normal life is made difficult when the sister (Vera Miles) of one of his victims begins taking drastic measures to have him sent back to the mental institute. The disappearance of some locals raise suspicions that Norman might be up to his old tricks again.Director Richard Franklin compels Director of Photography Dean Cundey to both mimic certain shots from the 1960 classic and come up with new ways to visually fray the edges of the audiences' sanity. The angled shots of Norman Bates looking up at the house are some of the most unhinging moments in horror history. Cundey's use of sweeping overhead shots are captivating as well. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well I'm not sure what Hitchcock would have made of it all! But this was a very enjoyable sequel to the classic original.Our Norman has been rehabilitated and let loose back into the community much to the consternation of his most famous victim's sister played again by Vera Miles.The Bates motel has been turned into a house of ill repute and Norman takes a job in a local diner, where he meets the friendly and very pretty Mary played by Meg Tilly.Things naturally don't go to plan and Norman soon becomes a troubled figure again. Some scenes are fairly horrific and the bodies don't take long to pile up.Anyway a great yarn with a very surprising ending, highly recommended.Nick. "},{"Title":"Possibly the single most underrated horror movie sequel out there (Contains spoilers)","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's no debate to be had Anthony Perkins IS Norman Bates. The way Perkins inhabits the role in the first two Psycho films is amazing. It's particularly interesting to see Norman in Psycho II quite some time after his institutionalization, and to see how he is a little older, maybe a little wiser, or maybe not. What we get is not only a story about Norman trying to re-enter society, but also a sort of look into what it's like when any violent mentally ill criminal is deemed fit to be integrated back into a normal life after having undergone various psychiatric treatments. It's by no means a statement, but merely an examination; we sway back and forth with the story, as we're not quite sure if Norman has really been rehabilitated, or if Mother is up to her old tricks again. It's just as psychologically trying as the original Psycho, but not in the way it feels like Hitchcock; it simply frays on our nerves, as we try to figure Norman out, and events push us to one side then back to the other. A particular scene where Norman is handed a large kitchen knife to cut a sandwich for a young girl who befriends him (very similar to his sandwich dinner with Marion Crane from the first film) becomes a very nervous few moments; we watch as Norman battles his subconscious, or possibly Mother whispering in his ears about how nice it might be to kill his young dinner guest. I enjoyed how they played with the idea of someone toying with Norman, but also with Mother being very present still in his mind.All in all, I would say this movie is a 9 out of 10. My only reason for not giving it a perfect rating would be the whole situation with the boy getting killed in the cellar. It's hard for me to believe that even though his young lady friend lies for him that the police would not take Norman into custody until they figured out some more about the situation. I mean, the man has been in psychiatric confinement for 22 years after killing a bunch of people, he goes back to live in the exact same house where all the violence really happened, and then when someone gets murdered right in the cellar of this house they just let him stay free walking around on the word of some waitress? That's my only problem with the film, and it's not something that ruined it for me, just a little nitpick. Other than that, I love Psycho II, and it's criminally underrated especially when many horror franchises keep churning out sequels that get worse and worse ever year. This one is a keeper. "}{"Title":"You really will be surprised at how great this movie is!","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hey everyone. I have always been a fan of the original Psycho movie but as great as it is, I always felt as though there was something lacking from it and that a better understanding of Norman.I watched Psycho 2 last night and to be honest, I didn't know what to expect as I'm sure you'll agree, most sequels to great movies can make you cringe! How wrong I was!This film is full of action and lots of twists and until the final scene, you don't know whether you are coming or going! You think you have finally clicked to what is going on and bang! there is another change or twist. This works really well for this film and means there is never a dull moment. A lot of scenes had me cuddling up to my partner in fear, something that the first film didn't do except for the scene were you see his mother's corpse in the basement. One scene that stood out for me in Psycho 2 was when Norman hesitated to give Mary the key to room number 1 due to that being the place 'mother' stabbed Marion. That to me signified things were starting to happen again.I read that Christopher Walken was considered for the role of Bates if Anthony Perkins didn't want to reprise his role. Now as much as I love and respect Walken's work, I am glad Perkins decided to play Bates again as he was made for that role.I would recommend this film slightly more highly than the original as a lot more happens in it and it is full of interesting information but in order to appreciate how much more is added, watching the first movie would be recommended. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love this film.Plot Taking place over 20 years after the events of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho it follows Norman Bates who has served his sentence. He moves back into his and tries to start a normal life. He soon begins to have visions of his Mother and people begin to die and disappear.Now I'll get a lot of flack for this but I never really cared that much for the Original Psycho. But I do have a tremendous respect for it. But this film I love, now when I was a child Psycho 4 was my fave but I have since moved on from that. I bought the DVD triple of the latter Psychos in 2010 and I watched them in one night. Instantly I fell in love with this film. Tom Holland the director of two of my favorite movies Child's Play and Fright Night wrote this...He did a terrific job. I love the cast in this film, like Robert Loggia, Dennis Franz and Meg Tilly (who is very hot). Anthony Perkins played good at being a seemingly cured Norman Bates.All together you would love this I hope you do. "},{"Title":"Best of the Psycho sequels","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho exploded onto the screens in 1960 shocking American audiences and audiences all over the world. Even though there isn't really any blood in the movie, Alfred Hitchcock builds up great tension before and during the shower sequence to scare the hell out of the viewers. At the end, Norman is finally caught and is sentenced to psychiatric treatment over the course of the next decades. After Hitchcock's death in 1976, the original author of the Psycho novel, Robert Bloch constructed a second novel simply called Psycho II. The novel followed Norman Bates who has been re-admitted into society and has found out that in Hollywood they're making a movie about. Bloch's real intention of the story was to critique the current crappy-teenage horror films at the time. Universal was unhappy with this when they had intentions of making a Psycho II for the big screen, so what do they do ? They strip Bloch of his own story and characters and basically blacklisted him from writing a script for anything Psycho related. I don't know how this could've happened, but I would've sued like hell since Universal stole someone else's work and didn't even give any credit to Bloch in the opening or closing credits of the film for creating some of the characters and the original story. That is the biggest crime an artist could ever do, to let someone else strip him of his effort and product.Psycho II opens up with Norman Bates after 22 years being re-admitted into society after nearly two decades of treatment. Immediately at the beginning, Lyla Loomis (sister of Marion Loomis, who was killed in Psycho I) is protesting his release from the mental institution saying they'll surely have blood on their hands. Norman gets a job at a diner by his house where he befriends a young girl named, Mary. Since Mary is stuck in town with no place to stay anymore, Bates offers her residence at his run-down motel (which is now occupied by adults only if you know what I mean). Things seem to be going fine until Norman starts receiving notes and phone calls from his dead mother, and people begin disappearing who have been associated with him and his house, leaving Norman in a state of high anxiety and confusion leading him back to his original state of insanity.I have to admit that the story overall holds up very well and is interesting. The level of suspense is reduced way lower than in the first Psycho, since he all the of the late 70s and 80s horror film tricks are used. The whole movie you are kept wondering whether, Norman is really killing people, or is it his mind being driven by stress and anxiety from living in his old house again. It can be a bit nerve wracking at times, but its better than you would expect. "},{"Title":"I don't kill people anymore, remember!","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" **Spoilers** After spending some 20 years in an institution for the criminally insane ex-serial killer Norman Bates, Anthony Perkins, has been declared sane and allowed out on the streets by a battery of court appointed psychiatrists.Norman's release set off shock-waves among his victims families especially-now a crime victim activist-Lila Loomis, Vera Miles, the sister of the late Marion Crane whom Norman butchered while she was taking a shower back in 1959. As things soon turn out Mrs. Loomis is so determined to have Norman re-committed that she plans to incite him to murder more innocent people in order for her achieve her goal! Mrs. Loomis has no idea just how ridiculous her hair-brain and dangerous plan is where she, if successful, in fact can can end up being an accessory to any future murders that Norman commits!Back at his old stomping ground the infamous Bates Motel the very Christian minded Norman is shocked to find out that the person who's managing it, in his absences, Warren Toomey, Dennis Franz, had turned it, for a nifty profit of curse, into a den of sin and drugs use! It's Toomey's snide and sarcastic reaction to Normans demands to keep the wholesome and family oriented Bates Motel a place for descent people to stay at that in the end cost him his job. It was also very foolish for Toomey-in a drunken rage-to constantly bring out the fact that Norman is a loony and former mental patient as well as serial murderer. This really hit Norman were it hurts but in the end hit the drunken foul mouth Toomey a hell of a lot worse!Getting a job as a cook's helper at the local Slater's Diner with the help of the very forgiving and bible reading Emma pool, Cludia Bryan, Norman gets very friendly with one of waitress working there Mary, Meg Tilly. It was Mary who, despite everything that she knew about him, saw the good and decent, as well as funny, side of Norman that made him again feel like a normal and productive member of society. It was Mrs. Loomis in trying to set Norman off and turn him crazy that in the end wrecked all the good that both Mary and Norman's court appointed psychiatrist Dr. Bill Raymond, Robert Laggia, did for him!***SPOILERS*** With Mrs. Loomis resurrecting or impersonating Norman's dead mother in order to drive him mad set off a series of brutal murders that had the innocent Norman Bates end up being the prime suspect in committing them! Mrs. Loomis did in fact set something off but it wasn't Norman! It was his dead mother who somehow-and that's the big surprise in the movie-came back to life! And it was Norman's mother who, besides murdering a number of other people in the film, ended up doing a number on the unsuspecting,in thinking she was in control of what was happening, Mrs. Loomis!If people like Mrs. Loomis and Warren Toomey just left Norman Bates alone he may very well have gotten his very confused and tortured head back together again. The fact that they had to play mind games with the poor guy and in the case of Toomey openly incite and insult him not only lead to the brutal murders of a number of innocent people in the film but to the brutal and horrific-especially Mrs.Loomis-murders of themselves as well! "},{"Title":"Hi Norm,this is mom speaking!","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first time I've seen Psycho II ,I did not like it at all.The timing was not good,as five Hitchcock which had not been available for years (Vertigo  The Man Who Knew To Much Rope Trouble with Harry and Rear Window) were again in the movie theaters in the early eighties .And this sequel paled into insignificance next to those masterpieces.I saw it again yesterday and that time,I found it quite entertaining.In fact,taken in isolation from Psycho I -in spite of the prologue which is by far the best moment in the movie and for good reasons- ,succeeds measurably well.The screenplays borrows a lot from Robert Bloch's story but at least it's not a rehash like Gus Van Sant's photocopy.Perkins and Vera Miles are the only stars of the 1960 work.Oddly Lila married Sam Loomis who was actually her sister Marion's fiancé,but after all why not?Anyway he's dead.The story is far-fetched and its ending is a barrel of laughs but it's well acted and it's not that much bad compared to the adolescent movies of that time. "},{"Title":"Mamma Mia","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A sequel to a movie like Psycho was a pretty daring prospect, since Hitchcock's original is held in such high regard among many, many people. How could anybody ever hope to follow up an act like that? Well, it turns out to be a pretty nifty movie in its own right. The filmmakers wisely avoided getting pretentious about the subject matter. Don't forget, Hitchcock himself regarded Psycho as a black comedy, and Psycho II maintains a more obvious sense of humor than the original. It's not played entirely straight, especially by Anthony Perkins. Naturally Perkins was the only one who could play Norman Bates, since he had become synonymous with the part.The plot finds Norman being released from the sanitarium after 22 years of incarceration, much to the chagrin of Lila Loomis (Vera Miles), who apparently made off with Marion's boyfriend, Sam, after Marion was discovered to have been murdered by Norman. Rehabilitated to the point where he's deemed fit to live among society again, Norman returns to the only place he knows, the little motel just outside of Fairvale. The hospital has placed him at a part time job in a diner not far from the motel, and here he meets a young naive waitress named Mary (Meg Tilly). Thrown out of her apartment by her boyfriend, she needs a place to stay and is taken in by Norman, who is happy to have the company. When Norman fires the sleazy manager who is running the Bates Motel (Dennis Franz), the man turns up dead, and this begins a series of murders that bear a strong resemblance to the murders committed by mother all those years ago. Is Norman cracking up again? Or is something more sinister going on? The script has a few weak points, most of which require a very large stretch of the imagination to account for the hairpin turns of the plot. Even though it might not be completely logical, the acting in the film makes up for it. Anthony Perkins is wonderful as Norman, who is just as compelling as he was in the first film. Meg Tilly is great in this movie, too, and they form a touching friendship that takes a surprising turn halfway through the film when we realize her background. The movie has a couple of suspenseful scenes that don't rely on the trendy graphic violence that was typical at the time, but eventually the movie goes for gore at the conclusion, which tacks on a couple of silly but shockingly outrageous on-screen kills.I don't think the movie would work without the fact that we genuinely care about the characters. Despite Mary's agenda, you can tell that she really likes Norman, and maybe even admires him for the way he's tried so hard to make a recovery from his mental illness. When the movie ends, I was surprised at how very real it was to see Norman's sadness at losing his new friend. Perkins also echoes the is he mad or isn't he? theme of Hamlet, although by the end of the movie there's no doubt about the answer to that question.Revisiting the locations from Hitchcock's original is interesting enough, but Psycho II works well on its own. It's one of my favorite sequels to any film, and a great movie to revisit every once in a while. "},{"Title":"As good a sequel as they can come up with!","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After spending 22 years in the loony bin for killing some of his guests because he thought he heard the voice of Mother, NORMAN BATES moves back to the large house in the hills where he stayed before when he committed the murders. Hoping to start over again & forget his past, Norman finds that some of the locals aren't willing to forgive & forget & soon start to give him trouble, including the new Bates Motel owner, TOOMEY, who has turned it into a hot sheets hotel & Marion Crane's sister who survived the first attacks wants Norman locked up again, but that's the least of Norman's problems, he is also seeing visions & hearing voices & getting weird calls & notes from someone who claims to be Mother. Soon bodies begin piling up all around him, but who could it be committing the murders & making all the calls & leaving the notes? Was Norman really sane when he was released or was it a front so he could get out & pick up where he left off? Could it be the young waitress that works at the local diner who is staying at his house committing the murders, or is it someone with a vendetta against Norman like Marion's sister? or is all this in Norman's head?. Sequel to the original, black & white classic could have been a complete failure, especially since it was a sequel to a major horror & suspense classic, but I'm happy to say that it's not! it's a pretty decent suspensor filled with some graphically depicted knife murders, good direction & acting, not to mention atmosphere & suspense that will keep you on the edge of you're seat guessing throughout the films running time. The film also has several cool plot points & some new revelations on Normans mother. Not as good as the original, but in my view it came close. Actor ANTHONY PERKINS who played Norman Bates went on to direct the mediocre PSYCHO III.**** (stars) "},{"Title":"Better than it should have been.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is typical. Norm gets out of the loony bin and starts talking to Mom again. This is how the film appears right through the first say thirty minutes. Then you see that Norm isn't as crazy as you though, and there are other forces at work. This films ending is great, and don't listen to anyone who says its predictable. If you loved PSYCHO, then you'll at least like PSYCHO II. Anthony Perkins is terrific as Norman, though Vera Miles is slightly off putting as Lila Loomis. Dick Franklin puts up a good fight behind the camera, and this film really stands up on its own two feet. Very Good. Well done Tony. "},{"Title":"Fun, Faithful and stylish","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's a fun, faithful and stylish sequel to the original Psycho. I saw it when I was a teenager on video several times and I still liked it ten years after. There are good plot twists to keep you guessing. The characterization is well-crafted and sympathetic. Perkins, Tilly and Miles all gave excellent performances. It definitely shows Richard Franklin is a talented and promising director... and he should have made LOST BOYS instead of - eeek! - Joel Schumacher. "},{"Title":"Mother`s off her rocker again!!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Between Psycho and Psycho 2, this is the biggest gap in between original and sequel!!, 23 years!!!. The best movie of the series always will be Psycho the original but this movie is great and a very worthy sequel. Anthony Perkins returns as Norman Bates and has just been released from prison.But now the killings have started again, and if Norman is not doing them who is??A great movie and is almost better than the original but just isn`t as good.The basement scene is almost as good as the shower scene from the original, but just doesn`t have the tension.A well deserved 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Solid Sequel","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Most people will be surprised to find that this movie actually isn't half-bad. Anthony Perkins is simply outstanding as Norman Bates. The suspenseful and entertaining plot will keep you watching all the way through. Of course, there are a few loose ends. I thought the constant rehash of ideas from the original Psycho got a little old after awhile. Meg Tilly's performance was less than stellar. I miss the original's musical score. Other than that, a surprisingly solid sequel. "},{"Title":"The house, the music, oh, they just don't make movies like this anymore","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. I actually like it more than the original, and that says a lot because I love the original. This was masterfully done.Norman is out of the asylum after a couple decades and moves back into his old house. He has a job lined up and seems to want to do the right things. You'll find yourself feeling like Norman is the good guy, not the villain. You even feel sorry for him.Between Norman wanting to do what is right, Lila Loomis seeking revenge, and his friendship with Mary, you won't know who is causing the trouble. There are plenty of good scenes, creepy music, twists and that spooky old house. They really don't make good scary movies anymore. The special effects get in the way.I love this movie. I would put it in my top 10 of all time. If you have not seen it, do yourself a favor and watch it. That said, any Psycho movie past this one is worthless, especially the Vince Vaughn remake. "},{"Title":"You smell nice, like toasted cheese sandwiches","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It really pains me to give this movie a bad rating, because I agree with most of these reviewers who say it is really not as bad as 90% of other sequels.But...The problem is, it leaves you very unsatisfied because the concept, in reality is a good one. While I don't think Psycho should have been touched, we all know how the movie industry is. If there had to be a sequel this was a relatively interesting idea. However it goes about half way, and undoes everything cool it does; often over-doing the whole homage aspect of it.I got excited at first when I saw Bates painting the motel in the beginning and how it appeared like he was painting over the black and white. This was a great visual affect but was soon ruined by the pathetic attempt at film noir when he dropped the paint brush. I will certainly respect this movie for the odd twist (I won't spoil it). However by the end, it's just a little TOO convenient. Other issues include the stealing of certain shots. Look, we all know Hitchcock was a genius, however can we draw the limit at 2 or three IDENTICAL shots? Of course they look cool, but NEVER better than the original, in fact, probably less effective. Sometimes the addition of colors sometimes takes away from the eerie-ness. The acting, while generally pretty good, ends up at times trying to be too much like the original, which is IMPOSSIBLE, seeing as different decades (and the life experience of each character) mean different manners of behavior. While I understand Bates and some of the other characters are taken back into their past by the events it still doesn't really work. Much of the dialog was very awkward, and the directing at times seemingly absent.However, overall, it was done honestly, and not with complete blasphemy like the remake was. Overall,a D for not being enough of its own movie, but definitely an A for effort. The end had some more suspense, but there were about 4 times they could have ended it effectively, but instead just lingered.Can't really cry or laugh for this one. However everyone makes mistakes and look at all those crappy sequels! Worse ones have been made and certainly have made loads of money in the box office. This one doesn't trample all over the original, so it gets an A for that too.But I gotta be honest and give it a 5 overall. Sadly, effort does not quite make a movie, and instead of seeing Psycho 2 I'd recommend watching Psycho (the original) 2 times, or maybe a movie that is bad enough that is funny. "},{"Title":"Norman is back!","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II starts where the last left off. It's twenty-two years later. Norman has been released from prison on account of being cured from his madness. He goes back home to the Bates Motel, which is now run-down and not-so-pretty. It's not been taken care of by the state, nor by any helpful neighbors. Norman doesn't have any neighbors, and even if he did, I don't think they'd want to have anything to do with him.Norman starts his life again. He opens up the motel and seems to be cured of his demons. But then a young girl (Meg Tilly) comes along and stays at the motel, and the demons start to flee from the depths of Norman into his mind once again. He struggles to fight them. There's a reprise of the shower scene, only this time, the surprise is not in the death but in the absence of it. On the level of film-making, Psycho II isn't all that good. But I give it credit for reversing the shocks of the original. Everything we expect Norman to do does not happen. Psycho still isn't just a slasher flick.Anthony Perkins is able to conceal many demons within his character Norman Bates. His face is a good measure of this. It twictches and looks revolted at a great many sights. We can just imagine the images flooding into his brain as he looks at the woman staying at his motel and remembers what happened last time. Of course, in the original Psycho we had no idea that Norman was the murderer. Now we do--we know what has happened in his past. His character almost looks sad throughout the movie. He's a new man, but the old woman is still in there somewhere, and he's constantly fighting her, and we can see it in his eyes and on his face. He gives a good idea of what it would be like to realize what you did years ago and have to fight to keep from becoming that person again.Psycho II ends with a surprising twist that is completely ruined, if I remember correctly, in the third film, where it is denounced as false. But this one is fun to believe, and adds its own gasp to the series--it completely changes the facts of the original. I found it humorous that the end of Psycho II contains similarities to Jack Nicholson's childhood. Jack grew up thinking that his mother was his sister and his grandmother was his mother, if I do recall correctly. Norman Bates had a troubled childhood, as seen in Psycho IV The Beginning. Obviously Nicholson had an odd childhood. Perhaps that was Nicholson's inspiration to become the madman killer in The Shining? Pehaps that is why Jack Nicholson is known for having such a raging temper? Things like that can screw you up.I consider the original Psycho to be the greatest horror film of all time. This sequel is hardly a worthy continuation in most respects. But if you want to be creeped out, Norman Bates will still do the job for you better than any Freddy Krueger out there, primarily because he is scary on a human level. Part of what made the original work was the insinuation of something evil and not actually showing it--when things are left up to one's imagination, they will manifest their fears. They will not be told what their fears are (like in the new horror films when blood splurts everywhere and we see the killer's face--it's much scarier when the images are left up to our mind). Psycho II is more of a slasher film than the first film, but the subtle, sinister lurking of something evil is still evident in this film. And Norman Bates is still just as creepy as he was twenty-two years ago. The only difference is that now we know what's wrong with him. And what he did. And what he probably will do. But Perkins is able to connect on a human level and make his character empathetic. An empathetic killer? Couldn't be.It was Alfred Hitchcock who said, Television has brought murder back into the home--where it belongs. It's a clever quote. Perhaps my favorite quote from Hitch. But if you ask me, he had it wrong--it's entirely the other way around. "},{"Title":"Psychosis in the extreme to think that this would be a good idea...","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Horrendous pillaging of a classic.It wasn't written convincingly at all why Mary should develop such sympathy for Bates. He may be more stable until they start playing pranks with him, but he still doesn't help himself at all with his actions. (inviting a comparative stranger to stay alone with him in his until recently disused motel; telling the attractive young girl of his past mental issues; lying about the knives, etc... ) This, in addition to her previous knowledge should have kept Mary extremely wary of him, but this somehow doesn't happen just so they can play the 'mistaken-identity-murder-game later on. Which in itself is also ridiculous 'So-and-so is the real killer - plus her as well - also him! There were too many contrived twists in order to slap a story on screen when the narrative didn't need extending.It was good to see Perkins reprising his famous role again, but that's about the only small pleasure to be had. It's definitely not a patch on Hitchcock, and if you have no intention of even trying to get close then you shouldn't be bothering at all. "},{"Title":"Psycho II is better then the original","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The original Psycho was great film. But this is better. This a very scary movie. This is one of the scariest movies from 1983. Never watch it alone. 6.4 is underrating it. It is one of the scariest movie made before 1986. It has great story line. It also has great acting. I do not know how to talk about the plot with out having a lot of spoilers for the first movie. I do not like having spoilers. I just hate spoilers. I did not think the twist in Friday the 13th V was so great. But I hate that there are so many spoilers about it. Saw I will say that this is a scary movie. See it. It has great special effects. Anthony Perkins it very scary in it. Psycho III is better. Still great movie. "},{"Title":"Decent enough sequel","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After 23 years in a mental institution, Norman Bates is declared sane (after being found not guilty by reason of insanity for the murders committed in the first film) and returns to the motel to begin his life over again. Implausibly plotted, who thought it would be a good idea to let him return to the scene of the crime, which by all accounts, should have been demolished decades earlier? Bates genuinely appears to want to have a normal life, but the family of an earlier victim conspires to drive him mad again.Slow moving psychological thriller gets bloody during the climax, when Bates is ultimately driven to kill again; it remains watchable throughout. Director Richard Franklin does better with the material than anyone else probably would have, but I can't help but wonder if the plot of Robert Bloch's book, Psycho II might have made an interesting movie? In it, Bates learns (while still institutionalised) that a horror film based on him and the murders he committed is being done in Hollywood. He escapes, and goes to LA to stop it, violently. That self aware plot is similar to what the grossly overrated Scream did in the 1990s, and could have made a classic horror thriller. "},{"Title":"A perfectly good sequel that is better than most other sequels.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After twenty-two years of psychiatric care, Norman Bates attempts to return to a life of solitude... but the specters of his crimes -- and his mother -- continue to haunt him. Now declared legally sane, Norman Bates is released from a mental institution after spending 22 years in confinement over the protests of Marion Crane's sister Lila Loomis, who insists that he's still a killer and that the court's indifference to his victims by releasing him is a gross miscarriage of justice. Norman returns to his motel and the old Victorian mansion where his troubles started, and history predictably begins to repeat itself. Roger Ebert wrote The first thing is to put Alfred Hitchcock's original Psycho (1960) right out of your mind. There will never be another movie like it, and no sequel could possibly capture its unique charms. If you've seen Psycho a dozen times and can recite the shots in the shower scene by heart, Psycho II is just not going to do it for you. This movie is nowhere near the league of the Hitchcock original, but it is better than most of today's slasher movies. "},{"Title":"Works well enough in its own right","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock never made sequels to any of his films, which is perhaps not surprising as most of them do not lend themselves to the sequelisation process. The characters at the centre of his films are not action heroes like James Bond, Dirty Harry or Indiana Jones whom one can imagine going from one adventure to another. They are generally ordinary men and women who, through some twist of fate, find themselves caught up in extraordinary events. (John Buchan, the author of The 39 Steps, was to reintroduce its hero, Richard Hannay, in several more novels, but Hitchcock makes him much more of a Mr Average than he was in the original, and never made another film featuring Hannay). The films normally end with the hero and heroine safe and the villains dead or in police custody. It would be hard to imagine what purpose might have been served by, say, a North by North-West II or a The Lady Vanishes Again. Even when one of his films- e.g. The Birds- finished on an ambiguous note, Hitch preferred not to repeat himself.Even after Hitchcock's death, later directors have generally followed his lead and have not made sequels to his films. Psycho, however, is the great exception. Between 1983 and 1990 there were no fewer than three sequels named (without any great effort at originality) Psycho II, Psycho III and Psycho IV.Psycho II is set 22 years after the events of the first film. It opens with Norman Bates being ruled sane and released from the mental institution in which he has been incarcerated. He returns to his old house and the Bates Motel which has continued in business under new management, although Norman remains the legal owner. He finds a job working in a diner. Doubts start to emerge, however, as to whether he really has recovered his sanity. In a moral sense, certainly, he seems sane enough. He recognises his responsibility for his crimes and knows that killing people is wrong. He appears, however, still to be suffering from delusions, believing that he is receiving communications from his long- dead mother. He wonders whether some person is deliberately trying to drive him mad again. There are two obvious suspects. One is Lila Loomis (nee Crane), the sister of his victim Marion Crane, who has been leading a vociferous campaign against his release. The other is Warren Toomey, the manager of the motel, whom Norman sacked for tolerating drug taking on the premises. Norman makes a new friend in Mary, an attractive young co-worker at the diner- but is she really what she claims to be?The original Psycho is widely regarded, with justification, as one of Hitchcock's greatest works, so the idea of an unauthorised sequel will doubtless strike many as an unwelcome impertinence. (Something borne out by a number of the comments on here). I can, however, understand why this film was made. Norman Bates is probably Hitchcock's most memorable villain, and, moreover, is one of the few who does not end up dead by the end of the film. He must have seemed too good to restrict to a single film.Most of the target audience would already have been familiar with the first film, so merely repeating its plot by allowing Norman to return as a murderous killer would not have worked. The film-makers had to find a way of recapturing the suspense of the original, and they do this by offering us a Norman who is the same as the original and yet different, who is middle-aged rather than young, who is battling to retain his sanity and, most importantly, is now the victim of other people's malice rather than the villain. Anthony Perkins was persuaded to return as Norman, and it is a measure of his acting skills that he is able to cope with the difficult challenges of playing a character who is the same as, yet different from, one whom he created more than twenty years earlier and of arousing sympathy for a man who has committed several murders. Vera Miles also returns from the first film, and her character is also completely changed. Lila, originally a resourceful young heroine, here becomes a vindictive harpy. There is another good performance from Meg Tilly as the troubled Mary.Director Richard Franklin also pays tribute to Hitchcock's original by frequent references to it. There is, for example, a shower scene and a scene where a car is winched out of the swamp. I felt that the film would have worked better in black-and white- the old Bates house never looks quite so eerie in colour- but the use of colour was probably inevitable. Even in the early sixties monochrome was on its way out- Psycho was to be Hitchcock's last black-and-white film- and by 1983 the studios were reluctant to use it except for works by a few established auteur directors like Martin Scorsese (Raging Bull) and Woody Allen (Manhattan).The film never really reaches the level of the first Psycho, but then Hitchcock set a very high standard and it would have been unrealistic to expect Franklin to have bettered it. Seen as a thriller in its own right, Psycho II works well enough. 6/10A goof. We learn that Mary is the daughter of Lila and Sam Loomis, but would Vera Miles and John Gavin really have had a daughter who looked like Meg Tilly, who is half Chinese? "},{"Title":"Anthony Perkins great to watch","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 23 years after the original and Norman Bates has been released from the mental hospital. He moves back in to his house and resumes work at the Bates Motel. He meets a woman and says to her that she can stay in the house with him. Soon a spate of murders occur and the viewer is constantly wondering whether Norman has committed these murders or if indeed it is someone else. Norman's mental decline is exacerbated by the sister and niece of Marion Crane (from the famous shower scene in the original) who do their best to get him back into the mental hospital.So, basically, it is two hours of whodunit. This gets a bit tiresome, though some scenes are better than others.Anthony Perkins is again excellent at his portrayal of Norman Bates - with his stuttering manner and innocent boyish smile (It's a shame he never went on to make his name in other films, but I suppose that's what can happen when your breakthrough roll is done so brilliantly). The supporting cast (which includes Vera Miles returning as Lila Loomis née Crane from the original) is fine, though nothing spectacular.The 18 certificate is hardly deserved by todays standards and I was a bit disappointed that the director chose to show the knife entering the flesh of the victims. Maybe this was shocking back in 1983 but Hitchcock was all about suggestion while Richard Franklin is more blatant in his style. As a result, the viewer is denied from 'feeling' and imagining what's happening - it's all more in your face.The final reveal and what happens in the final scene is perhaps the most random ending to any film I've ever seen.At nearly two hours long I felt it was a bit too long, but after having a few days thinking about it it genuinely is a memorable, eerie film.I feel they could have created a better story and even made it as original as the first one, but this feels more like a TV movie than a grand theatrical release.Anthony Perkin's eerie performance steals the show and this film is worth the watch for him alone. "}{"Title":"Sacrilege! (but try looking at it as a spoof, it might help)","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Another one I did see before, but I hardly remembered any of it. Norman / Perkins are back again, as are THE house and THE hotel, and MOTHER... the opening scene (just ripped from the original, who had that brilliant idea?!) made me want to want to want to watch the only original 'Psycho' by the great, great, great Alfred Hitchcock again, but still I was decided enough on giving this one a(nother) try.I can't say that I wish I hadn't, but that is because I'm rather determined about trying out lots of (slasher) lists and sequels, just to know what I am missing out on (or not). If Norman and the other ingredients had been adapted beyond recognition into a slasher that wanted to put the motive of revenge to the test, I might have (really) gone for this, but...There is some okay gore, the story has its merits, the acting isn't all bad (Perkins did better under Hitchcock's direction of course) and should you never have seen 'Psycho' before this one (god forbid, but I'm not even sure I didn't), you might even get a little kick out of this one. The new shots of THE house were pretty nice, too, I have to admit.You guessed it it's really not for me. Leniency is still in order I think 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It could never possibly live up to the original","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'Blasphemy' must have been the first word that came to mind for any discerning cinema-goer when Universal announced they were making a sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's incomparable 'Psycho'. Now, 30-some-odd years later, the film is little more than a blip lost in the blur of the 1980's horror extravaganza. It's easy to forget that 'Psycho 2' was one of the most successful summer blockbusters of 1983 (opening the same weekend as 'Return of the Jedi') and here's to reminding us why this ambitious thriller deserves to be remembered.Anyone that was alive to see the original 'Psycho' in the theater has never forgotten its effect on them. There had never been a movie so visceral and, in 1960, even the subject matter &#x96; serial killers &#x96; was a cultural revelation. It's important, with 'Psycho 2', that we start from this perspective; no matter who was behind it or how altruistic their intentions were, it could never possibly live up to the original film. That said, and when looked at as a stand-alone effort, what director Richard Franklin ('Patrick' / 'Cloak & Dagger'), writer Tom Holland ('Child's Play' as director/ 'Fright Night'), and cinematographer Dean Cundey ('Halloween' / 'Jurassic Park') &#x96; and let's not forget Jerry Goldsmith &#x96; accomplished is an meticulous thriller/slasher cross-over with a dark sense of humor and one of the creepiest movie performances of all time in spotlight.The tag-line alone is enough to make you shudder ('It's 22 Years Later, and Norman Bates is Coming Home') and the film starts with Norman (who else but Anthony Perkins) being released from prison, judged to have been restored to sanity and ready to integrate back into society. With ranting petition, Vera Miles' returning character, Lila Loomis (sister of Janet Leigh's character from the original), does everything she can to get Norman put back in prison. That is the crux of the story and the kindling for (admittedly) more twists and turns than any film should ever take on.I'm a bit on-the-fence about reviewing the copious plot points in 'Psycho 2' as they are all set up to be big reveals and, aside from the final absurd 'ah-ha' scene, they're all pretty darn good surprises. What I will do is point out the most interesting aspect of the film which is Norman himself. In the second half of 'Psycho', Hitchcock toyed with the idea of making Norman sympathetic; he was practically the protagonist in the end. In 'Psycho 2', there's no question, you spend the majority of the film rooting for this man who is trying so hard to keep on the straight-and-narrow. It's not too much of a spoiler to say that his efforts fail &#x96; with no small help from a very young Meg Tilly ('The Big Chill' / 'Body Snatchers') &#x96; and when they do, Perkins absolutely shines in the role he was born to play. There are moments in this film that are far creeper than anything Hitchcock could have imagined. "},{"Title":"Psychological sequel.","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After 22 years Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is released from a mental institution and attempts to return to a life of solitude in his old Victorian mansion, but the specters of his crimes and his mother continue to haunt him, just as Marion Crane's sister Lila Loomis (Vera Miles) protests his release and sees to it that he would not harm again.It is an OK sequel to the original Psycho, one that plays your mind with its twisted plot and surprising story elements, with a story that moves quickly with horror scenes in abundance. Perkins did a good job in his role, portraying a more sympathetic and confused Norman Bates rather than a psychotic madman. Meg Tilly gave an average performance as Mary Loomis; Tilly wasn't very appealing for the role. Also, it was great to see Vera Miles reprise her Lila Crane (now Loomis) role from the first movie, bridging the plot elements from both movies, though, I thought her frustrated and angry relationship with daughter Mary in the film is overboard. Lastly, the cops that were portrayed in this movie were as dumb as rocks - gullible and horrible in tracking the case.Overall, a scary sequel, but not surpassing the original in entertainment.Grade C "},{"Title":"Good Sequel!","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Anthony Perkins, Meg Tilly, Vera Miles, Dennis Franz and Robert Loggia star in this 1983 thriller sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 classic. This takes place 22 years later with Norman Bates (Perkins) being released from a mental institution. After Norman comes home and tries moving on with his life, he begins seeing mysterious images of his late, mother and receives notes & phone calls. Soon, bodies start piling up and Norman starts questioning his sanity wondering if his mother is really dead or not. Miles also reprises her role as Lila Loomis who is hellbent on driving Norman back to the asylum for murdering her sister, Tilly (The Big Chill) plays her daughter, Mary who befriends him, Loggia (Scarface) plays Norman's psychiatrist, Dr. Raymond who tries to help him get over his past and Franz (NYPD Blue) plays Norman's former motel manager, Warren Toomey. This is a good sequel, Perkins was great as Norman and Jerry Goldsmith's score is excellent as usual. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Normally you think a sequel after so long, would be really bad idea, (Well in these day) Back in 80'S with whole slasher movies come out all over the place.It was Surprisingly really good sequel to the first movie ,Normal bates is out and back as sane at the very moment, some people are happy at the moment.Normal bates try have normal life but soon is Haunted by the past again.I thought this movie was really good, I found the movie flowed really well and there were some good shock moment in this movie.I loved all the twist and turns in this movie, They worked really well with the rest of the movie.However this didn't have the same impact as the first movie, it had some tense moment in this movie but not as creepy as the first movie and Norman bates well didn't seem that Creepy compared to the first movie.I Love the way the movie ended thought it was great way to end this movie,The acting again was outstanding from the whole cast and I really enjoyed this sequel8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Psycho II (1983)","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II is the surprisingly fantastic sequel that flies in the face of what you would expect from a gap of 23 years and a different director (let alone someone trying to match Hitchcock). Psycho II works by being an emotionally charged and thought provoking film first and a horror second. The film sees Norman Bates deemed sane and let out into the public once more, much to the annoyance of Lila Loomis. Bates is returned home to where it all began, and he starts a job at a diner. However, things starts going wrong when Norman begins hearing voices and receiving notes from his long dead mother. It also seems as though someone is in the house with Norman, and it isn't long before people start dying. The film works as a nerve shredding psychological horror. Despite having killed people before, Bates is entirely sympathetic. He really is trying to get on with his life, and battles hard against his demons. There's a wonderfully human scene in which Bates recalls the cheese toasted sandwiches his mother used to make him. He seems so innocent now, that it really hurts to see people react violently and hostile towards him. Bates strikes up a friendship with Mary, a girl from the local diner. She is both a help and a hindrance to Bates, comforting him one moment, and then making him uneasy with her suspicions the next. Franklin does well in underplaying his techniques. After all, they'd always be compared to Hitchcock. He plays some cinematic puns, especially when one character takes a completely innocent and threatless shower, but Franklin uses the same shots as the infamous scene in the original. Perkins' performance is very sympathetic, but he also knows that this vulnerability is what makes him so terrifying. Just a single glance at a knife has our eyes open wide with fear at the possibilities. I also loved the supporting characters as they would often defy convention. Hugh Gillin is excellent as Sheriff Hunt, as he isn't the typical I got my eye on you boy police officer. He is very caring, reasonable, and actually looks fondly at Norman. The film is about second chances, and how sometimes society is just as much to blame in their treatment of certain perpetrators,. Is Norman behind these latest killings? If he is is it the behaviour of others that leads him down this path? Is it best to forgive and forget? Great questions in an intense and involving film. This should be looked at when constructing any sequel. "},{"Title":"An impressive achievement.","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho (1960) got its follow-up twenty-three years later, and who could have predicted such a quality film as this. Some major assets in the original was its psychological layers, its atmosphere, and the major performance by Anthony Perkins, and impressively, Psycho II contains all of this. The story evolves well, and the antagonist Norman Bates (Perkins) who we saw in a mental cell with his face blurred as a skeleton skull in the final scene of the original, is here presented as someone who's trying to earn himself a place back in society, and as someone the viewer really feels sympathy for. That's a great twist, and as the first half of the film gels elegantly, the second half ups the game with several surprises and complex plot progressions. The cinematography Dean Cundey is splendid, the performances by Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles and Meg Tilly and the music by Jerry Goldsmith is outstanding. Psycho II is definitely one of the best horror sequels I've seen. "},{"Title":"Amazingly well done sequel, until the shaggy dog conclusion","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It would seem pointless to attempt to recapture the lightning strike of Psycho, but Hitchcock acolyte Richard Franklin comes perilously close to fashioning a riveting and involving sequel until letting his baser instincts take over in the final moments. It is 22 years since the events in Psycho and Norman Bates (once again played by Anthony Perkins) has been declared sane and returns to society, despite the lobbying of Lila Loomis (Vera Miles again). He takes a job at the local diner, checks in with avuncular therapist Robert Loggia and fires the sleazy manager of the Bates Motel (Dennis Franz), who has turned it into a sex den. He also starts a muted flirtation with a younger enigmatic co-worker Meg Tilly...and then he starts seeing Mother again.The joy of this film is in watching it unfold and in directions one would not necessarily expect. The thoughtful screenplay makes Norman incredibly sympathetic and Perkins turns in one of his best performances. It does not take long to realize that Norman, who appears fighting to maintain his fragile sanity, may well be swimming in an ocean of predators hoping to foil him. There are murders, but we are never certain who exactly is doing it. Is Norman really as sane as he appears? Is Lila's fury of seeing him released enough to make her go over the edge? Is the therapist really as kindly as he seems? And what about the mysterious Tilly who moves into the house and who sports the same name as the nom de guerre used by Janet Leigh in the original? Or is someone completely different responsible.The film is suspenseful and engaging, and wisely avoids overt gore. Perkins does well in getting the audience on Norman's side and rooting for him to not go bonkers again. It is great to see Miles back, but she remains underused and has limited notes to play as the angry Lila. Loggia is quite good playing against type. Tilly is wonderful in the film managing to be gutsy, sympathetic, and puzzling at turns.Unfortunately, the film sells out in the final moments. The perpetrator could be any one of 3-4 characters with suitable explanations, but the film chooses none of the above. The final moments turn into a gore-drenched mess for no apparent reason and then snatches a rather mangy rabbit out of its hat in order to explain the deaths, give us an out-of-the-blue party responsible and needlessly kick the door open for endless sequels (including the odious Psycho 3 directed by Perkins himself). Not since Blow Out have the final moments of a film utterly muted its impact as this one, but one does have to give Franklin and company some praise in that for three-quarters of the way they had a really classy thriller going for them and a worthwhile follow-up to the Hitchcock masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Better than it's reputation","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Though, practically nothing will live up to the genius of Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece, Psycho, it's sequel is actually very satisfying and a bloody good time, even if it isn't scary. Anthony Perkins is solid as Norman Bates the second time around. He isn't as magical as he was in 1960, but he still makes the film. The film begins with the famous Shower Scene with Janet Leigh from the original. It's a powerful introduction. If only the next section of the film was as compelling. The next act is Norman trying to make it on his own after 20+ years. I didn't think we needed to see him interacting with the public. He is employed in a small diner and those scenes are cheesy and uncomfortable to watch. I was thinking to myself, Are they going to strain the plot like this for the next two acts? Because it really was dreadful. It seemed like it was a remake of Psycho, with little hints from the first film incessantly throughout the first act, with him being sane instead of well, insane. The film heats back up when the screenwriter makes the intelligent decision to set the rest of the thriller at the famous Bates house an motel. We see a lot more of the house in the sequel than we did in the original. It's so haunting and creepy. Psycho was never scary scary. It was more psychological (pun not intended). Psycho 2 isn't that or scary, but does create a very new and believe it or not, intricate storyline. It keeps you guessing until the end, literally what's actually going on with the characters and who is who and what are their motives. Besides Norman Bates, the other returning character from the original is Marion Crane's sister, Lila Loomis, played with great intensity by Vera Miles . She actually has a great character arc once you realize what she's actually up to. It may fall behind the original in every aspect, but still it worth a watch. It's fun and engrossing with a cool storyline and fantastic ending; 7.5 "},{"Title":"Flawed, but unexpectedly good sequel","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Picking up 22 or 23 years after the the first movie left off, Anthony Perkins once again plays Norman Bates, who returns to his old motel as a changed man. As he begins to jump-start his business, He meets Lila Loomis-- Meg Tilly--, the niece of his arch-nemesis Lila once again played nicely by Vera Miles. But when mysterious disappearances and murders began to take place just a few weeks later, a wave of confusion follows and the mystery deepens...This movie is nowhere near the league of the Hitchcock original, but it is better than most of today's slasher movies. The Master of Suspense would not allow a second part to one of his greatest masterpieces. But after his death in 1980, thoughts of continuing his story were very much underway. And it did pay off Norman Bates seems to be more reserved and modest here, in comparison with that eerie and enigmatic mood which he was in Psycho. He also has more sympathy and is more emotional than ever, and the rest of the cast deliver good, although not always great, performances. Director Richard Franklin carefully tries to re-capture the Hitchcock feel with some brilliant suspense scenes, without the trendy use of gore, which gives the movie at first look psychologically scary. The story is fluid and is filled with many good twists.But the movie goes downhill in the second half, as it becomes increasingly gory and graphic-- often seen as a compromise to please today's audiences. The plot is a bit too heavy at times, and it sometimes slows down a bit. The conclusion of the film should've been modified or changed altogether, since it was extremely corny (Mother speaking to Norman with some of the cheesiest and most ridiculous dialogue in film history). These drawbacks make the movie short of being an otherwise first-class thriller.But you shan't regret watching it, as its strengths manage to overcome its weaknesses successfully, and Perkins will make this movie watchable. I will give it **1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequels!","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II (1983) was the first of several sequels of the infamous Psycho. For reasons unknown mad Norman Bates is finally let out of the funny farm despite the objections of many people in the community.Old Norman seeks out his old job (proprietor of the Bates Motel) and goes back to the old family homestead. Whilst he get's the motel manager's position he decides to resides in the old family pad, something from his past comes back to haunt him. He also meets a strange young lady (Meg Tily). Her presence lights something deep inside his psyche and It doesn't take him long to get his groove back.An okay sequel to the first film. A lot better and well made than I expected it to be. Funny thing about the sequels. They're quite interesting and well made. They could have easily given up and made them as sleazy and schlocky as most of the crap that was produced during this time period. But thanks to the steady guidance of Anthony Perkins they never do get out of hand. I recommend this one and the rest of the series (sans the dreadful Bates Motel). Just don't expect too much from them or you might be disappointed.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Welcoming sequel to classic original.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  PSYCHO II is far better than what some critics and people gave it credit for and played sufficiently on the fears and expectations to provide one of the most memorable sequels ever. The Robert Bloch novel, in which the story of Norman Bates was being used as the basis for a big-screen movie, was actually a forerunner of the more recent SCREAM movies, which trod similar territory. In the event, the film which chronicles Bates' first steps into the real world and a life of rehabilitation, remained faithful to the style and mood, if not the plot, of the original source book and original 1960 film and was wise to utilise a good style of cinematography (by Carpenter regular Dean Cundey, a nice touch in light of the fact that PSYCHO inspired HALLOWEEN) and a good cast including Vera Miles and Dennis Franz in one of his early roles. Jerry Goldsmith's score (which turned up in the 1985 Ridley Scott film LEGEND in parts) was memorable too.  "},{"Title":"Awesome sequel written by horror genius Holland","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Now of course this isn't as good as the first but it's close to being a classic.  I would retell the plot like most people like to do on here but if you're a horror movie fan you've already seen it.  It's followed by an inferior couple of sequels but both are worth watching.  This is also much better than the 1998 remake with Vince Vaughn as Norman Bates.  Anthony Perkins is Norman Bates.  You can almost feel him fighting his own demons while portraying Bates and that's what makes him so great.   "},{"Title":"Nothing compares Hitchcock`s masterpiece!!!!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It starts good... with a reasonable excuse for a new story with our dear Norman Bates that has been released from the asylum and now is running the old motel again... He meets the daughter of the sister of the victim in psycho I and gets crushed, but the movie turns to be a bit boring and with poor suspense... Perkins is as great as in 1960, but with many years on his back!!! Just for horror lovers!   "},{"Title":"Respectable sequel","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was never going to be as good as the original film, but this is none-the-less a well-plotted and tightly structured sequel with solid direction by Richard Franklyn, not to mention a haunting score by Jerry Goldsmith.Nobody but the late, great Tony Perkins could have played Norman - here in all his twitchy, wry-humoured glory. I sometimes think that, had Psycho not effectively typecast him, he would have made an excellent comedy actor (subtle, as opposed to zany). His performance more or less carries the rest of the cast, particularly when Meg Tilly is at her most wooden, (it appears that she forgets she's even acting in some scenes), and Dennis Franz playing such a one-dimensional low-life. All credit to Robert Loggia though - like Martin Balsam was, he is a talented and dependable supporting actor. Vera Miles's hissing pantomime villain - reprising her role from the original film - is... so-so. Hugh Gillin is the local sheriff - gruff, likeable and always willing to give Bates the benefit of the doubt.One aspect of the film I wasn't keen on was the graphic violence on display involving knives, but I suppose I have to concede that such were (and are) the times (post Halloween, Friday 13th etc.) and remember that Marion Crane's untimely demise in the original film's famous shower scene was, if anything, even more shocking .I loved the twist ending, with Mrs Spool getting the bash over the head with the conveniently placed shovel - I have to admit, I almost laughed out loud.It's a sad story, but here treated with respect. It's a great shame that two more sequels - both very poor - were made. "},{"Title":"I JUST HATE A DIRTY HOUSE, DON'T YOU??","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Regardless of what anyone says, PSYCHO II is, in my book, the best sequel ever made of a movie. Aside from it being a long-awaited 23 years later, it is just presented so fresh and colorful, with an engaging storyline that is not at all predictable. Perkins shines in his stereotyped role as Norman Bates, and it is here that we actually sympathize for him, regardlss of the insane crimes he commited in the past. Meg Tilly is both mysterious and cute as Mary, Norman's new houseguest. The other cast give good supporting roles (especially Vera Miles in a super b**ch performance). Featuring slight humorous bits (the scene where Mary lies to the sheriff), eerie atmosphere (the house at night when Norman is searching for his mother), and creepy scenes (the eye through the peephole), PSYCHO II is well-worth your time and I give it a 9.5 out of 10 only because of the predictable ending. "},{"Title":"Norman returns","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Norman Bates is back at the hotel after being locked away for his former murder crimes.  Norman does everything he can to keep his sanity, but guilt and his childhood memories attack him when he gets a call from his mother.Pretty good sequel with about the same suspence as the first one had. Excellent special effects and plenty of gore not allowed in the first Psycho. In the end Anthony Perkins is at his best as the well postured, bird stuffing, mother lovein', hotel manager Norman Bates. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel to Hitchcock's slasher masterpiece","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Anthony Perkins returns as Norman Bates, who after serving twenty-two years in an asylum due to bizarre murders at the Bates Motel, is released and escorted home by his doctor (Robert Loggia).  Lila Loomis (Vera Miles) &#150; who still holds Norman responsible for killing her sister Marion in the shower (from the original Psycho) &#150; disapproves of letting him out because she thinks that he'll kill again. So Lila tries to prove that Norman is insane and even goes out of her way to involve her daughter (Meg Tilly) in her plot.  All Norman wants to do is move on with his life, but with Lila's stalking and his mother (?) lurking about in his home, it's not easy.  Then the murders begin.  Is it Norman?With the absence of suspense master Alfred Hitchcock, the sequel can hardly measure up to the original.  Instead of suspense, we get treated to 80's style murders and blood and some dark humor compensated by some good performances.  At least filmmakers tried to avoid making one of those pointless slashers in the 80's.  Give credit where credit is due.  My evaluation **½ out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Norman is back...did he change for good?...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A great sequel to a masterpiece. That's it. The plot centers on Norman this time. He's out of the asylum after 23 years. That means that horror comes to the Bates Motel. Norman is back, but so is Ms. Lila Crane-Loomis. She's not happy about Norman's reconciliation with society. so she decides to turn him mad with the help of her daughter Mary. They decide to dress and talk like Norman's mother in order to get him out of his mind. Sounds a good plan but Norman is already mad , old times seem to return and that means fun!!!Believe it or not, this movie has dramatic situations that have to do with Norman's hallucinations, and murders by an unknown shape dressed as Norman's mother. Anthony Perkins looks disturbed and perturbed ,that adds a dramatic realism. Vera Miles and Meg Tilly are great as mother and daughter, their performances are very believable.  The creepy Bates Motel, and the crude death scenes are effective. The result is a great psychological horror film, that is at the same time a great sequel to one of the best horror movies of all time. ***MAJOR SPOILERS*** After the ending, I thought Norman got his ass save this time. He was claimed innocent and luck is by his side this time. What an unexpected ending, he even kills his real mother. This sequel should closed the PSYCHO franchise, part III and IV The New Beginning were not innovative.Rent this one! You won't be disappointed in any aspect, PSYCHO II got all the elements to be a must see. "},{"Title":"A Rather Decent Sequel To The Most Independent Horror Film Of All Time.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"    Psycho 2 is the best sequel to a movie that I have seen in a long time. Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece of horror (Psycho), can never be beat by any other horror film. Anthony Perkins, Meg Tilly, and the  returned from the original Vera Miles were all great, and I think I heard one of them won an Oscar or was nominated or something. This movie was a two-hour long mystery thrill ride that is great and entertaining. I give Psycho 2 a 10 out of 10! ) "}{"Title":"completely different","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you go into this movie expecting the original you'll probably be disappointed.  It's just not the same, nor does it try to be.  And as a horror movie (which Psycho was not) it comes off very well.As a side note, I would have liked to see a film adaptation of Psycho II as Robert Bloch wrote it. "},{"Title":"Great sequel to the best horror film ever made!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho II is no where near as good as the original, but still pretty decent. Starring Anthony Perkins, Meg Tilly, Vera Miles, and Robert Loggia. plot Norman (Anthony Hopkins) is released from the psychiatric hospital and returns to his mansion and the Bates Motel which has turned into a place where teens stop to smoke dope and have sex, and has a perverted lazy manager. Lila Crane (Vera Miles) is not to hot about Norman being released because he killed her sister (Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) in the original). Norman gets a job at a diner where he meets and befriends a nice young woman named Mary (Meg Tilly). Mary is kicked out of her house by her boyfriend so Norman lets her stay with him in his house since in every room of the motel their are teens smoking dope. Then Norman starts getting letters and phone calls claiming to be from his real mother, not his adopted mother that he killed years before. Then people start being murdered. And Norman finds out from a friend (Robert Loggia) that Mary is Lila's daughter and she and her mother might be the ones sending the letters and making the phone calls and killing the people. But who is in the black dress and white wig this time? If you liked the original Psycho you might like this just as well. "},{"Title":"Mother's Back","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"    More than twenty years later, Old Mother Bates returns to take control of her son, but is she real this time ? This is a great notch mystery marred only by bouts of tasteless violence and murder as Norman Bates wonders if mother is trying to take over again. The movie is full of recreations and references to the first movie as well as some nod from the failed Bates Motel pilot as mother's ghost or someone with a vendetta attempts to recommit Norman. Vera Miles resumes her character as the sister of Marion Crane and virginal Meg Tilly of One Dark Night joins her as her daughter. Just like the original, the plot sets you up to believe one plot just as it jumps and tells you what really just happened. It's a fine plot well in the tradition of Hitchcock and an excellent movie to return to the roots of all slasher movies. "},{"Title":"Not the original, but very good all the same","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Norman Bates is back, and meaner than ever. After the success of its brilliant predecessor, Psycho 2 is made with huge respect to Sir Alfred Hitchcock and his classic. Anthony Perkins, back once again as Norman Bates and brilliant as ever. He gives you a chill from beginning to end and doesn't even try hard to do it. His calm, nervous approach to the part is exquisite. But you keep expecting another shower scene, which never comes. This is all bad and everything, but the film is of great quality, and could really be recognised as The second Psycho. "},{"Title":"Look out for 'The Loggia'!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Forgot to mention in my review, that you all have to keep your eyes peeled for what what me and my mates commonly refer to as 'The Loggia'.  It's involves a kitchen knife, a stair banister and of course our old friend Bob Loggia. Gorgeous! "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel to the Hitchcock classic","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho II doesn't rehash the plot of Psycho, but rather expands on it, creating a new plot with a new twist while using the same styles and techniques that Hitchcock used so many years before.Twenty-two years after the original murders, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is judged sane and is released from the mental institution even though Lila Loomis (Vera Miles), sister of Marion Crane who was murdered in the shower, strongly protests it. He returns home to run the motel and takes in a girlfriend named Mary (Meg Tilly), while his mother is contacting him. All of this is too much and he starts going mad again.There are some genuinely chilling moments in this sequel, with a great musical score by Jerry Goldsmith. Anthony Perkins again plays the not-so-normal Norman, who seems to be going off his rocker towards the end! Vera Miles is outrageous as Lila Loomis. She isn't the concerned, kind-hearted young woman we saw in the original, but rather a nut hellbent on revenge for what Norman did to her sister all those years before. She screams and yells and practically gets in the way to have Bates recommitted. Meg Tilly and Dennis Franz co-star and there is also a nice cameo appearance by Janet Leigh in the beginning as we see her getting murdered in the famous shower scene. The ending will practically make your eyes bulge out of your sockets! Nice plot twist! All in all, a worthy sequel to Psycho. Followed by two more sequels and a TV series. "},{"Title":"Better than the original!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'll keep this short and sweet, or else I'm likely to be stoned off, but this film outdoes the original in every department. At the very least it is one of the best sequels ever made.  Whereas the first takes half the film to actually introduce Norman Bates and the whole scenario, this film gets right to the point. The characters and actors are all perfect for their roles, and takes all the best elements from the first film; the face at the window, the phone calls, the peepholes, the atmospheric angles and builds up some great suspense.  The plot will keep you guessing right to the end too!All is all one of the best horror / ghost movies ever created, and knocks the socks off Scream and all that post-modern jazz. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back to the shower!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho II may lack the suspense and masterful touch of Alfred Hitchcock, but it's still a good sequel. The story takes place 22 years after the original, with Norman Bates returning home. Norman struggles to maintain his sanity when he returns home and Lila Loomis is determined to send him back to the asylum. Anthony Perkins returns to play the famous character and he is quite excellent. They reveal some details of his past which are shocking to say the least. The ending is anti climatic and is really just setting up for Psycho III. Not as good as the original, but still entertaining. Much better than the other sequels. "},{"Title":"Norman Bates Lives","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Surprisingly enjoyable, suspenseful, creepy, not something Hitch would have approved of necessarily, but what were you expecting? Not all horror-killer flicks can be works of art like the original Psycho. I had seen the conclusion a long time ago on late night TV, yet it still made my skin crawl. Despite a cheesy oft-over-the-top performance from Meg Tilly, Anthony Perkins saves this movie (check out the scene in the kitchen between Tilly and Perkins when he makes her a sandwich). Because I'm such a huge fan of the original, it was incredibly enjoyable to see Perkins taking on Norman in an entirely different way. And there's some nice little clever touches from the director; it's worth watching as long as you realize that it's a sequel that knows dang well that it could never live up to the original.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enough, this sequel to an undisputed horror classic is able to stand on its own, while paying sufficient respect to the classic original, as well as its late director, Alfred Hitchcock.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In 1977, the sequel to the great horror classic The Exorcist was released, and it was laughed off of the screen. I've seen all three of The Exorcist films. I loved the first one, and I hated the last two. Given that, I expected extreme disappointment from Psycho II. However, not only does the direction pay homage to the direction of Alfred Hitchcock in the original, but the story is surprisingly legitimate, and it even goes along with the amount of time that has passed since the original was released.Psycho II takes place 22 years later (it was also MADE 22 after the original), and Norman Bates has been deemed sufficiently rehabilitated, and he is allowed back into society, where he attempts to maintain a normal life. His biggest conflict is that there are people (specifically relatives of his victim, Marion Crane) who aggressively oppose his release, and they make attempts to convince Norman that he is still crazy.Anthony Perkins once again delivers a disturbing yet strangely charming performance as the troubled Norman Bates, and his descent into insanity is portrayed nearly as well as Hitchcock did it. Probably one of the main things that took away from this film was the fact that it didn't have as spectacular a murder scene as the original, which had one of the most famous murder scenes in motion picture history. However, it did have some scenes (the knife in the mouth comes to mind) which were almost physically painful to watch.Psycho II is a very good sequel, especially given the fact that sequels to great movies are generally disappointing. It didn't have the pure cinematic perfection that the original had, but it delivers a strong story and, coupled with good direction and great acting (particularly on the part of Anthony Perkins), comes out as a quality addition to the Psycho legacy. "}{"Title":"Great 80's slasher...(Spoiler)","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This continuation of the masterful Psycho is almost as great as its predecessor.The atmosphere is creepy,the ending is unusual and surprising and the killings are violent and quite graphic as well(especially the infamous knife through the back of the head coming through the mouth scene-similar sequences I saw in House by the Cemetery,Pieces or The Prowler).This movie is almost 20 years old and it still delivers the scares.A  true horror film,in every sense of word. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Story involves poor Norman Bates being released from the mental ward, but he keeps seeing mother and more people are starting to die again. This sequel was totally unnecessary, but it does contain a few ( and I stress the word few ) good thrills and some shocking twist. But it is pretty boring for most of its running time, some things are just plain out absurd, it runs out of steam, and the ending is horrible. But yet again, Perkins and Miles are very good.A very mixed bag. 5 out of 10. Stick with the classic original. "},{"Title":"Hitch would be impressed.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film avoided the 80's wave of slasher movies and gore and went right for suspense, and succeeded and that makes it a winner.The story has a few twists and turns, and some surprises for horror fans. I was also impressed that the director tried not to borrow too much from the original, While I was watching, I expected another shower scene, the same music and mother to come back to life as a zombie. I received something a lot better, and satisfying.Psycho 2 is quite a triumph. The acting was good, but not great, the music was good, and the standout was Richard Franklin. Even if this movie wasn't a sequel to Psycho, it could still have been called original.PLOT 8  DIRECTION 8  ACTING 7  SCRIPT 7  SOUND/MUSIC/CINEMATOGRAPHY 7OVERALL 7.5(P.S. Best jump scene!)  "},{"Title":"Not quite as bad as I thought it would be, but as I suspected it is an insult to the","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  PSYCHO II                              Can it be the most unnecessary sequel ever? And could it come at a worse time?                               I mean, come on! PSYCHO has rested in piece as a classic, one of the best                               movies ever, in 23 years before a SEQUEL shows up to throw a stain on the                               original. Just listen, PSYCHO II! WHO WANTS TO MAKE A SEQUEL TO                               PSYCHO?!?!?!?!?!                              Ok, don't get me wrong. It wasn't THAT bad, just very stupid in all ways.                              Rating 4/10  "},{"Title":"I was surprised","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Poor Norman Bates. He's downright lovable in this movie, especially after you find out... but that would be telling.The ending of this movie feels contrived and anti-climatic, then segues into being just plain goofy, but up until then it's really pretty good. Anthony Perkins, as usual, is amazing as Norman, and while I could have done without Meg Tilly in the lead female role, at least she doesn't seriously detract from the film. And I very much liked the intelligent ways in which I was constantly kept guessing. It's not as good a movie as the original, but then, what could have been? For the most part, this was an intelligent, entertaining sequel that makes the effort to be different from the original. "},{"Title":"An original and worthy successor to Psycho.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Many times when a sequel to a good Horror film is made, it usually is not as good as its predecessor. This is not the case, however, with Psycho II.It does not try to be Psycho, and director Richard Franklin does not try to be Alfred Hitchcock. Franklin has a different style altogether. Though he employs the use of odd camera angles, like Hitchcock, it is only because it can be indirectly identified as a Psycho film. The film itself is more of a mystery/drama than a horror film. Yes, people do get killed, but you, the viewer do not know who is doing it until the very end.lso, Norman Bates seems to be the victim in this film rather than the victimizer. This is due to Lila Crane's thirst for revenge for what he did to her sister those twenty-two years ago. And in a particular scene with him and his lady friend, Mary (Meg Tilly), he reveals the torture he went through in the mental hospital about how the doctors robbed him of all his pleasant memories of his abusive mother. He eventually breaks down and weeps and the sad music commences. This made me feel sympathy for poor Norman. But that sympathy ended right at the end of the film. The end was probably one of the best parts of the film, that's the scene where the big mystery unravels.What I also liked about this sequel was that both Anthony Perkins and Vera Miles reprised their original roles. I probably would not have liked it as much if some new people were assuming the roles.Jerry Goldsmith's sad-toned musical score was original, not a Bernard Hermann rehash. Music, to me, is an important factor in how good or bad a film is.All and all, it is definitely an original and worthy successor to Psycho. "},{"Title":"Not quite as bad as I thought it would be, but as I suspected it is an insult to the original.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  PSYCHO IICan it be the most unnecessary sequel ever? And could it come at a worse time? I mean, come on! PSYCHO has rested in piece as a classic, one of the best movies ever, in 23 years before a SEQUEL shows up to throw a stain on the original. Just listen, PSYCHO II! WHO WANTS TO MAKE A SEQUEL TO PSYCHO?!?!?!?!?!Ok, don't get me wrong. It wasn't THAT bad, just very stupid in all ways.Rating 4/10  "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as I thought it would be.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a lover of the original Psycho I expected to hate this film, but while not as good as the original it was intense and exciting.  There were quite a few clever homages to the original and it was a better tribute to the Hitchcock classic than the Gus Van Sant travesty. "},{"Title":"Hehe! Great!!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is great!!! It's kinda confusing in my opinion. I mean, the whole time, I didn't know who the killer was! Even when the movie was over, I still was thinking, who is the killer. I think I know, but it's kinda hard to figure it out. Vera Miles was once again playing Lila just like she did in the original Psycho. I'm glad somebody killed her in this movie. And the cleverest part of this movie was the part where Mary (Meg Tilly) asked Norman for a knife to cut a sandwich. HEHE!! And how'd ya like to be sleeping in a room (locked) with Norman standing right in front of the bed with a knife in his hand!! anyway, I thought this was kind of boring, but if you pay attention you can find a little humor in this movie. So I thought this movie was a great sequel!! "},{"Title":"One mother too many","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The original Psycho had me on the edge of my seat due to the strange music and intense scenes.  Psycho II had a lot happen, but it happened almost too late.  The first part of the movie basically contained no action and the last part of the movie was action packed.  Although the movie had its good and bad points, I definitely thought the movie could have been better.The biggest disappointment was Anthony Perkins.  Physically, his character had aged quite a bit, but mentally he was still as cold as he was 20 years before.  This aspect of the character didn't seem right since all of the other characters had seemed to change due to age. "}{"Title":"my favorite in the series!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think Psycho II is much more watchable than the original. The original was creepy, but also boring in parts. Psycho II is never boring. Psycho III is my second favorite in the series. Psycho IV was a joke,and the re-make of Psycho is my 3rd favorite in the series. Psycho II is full of creepy, scary, and entertaining scenes. Ii give Psycho II *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"The best sequal ever.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw Psycho I was impressed, I had never seen a better horror/thriller, so when I saw that there was a sequal I just had to see it. Of course I was afraid that it would not live up to the expectations that I had. But was I surprised, my first thought after the movie, Psycho II, was that it was even better than the first one, and I still think that.I think that everybody who thinks that they know everything about movies has to see this one, because if you haven´t seen it yet, it´s about time you do, even if you don´t like horror/thrillers. "},{"Title":"you'll be surprised","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being a kid of the 80s I went for this more than the original.  Perkins returns to the most famous motel in film history to start life over again.  Miles (Janet Shower Scene Leighs sis in the 1960 classic) is along to muck up the plans and tries to drive ol' Norm crazy and back into the loon-factory.  Tilly is Perkins sort of love interest, who lives briefly at the house on the hill with him (in seperate rooms).  This is one of the more uncomplicated mystery films you can find, with it not neccessary to have viewed the first film.  Basically a straight-forward whodunnit, with some stunning death scenes, like a cheek slashed open and the rattling knife through the mouth moment.  And a perfectly creepy last shot make this a good ride all the way. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't good as the first one, but it's cool. I watched this on TV so they cut out some good scenes, like when Vera Miles got a knife through her mouth. But it was still good. The acting is good too. "},{"Title":"A 60s film made in color","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Dear Richard Franklin, you did manage to make it big in the US with the sequel to Psycho. I enjoyed your Road Games the same week that I watched Psycho 2.Anthony Perkins sure worked in some unusual films like Psycho and Pretty Persuasion before he did Psycho 2. He did look pretty haggard in this film.What were you thinking casting Meg Tilly? She was awful. Physically unattractive and not much of an actress either.The idea to portray Norman Bates as a victim was a good one. Dennis Franz was awesome as ever, trying to mess up Bates civilian life. No wonder De Palma gave him some great roles.The plot was flimsy but intriguing and left the viewer wondering at the end. This was a really solid sequel. It did have some great shots of the house and the motel.There was hardly a dull moment. It was very enjoyable. It is almost like a film of the 60s made in color.Best Regards, Pimpin.(7/10) "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Sequel!","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the best follow-up films ever - and I am strictly speaking about follow-up films. Psycho II is just as creepy and horrifying as the first film no doubt about it. You can be bloody well sure it is full of suspense and enough thrills to keep your interest and a well scripted follow-up story - one that can keep your attention. Psycho II also helps to explains some more details about the psychotic mind of Norman Bates.I am extremely pleased that Anthony Perkins decided to play Norman again. I love Christopher Walken and I'm sure he would have played the part well but I think that when most of think of Norman Bates we picture Anthony Perkins and some fans would have problems if anyone else would have played Norman in the sequel! (I am not talking about a re-make but a sequel).Meg Tilly was wonderful in this film as Mary Loomis. She helped to make this movie more memorable and exciting, she played the part very well.10/10 "},{"Title":"Would you like a sandwich?...","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Now declared legally sane, Norman Bates is released from a mental institution after spending 22 years in confinement over the protests of Marion Crane's sister Lila Loomis. She insists that he's still a killer and that the court's indifference to his victims by releasing him is a gross miscarriage of justice. Norman returns to his motel and the old Victorian mansion where his troubles started, and history predictably begins to repeat itself.....It sounded like such a silly idea at the time. Release a belated sequel to one of the finest movies ever made. Blatant cash in? It was like having a straight to DVD sequel to The Sixth Sense.But hey, the film works brilliantly, and as a standalone film, its solid. Yes the opening scene does feature the shower sequence, which is a little concerning, but Perkins puts in an amazing performance as the tortured Bates.But it's the twists and turns of the movie that really holds attention. If this was made now, it'd go straight for the gore factor, and have some nameless person playing Normans son, going on a rampage.But the makers have gone step beyond the appreciation factor, by having a very feasible narrative that compliments the first movie.Fuse camera-work is wonderful here, and the last shot of Perkins standing outside the house, is beautifully sinister.It takes a couple of viewings to really get the jist of the complex plot, but all in all, it was worth the long wait. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel, All Things Considered","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After twenty-two years of psychiatric care, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) attempts to return to a life of solitude... but the specters of his crimes -- and his mother -- continue to haunt him.First and foremost, anyone watching this has to realize there was no way the original could have been matched or exceeded. Psycho is one of the greatest thrillers of all time, directed by the legendary Alfred Hitchcock. Only someone like Gus VanSant would have the chutzpah to attempt matching the film.Luckily, the producers were fully aware of the sequel's potential and ability. They did all they could to hire the right actor -- a student of Hitchcock -- and an experienced writer, genre favorite Tom Holland. If Anthony Perkins had not returned, they had Christopher Walken lined up. Of course, Perkins makes the sequel more official, but Walken could have done a bang-up job.Writer Holland has said, I approached it with more trepidation because I was doing a sequel to Psycho and I had an overwhelming respect for Hitchcock. You didn't want to mess it up, you really had almost a moral obligation to make something that stayed true to the original and yet updated it the same time. It really was the next step, what happens when Norman gets out. This shows he was the man for the job, because he knew what he had to do. What other logical reason is there to have a sequel twenty-two years later? The character to watch is Warren Toomey (played by a young Dennis Franz). While Bates is jittery and everyone else is background, Toomey is the epitome of sleaze and Franz could have crawled out of one of Frank Henenlotter's nightmares. Never before did I think of Franz as anything but a TV cop... now my respect has grown.There is plenty to criticize, despite the best efforts of those involved. Roger Ebert said the film is too heavy on plot and too willing to cheat about its plot to be really successful... a movie full of half-sketched characters and half-explained developments. This true. At 113 minutes, it feels a bit long, a bit slow, and there is no real development despite all the time invested in showing the characters. Meg Tilly's character seems complex, but we have no idea why.On the bright side, Ebert said it is better than your average, run-of-the-mill slasher movie. On this, I both agree and disagree. More effort was put into this than the average slasher, so it does feel like there is something more to it. However, for those of us who like the slasher genre (and Ebert decidedly did not), it is too bogged down and too lacking in blood and guts. They tried to balance the thriller and horror genres and ended up with neither.Anyone who has not seen the original Psycho needs to do so. After that, whether you want to continue on is up to you. If you watch part two, you need to see part three... but should you watch part two in the first place? If you want to keep the memory of Hitchcock sacred, just avoid it. If you cannot resist Anthony Perkins as a nervous wreck (again), pick it up.Scream Factory has released the film on Blu-Ray with a commentary track from Tom Holland that is worth a listen for fans. The interview clips from the 1980s are of little value, though, and the sound on them is so bad that they would probably have been better off not being included on the disc at all. "},{"Title":"An Intriguing, if Unnecessary Sequel","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho is a film that requires no introduction, or, indeed a sequel. While it's understandable to be dubious, Psycho II is actually a very heartfelt and accomplished work. Richard Franklin and Tom Holland clearly have a lot of respect for the original, as they don't once try to surpass its achievements or rip it off. They have their own vision of Norman's story, and their own sense of direction.Anthony Perkins reprises his role as the unforgettable Norman Bates. (Who else could possibly play this character?) It may be 22 years later, but Perkins has not lost his hold on this character. He plays Norman Bates with the same menace and underlying current of madness; and he does so with such conviction and subtlety. It was this film, in fact, that convinced me that Anthony Perkins is a very talented actor.So 22 years later, after he was institutionalised, Norman Bates is released. He returns to his house and motel; which holds many demons and difficult memories for him. Norman gets a job at a local diner, and befriends a girl called Mary, who also works there. With nowhere else to go, Mary begins staying at Norman's. From hereon in, things start to unravel. Norman is evidently trying hard to hold on to his sanity, and get his life back on track; but he is struggling with delusions, or so it at first appears...Psycho II really isn't a horror film in its strictest sense. While there are two very memorable and harsh deaths, this is really more of a drama with thriller elements; The power of mental illness being its forefront theme. Anthony Perkins hits the nail on the head with his portrayal of a man so deep in his own psychosis that he can no longer separate fantasy from reality.The progression of the events in Psycho II are interesting, and the audience is a thrown a real curve ball of an ending. I was pleasantly surprised by this, it's a really strong effort from everyone involved.A rehash of the classic original this is not, Psycho II is a very effective and solid standalone in its own right. "},{"Title":"A sequel that works!","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There are only a few franchises that are good, every single movie, and some, fail to do so. The Exorcist, was a good franchise till the prequels which ruined it, and The Omen, also an amazing film, but started going too hollywoodesque. But Psycho is a franchise which has amazingly good films. Psycho II is a great, scary and effective horror film, thought it cannot be compared with Hitchcock's masterpiece is a brilliant film filled with twists and very suspenseful murder sequences. Anthony Perkins' acting is even better than he was in the original, at the end, he seems literally in the point of madness. Also, the final scene of the movie is one of the greatest endings to a movie, and it leaves, (by all means) a door opened to another sequel, which would be directed by Perkins himself! Anyway, Psycho II is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Meek in Comparison","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After 22 years, Norman Bates has come home, and mother is off her rocker again! Yes the long awaited, and regrettably inevitable sequel, arrived some 23 years after the original. In order to really enjoy this movie, one has to view it as a film in its own right, for it is meek in comparison with the original.Vera Miles has returned, along with Anthony Perkins, to reprise her role as 'Lyla'. She and the supporting cast are good, while Anthony Perkins is sufficiently disturbed, although he is all too confident, unlike the uncertain, stammering character he originally portrayed. Jerry Goldsmith's music is no match for Bernard Herrmann's magnificent score.Director Richard Franklin manages little of Hitchcock's inspiration, and rather settles for a much less impressive copy. The plot may be the only real plus. If it's not all too much for you, it will probably keep you entertained. A graphic and much more colourful follow up, which is somewhat surprising. Hardly subtle!Sunday, December 6, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Very frightening!!!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After watching this thriller for the second time, I found myself gnawing at my fingernails.Anthony is at his best in this suspenseful sequel to the 1960 movie that made everyone scared to take a shower.This is one movie that make's you thankful for Mothers day.The ending even surprised me and sent chill's down my back.Funny thing is at the end of the movie , you actually find yourself full of pity for Norman and his twisted mind.Yet his character is so wicked that it make's one think twice about disrespecting the cook in your local restaurant.This is one movie that I would recommend to all of you horror movie buffs out there. "},{"Title":"Better Than You Would Think","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm sure many eyebrows were raised when someone made the decision to cash in on the 1980's slasher flick boom by distributing a sequel to the 1960 horror classic, Psycho.Psycho II is set 22 years after Hitchcock's masterpiece and is surprisingly entertaining.The film is paced slowly with some great camera work and the film makers obviously made an effort not to tarnish the legacy of the original, namely by staving off graphic murder scenes (for the most part, anyway).Anthony Perkins was obviously well in tune with his Norman Bates character as he played him as a likable and sympathetic person much like he was in the original Psycho (It can't be easy to return to a role after two decades). It's a nice touch to have Vera Miles, also from the first film amongst the supporting cast. Meg Tilly also gives strong support as Norman's confidant.Psycho II is full of twists and turns that will keep you guessing right up until the end.A strong recommendation from me. 8 stars. "},{"Title":"A Troubling Sequel","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Many of the comments here reflect that it is an above average sequel. I might have agreed, if not for the finale. The film goes to a great deal of effort to make us care about its characters, even Norman Bates himself. Then, the film has them all come to bad ends. Having the Meg Tilly character get slaughtered is particularly unconscionable. This is where the film parts company with Hitchcock---Hitch's films never ended on a note of injustice. This one does, and it fails the film. I guess the producers thought no one would be interested unless there were a big, gory finale, but I think they were wrong. After making us care about the characters, I think audiences would have accepted a happy ending for Norman, perhaps with Meg Tilly? But it wasn't to be. This is Hollywood, after all. "},{"Title":"Very confusing","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film, as you can see from the title of this review, was extremely confusing. I've watched it three times and I still can't quite figure out who the actual murderer is. Norman? Ms Spool? Mary and Lila??? There were a few things I enjoyed, but I would have liked a different ending. And the way they portray Lila in the film was also completely unsympathetic, and I couldn't feel sorry for her the way I did in Hitchcock's masterpiece. There was a possible romance between Norman and Mary, but they didn't act on it. That wasn't something that particularly annoyed me, but it just made the movie more boring. Also Mary was a bit too young for Norman at that time.All that business at the end about Norman's mother and Ms Spool being insane was a little far-fetched. Maybe a happy ending would have been better. Then we wouldn't need any more sequels, which included the awful Psycho III. They should have finished it there and then. One sequel is enough, especially for a movie like the original Psycho, which in my opinion should just be left alone in all its glory, and shouldn't have any sequels at all.Overall I call this movie OK. See it if you're bored.5/10 "},{"Title":"A solid sequel...","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's a sequel to Psycho? most people would probably ask &#150; set 21 years after the original, it has sank into relative obscurity despite being one of the top ten biggest hits of '81. The film, while not a masterpiece, definitely warrants a purchase.Let's get the chief flaws out the way first some of the characters are a little underwritten while the plot packs too many twists into its 113 minute running time. It still remains one of my favourite sequels of all time though, mainly because of the legendary Anthony Perkins who reprises his role as Norman Bates &#150; it's a great shame this guy never achieved the fame he so richly deserved. He manages to convincingly portray Bates, a role that could have so easily descended into a twitchy caricature, as a genuinely sympathetic character who is as much a victim as the people he kills. As a result, when the conspiracy unravels it's difficult not to ache with pity for our illustrious anti-hero as he looses his grip on sanity all over again.Director Richard Franklin does a solid job of echoing the master (there's a crane shot that even old Hitch would've been proud of) and stages the largely gore-free murder sequences with relish, providing neat 'n' nasty little punch-lines for each (one particularly memorable set-piece involves poisoned tea, a spade and a 'toasted cheese sandwich').Two more sequels and a TV spin-off followed but out of them only the Perkins-directed third barely deserves a watch and only because of Perkins, whose acting and direction is both brilliant. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" *****SPOILER****** *****SPOILER****** *****SPOILER****** *****SPOILER****** When I went to see this film I was sure it was gonna be a copy of its predecessor. Positively surprised to see that the hole plot was different and the willingness of Norman bates wanting to improve and leave his past behind, was an awesome part of the story. Not one murder happens during the whole film until the very end. That is great cinema right there. I was so waiting for the gore-fest and it didn't come but at the end it hit me like a shovel on the back of my head. Awesome, preparing part three (which yes at that point was lame) but it make a great second part and you could end the series right there. I love it I was scared a few times and I enjoyed my adventure at the movie-theatre. Perkins is a great actor and I am very sad having lost him. He is a great teacher for so many of us actors wanting to make it! "},{"Title":"Doomed to fail, it almost works","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It would impossible for Psycho II to live up to the original, but the cast and crew give it their best shot.  The film is actually pretty competent throughout, though the silly finale ruins what is otherwise an interesting and suspenseful (if totally unnecessary) sequel.After a pre-credits reprise of the shower scene (Done for no reason other than to start the movie off with an easy scare), Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is released from the mental hospital after more than 20 years of psychiatric treatment.  He's deemed sane and allowed to return to his home and motel, despite the protests of Lila Loomis (Vera Miles).  Bates gets a good job at a diner nearby, but things immediately start going sour.  The interim motel manager is a sleaze (played with greasy gusto by Dennis Franz), and when Bates fires him, he begins to taunt and harass the psycho.   Norman also takes a shining to co-worker Mary (Meg Tilly), but almost as soon as he begins to get comfortable in his new life, notes and phone calls from his long-dead mother start appearing and Norman starts to go just a little mad.  Then the murders start all over again, of course, since this is a sequel to a slasher film.For a while, the movie works.  Perkins' Bates is still a likeable oddball despite the ending of the first film.  While his performance closes in on camp during some of the more intense sequences, the quiet scenes of Bates are still powerful.  And Miles' Lila is an interesting extension of a character who was ostensibly a plot device of the first film.  There's even a plot twist (revealed in the middle of the film, not at the conclusion) worthy of a Hitchcock thriller.  As Bates cracks up, and Mother starts to return, director Richard Franklin creates some fine suspense sequences, playfully returning to certain sequences and images from the first film (A girl takes a shower, someone peeps through a hole in a wall, jump cutting on a victim's scream).  Eerie music, and careful editing make for some enjoyable tense sequences; for a while, I was impressed.  Psycho II isn't as unnerving or scary as the original, but it's a fun thriller.As the film ramps up towards what looks to be a juicy climax, it sadly falls apart.  The body count starts to rise in unwise ways.  Since this film was made in the splatterfest decade that was the 80s, the violence is a lot bloodier than the first film. However, Psycho II becomes less disturbing as more gore is shown because the effects, mostly rubber knives sticking out people's faces and backs, are profoundly bad.  And instead of obeying Hitchcock's rule that there be a reasonable explanation for everything, the filmmakers settle for a finale that is completely absurd.  In a matter of minutes, the film descends from tight thriller to wacky groaner.Psycho II initially defied my low expectations; sadly, I was proven right in the end.  No sequel could ever match up to Psycho, and in trying to do so, the creators here throw in so many twists and so much gore that they do far too much for their own good, veering off the path to success down the road of cheap horror cliche.  It's an interesting film to see for its successes and failures, but it's not one I can recommend. "},{"Title":"Good Acting, Good Plot, Good Amount of Gore","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"     Perkins' Acting is Upmost Outstanding In This Sequel to, In My Opinion, The Greatest Film of all Time. The Movie Itself Starts Off Rather Slow, But leads up to an Exciting Last 20 Minutes. Also, The Ending Is Truly Spooky. Unlike the Original, This Film Contains Many Deaths, and Is Rather Gory. But Like The Original, It is a Darn Good Film Reccommended for Anyone/Everyone. "},{"Title":"Just don't let them take me back to the institution","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho II is, without a doubt, the greatest sequel of all time. Having to make a follow-up to a film as unique and wonderful as Psycho seems like an impossible task, but director Richard Franklin and brilliant writer Tom Holland knew how to pull it off. This isn't a rip-off of the original like some sequels are; this really stands on its own. It's unpredictable, chilling, gruesome, exciting, interesting, and surprisingly touching.With Psycho II, we are able to see exactly what kind of man Norman is. We get such a clear feeling of how he thinks and feels, and we realize what a fascinating character he really is. He is no longer the villain here, and instead, we just wish that everyone could leave the man alone. Anthony Perkins' performance is too good for words, and the other actors shine as well, especially Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia, and Dennis Franz.The only real misfire in this movie is that they showed the shower scene from the original Psycho at the very beginning. It doesn't serve any real purpose, especially since there is so much more to Psycho than that one famous scene. However, it recovers quickly during the opening credits when we see the sun set upon Norman's creepy house, making it look lovely. One of the best things about this movie is the music. Jerry Goldsmith contributes some really lovely scores, and they are used perfectly throughout the movie. I honestly can't get enough of the main score; it's beautiful.Try to avoid seeing this on TV. USA does a lot of editing, and they completely cut out a couple really special parts, in my opinion. The parts they cut out are the most sensitive/sentimental parts of the movie, so try and rent Psycho II instead!!!Just as good as the original, in my opinion. ***** (out of 5) "}{"Title":"22 Years later...","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Norman Bates is released from the asylum 22 years after killing several people in and about his home and motel.  Lila Loomis, the sister of Janet Leigh's character in the original, is still around and wants Bates to stay in his confinement. It seems she will go to all sorts of extremes to prove he is unworthy of joining society once more. Well, this film is adequate as a sequel because of some top-notch acting from Anthony Perkins reprising the role that followed him his lifetime and some good film sequences of suspense.  It certainly is not on a par with its predecessor, lacking the vision of Alfred Hitchcock and a tight script.  Nonetheless, it is a film that has some heart so to speak for the first three-fourths(running out of steam and sense at the end).  Vera Miles wildly overacts in this film and Meg Tilly is...interesting in her role.  The biggest difference between Hitchcock's vision and director Richard Franklin's is that Hitch left much of the horror off the screen and to the imagination of the viewer.  Franklin decides that he must join the ranks of the 80's style splatter films and show us in vivid colour the carnage so subtly avoided(and wisely done so) in the original. "},{"Title":"An awesome sequel...","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent sequel! I love it! We all knew Norman would come back. The Knife through the mouth was classic!   "},{"Title":"Good Sequel to the nightmare that started it all","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a really good sequel that wasn't as good as the original, but it was still scary and full of entertainment. This story has Norman returning to the hotel and still haunted by his mother. Leaves out that trendy 80's gore, but gets quite graphic towards the end. I give 'Psycho II' 7 out of 10. Rated R for strong violence and some nudity. Other Psycho Ratings Psycho (1960) a 10, Psycho (1998) 9, Psycho III 5, Psycho IV The Beginning 6. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 30","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 30. PSYCHO 2 (horror, 1983) Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) has finally been released after spending 22 years in a mental asylum for the murder of his mother. Once back at the Bates Motel he takes in a young female lodger whom he's met whilst working at a local diner. With her help, and that of his psychiatrist (Robert Loggia), he's keen to redeem himself of his crimes. But once back at the old house he starts to hear his mother's chants once again.Critique This follow-up to Hitchcock's classic was quickly dismissed by critics. How can anyone improve on the original? I believe this second installment (there would be a total of 4 sequels) has a superior screenplay (by future director Todd Holland), and cinematography that stands well to the first one. In fact, this is one of the few 'great' sequels to 'classic' firsts. Another example was James Cameron's 'Aliens'. The film keeps you guessing from frame one since Perkin's character seems to be back to his old tricks. The smart subtext and jaw-dropping ending makes the Bates character one of the few movie psychos to truly warrant some looking into.QUOTE Norman Mother? Is that you? "},{"Title":"Psycho II","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A mother and her daughter hatch a plot to rape Norman Bates of his fragile sanity after his release of more than twenty years in an institution. Lila Loomis(Vera Miles, returning to her old role full of fire and hate)will cease at nothing to see Norman locked back up and persuades her daughter Mary(the sexy knock-out Meg Tilly)to manipulate the poor soul by befriending him under a fake identity. Norman's doctor Bill Raymond(Robert Loggia, offering fine support, given a restrained character for once)tries to help him, but someone keeps calling claiming to be his real mother. This someone claims that the dead Mrs. Bates wasn't his real mother and whoever this person is takes up killing those who possibly threaten her little boy. The mystery of the plot is who exactly is committing the murders, and the film does point out that Norman couldn't possibly do it because of his whereabouts as strange occurrences take place. We see a lot of the film through Mary's point-of-view as Norman's sanity is crippling and this creepy mystery woman keeps sneaking inside room peeping through holes in the wall. Dennis Franz has yet another sleazy role(gosh, this guy made a living as scumbags in the 80's such as his blackmailing photographer in De Palma's BLOW OUT;and this one)as a foul-mouthed, belligerent blow-hard who ran the Bates Motel as an adult hotel where people could sleep around and partake in drug use..he doesn't take his firing kindly. Claudia Bryar has a key role as Mrs. Emma Spool, an elderly woman responsible for Norman landing a job at the town diner nearby the Bates Motel.I've watched this film probably twenty times over the years and this was the first time I ever noticed Hitchcock's silhouette in Mrs. Bates room when Norman and Mary enter it for the first time in the film..believe it or not, a tear actually came to my eye. I knew right there how much director Franklin admired and appreciated Hitchcock. The photographic work from veteran cinematographer Dean Cundy just blew me away. I got a woody when Cundy frames a shot from the attic window Norman peers out of trapped after being locked in by someone as the camera glides down to the teenage couple on the ground as they enter the basement for some play time. Just notice the MANY different ways Cundy shoots Norman so ominously(my favorite scene has Norman, almost lost, asking Mary if he has become confused again..when she tries to say he wasn't, Norman's eyes and face twist into this scary demeanor that is quite frightening)and the various odd angles for which he frames action up the steps to the Bates home and inside the house. Just amazing work..in my opinion, some of Cundy's best work to date. And, the score from Goldsmith is just haunting and melodic(..kind of even a bit sad). Written by CHILD'S PLAY director Tom Holland. Film's only real problem are the special effects like when someone gets a butcher knife stabbed in his/her throat..there's no doubt that's a dummy mask. Fans of Tobe Hooper's MORTUARY might notice here that Lee Garlington portrays a rude, ornery waitress..she portrays the diner owner in MORTUARY. The closing shot brings chills up my spine every time. God, is this film underrated, or what?! "},{"Title":"Was this trip really necessary?","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II may be nearly impossible to enjoy. It is so burdened by the weight of its legendary predecessor that you cannot pull your mind away from it long enough to focus on the few good qualities that this movie has. All through the movie you get the same creepy tone, and even the wicked sense of humor of Hitchcock's film but you keep waiting for some reason purpose of being. Hitch's film was contained within itself. Norman did his mother's bidding and went into a mental institution for its troubles. Finished. Done. End of story. There's nothing left to say. Yet, in Hollywood no story is ever finished if the property is profitable. Hence Psycho II.The story once again involves Norman Bates, played again in a wonderful performance by Anthony Perkins. After 22 years, the state has declared Norman sane much to the outrage of Lila Loomis (Vera Miles), sister of Marion Crane who met her grisly fate in the motel shower. Norman returns immediately his old homestead, the Gothic house on the hill, and the voices begin again almost the moment he sets foot in the door. A generation has passed since Norman's incarceration, but mother is still battering around inside his head.Norman makes strides to get back to normal. He gets a job at a local diner, and throws out the motel's current manager (Dennis Franz) who has turned the old lodge into a den for drugs and sex. He makes a friend in a co-worker named Mary (Meg Tilly) a naïve young woman whom Norman begins to feel pangs of affection for. All the while the voices still haunt Norman. He receives phone calls from his mother, hand-written notes turn up apparently written by her, and he has visions of things that happened long ago. Then bodies start stacking up and, just like anyone in a haunted house movie, Norman refuses to leave.There, I think, is where the movie falters. It follows more or less the same pattern as Hitchcock's film without trying anything new. There are some great opportunities here, so you're left baffled by the lack of imagination. Why does Norman go back home? With all the murders, and all the terror inflicted on him by his dominating mother, why go back into that house? Why not give us a portrait of Norman trying to move on somewhere else in normal society? Why not sit in on his psychotherapy sessions and have a movie that really gets inside his head? The best sequels are those that expand the story and try new things. There's an unwillingness to break out of the formula here and that hurts the movie. Director Richard Franklin shoots the film in color in the style of a TV movie. The original was a low-budget production that was a shock based on the chronology of Hitchcock's films before Psycho, but what was the excuse here? Why make the whole thing look cheap?The best thing about Psycho II is Anthony Perkins. He gives a much better performance than the movie probably deserves. It's always nice to catch up with classic movie characters years later, and Norman is no exception. He remains so firmly burned in our imagination, that nervous little man who teeters on the edge, wanting sexual desire but denied it by a split personality that turns it into murderous rage. Catching up with Norman years later, we find that he isn't changed all that much. His face bears the lines of age and his hair has grown salty, but all around his gawky frame, we are reminded that the old demons are still present inside of him. That's a tribute to Perkins who, at his best, has always been an internal actor. Here we can still see the turmoil in his eyes, accentuated by heavier jowls and cautious eyes. It's a wonderful performance. He has a tense relationship with the young Mary, but it is never really brought to a head. We imagine that her life must be in mortal danger knowing what we know about his previous lust for Marion Crane, but it never comes to anything. She exists as kind of a ninny.Psycho II is not a terrible movie, just an unnecessary one. Director Richard Franklin gets some details right. He manages, at times, to capture the tone and mood that we had in that old house all those years ago. It's all still there. We see the corners and the contours of the rooms and of that infamous staircase and get the same chill. Plus, there is one genuine plot twist that I didn't see coming. Yet, even with good performances and a chilling atmosphere, you wonder what it's all for. Was this trip really necessary? For me, no.** (of four) "},{"Title":"A strong, if not worthy, sequel","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Guaging this films worthiness by stacking it alongside the much superior original is an exercise in futility. Richard Franklin's Psycho II is not meant to be better than the original or to compete with it in any way. It is, in reality, more of an homage to the original than a sequel if anything.I'll save the plot descriptions since the movie is twenty-seven years old at the time that I'm writing this and it has likely been described to death by now. After having viewed this film again recently (the first time in over a decade for me) I was taken back by the subtle nods to Alfred Hitchcok's original, be it a similar camera angle or a particular lighting effect or even the famous Alfred Hitchcock Presents silhouette on the wall of Norman's mother's room. Psycho II is a strong sequel that not many people believed would be anything more than Universal trying to capitalize on the success of the original and trying to meld that with the slasher craze of the early 1980's. What Richard Franklin was able to do, however, was create a film that is able to stand on it's own, apart from the original, and also create a movie that is still quite good nearly thirty years after it's original release. Now I'm not saying this film is an alternative to the original Psycho, as that film is one of the greatest movies in the history of the cinema, and is an absolute master class on how to direct a solid suspense/horror film. What I am saying, though, is that Psycho II deliver's what it intended to - a strong horror/suspense film with solid acting and genuine scares.So, in short, if you're looking for a cinematic tour de force, then go get the original on DVD. But if you're looking to spend an evening at home and watch a good, solid horror/suspense film then you can do far worse. "},{"Title":"Oddly Sad?","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For some reason Psycho 2 makes me feel sad when its finished, the musical score is outstanding and has that element of melancholy about it and delves deep into Normans messed up life. Norman Bates returns to the Bates motel after 23 years and is trying to get on with his life. Anthony Perkins reprises his signature role with class and gives Norman a dignity even though you know about his past. Norman is not the bad guy of the movie - he is the victim which is a quite clever change to follow on from the original. The trouble is how do you follow a film like Psycho? I think Tom Holland does a fine job of creating another story with the characters. Although its a shame Lila turned out the way she did but I can understand her anger and hate. Meg Tilly is so lovely in this film, her character begins to feel a little sympathy for Norman and he definitely feels something for her. When she is gone at the end there is a real sadness. There is a scene when he comes back from the police station and the house is dark, for a moment a car passes and it lights the room up to show the seat Mary was when she first came into Normans life - with Jerry Goldmans theme playing its a really subtle sad scene. Psycho 2 is a classy suspense movie that sometimes descends into slasher territory and can be nasty at times (particularly the end) but it does not take anything away from a really strong sequel to a stone cold classic. "},{"Title":"A lot better than it has any right to be.","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II may open by recycling the iconic shower scene from Hitchcock's classic, but rest assured that the rest of the film is hardly a re-hashing of old ideas. Instead, the sequel, which arrived a whopping 23 years after the original, has a few new tricks up its sleeve. You'll be surprised to find that the film actually justifies its own existence by not cheapening the original or itself. More psychological thriller than slasher, it also stood well against the Friday the 13ths of its time, instead of falling in line with certain trends of the 1980's.Directed by Richard Franklin from a script by Tom Holland, Psycho II finds Anthony Perkins reprising his iconic role as Norman Bates, while Vera Miles also returns to her character, Hell-bent on avenging her sister's death. The film finds Norman Bates being released from the sanitarium only to return home to resume business at the Bates Motel. Slowly, he works his way back into society by getting a job at a diner, but things go awry very quickly when he takes a co-worker (Meg Tilly) under his wing. Is Mother still nagging him or are there other forces at work? Frankly, the film isn't as good as the original, but then again, how could it be? Although Hitchcock himself probably wouldn't have bothered with a sequel, Psycho II is about as good of an effort as anyone could make. The script is very careful not to repeat the previous film and Perkins in particular is spot on as Norman, having not missed a beat in all the time between films. Those who consider Psycho a cinematic delicacy may find a sequel a bit unnecessary, but in all honesty, it's a sequel that deserves to be seen.Psycho II was followed by two more sequels (one being a TV-movie/prequel) and a remake in 1998. Of the four, this is the finest follow-up. "},{"Title":"II's as good as it could get","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Boy, there was a lot of trash talk around when 'Psycho II' was announced. Like 'Scarlett' (the sequel to 'Gone With the Wind') how can one simply attempt to copy, or top one of the greatest movies ever made? And you know what? It actually works. Of course, it's nowhere close to the masterpiece the first one was, but it's still interesting and intriguing enough for at least one viewing. Bates is released from captivity 22 years after his mother took control of his life and he brutally slayed multiple victims. Well, the main victim's (Marion) sister is obviously upset and petitions to have him locked away for good. Quite frankly, I don't know why he isn't, but then, no sequel's made. Meanwhile as Bates is actually cured he meets and takes in a recently homeless girl and Bates feeds off her to keep him straight. Not that it did any good because Mother is back and Bates begins to slip, or does he? The movie plays out as a mystery with enough twists for several 'Saw' movies. Unfortunately, that comparison isn't one-deep the gore here (in the final act) is all but unnecessary. Perhaps they thought, It's no longer 1960, we should show more than the 'stab-free' shower scene. A lot of what worked for #1 was what they didn't show (less is more.) They also showed more of inside the creepy house &#x96; this one, I agreed with (more is more.) I did like the extended tour of the home shown for all-but 2 minutes in #1. Side Note Sorry, but I did have to laugh at the facial expressions on Perkins. Though, he did another good job here, a lot of his facial gestures reminded me of George W. Bush's exact same facial movements. Now, that's creepy. "}{"Title":"great sequel","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, Robert Loggia, Meg Tilly, and Dennis Franz, what more could you possibly want from a sequel, i think the key to a good sequel is time , lots of time between the first and second,, heck 22 years sounds good to me, it's 1982 at the Bates Motel 22 years later since Norman was there, he's been in the Sanitarium trying to get better, he get's out of there, and the good Dr. is responsible for checking in on him. All Norman wants to do is be left alone.. but alas will they,, answer no of course not,, Mrs. Loomis has other ideas,, she was at the state hearing and was furious with anger that Norman was released. With Norman appearing to be all settled in that's when the trouble sets in, things start happening,, little things at first, the phone ringing, notes being left at Norman's new job,, Norman is absolutely convinced that mother is back. slowly one by one the killing starts up again,, is it Norman,, is it his mother come back to claim vengeance... this film has a great score,, it is wonderful to listen to, and the perfect music for a horror movie,, i feel that this is one of the best sequels ever made, and probably something Hitchcock himself would have approved of. "},{"Title":"People should give this film a chance. Great casting and musical score.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay, we all know that Psycho (1960) was an artistic masterpiece that no one should dare to meddle with (especially Gus Van Sant). However, I remember when I first saw Psycho 2 on TV and I was very surprised at how good it was. I honestly felt that they were going in the Vera Miles has been killing these people and blaming the deaths on Norman direction. So in that sense I was not sure who the killer was until the end (very Hitchcockian). Also the cast was wonderful and the musical score was a very subtle but frighteningly creepy way of saying goodbye to those infamous violins and introducing a piano to give an new but nostalgic feel. Anthony Perkins was excellent as always and Meg Tilly was superb as well. This is probably the best sequel to a horror movie I have ever seen. If you are a fan of Psycho then I think you will enjoy this flick. "},{"Title":"The Bate's Motel is back open for business","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Norman Bates is back after 22 years locked in a mental hospital for murdering people. He comes home apparently cured and gets a job in a Diner in a attempt to build a normal life, but he starts hearing voices again, his mother's voice and people start getting killed. Has Norman lost his mind again or is it someone else trying to make Norman go mad again.Crikey 22 years is a long wait for a sequel, a very long wait, after the masterpiece that was Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, comes Psycho 2 despite not having Hitchcock in the Director's chair, this sequel still manages to be a worthy follow up. Richard Franklin does a good job with maintaining the suspense and the atmosphere displaying a truly Gothic scenery which I loved, I'm glad that they focused more on the characters and setting the mood rather than just going all out with the splatter like they did with other slasher movies at the time, don't get me wrong this sequel does have it bloody moments, the body count is bigger this time, I also liked that this movie has a twist at the end like the first one, although not as good, but again I didn't see that coming.Anthony Perkins again does a brilliant job as Norman Bates, bringing more sympathy to the role and giving him a lot more to do this time round adding more layers and depth to his character. Meg Tilly (Mary) truly shone as Norman's co-worker and later his lover, the chemistry really worked between her and Norman, another cast member of Psycho 1 is back and that is Lila Loomis played brilliantly by Vera Miles, she's gone all manic this time round hell bent on putting Norman back in the looney bin at any cost, she wasn't very sympathectic this time round and Robert Loggia (Dr Raymond) brings greatness to his character as Norman's doctor, I liked the fact that he was understanding and helping Norman rebuild his life, showing that he's not just a doctor but a friend, I really liked that element in the movie.All in all, although it's not quite the masterpiece the first one was, but a well and truly worthy follow up. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels ever!","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" With every sequel that comes after a great film, especially one that has taken decades to come to the screen, there is always going to be the criticism that it till never be as good as the original. The truth is in many cases, they are right and most sequels should be avoided.With Psycho 2, it is not superior to Psycho but that does not make it a lousy sequel. With the success of the original film, the writer and director could have made it all 1980s slashy and gory style riding on the back of its original. It doesn't.Yes, the murder scenes are more gory that the 1960s BUT unlike many sequels, this one rides on plot. We see elements from the sequel we get an original story which whilst keeping to the Psycho vision, is independent from it. There are more questions, more suspects and it's one of those wait til the ending parts because with the first time round of seeing this (unlike you know the ending), there is always the question of who did what and even at the end, some questions are STILL unanswered which makes it a true thriller because in many cases of life, there are unanswered questions which we interpret. Some people interpret the questions left at the end of this film in their own way. The director and writer respect Hitchcock by trying (and in many ways succeeding) by keeping up to his high standard.The acting from Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates and Meg Tilly as Mary is superb. In fact Perkins is better in this than he was in the sequel.Like I said, not the best film in the world but it should be snuffed out until you give it a try. It is an underrated movie and a really good sequel, definitely the best sequel out of the three Psycho sequels (watch out for Psycho 3! That one is the worst!) I give it 8/10 -) "},{"Title":"The cute Tilly","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Meg Tilly looks very cute and I would even go so far as to say that she looks surprisingly and refreshingly cute in this small '83 thriller. Perhaps she's the cute Tilly; or, anyway, the cutest Tilly.In general, this sequel can be enjoyed; though not for the same qualities as Hitchcock's original parody.Perkins was an almost addictive actor; so if you like him you'll pretty much enjoy his self&#151;impersonation in the first sequel for PSYCHO. Now, there's slightly more sex and brutality and gruesomeness than in Hitchcock's parody. Loggia plays a blasé physician. But the flick's most interesting asset is still Mrs. Tilly and her cute look and her nice shower scene. "},{"Title":"Oddly Satisfying, Though Left Unfinished...","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Vera Miles returns as Lila Crane-cum-Loomis. It seems Sam married the little sister upon the death of the older Marion. Go figure. But now Sam is dead, gone to be with dear old Marion, and Norman's insanity seems to have rubbed off on sweet baby sister, Lila.This time Norman is released from the bug house and is watching his P's and Q's. Unfortunately for Norman, his new found friend is working with a partner to ensure that Norman ends right back up in the bug house. By the time everyone figures out what's going on, Norman's gone completely around the bend, again. Poor Norman.This installment in a worthy franchise features a young Meg Tilly, and an aging Vera Miles, Anthony Perkins of 23 years later (than the original) and a plethora of decent-to-good talent. The direction does not equate Hitchcock, but is still above par, especially considering the genre.I find this sequel completely worthy.It rates an 8.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Well-Done Sequel To Hitchcock's Original Shocker!","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Many people would probably never give this film a try, they think, Oh please, they made a sequel to one of the greatest films of all time, it has to be horrible!. Well, they're wrong! This film is actually not bad, however, I'll admit that it does not have the same effect that the first one did and is much less popular, but it is still a great film in it's own way. After twenty-two years of being in a mental institution, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is released and returns back to the old motel. He meets a young woman (Meg Tilly) whom starts living with him in the old house. However, strange things start happening, and Norman starts to wonder if Mother isn't really dead...Anthony Perkins once again gives a great performance as Norman Bates, Meg Tilly also gives an exceptional performance, and Vera Miles also gives a good performance as Lila Crane. The plot has many twists and turns and the suspense keeps you on the edge of your seat. All in all, the movie is pretty good.Rated R for Violence, Gore, and Brief Nudity.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Norman Bates has a girlfriend!","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Done in the age of sequels, the 80's, this is the film that made come back to light one of the most famous serial killers in movies' history NORMAN BATES. The sequel is from 1983 and stars in the NORMAN BATES role the same Anthony Perkins which had done the character in 1960 Hitchcock's PSYCHO. The idea of giving the same role to Perkins is very good and confers an extra strength to this sequel in my point of view.The plot begins when BATES is released from the institution. The doctors say he's healed and he's free to go to rebuild his life. He goes back to his mother's house near the Bates Motel. He starts working on a restaurant and meets there a girl that suddenly breaks up with her boyfriend and has nowhere to go&#x85; BATES invites her to spend the night with him at his mother's house&#x85; At the beginning she rejects but then accepts and starts living with him! BATES won a new friend! Everything seems to be alright, NORMAN seems to be fine, until somebody got killed &#x85; again&#x85; This flick is clearly done by the 80's horror movies' standards. We can notice it by the enormous amount of twists in the plot, the kind of suspense used, the way people is killed, and the soundtrack (which is a delicious mix between string and orchestra sounds with the modern synthesizers of the 80's&#x85;). The plot tries to create suspense in the viewer using too many twists but it ends in the most expected way (which is also typical from that age&#x85;).I liked PSYCHO II. At parts it looks like average, especially if we take count of this typical features of the 80's that I mentioned before, but I think the main idea was very good, mainly because they called Anthony Perkins to do again NORMAN BATES, 23 years older, as him in the real life&#x85; "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After being released from prison, Norman Bates, (Anthony Perkins) returns to his home by the hotel and tries to assimilate back into society, taking a job as a cook's assistant in a roadside restaurant. As he keeps getting reminders of his past life flashed around him, it becomes harder and harder for him to put them out of his head, and he fears he'll revert to his murderous ways. His friend Mary, (Meg Tilly) isn't too convinced, even if her mother Lila, (Vera Miles) thinks he hasn't changed at all. As he fights to keep his newfound sanity, he discovers a shocking secret that might affect his struggles to remain sane.A sequel to one of the most influential films of all time, it stands on it's own quite decently and is pretty entertaining in its own right. Don't expect it to top it and it should be a fun time. Give it a chance, it's not all bad.Rated R for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"And now you're back!","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Although nowhere as good as the original, Psycho II still has it's charms and wit about it. Anthony Perkins comes back to his house and motel and finds old ghosts still haunting him. Vera Miles is back too, wanting to throw old Norman back in the looney bin. She tries to fool with his mind, bringing her daughter, played by Meg Tilly, along for the ride. This all goes spiraling out of control, when suddenly they realize they're way over their head. I actually liked this one more the 2nd time around (the first when it first came out on video &#150; I am quite sure I hadn't seen the original). I've grown to really like the Norman Bates character, and I am finally able to appreciate this more than just a straight up slasher film. I liked how it sort of delved into the backstory of Norman and his mother, among other history.The one major drawback, is the amusing casting of Meg Tilly and Vera Miles. I mean just looking at them side by side, you'd have to be blind to wonder how Vera could spawn Meg. "}{"Title":"strangely, not a bad film","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Strangely, not a bad film. Anthony Perkins reprises his role of Norman Bates. It is 22 years after the events of the original, classic film, as he re-enters society, but is soon tortured by his past--with a little help. There are a few leaps in logic that you might need to overlook to enjoy this (would he really have been able to be released, without, at the very least, being put in a halfway house first?) but overall it is very clever and entertaining. The original is one of those that should never have been re-made (curse that damn re-make!) but this is very watchable, much in the way that most of the Rocky sequels are watchable but not equal to the original. Well done! "},{"Title":"A remarkably solid and satisfying belated sequel to the classic original","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Norman Bates (a strong and touching portrayal by Anthony Perkins) gets released from the sanitarium after spending twenty-two years under psychiatric treatment. Nervous and vulnerable, Norman gets a job at a diner, befriends flaky young waitress Mary (nicely played by the adorable Meg Tilly), and struggles to maintain his fragile sanity. Meanwhile a series of terrible murders occurs. Is it Norman or someone else behind the killings? Ably directed by Richard Franklin, with a clever, witty and inspired script by Tom Holland, the tricky and involving plot takes plenty of nifty twists and turns while building to a chilling and startling conclusion. Perkins really holds the picture together with his outstanding lead performance; he pulls off the extraordinary feat of making Norman simultaneously scary and pitiable in equal measure. The supporting cast are likewise excellent Vera Miles as the vengeful Lila Loomis, Robert Loggia as kind, supportive shrink Dr. Raymond, Dennis Franz as disgusting sleazeball motel manager Warren Toomey, Hugh Gillin as affable Sheriff John Hunt, and Claudia Bryar as the sweet, protective Emma Spool. Dean Cundey's handsome cinematography and Jerry Goldsmith's supremely spooky'n'lovely score further enhance the overall sterling quality of this superior sequel. "},{"Title":"I don't kill people anymore.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I thought this was an interesting enough sequel to the classic Psycho. There appeared to be enough mystery to follow and I certainly thought that Meg Tilly (Agnes of God) did a good job in her role.Anthony Perkins makes a super Norman Bates. I am sure there will be those who opt for the purity of the original, but he does a good job in creating suspense and doubt throughout.Anthony Perkins and Robert Loggia were good, but not spectacular. They could have built up the motel scenes a little better and given Franz a bigger part. The diner scene was cheesy.Not the original, but worth watching if there is nothing else on. "},{"Title":"a worthy sequel","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" over the years i have noticed a lot of bad press about this film.i think it is as good a sequel to psycho as anyone could possibly want.and i know there's a lot of people who will say psycho din't need a sequel,etc but i think the story provided a good follow up for the characters. the film is genuinely creepy,i think more so than the original psycho i felt was much more a thriller than a horror.anthony perkins as usual was brilliant.this is one of those movies that years ago i would tape off the television and bring to my friends house and watch in the dark,i think i was four years old when i first saw it and maybe its i was so young that i still remember how creepy it was. psycho 3 was awful,psycho 4 the beginning was pretty bad two.i think this movie just works so well as an effective horror film.whether your looking for a great sequel to a classic or just a stand alone movie,this is really great stuff. "},{"Title":"Can't Surpass The Original, But A Worthy Attempt.","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II is the long-after sequel of Alfred Hitchcock's horror masterpiece. This film starts where the original film had left off. It's twenty-two years after Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) went on a killing spree, and was locked into a mental institution for his split-personality. Now, he's been released and deemed stable enough to live a normal life. But things don't stay too normal. Norman returns to his house and the Bates Motel, and gets a job at a local cafe where he meets Mary (Meg Tilly), a nice young woman whom he gets close to. The townspeople still assume Norman to be crazy, but Mary trusts him. Soon enough, more killings begin to occur, and Norman begins to lose it again. Has mother returned, or is there something else going on that he isn't quite aware of? Surprisingly, this movie turned out to be a really good sequel. We get to focus in even more on Norman Bates, flawlessly played by Perkins who keeps us sympathetic but a little skeptical about his character. At first the audience kind of feels bad for the guy - he's ridiculed and harassed at his job, and everyone still thinks he's nuts. But when people start dying, we get a little suspicious, although the killer is never clearly shown in the murder scenes, so we really have no way of telling if he's really snapped again. The acting was all really good here too, Meg Tilly played her character and made her likable, and Vera Miles even reprised her role as Lila Loomis, Marion's sister from the original Psycho.This film is remarkably more violent than the first film, and doesn't think twice about showing us knives going through people's mouths and whatnot, so in that respect this movie is different from the original. Not only that, but this film is in color, so there's another difference, but the color/non-color differences don't really make a barrier between the two movies. The ending to this movie was a shock for me, because it took me completely off-guard and I wasn't expecting what the screenwriters had in store for me. But I think that's a good thing because it made it completely unpredictable. All things considered, this movie was very well-written.Overall, Psycho II is about as good a sequel you're going to get for a Hitchcock film. When seeing this movie, don't expect anything as brilliant as the first film was, but in reality, it's much better than what one would expect. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the best horror sequels every produced","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is 22 years later and Norman Bates (the returning Anthony Perkins) is released from a mental institution, much to the dismay Lila Loomis (also returning Vera Miles). Norman moves back home, begins a job at a greasy spoon diner and quickly starts a friendship with waitress Mary (Meg Tilly). But then Norman begins receiving messages from his dead mother and starts to slowly unwind. I'm sure when this first came out that there were tons of people who scoffed at the idea of a sequel to Hitchcock's classic. Well, this sequel is about as good as anyone could ask for and it holds up amazingly well from the early 80s. Tom Holland's script features several clever twists and repeat viewings offers lots of nice bits. Richard Franklin, a protégé of Hitchcock, delivers some incredibly taut direction. All of the actors are fine with nice supporting work from Miles, Robert Loggia as Norman's doctor and a deliciously sleazy turn by Dennis Franz as the interim motel manager. The star of the show is, of course, Anthony Perkins who gives an amazing performance as Norman. The scenes where he has phone conversations with his mother are really something else when he does the literal switch from normal to crazy by bringing the phone from his left to right ear. However, if you fear this entry is making Norman sympathetic, there is a great, dark finale that hammers the point home. Also worth mentioning is the fantastic score by Jerry Goldsmith. All these elements make this easily one of the best horror sequels every produced. "},{"Title":"Decent follow-up to a classic","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II is as decent as can be for a sequel to a classic in the genre.**SPOILERS**After being released from prison, Norman Bates, (Anthony Perkins) returns to his home by the hotel and tries to assimilate back into society, taking a job as a cook's assistant in a roadside restaurant. As he keeps getting reminders of his past life flashed around him, it becomes harder and harder for him to put them out of his head, and he fears he'll revert to his murderous ways. His friend Mary, (Meg Tilly) isn't too convinced, even if her mother Lila, (Vera Miles) thinks he hasn't changed at all. As he fights to keep his newfound sanity, he discovers a shocking secret that might affect his struggles to remain sane.The Good News This one was actually pretty good. As a sequel to one of the most influential films ever, this really had the potential to fail, especially with the over-complicated plot and many twists and turns later on. The twists are sometimes pretty nice, and they come about pretty naturally. It was fun to see how it had built up this tension of who the killer was, as the back-and-forth nature of the story made it a real challenge to figure out, and it is a surprise to see who was actually behind it all. That alone is what makes the final third of the film a load of fun, in that everything that comes together is lots of fun. There is some more blood and gore in here than what was allowed in the original, thanks to the time it came out, and makes it feel more like an 80s movie. It was a great feeling to finally see what could only be hinted at in the original, where the body count here is much more in keeping with the times. This turned out really good.The Bad News As a sequel to one of the b st films of all time, this already will have some doubters, but there is also a few other problems with it as well. The pacing here is a big problem. The beginning does a good job of setting up the characters and relations, but then it introduces the needless subplots that hammer home what was already known beforehand. The second diner sequence was really unnecessary and could've been trimmed. The ending explanations were a little convoluted, and while they worked, it could've been done with some clearing up. There's a few little middling problems, but they're not all that detriment to the enjoyment of the film. This wasn't as bad as it could've been.The Final Verdict A sequel to one of the most influential films of all time, it stands on it's own quite decently and is pretty entertaining in its own right. Don't expect it to top it and it should be a fun time. Give it a chance, it's not all bad.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Norman Bates has come home","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After 22 years in an institution Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is back home to take care of the motel. He also begins work at the diner down the road where he meets a girl whom hasn't anywhere to stay. He invites her back to the house. He also meets a lady who reminds him of mother. But when people start making phone calls pretending to be his mother, Norman beings to go crazy. Psycho II and III are worthy sequels. Dare I say they are better than the original? You decide. Psycho II is excellent. A sequel to a Hitchcock film doesn't seem possible, but Anthony Perkins pulled it off. The first time I saw this movie I hadn't seen the original. But I really liked it. I though the original was boring after that. You'll love this movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Norman Bates is back!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 22 years have went by since Norman got arrested for his murders.At the institute, he was no longer under the control of the institute.He's now a free man and able to return back to his home, the Bates Motel. Which has been taken care and watched by a drunk fat guy. Norman takes a part time job at a dinner to receive more money. He's believed to be cured as he was told.But lately he's been finding notes left by his dead mother and phone calls from his dead mother as well. This all makes him believe that his mother is still around. But his doctor keeps telling him that his mother is dead and couldn't possibly of done it.Not only that but there have been murders around the Bates Motel. Which looked like it was done by Norman. But he's not too sure if he did do those murders without knowing it or just someone trying to put him back to the institute. This is one fine mystery to think about.This sequel is great. Hitchcock didn't do this one as he's already long dead when this movie was made. Not sure if he was allow this sequel to be made. Anthoney Perkins is still Norman Bates, has similar locations from the original Psycho and it's in full color instead of black and white.If you like the original Psycho then I recommend seeing it by borrowing it or renting it. "},{"Title":"I'm just going to have to pass on this one.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Psycho' is THE best movie of all time.  It's my favorite film.  'Psycho 2' is another story.  Unfortunately, it has a poor script, some pretty bad acting and it basically moves at a snail's pace.  The only good thing is that of course, the wonderful Anthony Perkins is back.I just adore Perkins.  He was excellent in 'Psycho' and is without a doubt the only positive thing to come out of this stinker.  While at times he seemed to be a little too creepy, even for his character, I still think the world of him.  Okay, enough with the raves.  The supporting cast, consisting mostly of Meg Tilly is bad.  She isn't horrible by any means, but she isn't exactly great.  Vera Miles is listed second in the credits, though I can't seem to remember her right now.  Actually, I'm having a hard time remembering just about anything from the film.  I'm taking that to not be a good sign.The obvious low budget of the film sort of gets to me at points, but it's something that can be worked around.  The good thing about the original is that it had a wonderful setting, an atmosphere that really brought the script out whatever the budget was.Something's starting to come back to memory.  I believe it is how long this movie seemed to be.  Yeah, I know it was only two hours, but oh how it seemed so much more.'Psycho 2' manages to bring just a pinch of shame to the 'Psycho' name.  Perkins is at least in it, so it can't be ALL bad.  There are some parts in which a tiny jump will occur and the obvious, startling revelation will be revealed.  It's the kind where it's been present all along, yet nobody could really put their finger on it.  Where would movies be if it weren't for that little surprise stunt?  So, I'd say pass on the sequel (and avoid the third one also).  Instead, watch the 1960 classic once again.  It never gets old. "}{"Title":"Almost Hitchcock but not quite","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The reviews on this page all praise this film.  I feel likewise.  The plot and camera work are very much in the vein of Hitchcock.  I can see him making a sequel much like this one.A MAJOR weak point, however, is the amount of gore in the film.  Gore cheapens the production by showing the audience what is happening rather than making their minds fill it in on their own.  The emphasis of the scene becomes the blood and guts.  Janet Leigh never bled and the knife never cut her in the original, yet the shower scene is horrifying because the audience sees the movement of the knife, hears the sound of it striking and imagines the horror of her death.  Had the producers of the sequel let the imaginations of the audience run with the violent scenes rather than showing everything (like a knife thrust through Vera Miles' throat), I think this would be as exceptional a thriller/horror film as the original.  As it is, it is a well made slasher movie with a good story.  "},{"Title":"The greatest sequel since The Godfather II!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is probably the best sequel I have ever seen. It keeps you guessing. There are continuous connections to the first Psycho film. The acting of all the characters is superb. The ending is so bizarre you must watch the film to believe it. Anthony Perkins acts so well that, you actually begin to have pity on him. You are constantly seeing his struggle to remain sane. I definitely recommend this film to anyone. 5 of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't like many horror movies, and I didn't like the original Psycho. But this sequel is among my favorites. I like the fact that Norman Bates is a sympathetic character. I found myself rooting for him early on. Anthony Perkins' face seems much more expressive than it was when he made Psycho. His character's confusion and pain is evident before he speaks a word.Ergo, I was disappointed with the end of the movie, because I wanted Norman to be normal. Clearly, a second sequel was being set up (as history proved).Although the denouement was a downer, the piece just before when Norman beans his mother with a shovel is a riot. Since Norman hasn't committed any violence up to that point the act takes one by surprise to the greatest degree that it's possible to.I'm not sure the filmmakers intended to cause laughter with this scene, but it cracks me up.Most horror movie makers would have had Norman stab her, which wouldn't have been funny at all. Using the shovel was a brilliant piece of inspiration on someone's part. I gave this movie an 8. "},{"Title":"Very decent sequel.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is very apparent that the writers of this sequel did everything they could to respect the original movie, yet create a new, twisted story surrounding the Norman Bates character, and they pull it off very well. The story of Psycho II, about the attempts of the upset Lila Crane to disturb Norman with the aid of her compassionate daughter, is perfect not only for suspense and intrigue, but for probing the complexities of the human mind, the way the original Psycho did. The performances are excellently realistic, and the stabbing scenes are very intense and scary. And I disagree with the comment on this site that stated that the end of this movie changed the original Psycho story too much. No way. The biological relationship between Norman and Mrs. Bates in the original Psycho was never an issue. The outcome of Psycho II actually creates more interest on the motives of Mrs. Bates to do what she did to Norman as he grew up. Unfortunately, Psycho III, which never should have been made, reverses Psycho II, and that is a shame.        "},{"Title":"Hey this was pretty good!!!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was really suprised when I saw this that Psycho II wasn't bad at all actually I thought this film was pretty good.  Of course its nowhere near as good as the original butI don't think anything could have been as great. I think Psycho II deserved more of a chance because its not bad. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Sequel!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a surprisingly good sequel. I didn't think it could be done, but it was. The cast (Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia, Dennis Franz, etc.) was outstanding. I'm surprised that they killed off the heroine from the original (Lila Crane-Loomis - Vera Miles). Anthony Perkins was also great as the ultimate mama's boy, Norman Bates, as usual. Nevertheless, it was a great movie all on its own. Rent it and see what I mean! *** out of ****, for a confusing and strange ending. "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN PSYCHO/AND NO ANTHONY HITCHCOCK/BUT THERES ANTHONY PERKINS!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Psycho 2***3 Stars- Better than Psycho and theres no Alfred Hitchcock but theres Anthony Perkins with another great performance as Norman Bates. This movie has better acting and a better plot than Psycho. We learn the secret life of Norman Bates and the truth about his mother. This time the killer may not be Norman it may be  his dead or alive? mother. This movie is filled with twist and turns, awesome and longer killing scenes, and an excellent ending which has a real great twist. "},{"Title":"AN PRETTY GOOD SEQUEL!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting change from the first one. there was more mystery to this movie then the first. Even when it ends your asking yourself what happened who was the killer. There are some good parts through the movie, the first half starts off slow and then in the last half the pace picks up. All up the movie is enjoyable. The story is 22 years after the events that occured in the first film, Norman Bates is out of an asylum and back to the Bates motel, but when a woman turns up claiming to be his real mother, things start going wrong. Perkins plays an aged Norman well again and the scene at the end was excellent, he swang that spade awfully hard. "},{"Title":"Made for a rather interesting horror/thriller.","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have never watched the original Psycho movie, thanks to the fact it was ruined for me because the ending was revealed. I have seen parts of it though and it is well done. This movie I actually watched in full and it was not the best movie in the world, but it still made for some interesting viewing. Basically, it tells the continuing story of Norman Bates and from what the movie says he has become as normal as he can get and he is now ready to reenter society. To bad society has condemned an honestly sick man and they badger him and such which can not be good for his condition. Add to that the fact people are getting killed, so he must be losing his mind again! The movie throws a curve ball here and there and there is a somewhat unexpected moment at the end which I thought was a bit much. Still, this type of movie is usually not my type of horror movie, but this one managed to entertain me even with a rather long running time. Never saw the next couple of sequels in the series, but from what I understand they are nothing really special at all. "},{"Title":"Very good sequel","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It seems sequels disappoint more often than not. The Godfather was an exception, and this film is another. Even if one prefers Hitchcock's original, this depiction of Norman's release from the mental institution, after 22 years, is an interesting, well-done film.Vera Miles reprises her role from the original, and Meg Tilley provides a sort of quasi-romantic interest for Perkins' Norman.Robert Loggia is his therapist, and Dennis Franz the sleaze-ball who managed the motel during his long absence.Of course, mayhem ensues, and the story provides some good suspense and twists.But the best summation was given in a review I saw a long time ago (I believe by Leonard Maltin)Norman's doing a lot better, but Mother isn't doing so well. "}{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One thing i didn't like about it was that there were too many twists in the movie. Dennis franz was an a**hole who you knew he was going to get it. Meg tilly wasn't very good in this movie and Anthony perkins did a pretty good job.  "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hitchcock fans will probably want my head for saying better than the original. Don't get me wrong, I like the original, but like all of Hitchcock's films, the acting in Psycho is very wooden and unreal. If the original had not been made, this one could very well have stood on its' own and been successful. This was one of the very first horror films I ever saw, long before I saw the original, and it holds a special place in my heart. I remember camping out in the living room with my sleeping bag and watching this with my parents and my grandmother shortly after it came out on video -- and it scared the hell out of me. If a movie can scare me, it's won my respect....Perkins, as always, is fascinating in the role that ruined his career -- so it was only natural that he reprise it since no one would hire him to play anything but Bates-characters (from Mahogony to Edge of Sanity). And no one could have done it better. Vera Miles, also reprising her role from the original, turns in a first-rate performance -- like Perkins, she delivers the extension of the character that you'd expect to see 22 years later. Meg Tilly is perfect as Mary, the would-be love interest of Norman (though she doesn't remotely resemble either of the people who played her parents). And Dennis Franz is so convincing as the motel manager you love to hate that you can't wait to see him die.... Thankfully this was made when character development still mattered, shortly before the horror genre was exclusively reduced to gore and special effects (case in point, Psycho III). Tom Holland (who went on to make the Fright Night films) totally hit the mark when writing this sequel, which could have very well been a rip off of the original. Instead, the story keeps you guessing on whether or not Norman's gone nuts again and is doing the killings or if it is his mother come back from the dead. The camera-work is graceful and dizzying -- very reminiscent of the Hitchcockian style -- particularly the reveal in the bathroom of the Bates house. I also must note that the score is spectacular. Unlike the piercing music that overscored the original, the music here is melodic, yet haunting and creepy.My only problem with this film, as others have stated, is the slight gore factor. Made when gory effects still looked hokey, they should have left it up to the viewer's imagination a little more. The scene reminiscent of Arbogast's death was well executed, as was the effects when Norman's grabbing the blade of the knife -- but the rest is a little too much. Granted, when I first saw it, the vision of the knife-through-the-throat terrified me -- but by today's standards it doesn't hold up. Thankfully the gore was slight and incidental. The gore aside, I still give the film a 10, for it's one of the few films that ever truly scared me. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous!","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm sorry, but I just couldn't figure out what the hell was going on in the film's last reel. So my thanks to all those critics who have pointed out that Norman's mother had come back to life and was now taking her revenge on all and sundry. I'm sorry, but I simply can't accept this idea. I think it's crazy. If Hitchcock had wanted to use that idea, it would have been featured in the first Psycho. As far as this sequel is concerned, that's a real shame, as for a good while there, this re-visit holds the attention and is particularly well acted by all concerned. The director builds up a solidly tense, moody atmosphere and really lays on the suspense &#x96; only to have it all crashing down by an unexplained and absolutely ridiculous resurrection. Available on an excellent Universal DVD. "},{"Title":"Ranks #1 in the Better Than You'd Expect Category","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho 2 is the sequel to the classic Psycho (1960). I originally thought that I would hate Psycho 2, which is why I was slow about seeing it at first. I didn't want it to ruin the first Psycho for me, so instead of buying this film, I rented it. I was pleasantly surprised with this movie, and really thought that it paid a very debt to the original. Making a passable sequel to a movie that was 23 years old at the time wouldn't be remotely easy, but I think that this movie passed very easily.Alfred Hitchcock, who directed the original Psycho, was dead by 1983, but I think he would have approved Psycho 2. It was directed in a very good way. It blended great moments of psychological horror and suspense with 80s slasher elements. Psycho 2 has a great deal of suspenseful scenes and scares, and for that I give much credit. I also liked the way the writer was able to make Norman be the good guy of the movie, yet somehow make him scary. Psycho 2 does a very good job of showing what it is like to see a person slowly go insane. With Anthony Perkins in the Norman Bates role, you simply can't go wrong. The rest of the cast, including returning actress Vera Miles.Psycho 2 also had a twist ending that I was CLUELESS about. If you enjoy murder mysteries with a very good twist ending, Psycho 2 will not be one that you easily forget. Psycho 2 doesn't feel like a 100% true horror movie, nor does it feel 100% like original, but it is still a very good film that I highly recommend to lovers of the original. "},{"Title":"Are there any available rooms?","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" okay, i just saw psycho for the first time.... 2 days ago and almost immediately i followed with the sequel, psycho 2. and i must say, i was not disappointed at all. Actually, i was quite impressed. First of all, i'm not a huge fan of the original. i think it was okay, but it could have been better. The second one has its flaws too, such as it runs a bit long and keeps going after you think the movie's over, but all in all, it's a good film. I really like how they brought back the original actors. it wouldn't have been as cool if they didn't. Perkins is great as bates again, proving that 20 + years can't make you forget some characters. It is Definitely one of the best sequels i've ever seen for a slasher, though the ending was a bit odd, but i'm glad the killer wasn't Norman because it added a whole new twist which is good, because if it was him, it would have been boring and tiresome. All in all, it's a very worthwhile effort, much better than the original in my opinion in fact. Now on to see psycho 3! "},{"Title":"When (Psycho) Met (Friday the 13th) !!","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Why did they make a sequel ? The profits my dear. The money.. The cash.. The green ! Well, by 1983 the real master was dead, the age of the classics had already ran out, and the artistic horror became not a fashion anymore. So, what to do ? Let's make a sequel for one great iconic movie. No.. Let's make sequels. And truly why not ?! The old charismatic star is still here, and the man had become bored with the image of his most famous character (Norman Bates) chasing him for more than 20 years he made through them other works, but (Bates) was damn memorable maybe for more than what it deserves. So why not ? And maybe that would give him what he longed for; the commercial success. And boy, he will like it so much to the extent that he'll act and direct another sequel. But basically how to make a part 2 out of this masterpiece ?! I think that was the horror itself ! Though it would be very easy job since the money was the point. So let's make another trite series like (Friday the 13th) as lots and lots of foolish killing, with a mysterious unstoppable killer, all done by some cheap production, technique, and mind ! There is no problem. It's an industry. And the audience will come. We've got the catchy title with the previous massive success and the historic reputation as one of the most horrific movies ever, plus the old star himself. So what a deal indeed ! Frankly it's very ordinary matter, Hollywood did it for hundreds of times (actually it looks nowadays like it does it with nothing else!). Yet for the lovers of the original one's director, proficiency, immortality, black & white.. It'll be some kind of disappointment to watch this Psycho's slasher copy ! All the audience came out of this movie asking who the actual killer was ?! Yes the movie answered that in some scary end, but what about the second murder (the boyfriend of the girl in the basement) ? It had been done by a man with long hair not by (Norman) whether in his cloth or in his mother's cloth ! So is there another killer ?!, or accomplice ?! But you know what ? Don't you ever bother yourself. It's all a hoax ! The whole thing had been designed only to put you in that confusion zone as part of the show. The new show of the pure elements of violence, sex, thrill, and mystery. Hence stop thinking. It's enough that they came up with the goods, so have fun and make your brain shut up !As all, I firstly loved the return to the places, the characters, the memories (in color too !), and the idea of (Norman) as the 40 year old innocent guy who tries his best to live finally the unlucky good side of him BUT you'll end up as me in great hatred for the script as the cornerstone of that nonsense. Nevertheless I don't really blame them since it's nothing but a commercial movie which must inaugurate the upcoming series as well, though it was unbearable to stand the long waste of time about mom.. are you here mom.. are you there mom on the telephone !, so all the crappy scenes of the last 15 minutes. Also I hated, as any sane person, all the idiot low-priced masks as the bloody make-up for the victims; that was so (Friday the 13th) from the production company ! Although you'll be impressed by (Perkins)'s performance but it's all standing in the air. Unlike some real effort, and unique presence too, from (Meg Tilly). She was one of the very few original talents here along with the music of (Jerry Goldsmith) as a real gold not a gold brick like almost everything else around !If there is, at any rate, some hidden meaning at the end of this one; I think it would be that the circumstances which made a serial killer out of (Norman Bates) at the 1950s are still here to make him even more lethal serial killer at the 1980s ! Although I'm trying to be philosophical in the wrong place, but from the very 1980s the serial of killers at Hollywood became more profitable and increasing than anything which could live longer as good thoughts or even dexterous enjoyment. So, who's the real Psycho ? The producers ? Us ?!.. I think it's just a world running after making money mainly.. and only ! "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel...Perkins is still a quirky fright...","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" PSYCHO II is not a bad sequel at all, but the first mistake was filming it in color. Since it depends on your familiarity with the original story and even photographs certain scenes the same way, it would have been much more effective if filmed in glorious B&W.There's a 1980s sensibility to this version because the gore is much more evident, especially in color when the film veers into the more violent territory that it's been heading for since scene one.ANTHONY PERKINS, twenty-two years later, is still just as effective as Norman Bates, the sensitive and very quirky creature who is no sooner released from a sanitarium than he begins getting phone calls from mother which slowly drive him up the wall.VERA MILES is back as the sister of the woman slain in the first PSYCHO, and MEG TILLY is the young woman Norman allows to stay in his house when she needs his assistance. There's a good deal of suspense milked out of every scary scene (even when nothing really happens), and this is the mark of good direction by Richard Franklin.Trivia note I ran into Perkins one day on a city street in NYC and stopped briefly to tell him that I greatly admired his work in PSYCHO. He gave me a Norman Bates kind of stare, plainly uncomfortable and not happy to only be remembered for his work in that long ago classic--or so he thought. It gives me the shivers to remind me that off screen he was very much like the suspicious Norman Bates when confronting any of his fans. "},{"Title":"I Guess We Were All a Little Crazy in the 1980s.","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The popularity of the Halloween and Friday the 13th series' by 1983 would lead to a sequel of Psycho, a film that really needed no further installments. With that said Psycho II is an interesting horror flick that succeeds in some areas, but still falters due to typical American cinematic cliches. Anthony Perkins has been locked away in a mental institution for over 20 years, but is finally released. Vera Miles (the sister of Janet Leigh in the original) protests, but her arguments fall on deaf ears. Now Perkins is back in town and trying to do right by working in a small diner. Soon he starts to see his long-deceased mother in the Bates Motel window and brutal murders start once again. Could it be Perkins or is someone else feeding their deviant need to kill? Perkins continues to create more depth to an amazingly complicated character and he gets ample support from performers like Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia and Dennis Franz (he has some impressive moments throughout). Honestly though classics should never be touched and the conclusion to the original said enough. The sequels should have never come about. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Skip it","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" We all know that Psycho is great, it's a classic. Then when it comes down to its sequels who even cares anymore right? Wrong. There were 3 sequels to Psycho. I have to say this is the worst in the series. Comparing this to the first Psycho would be absurd. It has bad acting, not by Perkins, bad directing, a bad title song, a bad script and a ridiculous ending. What's the makers of this film's excuse? We all go a little mad sometimes? When the mystery is solved it is very stupid, but when Anthony Perkins takes out the shovel in the end and says his stupid dialogue that really puts the nail in the coffin. Showing the shower scene at the beginning was also stupid. It was like saying look what movie is 10 times better then our movie. It was stupid to put Vera Miles in the movie to reprise her role as Marian Crane's sister and to even bring in her daughter as a character. Which was horribly played by Meg Tilly. To think she got so much attention for this movie. Another thing. Why is Dennis Franz in this movie. His character is useless like the movie itself. If you want to see the sequels then skip this one and go straight to Psycho III. It was a much better movie with better directing and writing. This movie is the worst in the series. Skip it. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Norman Bates has just been released from an asylum after more than 23 years, however the lone survivor (Vera Miles) of the original opposes it greatly. Then that's when Norman starts to see his mother lurking around the motel and people begin to disappear. Meg Tilly is his love interest. Sometimes suspenseful and scary flick with good performances simply doesn't work because of awkard plotting and a predictable surprise ending.Rated R; Graphic Violence & Profanity.  "}{"Title":"Psycho II","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The uncanny Perkins returns 22 years later as Norman Bates inthis passable sequel to the Hitchcock chiller with Norman returning to the Bates Motel, where the terror returns.  Great scenes of suspense at the start, but halfway through the film falters and succumbs to the 80's slasher film syndrome, ending in a rather goofy fashion. Either way, Perkins is still scene stealing in his interpretation of Norman.  "},{"Title":"Psycho II","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What started as a suspense and mystery with the original version is now a typical 80's slasher flick. What would Hitch say to this one? "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is not as bad as you would think.  This movie answers some question from the first one, so the sequel had a point (unlike Psycho 3).Thank god they could still get Anthony Perkins to play Norman Bates.  The movie would be much worse without him.   "},{"Title":"can't live up to the original","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After 22 years, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is released being declared sane by Dr. Bill Raymond (Robert Loggia) despite the objections of Marion Crane's sister Lila Loomis (Vera Miles). He moves back to the old house. Bates Motel is run by boorish manager Warren Toomey (Dennis Franz). He takes a job at the diner and befriends waitress Mary Samuels (Meg Tilly). Mary stays at Norman's place after getting thrown out by her boyfriend. Norman keeps seeing things from his long dead mother.There is very little other than Anthony Perkins reprising his role as Norman Bates. The story isn't that exciting and is too long by half a hour. The kills are quaint when compare to compatriots of its era. It doesn't have it anymore. It's not scary. In fact, the shower scene in the original doesn't get exceeded in this movie. Meg Tilly does a good job but it's not enough. It's just a movie that doesn't live up to the original or even others of the era. "},{"Title":"Routine and confusing sequel.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've read somewhere that director Franklin is a devoted fan of Alfred Hitchcock. Unfortunately, he lacks the Hitchcock touch his direction here is mostly routine, with only a handful of interesting shots. The script is stronger, and its attempts to build a new story and follow the rules of a murder mystery instead of those of a horror film are praise-worthy. But the plot turns from inventive to awfully confusing at the end. I've seen the film twice, and I still can't say with absolute certainty who the actual killer was! "},{"Title":"Yep. They're Out Back Dragging The Swamp Again!","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Favorite Norman Bates quote - You're sicker than I ever was! You know, you'd honestly think that after waiting 22 long years to make a sequel to the original Psycho (1960), this film's producers (who had a sizable budget) would've seriously made an effort to put together a horror picture that was at least on par and somewhat respectful of its predecessor. But, no, this didn't seem to be the case here with Psycho 2.This utterly dismal excuse for yet another inferior slasher film was made strictly to cash in on Hitchcock's unrivalled original. And, if you ask me - With Psycho 2 being a total cash-grab, this made it the worst and most damning reason for releasing such a sequel of this one's below-average calibre.As expected - Not only was Psycho 2's wafer-thin storyline predictable to the extreme (with its repeated focus on big, sharp, shiny knives), but there really wasn't a single character in the story who was worth caring about, either. No. Not even that unlovable, little loony, Norman Bates.What also lost Psycho 2 some serious points was the completely unwelcome, in-your-face product placement of both Lipton Tea and Pepsi Cola.All-in-all - This was certainly one movie sequel that was not worth waiting 22 years for. No way, Jose. "},{"Title":"Bargain basement  quick-cash entertainment - Hitch spins in his grave","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Dear me, what a mess. The least Universal could have done is to hire De Palma to accomplish a near-honest job - who else? As it is, this premature ejaculation that passes itself for a sequel suffers terminally from an unforgivably pedestrian dialogue and lousy, almost amateurish and heartless actor guidance by the director. Admittedly, Meg Tilly attempts to breathe some life into her character - the decent actress that she is - but is suppressed to a standstill by a dismal script. Anthony Perkins meanders between reasonably good and overtly cartoonish in his delivery, a far, far cry from his original portrayal of Norman Bates - and who can blame him, given what he was presented to work with. Loggia does a half-hearted run of the mill job, as does the typecast Dennis Franz in his short-lived appearance, whereas Vera Miles - the supposedly pivotal character of Lila Loomis, nee Crane - is simply awful, totally failing to convince in a potentially grateful role of the conniving Crane sister who bullies her own daughter into the conspiracy against Bates. She lets out a great scream as she dies, though - provided it's really her own - her murder scene bearing all the moronic OTT hallmarks of the eighties slasher-by-numbers flicks.What could (and imperatively should) have been a studious, serious, carefully written and dark sequel to one of the most famous films in movie history immediately descends into a cheap Friday the 13th-style popcorn throwaway yarn (and apparently much worse was to come). It lacks any of the atmosphere of it's predecessor, any distinct atmosphere of it's own and indeed any suspense to begin with - every plot advancement and every murder is trumpeted to us well ahead, peppered by over explanatory dialogue and constrained by a sluggish mis-en-scene, with the possible exception of the stabbing of the dope-smoking kid, seen through a dusty cellar window and well accentuated by out of character music as the camera withdraws. There is another scene worth noting - the sound of the hoover obliterating the argument between mother and daughter in the hotel lobby (almost a Hitchcockian moment, most probably lifted from elsewhere) - but even that is only there for decoration as it has absolutely no bearing on the actual plot. Not even the always reliable Jerry Goldsmith manages to save this - his score is elaborate, nicely orchestrated and competently put together, even commendably attempting to re-route the atmosphere by adding a shade of melancholy and sadness to the proceedings - but there's precious little else to look for in the film, apart from a handful of showy camera movements and angles. People who swear by the original Psycho will absolutely hate this, and rightly so. Drab, insipid, unintelligent and constipated, this was the first step towards the total degradation of the Psycho franchise which was to follow. Arguably Hitchcock's finest hour should have been left alone or re-approached seriously. Terrible. "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Sequel, But Sticking To Just The Original Would Have Been Enough","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was a so-so sequel but I still wish they had left poor Norman Bates, his mom, their home and the motel alone. While this isn't as lame as the 1998 re-make of the original Psycho, it was not needed. Anthony Perkins should have quit while he was ahead. To make this sequel over two decades later is even more questionable. Was Perkins desperate for roles?That said, the film still had a good share of interesting moments. Having soft-porn actress Meg Tilley as a key figure ought to tell you something about the overall quality of the film. It was sad to see Vera Miles stoop to this level, too, playing a revenge-filled mother. To be fair, however, both Tilley and Miles got your attention!As in the '98 film, this is in color, which is another mistake. The hotel and the famous house are much scarier-looking in black-and-white.The premise of this movie - to harass Norman Bates to whatever lengths - was an interesting one. The bizarre ending to this film opened the door for yet another sequel but that one I skipped.I guess if you liked the first film, you might like this, but it wasn't a keeper to me. Wasn't one Psycho enough? "},{"Title":"Hmmm, a little dull...","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not even half as good as the original, a third at best.It tries far to hard to try and be scary and it fails. There is only one really good fright when Meg Tilly meets the eye through the hole in the bathroom wall... otherwise a rather tame and dull movie. In South Africa we saw the uncut version of the knife being stabbed into Vera Miles' mouth and it was just hardly real... rubber faces generally aren't.The end is also rather like it was written because the writers had got themselves into a bit of a tight corner, with Norman Bates' mother revealed to be actually not his mother but his adopted mother his real mother is still alive?! After 22 years... I mean she was old in the first one!Yes... a little bit of a middle finger to Hitchcock I fear. The scariest part of this movie is that they have had the audacity to try and fit into Hitchcock's shoes... van Sant beware!!! "},{"Title":"Psycho 2","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho 2 was a poor attempt at revving a horror sensation. Although the directing was good, and Tony Perkins was wonderful, the plot and most acting fell through. I was very disappointed that the film had nothing to do with the book of the same name by Robert Bloch. I was also shocked with the way Vera Miles was treated and her end in the film. The nudity and cheap effects were also a huge offset. This is nothing like Psycho(that was probably their goal) and lacked suspense and romance. This time around I didn't feel bad for Norman and the chick he took in I thought had it coming. The ending was horrible too. In the end I give this film 0 stars. I hope someday they remake it the way Bloch intended, unfortunately Perkins wont't return. In the end this film was as worthless as the retard Gus Van Sant's remake of the original Psycho. "}{"Title":"Not good as first","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not as good as the first.Only Hitchcock could make this film great,somehow his direction and ideas muched this plot. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I didn't see the first part but it can't be worse than this one. The only suspenseful scene is when Mary is looking through the hole in the wall and suddenly she sees the eyes. But that is really the only scene. The end is so ridiculous when he finds out that he didn't kill his real mother and the whole story becomes so complicated. The only good thing is that I could see the famous shower scene from the first part at the beginning! "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel to Hitchcock's classic.","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho II is set twenty two years after the events of the original Psycho (1960) & starts as Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) is declared legally sane & released from the asylum. Norman heads back to his home town & his motel, while working in a roadside diner Norman meets & befriends young waitress Mary Samuels (Meg Tilly). After Mary is dumped by her boyfriend Norman invites her to stay with him in his large house which she does. At first Norman seems fine & perfectly sane but he starts receiving phone-calls & hand written notes from his mother, his dead mother. Then when dead bodies start to turn up it seems Norman may be up to his old tricks...Directed by Richard Franklin this sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's classic original is actually a pretty good psychological thriller with a hint of teen slasher film thrown in there for the 80's crowd's. Hitchcock made the original Psycho in 1960 & I guess no-one wanted to make a sequel while the great man was still around so when Hitchcock died in 1980 it's no real coincidence that both this filmed sequel & Robert Bloch's novel Psycho II (both of which are completely different) were produced. The script here by Tom Holland (who appears in the film as Deputy Norris) is a clever follow up to the original, there's plenty of good twist's & turns especially at the end when all the the events of the film come together really nicely in a somewhat bleak series of incidents & coincidences. I liked it but the problem with a film such as this where all it's impact & effectiveness comes from it's surprises & twist's is that once you've seen it the main strengths of the film are lost forever & as such has little in the way of replay value. The character's are all well written & fleshed out, there's some good dialogue & I like how the plot progresses. At around 110 minutes long there's plenty of time for the plot to develop, the pace is pretty good although a bit slow on occasion so don't expect lots of action as Psycho II relies on clever storytelling & some great twist's.The motel was rebuilt for the film in meticulous detail & the sets & look of the film overall feels a lot like the original. To cater for the 80's audience there's some nudity here as this time a shower scene yields some naked female flesh rather than a brutal murder & there's some slasher style murders with a stabbing, slashings, someone gets a large knife stuck into their mouth & a rotten corpse is seen. Apparently the telly version is padded out with extra scenes although at 110 minutes I think it's long enough as it is.With a supposed budget of about $5,000,000 Psycho II has good production values & some stylish cinematography with some very effective lighting. Shot mostly on the Universal Studios back-lot, the same one that recently burnt down. Meg Tilly has publicly gone on record as saying her worst experience in the film business was working with Anthony Perkins in this while both Perkins & Vera Miles return from the original. Robert Loggia & Dennis Franz supply good support.Psycho II was a much better film than I was expecting, it does try to please the 80's crowd a bit & once you know the twist's you will never be able to watch it in quite the same way again but for a first time viewing this is a clever psychological thriller with some neat surprises. Followed by Psycho III (1986) & Psycho IV The Beginning (1990). "},{"Title":"Worthy Sequel","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Psycho 2 (1983) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Very good follow up to Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece keeps the integrity of the original without having to resort to gory violence of the 80's slasher. I actually first saw this before the original film and I think it plays well on its own but even better as an actual sequel. I think the story is quite good in continuing the events of the previous film twenty-three years later. The mystery works very well on its own and the film has some very good supporting performances by Vera Miles, Meg Tilly, Robert Loggia and Dennis Franz. I've seen Anthony Perkins in a few films outside this series and he never really struck me as a very good actor. With that in mind, God must have opened up the skies and shined a light on him so that he could play Norman so well. He's wonderful here and it's pretty remarkable that he could pick up on the character after all those years. "}]