[{"Title":"Never Cry Wolf  portrays elements of  wilderness most of us are oblivious to, silence and melancholy.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"71 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have loved this movie since the first time I saw it over 15 years ago. But as I have read through numerous reviews,  I find them missing a few elements that make this movie so wonderful.There are two subtle elements of wilderness, that unless you have experienced them, you will probably miss in the movie, silence and melancholy.When one experience solitude and wilderness as Tyler does,  the first thing you notice is the  silence that surrounds you.  The only noises that can be heard are the ones you make, and simple actions like scratching your hand, striking a match, or the rustle of  your nylon parka as you simply move all become a symphony of noises you never noticed before.The director, Carroll Ballard,  takes great pains to illustrate this in the beginning of the movie( knowing all the while most viewers will miss these subtleties)  as Tyler is left on the a frozen lake with all his gear strewn about.  Rosie  guns the engine to his plane for the third time and finally gets to takes off.  The sound of that single engine plane is deafening and overpowers everything within 25 miles, but the silence Tyler is left with as the last throb of the plane's engine disappears in the distance is even more so. All of Tyler's actions at this point center around the noise they make. Notice this when you watch.The next element of wilderness and solitude  the director so painstakingly portrays is melancholy.  There is no better way to describe it. Melancholy is an intangible, an emotion, yet for any who have experienced wilderness on the level that Tyler does knows how overwhelmingly real it is. It is palpable. The melancholy not only comes from within but comes from all around.  It is an element of wilderness that is there even if man is not.The scene that best depicts this melancholy is when Tyler is out sitting on the rock, alone, with only creatures of the tundra to keep him company. It is twilight.  His hair and glasses are wet from an earlier snow, and he sits and plays his oboe.  Not a song but a phrase, an echoing phrase that sings out  his loneliness to the empty expanse.  And off in the distance is a kindred reply, the howl of a lone wolf, a cry that says I know, I understand.Never Cry Wolf is a tremendous film and is equally underrated.  In one sense it is a master piece, one that will never receive mass appeal or recognition.  It speaks to us on multiple levels and with subtle intensity, but  unfortunately most of us  aren't able to hear the message. "},{"Title":"A haunting masterpiece that will move you","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"51 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember when this movie came out I had no interest in seeing it. I thought it was a Disney kid's movie and basically forgot about it for years. About a year ago I caught it one night on cable and began to watch it. I immediately knew that I was seeing a great film, it was obvious within 5 minutes. Since I caught it in the middle and had missed the beginning, I decided to not ruin it and I turned it off with the idea of renting it the very next day, which I did.Never Cry Wolf is a beautiful and breathtaking film about a biologist who travels alone to an extremely remote part of The Yukon in order to live with white wolves, and study their behavior. Charles Martin Smith, who I've always felt is an under-rated actor (see The Untouchables and Starman) gives an unforgettable performance. The cinematography is spectacular, the music is superb, and the message is subtle and haunting.One of those rare films that can easily be rewarding for adults and kids. Never Cry Wolf is a true classic in every sense of the word, I would give it a 10 out of 10 and I do not throw the classic word around lightly. Do not miss this film. "},{"Title":"Fine fictionalized documentary ahead of its time","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This fictionalization of the Farley Mowat book about his Arctic adventures studying wolves is amazingly enough perhaps the most controversial film Disney studios ever made. How sad is that? The reasons for the controversy would seem minor first, the movie is not entirely true to Mowat's book; two, it's lightly plotted; and three, a man is seen running around naked in the tundra. To which I say, so what? so what? and gee, how offensive. (Maybe they should have clothed the wolves.)The latter complaint is the major reason for all the ranting by some reviewers. To them a Disney film showing human nakedness seems a sacrilege and they want their bowdlerized world returned to them, and they want Disney censured and made to promise never to do anything like that again! The complaint that there wasn't enough tension in the film is also off base since this is a contemplative, even spiritual film, not a slick thriller. People with sound-bite attention spans who need to mainline exploding cars and ripped flesh to keep them interested need not apply.The criticism that Director Carroll Ballard's film is not entirely true to the book is legitimate, but I would point out that movies are seldom if ever entirely true to their source material. A film is one kind of media with its particular demands while a book is another. It is impossible to completely translate a book into a movie. Something is always inevitably lost, but something is often gained. Here the cinematography and the beautiful musical score by Mark Isham are fine compensations.The acting by Charles Martin Smith as Tyler (Farley Mowat) and Brian Dennehy as Rosie, the exploitive redneck bushpilot, and Samason Jorah as Mike the compromised Inuit (who sells wolf skins for dentures) and especially Zachary Ittimangnaq as Ootek, the quiet, wise man of the north are also pluses. Note how compactly the main issues of the film are exemplified in these four characters. Indeed, what this film is about is the dying of a way of life, not just that of the wolves, but of the Inuit people themselves who are losing their land and their resources while their young people are being seduced away from what is real and true and time-honored for the glittering trinkets of the postmodern world. This is a story of impending loss and it is as melancholy as the cold autumn wind that blows across the tundra.What I think elevates this above most nature films is first the intense sense of what it would be like for a lower forty-eight kind of guy to survive in a most inhospitable wilderness, and second the witty presentation of some of the scenes. Ballard works hard to make sure we understand that it is cold, very cold and desolate and that there are dangers of exposure and weather and just plain loss of perspective that have killed many a would-be adventurer and might very well kill Tyler. I think it was entirely right that near the end of the film we get the sense that Tyler is going off the deep end emotionally, that the majestic and profoundly melancholy experience has been too much for him.Tyler begins as a greenhorn biologist dropped alone onto a frozen lake amid snow covered mountains rising in the distance so that we can see immediately how puny he is within this incredibly harsh vastness. The following scene when Ootek finds him and leaves him and he chases Ootek until he drops, and then Ootek saves him, gives him shelter, and leaves again without a word, was just beautiful. And the scenes with the mice and running naked among the caribou and teaching Ootek to juggle were delightful. The territorial marking scene was apt and witty and tastefully done. (At least, I don't think the wolves were offended.)This movie was not perfect, however. For one thing, those were not mice that Tyler found his tent infested with. I suspect they were lemmings posing for the cameras. Those who have seen the film about the making of this movie undoubtedly know what they were; please advise me if you do. Also the interior of Tyler's tent was way too big to fit into the tent as displayed. Also it would be important from a nutritional point of view for Tyler to eat the mice raw as the wolves did! (The actual creatures that Mowat ate I assume were mice.) If Tyler had to exist purely on roasted and boiled rodent for many months, he would encounter some nutritional deficiencies. Still, eating a diet of the whole, uncooked mouse would be sustaining whereas a diet of lean meat only would not. (Add blubber and internal organs for an all-meat diet to work.) Incidentally, the Inuit people get their vitamin C from blubber and the contents of the stomachs of the animals they kill.Where were the mosquitos and the biting flies that the tundra is infamous for?Since this movie appeared almost twenty years ago, the public image of the wolf has greatly improved and wolves have been reintroduced to Yellowstone Park. I think everybody in this fine production can take some credit for that.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A Cure for Rabid Delusions","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Dogs are man's best friend for a reason. Socially, they are not much different from us, and both species know it. It's the subject of some scientific conjecture whether man would have survived his early predators had it not been for dogs, who warned of danger and probably even helped to defend us. Early dogs would have been much closer in temperament to wolves -- hardly pets. Only god knows to what degree we have influenced each other's evolution over the ages.This film figures our relationship to the canine family must be pretty intimate, saying, in essence, that if you can't see yourself in a wolf, you probably can't see yourself at all. Wolves have families, challenge each other for social dominance, and goof around a lot. (I would have preferred that the photography and juxtaposition speak for themselves, but it's a quibbling point.) This is where a mere nature documentary would wrap.This film is the work of an artist. (Well, two, actually Farley Mowat and Carroll Ballard.) The lone wolf, the observer, is the analogue for the scientist/artist who is telling us this story. The government wants him to conform to (and thereby justify) its lies, but fortunately the carbon forms are blown away by the wind early. He's going to have to see with his own eyes now, and like all the best films, the message is the same you are what you see. Of particular interest in this film is the dialectic between society and individuality, which has never been so visually compelling.The complexity of the characters and the situation causes some people to commend the film for being what it is. That's just patting it on the head. Never Cry Wolf is the best antidote I know of for all the rabid delusions of religion, myth, and science that infect our pack. Put it at the top of your list. "},{"Title":"Raw and Intense","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is not a typical Disney movie; so much so that you wonder why they did it. The simple good-evil storyline common to most Disney movies does not exist here. All characters have a different motive, and all are convinced of their own morality. What's more, they convince you. You see the issue of enviornmentalism in Alaska from all sides; and even if you may not agree with everyone, you can at least see it from their perspective. In the end however, the message is far more simple and it is tough to argue with.Another trait that immediately stands out about this movie is its striking rawness. For a good part of the film, the main character narrates, and one gets the feeling he's writing home, as opposed to telling an audience. This adds both an intimacy and a sincerity and is very effective.Though it is largely unknown (and therefore largely under-appreciated), Never Cry Wolf is a beautiful, complex and forceful. A high point for Disney -- no contest. "},{"Title":"Quiet Majesty","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Never Cry Wolf is a good reason why I like the movies.  Human characters, compelling story, warm humor and breathtaking scenery (with the Atlin area in Northwestern British Columbia filling in for Alaska) combine to make it a favorite of mine.Tour de Force doesn't seem quite the right turn of phrase for Charles Martin Smith's performance as the scientist Tyler for such a low-key character but he is the heart of the movie.  It's especially noticeable when I associate Mr. Smith as Toad in American Graffiti.  His scene with the wolves and caribou is amazing and primal.Samson Jorah is marvelous as the Inuit Mike (He says, 'Great idea!')What a treat it is to watch compared to all the noise and quick-cut editing that dominate modern movies. "},{"Title":"This is an extremely enjoyable movie.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a good autobiographical movie which raises interesting issues about the preservation of wildlife and the necessary role of the wolf in the ecosystem of the north.  Charles Martin Smith (American Graffiti) Farley Mowat/Tyler, reminded me of my husband when he was in graduate school and had to do field research. Typical of graduate students, they are so excited about the project that they don't analyze the difficulties and the ways of doing their stuff. I highly recommend the movie even though the movie makers modified the book. The wolves are not killed nor did the bush pilot bring in Japanese investors to build a resort in the book. What a relief!  I like movies done in different locations about preservationists, they always show neat scenes, challenges and perseverance. I am surprised that Tyler did not die in all that ice. I guess there would not be a movie, would there? In such circumstances I am sure I would freeze to death. The movie is fun, interesting, educational, the cinematography is great, and also touches on the Indians' religious beliefs, that it is always interesting. I love that movie. Favorite Scenes Candle light dinner, with barbecued mice. All the mice starring at Tyler while he eats his dinner. The menu mice with crackers,  barbecued mice,  mouse sandwiches . . .  The territorial demarcation with the wolves; the wolf finishing in two minutes what Tyler needed many cups of tea to do. Funny!!!! Favorite Quotes We are suspicious of what we don't understand. I recommend it!  This is an extremely enjoyable movie. I have seen the movie many times.   "},{"Title":"A voyeuristic pleasure with a valuable message","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie premiered at an age in my life when I was fascinated with wolves and their impact on nature - at 10 years old, I met a researcher while on a trip with my parents who actually lived with wolves for 9 months out of the year.  On his recommendation I read Farley Mowat's Never Cry Wolf and finagled my theater-phobic parents into taking me to see the film shortly thereafter.Its impact on me, partially because of my love for the subject matter, has been lifelong.Although the film does not always capture the humor of Mowat's narrative, it does a brilliant job of portraying, with patience that may grate on the nerves of blockbuster-seasoned moviegoers, the experience of its protagonist.  Complaints that the film does not focus enough on the wolves are understandable, but the book and the movie are about one man's journey to understanding the wolf's place in a natural ecosystem.  He must learn to be like them, understand their behavior (which mirrors humans' in so many ways), and ultimately choose a loyalty to one or the other species.It is advisable that the viewer adopt expectations similar to those for a National Geographic documentary, although the story is only loosely based in fact.  Sometimes things happen slowly in the arctic. Sometimes they don't happen at all, or the things that happen are not what you'd want out of the plot.  Cinematography and the environment are stunning.  Charles Martin Smith's Tyler is a regular guy, without spectacular heroics (but brave enough to tackle activities Fear Factor contestants won't touch for a pile of money).Because it was filmed entirely on location and without pretense of special effects, its visuals stand up very well in comparison to the films of today. Its pace is the sticking point that will make it unpalatable to some viewers, but I give it a rarely-awarded 9 rating for its beauty, social conscience and thorough enjoyability, taking away 1 point only for its somewhat heavy-handed finale that is less palatable than Mowat's original message. "},{"Title":"From my top ten desert island list","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You know you're in trouble when the only thing you can pick up on the shortwave is Russian folk music.Disney at its best. Top-notch cinematography, wonderful sarcastic humor, over-the-top Dennehey acting, beautiful wilderness, man-spoils-what-he-touches, and another ambient score to die for from Mark Isham.Fricassee of mouse. A surplus of toilet paper and light bulbs. Special magic from the scenes with Ootek right up to the very end. Running naked with the caribou. Outdoor adventure ne plus ultra for the gentle man. But hold onto your shotgun, the entrepreneurs are coming. They'll take you apart, just for the evil fun of it.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable adventure","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this film in my Biology class since we were learning about organisms and how they interact with their environment. I'd have to say that this was a good movie and pretty enjoyable. Charles Martin Smith had a good performance and the script made him have good dialogue, along with him narrating almost most of the film too. I liked how the main character inhabited in all the places he encountered to and how he became friends with the Inuit. I thought those scenes were included nicely in the film. Overall, a good adventure that was interesting throughout the movie. I recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "}{"Title":"Loneliness in the Wilderness","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The researcher Tyler (Charles Martin Smith) is assigned by his government to travel to the Arctic to study the wolves that they believe are responsible for the reduction of the caribou population. The reckless pilot Rosie (Brian Dennehy) takes him to the wilderness and he is left alone with his supply in an extremely cold spot. He is saved by the local Ootek (Zachary Ittimangnaq) that is traveling with his dog sledding. He builds a shelter for Tyler and organizes his supplies. Tyler finds two wolves that he calls George and Angeline and their three offspring and he examines his excrement to learn what they eat. Soon he discovers that the wolves eat only mice and Tyler decides to do the same to prove to the government that the wolves do not eat caribous. Ootek returns with his friend Mike (Samson Jorah) that speaks English and translates what Ootek say. The trio stays together and Tyler learns that Mike is a hunter. Mike travels with Ootek by canoe to see a herd of caribou that is attacked by a pack of wolves. Tyler examines the bones and finds that the animal was diseased, proving that the wolves are responsible for keeping the caribou strong as told by Ootek. Tyler finds Rosie with two hunters planning to explore the area with tourism and Tyler has an argument with the pilot and returns to the camp. He finds the three offspring but the wolves are missing. Tyler initially suspects of Rosie but when he sees the nervous Mike, he finds that he killed the animals. Never Cry Wolf is a wonderful film with magnificent cinematography and beautiful story based on the biography of the Canadian Farley Mowat. Presently the film gives the sensation of a National Geographic movie but it was very impressive and unique in 1983 when it was released. Maybe this is the best role of Charles Martin Smith, performing a scientist living in the wilderness alone for a long period and understanding the behavior of wolves. Last but not the least, the ecologic concern of this film is ahead of time. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Os Lobos Nunca Choram (The Wolves Never Cry) "},{"Title":"An Evocative and Soul Stirring Masterpiece","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  NEVER CRY WOLF is a motion picture that is nothing short of miraculous. Film maker Carroll Ballard succeeded in creating a magnificent motion picture filled with overwhelmingly beautiful and evocative imagery that stirs the soul and fills the heart with wonderment. In addition the film is augmented by a brilliant and haunting musical score.It is rare for a film to touch me as profoundly as this one did. I'd like to see an indelible print of NEVER CRY WOLF be placed within a time capsule so that the generations of the next Millenium could experience it. "},{"Title":"A pure experience of sight and spirit. For many people tired with cinema, Never Cry Wolf will be their perfect film. Let me tell you why.","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Never Cry Wolf begins with a quiet sense of loneliness, a series of images. From place to place, you feel your eyes wander to the things you see around you. There's no big surprise, no big action sequence or dramatic turn of events. Only a slow realization, like with Tyler, of just what you're getting yourself into. His voice fades into the mix, if only to let you wander in on his thoughts. He has no grand statement to make. Only questions and hopes.One of, if not the first thing that you notice is the music of Mark Isham. Perhaps driven by youthful bravado (this was his first film score), Isham eschews any traditional dramatic production. Instead, he goes for an alternating mix between wavering uncertainty and pounding passion. His soundtrack over the title sequence plays like some proposed music designed to remind one of the craters and the mountains of the moon. A beautiful and terrifying sense of the alien, of the unknown. The music is as much a part of the soundtrack as the animals and dialogue. Indeed, at one point, it plays duet to Tyler's oboe.Rather than having a heroic and dashing explorer (who must not only find himself in the wilderness, but also lose the old version of himself), Tyler is a quiet man who has no current self-awareness to lose. In the end, this makes Charles Martin Smith essential to the role. It is Tyler's personality, his confusion, his social status, and his emotional state that can only be played quietly. As a character, Tyler has no grand statements to make, only visions and revelations of truth. Internal and otherwise. Smith plays him perfectly. Not long after the introductory scenes, Tyler finds a pilot who can take him to where he needs to be. Rosie (played by Brian Dennehy) doesn't seem exactly stable, but it's likely his only option. Dennehy plays the role with his usual crazy-eyed gruffness, yet without some of his usual sideways winks at the audience. The other two main roles in the film - Inuit natives played by Samson Jorah and Zachary Ittimangnaq - are even more understated personalities than Tyler. The depth of their specific acting talents (if acting is took to mean acting unnaturally) could be up for interpretation. But, instead of giving them actions and dialogue beyond their range of experience, they simply live their respective characters' lives for the screen. Ootek and Mike don't have wide character arcs like Tyler does. They are already in their natural environment, and no longer experience the initial resistance and friction that Tyler is becoming familiar with. Ootek goes off into the wilderness to live in the silence, but Tyler is only just learning to silence his thoughts.And it is in those thoughts that we are given a window into Tyler's development. Any change in perception or understanding that might seem either too personal or too inconsequential to share in a conversation, we are given privy to through Charles Martin Smith's narration. Farley Mowat's writing is the core of Never Cry Wolf. He writes from a humorous standpoint, as concerned with the great fears and mysteries of life as he is with those things that mildly amuse him. Each sequence is given the full weight of feeling and realism, because they all hold equal - yet utterly different - strengths and beauties. The weight of this reality comes into a nude scene which occurs later in the film. It does a rare thing in cinema - to explore the beauty of humanity in nature. Pure and unrestrained.Hiro Narita does amazing work as the cinematographer, also doing his first feature film work like composer Isham. As a photographer myself, I am in awe of his ability to make the otherwise ordinary truly stunning. In quiet passages, it is his skill capturing the little corners of Tyler's life that move things forward. In a film with such truly beautiful cinematography, it would be nearly impossible to criticize any lack of judicial editing. Any extra running time would simply be more time to admire Narita's work. But without the direction of Carroll Ballard, I have doubts that Never Cry Wolf could have been such a pure success that it is. Other films such as this have gone down well-traveled and over-used structures of the so-called 'wilderness movie' - all of which Never Cry Wolf steers clear from. There's no unrealistic animal behavior for the sense of 'cuteness', and no comic relief that isn't arrived upon naturally. Also, there is careful avoidance of the old 'Magic Indian' cliché so common in films which depict native cultures. Spirituality is a large factor in the life of the Inuit shown here, but they do not have the ability to appear and disappear at will, or to bend the space-time continuum. This is a bizarre characteristic of nearly all films about the native population that is thankfully not repeated.The commitment to truth and understanding of the relationship between nature and human nature in Never Cry Wolf is what makes it one of the truly great films of all time. It shows what can happen when all is given to a single goal, when a great director finds the perfect cinematographer, composer, and lead actor for a film, and leads them through the process of making a motion picture. This is what cinema is all about.- Also Recommended -Days of Heaven (1978), The Black Stallion (1979), Vigil (1984), The Snow Walker (2003) "},{"Title":"This is my favorite film.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The cover of the Laserdisc says Subtle, Complex and Hypnotic... Triumphant filmmaking... I can't say it any better.This is a wonderful movie to watch on a Saturday afternoon.I can't believe Disney won't release this film on DVD! Acadamy Award nominated(best sound '84), wins the National Society of Film Critics Award (best cinimatography) Still No DVD?  Yet we get New Kids on the Block - Greatest Hits? "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, and sadly underrated","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The money shot, the one that will haunt you, in Never Cry Wolf comes about an hour and a half in.  A man falls asleep after swimming in a hot spring, and wakes up in the middle of a reindeer stampede.This is, unapologetically, a cinematographer's movie.  If it were made today, it'd definately be in IMax format.  As it is, it's going to make you long for a bigger TV.  Haunting and moving. "},{"Title":"mostly wolves","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" i DO wish movie makers would stop throwing in the odd German shepherd to pad out the wolf numbers. they stick out like the proverbial 'dog's balls'. apart from that, this is a fine movie particularly for anyone interested in Farley Mowat's adventures. the fact that it is a Disney movie i find quite encouraging - the Disney studios obviously once had no compunction about making a decent movie. scenery is marvellous, the few characters are sympathetically presented and the movie seems free of the abominably cheesy elements which typify Disney movies. though Mowat was a singularly driven person, this is not the main theme of this movie and i for one am thankful for that. well worth watching and stands the test of time well. "},{"Title":"That rarity Haunting for adults, riveting for children","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I are always looking for films that speak to both kids and adults. This one belongs up there with movies like Princess Caraboo and The Iron Giant (and, yes, Galaxy Quest). For this one, you have to turn off the phone, settle in, and let the film take you. Note When we rented it at a large video store, the woman on the computer said, Yes, it's in stock - but it hasn't been rented in over a year, so if it's not there it's probably lost.  Well, it wasn't lost - and I hope someone else discovers it in less than another year. "},{"Title":"Excellent, funny movie set in Alaska, faithful to original book.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies which is extremely funny, but does not appear to be trying to be funny.  Admittedly, the movie has a wonderfully funny book to draw on - and Disney has done a very faithful job (moving the locale from Canada to Alaska was one of only a few changes).  The scenery is fantastic , the acting (only four characters, really) is all excellent.  The music is superb.  The story itself (which is true, by the way), about a young researcher sent into the wilds to prove that wolves are decimating the caribou, is compelling.  Many great little touches - as a bassoonist, I particularly like the bassoon motif (though it's not in the book, either). I've seen this many times and still want more.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Outstanding.","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" For my money Carroll Ballard is one of the all time great directors, and his effort in Never Cry Wolf only reinforces my conviction. Magnificent outdoor cinematography of breathtaking locations and wildlife action, captivate the viewer in this highly narrative tale about a man on an assignment to discover what's happening to the local fauna.I've never read the book. I'll admit to that right now. But, from what I understand, the book is driven more by plot than by the main characters self exploration, which is what drives the filmic version of the story. This is where fans of the book will diverge from the cinematic portrayal Tyler, a government naturalist. In both story versions he's assigned to discover what's happening with the caribou population, and specifically how the wolves in this predator-prey relationship, are effecting the balance.The film shows some of the short sighted and over thought preparation for Tyler's mission, and shows us his isolation and how he copes with combating loneliness and the nature's environment. We see his struggle (more often humorous than not) as he comes to terms with creating his own predator-prey relationship, and further comes to an understanding with the locals to balance himself with their existence. In this way it's a conservationist message, though not one driven by some political agenda. It's a story about man fitting in with the rest of creation, and how he can learn to live and adapt in the natural environment without disrupting the existence of others.The film veers a little to Robinson Crusoe kind of theme, and shows us imbalance after balance, and the transformation of Tyler's character. It's somewhat forced near the end, but Tyler and story both pull through, though not without some profound consequences and outcomes.Definitely one to rent and watch. If your family has taboos against nudity, there are some ever so brief scenes of Tyler (played by Charles Martin Smith) in the altogether. They're meant to capture the spirit of man in the element from which he came, and imbue us with a sense of what we were so many eons ago.Enjoy -) "},{"Title":"The Anti-Disneyfication Disney film","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" this film has haunted my memory since I saw it as a young boy. Whenever I feel overwhelmed by by the day to day troubles of 21st century life, I watch this movie and somehow it centers me. This film belongs on any thinking persons desert island DVD list.That being said, there is a scene from the film that I remember vividly, where Tyler is struggling to survive and he has no fire and in his desperation finds matches only to drop them in the river. That scene was left out of this Disney DVD version. I wish they had not tampered with the original version. With this one glaring example of meddling with the directors original vision on on the part of Disney studios, I agree with the previous commentator on how this film is atypical of a Disney film. This film rails against the Disneyfication of the world in an artful and satisfying way that makes it all the more shocking that Disney studios bothered to release it at all. I think that the fan base combined with the incredible cinematography and CMS's performance made it impossible to mothball, which I am sure was considered. "}{"Title":"Forget the symbolism","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great film. It succeeds on every level and really needs to apologize for nothing. The casting is exquisite - Charles Martin Smith is simply perfect as the somewhat overwhelmed academic who finds himself smack in the middle of his most anticipated/feared situation. Brian Dennehy is terrific as Rosie. How do you beat boredom, Tyler? ... Adventure!. That may be one of my all-time favorite movie quotes. Many of us wish we had the nerve to accept this type of challenge and the self-awareness it will reveal. I have experienced the horror of finding myself lost, miles from any vestige of civilization, and the reaction of Tyler is spot on. Unlesss you've been there, you really can't get it. This film captures the experience of a man virtually alone in the wild as few have. "},{"Title":"Smart, beautiful scenery, a great family movie.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie based on a true story is interesting, funny and beautifully filmed.  I very much enjoyed as an adult, and it is perfect for families. Any child old enough to understand that their pet cat might really catch and eat mice is old enough to enjoy this movie.  This movie proves that a family movie can be about something and enjoyable to adults without children. "},{"Title":"Only being THERE beat this movie!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie more times than any other (except Citizen Kane which I had to analyse in detail for uni-assignment). The film conveys Mowat's wry and quiet humor, and every time I re-view this movie I am stunned by the poesy in it. For someone who generally feels that one viewing of an American movie is one too many, this one shows that they can make good stuff. Albeit they don't make a habit of that. Yes, the plot and the storyline are pretty well non-existent, but this is more like sitting in front of a great painting. You feel it with your eyes and your mind.  "},{"Title":"We're all in this together.","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This adaptation of the Farley Mowatt book takes the simple premise of a nerdy scientist sent to observe wolves in the Alaskan wilds and transforms it into an examination of human relationships with both fellow creatures and the environment. Breathtaking scenery and photography help the cause, but the quiet moral center of the tale will stick with you. And you'll never forget Smith's especially creative diet! "},{"Title":"Captivating and for the most part legit.","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Having a father as a biologist who spent a lot of time in the Canadian Wildlife Service, I guess I have a unique perspective. My father was completely immersed in the movie from a scientific standpoint. The truth of the matter is that Farley did his wolf studies in the eastern arctic (not the majestic mountainous scenery depicted in the movie, but the dull flat windswept arctic) Other than that, a lot of the science of the movie was pretty factual. Beyond the small inaccuracies, this movie is one of the most captivating pictures I have ever had the pleasure of watching, and is definitely on my own personal top 20 of all time. "},{"Title":"Strangely hypnotic in quality","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie starts a bit slow and goofy. We follow a man named Tyler (Charles Martin Smith) as he prepares for his mission to study the wolves of Northern American wilderness and at first the movie doesn't quite get the mood correctly. At times the awkwardness comes off very well and we're genuinely sorry for this poor man, who clearly has no idea what he's about to delve into. But then there are certain scenes where the illusion kind of breaks, like the scene where he starts to write his first report, in the middle of a frozen lake, during a howling windstorm. Captivating scene in its own way, but it still felt like the writer had momentarily dropped the ball, so to speak.Nevertheless, the movie quickly improves as Tyler proves to be made of tougher stuff than we initially assumed. And from thereon this is an amazing film. Hauntingly beautiful, insightful, profound, philosophical, at times educational, well-written and, above all else, soothingly hypnotic. The plot is in no hurry. The movie follows Tyler around and just sits right next to him as he studies the wolves, observing both him and the wildlife.Granted, if that was the whole movie, it would probably be a bit on the boring side, but there's a side plot about two Inuits, who Tyler befriends and from whom he learns more about the wilderness and the wolves.Still, the greatest aspect of this movie, the one that truly works, is the technical side of things, especially the mood that is created through cinematography, music and careful narration by Smith. There's dialogue between Tyler and the Inuits, but by far the greatest scenes in this movie are the silent ones, where the visuals and the music are allowed to fill your consciousness and transport you to an older era, where the laws of men have never existed. I swear that if nature ever had a soundtrack, it would prominently feature the score of this film.And that's my two cents. I highly recommend seeing this film, to everyone. It's one part nature documentary, one part adventure film and one part spiritual quest. At first it's very unassuming, but it has hidden power on its side and it needs to be experienced for one to understand its worth. "},{"Title":"A fine film, though the  end is a bit odd....","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Charles Martin Smith is a fine actor, though he's usually thought of as a supporting player--such as his roles in The Untouchables and American Graffiti. Here, however, he is not only the leading man but one of the ONLY people in the film. Clearly, it rests on him and his ability to carry his role--and he's more than up to the part and gives it his all...seriously! The film begins with an ill-prepared biologist heading to the middle of nowhere in Alaska. Why the middle of nowhere? Because--he wants to observe wolves in the wild. So, he takes an INSANE airplane flight into the wilderness and it's freezing cold--and you assume he'll just succumb to the elements. However, with a bit of help but an Inuit native, he's able to survive despite his lack of training. And, over time, he learns to respect the animals and care about them. In the meantime, there are lots of scenes that you'd think would be boring, but Smith and the film makers are able to make the audience care about him and these beautiful animals. My only reservation is about the ending. Obviously his character is supposed to 'go native'--but seeing him running around naked with the wolves was just plain weird--and something your mother-in-law would probably not appreciate as she watches this with you! While none of the nudity was gratuitous, it is interesting that a Disney film would show this much skin--and that he'd be doing this in Alaska! Still, it's well worth seeing and a fascinating tour de force by Smith. "},{"Title":"Perfect movie to take a 10-year old boy to","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This would be a perfect movie to take your ten year old nephew and his friends to. You know, because it is a true story, the hero will have to prevail, yet he is subjected to gross ordeal after ordeal a terrifying plane ride, having all his belongings unceremoniously dumped on the ice, being given nothing but asparagus to eat for a whole season, being sniffed by wolves, being inundated by mice, eating mice, dunked in ice cold water, drinking wolf-pee tea, getting caught without clothes, moose beer, abandonment...There don't appear to be any special effects. Whatever ones there were were done so well you don't experience them as that. Only once in the caribou scene, did I notice some cinematographic sleight of hand. There was an unexplained total lack of mosquitoes and blackflies.There is very little dialogue, though there is plenty of fish-out-of-water interaction between the hero, Brian Dennehy representing commercial interests, and the old and new Inuit. This where the humour comes.The landscapes and the wolves are, as expected, breathtaking. Our hero looks a little too clean, well muscled, well groomed and freshly clothed, even at the end of the movie, but Disney, after all, had a hand in it. I would not take younger kids to see it because the ending is a little too sad, in the Disney Old Yeller tradition. It is a good movie about pluck, fearlessness and just picking yourself up and carrying on no matter what happens.The message is that predatory wolves actually help caribou populations by culling the sickest and weakest animals. Poachers do the exact opposite. Though they don't say it, the same applies to cod and seals. "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" A masterpiece film. Seemingly simultaneous portrayal of first and third person views of one person's accidental wilderness schooling. It is far from an accurate film version of the book, but an excellent film it is. It will move you. It is the only film I have ever seen that can somehow show the feeling one gets from wilderness solace. Carroll Ballard is so good at selecting the scenes and how to tell a story. The movie is not filled with dialog which would seem to me to be an obstacle to telling a story, but Carroll Ballard uses it as a tool. An example is a scene with light bulbs on a crate and the main character in the background. The focus is on the bulbs, but the real story is the character behind them. Very well done. I do not care for group hug movies and usually detest a director's attempt to teach me a lesson about life or to try to bring about emotion. This movie will inspire but does so without a good guy/bad guy plot, hero/heroin, shock scenes, eye candy getting rescued, or even a complicated plot, etc. Great acting and directing. Just a very well made movie that doesn't have to use the typical shock value, tear jerking, tricks of the trade so many other filmmakers have to rely on. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Scenery","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" About a man who goes to the Arctic wilderness to study wolves, Never Cry Wolf displays fine cinematography amid some spectacular scenery of the North Country. And the native wildlife, wolves and caribou mostly, present themselves with majestic dignity.But the script gives us a main character, Tyler (Charles Martin Smith), who is not the least bit convincing. Anyone sent on a serious Arctic mission would be more in-the-know than Tyler. His wilderness innocence seems contrived to add flavor and lighthearted adventure solely to entertain viewers.Similarly, the voice-over (VO) narration is annoying. It's been inserted presumably to give a sense of dialogue that film viewers expect, given that for much of the plot Tyler is alone. The VO communicates what Tyler is thinking, but that only amplifies his ignorance, which diminishes the credibility of the story.If I had been in charge of casting, I surely would have selected someone other than Smith to play Tyler. Smith tries hard. But he is about twenty years too young to be taken seriously as a scientist.And given the absence of civilization, why are we listening to background music? However light and airy it may be, it's totally out of place in a wilderness setting. All it does is manipulate viewer response as the plot moves along. The most potent scenes are those that maintain silence and stillness.Never Cry Wolf conveys a simple, straightforward story, lightly humorous in tone, suitable for kids. There's nothing complex or opaque here, which is okay given the film's genre. Yet, I could have wished for a script with a more daring, and less conventional, story, a script and accompanying production aimed at adults, not children.Despite a slightly dumbed-down story, this Disney film is worth watching once, for the spectacular scenery. And the visuals alone make a good case for the preservation of wilderness and the protection of endangered wildlife. "}{"Title":"Dances, dines, hunts and howls with wolves.","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Pretty good nature flick with newfound sympathy for wild wolves, which were eradicated from the western United States by the 1930s by government hunters in favor of the livestock industry.The good news is that wild wolves were replanted into wilderness areas in Idaho and Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming in the 1990s and have spread to surrounding states.The newbie scientist in Never Cry Wolf learns in the field what they didn't teach him in class---you cannot conduct an experiment without affecting the outcome of the experiment.Watch this film and gain a new appreciation for the value of a pretty smile. "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The spectacle of this movie draws me to see it again and again. The comedy of the pencil pusher abandoned in the wilderness and the power of Tyler's relationship to the wolves are riveting. Tyler is one of my favorite characters. He starts out completely innocent and we see his enlightenment as he discovers the true nature of the wolf and the arctic. "},{"Title":"Wolves, caribou, Eskimos, and lots of mice...none of them named Mickey","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Absorbing wildlife account from Walt Disney Pictures is an unfussy adaptation of Farley Mowat's autobiography. Biologist Charles Martin Smith readily accepts assignment from the Canadian government to study Northern Arctic wolves for nearly an entire year; the reason being, millions of caribou have vanished, and the government blames the marauding wolves for their sudden loss. Smith's adventures among the wolves, and his quick understanding and respect for their existence, is the heart of the story, though director Carroll Ballard's obvious point that man is the number one destroyer of nature is the harbinger of the final act. One is drawn into this lovely film despite the often heavy-handed narrative (as well as Smith's voice-over narration, which is filled with deep thoughts such as I realized my staggering insignificance in this world!). Ballard's style is mostly visual, so the prose doesn't get in the way, and the landscapes and weather are vividly captured. Smith has a blurry, undefined presence as an actor, though some may argue his lack of screen charisma is right for this role. He certainly takes a beating during the frozen months, and his easy friendship with an elderly Eskimo is wonderful to behold. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sometimes, it can be a very long time before I get to watch a movie. Occasionally, I don't see them until they turn up on American Movie Classics, and when they do, I feel old. Perhaps I shouldn't. AMC has been showing more recent pictures. Newer than the 60s, anyway.I recently purchased a DVD of the 1983 Disney movie, Never Cry Wolf. I remember when it came out, and its subsequent releases on video. I also have old memories of seeing parts of it on one of those crummy, scratchy RCA CEDs back then. You remember those discs. The sound was horrendous, and the video would jump ahead like a scratched phonograph record.And, that's what they were lousy, vinyl records that utilized a needle just like the old record player I spun my aged 45s on. To see it on a DVD is like seeing a wheel re-invented.Never Cry Wolf is fantastic. Charles Martin Smith plays someone who is very resourceful, convincingly able to survive out there in that desolate frozen wasteland in the Arctic. It was so believable that I actually felt cold.If you are looking to expand your Disney library, I really recommend this movie. It has been out on disc for a couple of years, and it is nice to see that it is now released by Disney. The earlier releases were on DVDs from Anchor Bay.On the Anchor Bay DVD, it seemed that the movie began as if it was already in progress. It makes no mention, at the start, of being a Disney picture. Movies generally begin with showing us the company logo the Paramount mountain; the 20th Century Fox Hollywood; the revolving Universal planet Earth. I strongly suspect that the Disney logos it were cropped off of the beginning of Never Cry Wolf.Using my standard four-star rating system, I give it ***1/2. "},{"Title":"Sweeping scenery, quiet subtle cinematography make this a true 'sleeper' of excellence....","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Charles Martin Smith's (in the lead role of 'Taylor') foray into the Alaskan wilderness is marked-at first-by his almost bumbling inexperience in preparation of the task at hand. He gathers himself for survival quickly through necessity, ultimately carving out an acceptable, even comfortable albeit austere, shelter/campsite. Discovering through research the plausibility (or lack thereof) of reports about the Canis Lupus he was sent to study, the viewer in turn is treated to some truly breathtaking landscapes. Through every season, including encounters with friendly locals, and his tangent branches of research-involving first hand experiments with the diet of wolves in the arctic. This film is subtle yet poignant, clever and quiet, Smith absolutely shines in this writer's opinion-a true jewel of work in his sometimes quirky role adaptations. Brian Dennehy makes some appearances here too, and his performance is as well first rate, especially for/to  all those who enjoy his often boisterous manner in character. It is interesting to note that this is actually a Disney film, and while some scenes are not for viewers of typical Disney age, it is still an excellent story. Take note, too, if watching this film, how it's score blends near seamlessly into the overall effect of the film.  "},{"Title":"A Mystical Lyrical Movie Experience","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful movie. In some ways it reminds me of all those great 50's Disney award-winning nature films which made Disney much loved in my family during my early years.This one is feature length, with minimal dialog and action, a mystical ambiance which carries very nicely from beginning to end, and helped along beautifully by a magical film score by Mark Isham, one of the master film composers working today.The juxtaposition of three points of view works well, avoiding the heavy-handed black and white, good vs bad that could have made this film easier to dismiss. The addition of the native Inuit perspective, while perhaps a contrived plot device (what little plot there is), worked for me -- reminding us that a simple scientific versus exploitative view of the wilderness doesn't tell the whole story. The Inuit (in this film redolent of Peter Weir's Australian aboriginals) view the Alaskan wilderness as a sometimes subtle but always powerful presence to be respected and revered, or ignored at your peril. Tyler never comes to completely understand their motivation or their connection to their world (in which he remains an outsider), but certainly comes to respect them. And it's hard not to draw a parallel between his awakening knowledge of the wolves as mirrored in his knowing the Inuit family, and especially the ageless father -- these are all the real spirits of the land.There's a lot to learn and like in this film, and it's a captivating and enjoyable story throughout. It's Disney after all, so see it with your kids -- a gem deserving of a warm place in your heart. "},{"Title":"Only the most awesome film I've seen.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" NEVER CRY WOLF is my number-one favorite nonfiction film. It's an eye-opener as to the feeding and social habits, and the true value of the wolf, and opens a window into the personality of individual wolves and their family interactions.Although we don't think of wolves as having any scrap of silliness in their natures, it seems they can sometimes look like silly puppies playing to humans. And the film shows us humans in scenes apparently looking pretty silly to wolves. The mutual curiosity and mutual respect of man and wolf as portrayed in the film is striking. And the learning that apparently went from wolf to man was good to watch.Having first read the book, I was prepared for the story line, but SEEING these things happen made them so much better in this film. (Usually I like the book better Raised-on-radio kids have great imaginations!) My attitudes toward the wolf as a ravening beast (and scientists as dry sticks) were forever changed by this film, and I saw to it that all old friends and every new friend I made watched this. Even my (now) husband had to pass the wolf test before I'd go out a second time with him.NEVER CRY WOLF is a film I wish I had on either VHS or DVD &#151;not knowing it would ever go out of print, I foolishly never bought a copy of it. -=Dayonda "},{"Title":"One of the all-time great forgotten masterpieces","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie blends truly awesome nature cinematography with the raw vulnerability of Charlie Martin-Smith in a great performance.  It is a movie of few words, but those words are used so masterfully, eloquently, and supremely sardonically.  Anyone who cares about nature should buy this movie.  If you're not familiar with it, you are in for a real treat. "},{"Title":"compelling wilderness movie","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The caribou herds are in trouble and the government sends scientist Tyler (Charles Martin Smith) to the Canadian north to investigate the damage that the wolves are supposedly doing. He arrives at the end of the rail line in Nootsack and Rosie (Brian Dennehy) flies him out to the frozen north. He is alone with a few human contact like Ootek the Inuit. He is surprised to find the wolves but not the caribou. He soon discovers that the wolves are eating mice and are not the ruthless killing machines of the imagination. This is an adaptation of Farley Mowat's 1963 autobiography. This is a wonderful meditative movie of a man in the wilderness. It teaches a few things about wolves and the north. Smith's constant narration gives a hypnotic feel to the simple performance. It doesn't play up the survival aspect which these movies tend to be. I also love that Ootek keeps saying that Tyler has Good Idea. Ootek and his friend Mike are fascinating characters. It's also great that they are fully flesh-out human beings rather than the noble all-knowing savages. Mike is funny and a complex character. They give Tyler the notion that the wolves are a part of an ecosystem and the caribou rely as much on the wolves as the wolves rely on the caribou. There are a lot of nature shots but none is more impressive than a naked Charles Martin Smith in the middle of a caribou stampede. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wow. What a great movie. A deep satisfying feeling of mother-nature overwhelms me when watching this epic story.Nature is the movie. We're A part of it, not apart from it. Wolves are truly beautiful animals. They alone lifts this movie to the stars.The main characters does a wonderful job, delivering great and moving performances.The monologue, which is presented trough the main characters diary(and his voice), is deep and satisfying. And the dialog with the Inuits is also great.10/10 "}{"Title":"a flawed film, but it works on a fundamental level on the fact that it has an allegorical message personified through its seldom off-camera protagonist.","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Carroll Ballard's 1983 film Never Cry Wolf is, in a nutshell, sort of like a small-scale prototype to the 1990 epic Dances With Wolves and also like a tribute to the grand visionary visual-packed classics like Lawrence of Arabia (1962) and The Ten Commandments (1956). At the same time, it is a truly splendid and unique if uneven survival story. Never Cry Wolf is a flawed film, but it works on a fundamental level on the fact that it has an allegorical message instilled into its story and personified through its seldom off-camera protagonist.Never Cry Wolf is based on an autobiography written by Farley Mowat, a Canadian researcher who was sent to the mountains in the 20th century by the government, who wanted to hear back from him that the wolf population was responsible for the quickly disappearing caribou. He is played by Charles Martin Smith as a preliminarily timid, vulnerable pessimist who is quickly regretting his decision to venture out into the wilderness alone. Once marooned, he struggles to survive and all the while, growing more and more isolated and attached to the land around him and all former aspects of his life seem like another world gone by and not worthy of returning to.The element of Never Cry Wolf that really works, at least for me, is the allegorical subject matter of the destruction of the once majestic North American continent by what many like to call civilization and progress and how easily a person can realize this once committed to understanding and experiencing the old world that's continually dying away. Charles Martin Smith plays a somewhat underdeveloped protagonist who begins his quest completely alone and afraid and vulnerable and as time goes by becomes tougher, stronger in his emotions and his courage, and begins to alienate himself from the people he once associated himself with. What's also genuinely interesting is the relationship he has with the wolves he was dispatched to study and condemn as culprits. Though it's no surprise, Smith does indeed come to admire a particular family of wolves who are not the stereotypical bloodthirsty mongers seeking fresh meat and the thrill of a hunt. By contrast, the wolves are represented as their true nature curious, humble, courageous, and maternal. Smith does not have as much chemistry with the wolves as say Kevin Costner did in Dances With Wolves (1990), but the relationship is still interesting.If there are any flaws to the film, they do relate to the characters. There is hardly any dialogue at all in the film and like with Dances With Wolves, most of the dialogue that does exist is through a voice-over by Smith. The flaw, I felt, was that there was not enough emotion or personality expressed by Smith to make him a sympathetic or relatable character. Brian Dennehy, who personifies the evil of mankind (big surprise) is also kind of underdeveloped and without much of a story to give him a particular air of menace. The major weak point really was the character played by Samson Jorah, who did not hold interest for a moment.In the end, I feel that Never Cry Wolf is more of a fleshed-out documentary on the wilderness with a hint for something greater than a visionary epic. This does not mean, however, that it's a bad film. Despite the flaws that were to be found, I did embrace the film as a mildly entertaining pleasure. If I chose to view it again, I wouldn't be going in looking for anything great, but I wouldn't mind the experience either. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Never Cry Wolf is my favorite movie. I have seen it around ten times. I wish everyone who regards wolves as the cause of decline in their prey population would see this movie and realize the wolves positive role in their environment. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story, sad ending, not a typical Disney movie","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you like quirky, unusual and quite funny films, this one is for you. The story builds slowly to a wistful and sad ending, but without real violence or anything graphic.  This was in the Disney section, but don't be fooled. It's probably not for kids under 9 or so. "},{"Title":"Hated It as a Kid; Think I Would Like It as an Adult","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've only seen Never Cry Wolf once, during its original theatrical run. I was eight years old then and was completely bored by this film. I have a feeling that I would love it now for all of the reasons that I hated it then.Those reasons are the fact that it takes place in the Alaskan wilderness and is full of stunning visuals of the terrain and wildlife. And, it's a movie told largely without dialogue and spends large parts of its running time with one lone character. I'm fascinated by movies like that now, and so think it's worth giving Never Cry Wolf another try.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Just Cry","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" There aren't many really fine films out there, so it matters when we encounter one that almost makes it.This movie comes so close in a few dimensions. It comes so close that I imagine it will be one of the first that Apple-Disney offers in their Final Cut library offerings. If I were teaching, I'd make it an assignment to take this film, just what you have from your DVD, and make a great film from it.Here are some of things to recommend it-- it is disguised as a simple Disney film, meaning that it has a third grade moral and clearly distinguishable good and bad guys. Behind that disguise is a complex of complex issues. Not at all tidy bad wolves, bad Inuits, bad scientists, all where you expected white hats.-- it has a scene that I'm sure was the centerpiece of the book a man awakens nude to find himself in the midst of wolves hunting caribou, something he was convinced wasn't true. He frantically tries to warn the panicked caribou.-- it has so many scenes that you simply step out of the movie and wonder how the heck they did it. Many of these shots involve animals. But there was one where he falls into ice and pulls himself out another hole. And all you can see are his tracks in the snow.-- it is a nature film in a lovely area. But except for some aerial shots of mountains at the beginning, we have none of the standard shots that creep into these things. No silhouettes on ridges. No faces around campfires shot from a distance. None of that. It just seems natural and fresh as if it wasn't made as a film, but as this guy's dreams (some of which we actually see).Against it is a comic tone (until the end) that I'm sure is from the book. But it would take better editing and score to carry that humor. There's no timing in our hero's face, so the timing has to come from the visual rhythm and score. That score, by the way seems to have come from the Disney third string getting directions by phone.And the whole thing has a most insipid voice-over narration. Just fixing the narration, redoing the score and tightening the editing would make this a very good film. Some of the Dennehy stuff needs fixing. There's no reason that it should be told so linearly. We'd need new dreams, some of which would contain narrative info, like the Dennehy episodes.All these things could be fixed on a cheap Mac by film students, and you'd have a fine thing indeed.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Wonderful - Do Bother with this Movie","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Film making at its best.  It is just a great film.  One can never get tired of revisiting it.  Highly recommended.  Highly.   "},{"Title":"One of the most effective portrayals of the scientific method","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The experiences of naturalist Farley Mowat as he studied the Arctic Wolf are the basis for this great film.  Not only entertaining and very moving, looking at the role humans play in the world of animals, but also a very good depiction of how science actually works.  This film should be required viewing for every science class.  Real-world science, done in spectacular style.Anybody who does not get how science really works need only watch this film to see.  Every aspect shows how scientists work, and how they must test their ideas, and perhaps modify what they think is a correct answer.  A prime example is Tyler's (the main character's name, instead of Mowat) experiment in What Can Wolves Live On, If There Are No Caribou?Watch it, and see science, the way it really works.  "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever made for people who actually pay attention","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Most people haven't seen this film. Get it on video or DVD and watch it, without interruptions or distractions, and then you will understand why this is the greatest film ever made. The cinematography, thought, message, and structure of the film are all phenomenal. The beauty of the setting, north of the Arctic Circle, has never been equaled in another film. And you can enjoy it without thinking about any of the larger implications such as the need to protect nature, etc. You will enjoy the film and then you will begin to think about it. Then you will want to watch it again. Then you will want to DEMAND that our so-called leaders raise the fuel efficiency standards and provide larger tax breaks for fuel efficient cars and bigger tax penalties for gas guzzlers so that we don't need to drill for oil any more north of the Arctic Circle. "},{"Title":"Should NOT be called a Disney movie!!","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" (Some ppl who've watched this movie likely feel the same way I did.) How does this have a score of 7.6!? Why is this interesting!?? HOW is this Disney-related!?? Whatever does it have to do with Disney??OK, to clarify, I viewed this film while helping some friends (a father and his sons) who were showing a public movie night - first shown was Ratatouille, hands down a really good film & good choice! And then they showed THIS - now I had never seen this movie before in my life, but I was interested since it was Disney-related, and Disney *has* made some pretty decent Disney dramas (i.e. Tall Tale, Iron Will, Mary Poppins, The Big Green, etc). But BOY, I wish it had stayed that way... In fact, that Walt Disney logo shouldn't exist above the title! I DEMAND that somebody sue the people who made this worthless pile of NOTHING, and demand that the that logo be REMOVED from the poster!My friends thought this movie was nostalgic - and boy, do I feel sorry for them. Not only that they grew up with this, but also for their TASTE of film, I honestly think it's impaired! Understand the word nostalgic doesn't mean better. It just means you're more attached to it.I thought this film was beyond horrible, weird, stupid, uncomfortable and *painful* to sit through, plus, you had to make sure you had something ELSE to do while watching (i.e. texting, check your music, etc). I didn't get it! I was like, Big deal. A guy goes to Alaska to study wolves. That's great. I've got nothing against the cast & crew - but this movie BORED ME S***LESS! I even looked around the room at the audience; *everyone* was literally BORED & CONFUSED to death! ...I may say this movie is decently shot; but it's shot more like a *documentary*, with narration & all. Was the director too dumb to know the difference between a movie and a documentary??? Everything was shot with long drawn-out scenes, devoid of anything remotely interesting or engaging, with a soundtrack that sings you to sleep, ...and also involving scenes eating MICE??? Why did they choose THIS for a movie night!?? WHY!?? Why couldn't it have been a BETTER movie, with effort, or need of attention!??I don't care if it's based on a book! How is this cheap, pretentious flick related to Disney???... And the scenes where the main dude, for some reason I can't remember, has all his clothes off, RUNNING AROUND NAKED, with herds of ANIMALS... Are you flipping kidding me?? I didn't want to see that! What was the point!?? The entire time, I was like, Dude, ENOUGH! Put some clothes on already!! What the fudge!!?? How is this Disney entertainment??? What was the intended age group?? Ages DEAD to 1??I literally stepped out of the auditorium when that scene happened, because I wanted to WAIT till that ridiculous, cringe-worthy, stupid, and embarrassing scene was OVER!Again, this is one of those movies from the 80s with a bizarre PG rating, when it's clearly got scenes of peril, thematic elements, and nudity! It should've been the first Disney movie to be rated PG-13, not Pirates of the Caribbean.Feeling almost betrayed, I couldn't believe that this was a film my friends owned, liked, or at the very least decided to SHOW the rest of the community at this summer vacation spot this year!Though to be fair, not everyone has heard of this movie, judging by the amount of reviews, it's pretty well-unknown, so I'm glad about that (though I'm still disappointed it's gotten more attention than some other good Disney drama films - like, Tall Tale & Iron Will I can list right off the top of my head). On a side note, it was interesting that the actor who played the bad cop guy from Sylvester Stallone's First Blood was in this as the pilot; but after recently viewing that film, I couldn't take his character seriously in this - he still just seemed like a schmuck & mean doofus.And the scene near the beginning where the pilot flies the main protagonist around in a plane, the engine stalls, and he intends to fix it while in MIDAIR; I thought that was kind of impressive, but that was just IT.HANDS DOWN, this is an all-round BAD film, truly one of the worst movies I have *ever* seen! It should not be owned by ANYONE (except for those who perhaps LIKE studying wildlife & have a RedBull to keep them awake), deserves to sued for it's putrid film direction & the fact that it's owned by *Disney* (DISNEY - the amazing lovable company with charming imagination & wondrous stories that remain embedded in nearly ALL our childhoods, the company that brought us Snow White, Pinocchio, Peter Pan, Dumbo, Beauty & the Beast, The Lion King, and Wreck-It Ralph has been brought down to THIS!) It deserves it's place in Empire Magazine's The Worst Films Ever Made, right along with Howard the Duck, Twilight, The Room, Battlefield Earth & Batman and Robin! Heck, even the movie, Gigli, a movie that's universally considered bad, is a film that I LIKE! Yes! I went there! I prefer than much better than this stupid, incoherent MESS of a movie! I think it should switch ratings with GIGLI!2/10(Oh, and IMDb's word limit is 974, not 1000)PS You want a much better Disney film drama about a man, dog-like animals, winter, and an engaging plot??? Go watch IRON WILL (1994). It's a true story about a dog-sled race, much like Balto, and deserves a WHOLE lot more attention, hype, & higher ratings than THIS trash, or any of the Hunger Games. YES, I'm serious! "},{"Title":"Did any of this happen?","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Wikipedia writes the following * Shortly after the publication of _Never Cry Wolf_, the Canadian Wildlife Service received a deluge of letters from concerned citizens opposing the killing of wolves. Canadian Wildlife Federation official Alexander William Francis Banfield, who supervised Mowat's field work, characterized the book as semi-fictional, and accused Mowat of blatantly lying about his expedition. He pointed out that contrary to what is written in the book, Mowat was part of an expedition of three biologists, and was never alone. In a 1964 article published in the _Canadian Field-Naturalist_, he compared Mowat's 1963 bestseller to Little Red Riding Hood, stating, I hope that readers of Never Cry Wolf will realize that both stories have about the same factual content.* Canadian Wildlife Service staff members argued that Mowat's remit had not been to find justifications for wolf extermination, but to investigate the relationship between wolves and caribou. * Linguist and former veterinary biologist Will Graves, who spent 42 years reading and compiling information on wolves in Russia from news reports, scientific articles, and interviews with Russian biologists, game managers and hunters flatly stated in an interview with journalist Peter Metcalf Mowat's book is fiction. In his book _Wolves in Russia Anxiety throughout the ages_, Graves expressed similar views to those of David Mech, citing numerous cases in the former Soviet Union indicating that wolves feed heavily on medium sized ungulates, contrary to what Mowat wrote. Karen Jones writesThe deluge of letters received by the Canadian Wildlife Service from concerned citizens opposing the killing of wolves testifies to the growing significance of literature as a protest medium. * * * Officials cited that Mowat had observed wolves for a total of just ninety hours -- an indictment on his research credibility and scientific commitment. CWS employee Charles Jonkel quipped, We used to call him Hardly Knowit. &#x96; Karen Jones, Never Cry Wolf Science, Sentiment, and the Literary Rehabilitation of Canis Lupus, _The Canadian Historical Review_ vol.84 (2001)Wearenotamused writesWatching the movie, I had trouble believing that a real researcher could be so comically stupid or incompetent, so I did some casual fact checking. Hollywood is Hollywood, and I would have said that the film is fine as entertainment, except that much of the emotional tug of the movie came from thinking that the events depicted were more or less true. Unfortunately, the plot of the movie seems to be more or less fiction. As a fiction movie, I think I would have found it silly and plodding. "}{"Title":"I didn't cry wolf","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, but to me, this movie seemed more like a documentary than an actual movie, but it is still good.Charles Martin Smith does a good job as Taylor/Farley Mowat, but he seemed to be very dry in some scenes, and running nude in the open, although I understand why, I did not really want to see. I don't know why Brian Dennehy is considered a major cast member, because his role was like somewhat of a brief cameo, nonetheless he did his small role well.I have to say, backgrounds for the movie were beautiful! The mountains, rivers, grass, fields, almost everything. In addition, I enjoyed looking at it more than listening to the actor's, well, act. I can't believe that this film could do that.The plot seemed dry at first, but turned out to be very good, especially the ending of the movie. The wolves were so beautiful to watch and interact. I just felt like I was there with them.Overall, I'd said this was a okay film, but simply won't be one of my favorites.Never Cry Wolf 6.5/10 or Average "},{"Title":"A good film with good actors/characters.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I believed this film was good in that the actors/actresses who played their respective characters did quite well.However I think that this Native film (along with all other non-stereotypical films about Natives) goes to show that without the help of (in this case) the Inuit, I really don't think those whites who stayed with them would have survived for long since they had no idea how to live in such a harsh environment. Although the setting of this film is in modern times and while the Inuit adapted well to all the modern conveniences that the whites brought over, the whites never adapted to the Inuit ways because their personal attitudes and biases got in the way of their thinking.The way that the whites treated the Inuit throughout history was no different from the way they treated all the other First Nations and Metis people throughout Turtle Island.But it was great to see actual Inuit actors in this film rather than others just pretending to be Inuit/Natives. Unfortunately there's been way too many of those Hollywood made films that have the First Nations as the bad guys circling and attacking wagon trains, scalping the innocent white settlers without provocation, etc. Of course, the real truth is that the whites have always been the bad guys when they murdered Native/Inuit men, women and children; started the whole scalping tradition themselves by scalping the Natives first (the Natives then adopted this custom from them, not the other way around); stealing their land and resources; spreading all those diseases around where the Natives had no natural immunity for (although they had no idea that they were killing them slowly with the diseases, they nonetheless did so). But the biggest problem was when they literally forced alcohol down the First Nations' throats, especially when they didn't even want it! But anyways.....that's another story altogether.All in all, this was a nice subtle film which is why I gave this one a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Book Is WAAAAAAAYYY Better!!!!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" i am in the 8th grade and in English class, we read this book. then our teacher decided to show us the movie and have us write an essay on the differences and similarities. when watching the movie i was taking notes for the essay, and noticed how much i was writing down on this piece of paper. it was crazy. i found myself, when i was typing, having to restrain myself on some of the differences or else my paper would be way too long! it probably would have been more than 4 or 5 pages! for one thing, the director cant even get the characters straight! The lead character in the book's name is Farley, the name of the author. in the movie it is Tyler. whrer did that come from? and in the beginning when ootek finds him in the snow, mike is supposed to find him! i could go on and on but i only have 1000 word limit so i don't want to end a subject in the middle so i will leave you to the rest.GET THE BOOK, NOT THE MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Don't Bother","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Although visually engaging, the film tramples the original story beneath heavy-handed attempts at achieving a more contemporary social relevance. Even more annoying The movie positions the researcher as the central element rather than the wolves.Buy the book, pass on the movie. "},{"Title":"A Waste of Time","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The puppies were cute, but this film retained none of the magic present in the book. This movie took forever to get going, and then it never climaxed. It seemed that some of the events and names were frivolously altered. If you see this movie before reading the book, don't let it deter you from getting into the novel. I was bored the entire time. If you see this movie, make sure you have something else to do while it's playing. If and when you feel like shooting yourself in the face while suffering through this film, just remind yourself that it will be over eventually. Maybe it was just not my cup of tea, but I wouldn't wish this movie on my worst enemy. "}]