[{"Title":"I hope you don't expect me to save you...","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"70 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the overwhelming hatred for Superman III, I gotta say that I think it's an excellent film. One of the two best of the whole Superman saga, actually. The other, of course, is the original film. But Superman III is so much fun, and a great example of how it's possible for Superman to have enemies OTHER than Lex Luthor. The guy's been the main villain in, how many is it, FOUR of the now FIVE Superman films? I liked Gene Hackman's Luthor (far superior to Kevin Spacey's), but you gotta take a break at some point. No, Superman III is a refreshing change of pace, not only in that respect, but in several ways.Most noticeable, and much to the chagrin of many people, is the slightly more comedic tone of the film, centered mainly around Richard Pryor's character, August 'Gus' Gorman. I thought Prior was great. He plays an over-the-top character in a movie series about an over-the-top character. I hear people complain all the time that they hate the comedy that Prior brought to the film because Superman is supposed to be, and these are actual quotes, gritty and realistic. NO, he's not. Superman is not gritty, and he's not realistic. Never was, never will be. Richard Donner's original doesn't even come CLOSE to playing it straight. Just look at how he portrays Clark Kent. In the comic books and 1950's television series, the mild-mannered Clark Kent is treated with respect and professionalism. He basically co-exists amongst his peers at the Daily Planet. In Superman The Movie, Richard Donner has taken the character straight out of the old comics and TV series, with all the same mannerisms and morals, and placed him in a very modern 1978. This is a set-up for much of the films adequate amount of comedy relief. Superman The Movie is not a comedy. Neither is Superman III, but they both have comic relief. The Clark Kent character is slightly more serious in this one, thus, you have Gus. A funny little man, with an interesting power. A savant-like intellect that gives him complete control over any computer system.I especially like how Clark Kent, Superman's alterego, is fleshed out more as he returns home to Smallville. This is a great follow-up to Richard Donner's brief exploration to Superman's early years in Smallville. The inclusion of Lana Lang as Clark's high school crush was great, even better in that they chose the lovely Annette O'Toole to portray the character. I LOVE Margot Kidder, but I think Lana is a very important character in Superman's backstory.All the delving into Clark Kent's character and background leads us to one of the greatest scenes in motion picture history... Clark Kent vs. Evil Superman. I could sit here and expound on the scene's metaphoric implications all day long, but simply put, I found it jaw-dropping. Christopher Reeve was always perfect as Superman, but his best work is here in this scene. Evil Superman is a very physical representation of everything Clark/Superman has ever repressed, and obviously we're talking about a lot of repression here. It's great stuff. I still wanna cheer every time the victorious Clark Kent opens his shirt to reveal his famous insignia, which, by the way, is differentiated by Evil Superman's in that it's excessively bright, where as his was really dark and dingy looking. Having been a Superman fan since I was a kid way back in the day, that's one of those scenes I'll remember 'till the day I die. I remember it from my childhood, but it's actually more relateable for me now as an adult.Superman III is one of the greats. If you haven't seen it yet, I only ask that you watch it with an open mind and not look for grit or realism where it has no place being. Instead, just believe a man can fly... again. "},{"Title":"Like Office Space With a Super Hero","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After making two fairly decent Superman movies, things took a slightly different turn with Superman III. Gene Hackman was nowhere to be found, Lois Lane has such a small part that she's essentially not even in the continuity anymore (Clark apparently forgets all about his love of Lois when he re-meets Lana Lang). And things became really funny, or were at least supposed to be. If you consider campy to be funny.Superman faces off against himself, after being exposed to a new form of kryptonite that has tobacco tar mixed in. Can the world trust a Superman who destroys oil tankers and sleeps with random women on top of the Statue of Liberty? The best part of the Evil Superman sequence is when we see Superman drunk, if for no other reason than the thought of Superman getting drunk (or even having the ability to become intoxicated) is a most unusual thought. Good thing Superman doesn't drive a car.I really enjoyed the entrance of Lana Lang into the film. Lana, in my opinion, was always the more appropriate match for Superman and there is no exception in this movie. She shares a history with him, is more caring than Lois and less dominant. I'm curious where the Lois/Lana thing will go in Part 4, if it goes anywhere. (I am not suggesting dominant women are bad, by the way. But the fact of the matter is anyone dating Superman is going to have to be comfortable with being second fiddle.) What sold me on this movie (and almost scored it a 7 instead of a 6) is the tie-in with Office Space. In Office Space, Superman III is referenced for a computer program that takes fractions of a cent and puts them in a bank account. The scene in this film was great, and really made me appreciate the way Mike Judge used it many years later.With nicotine and tar being the secret ingredients in the new kryptonite, was there some message being sent? Richard Pryor was great. He was funny and made the entire film more of a comedy with kitsch than the serious films we had seen before. Many people really didn't like the campiness, I guess, but I thought it was enjoyable for the most part (though they did go over the top just a bit). In my mind, Superman was the light story and Batman the dark story, so I'd rather see a silly Superman than a silly Batman.The new villain to replace Lex Luthor was okay, but why bother making a new villain if he's going to be the exact same character? I would hope after fifty years of comic books, there would have been at least one other super villain they could have chosen (although the new Superman Returns focuses on Luthor again, so I guess creativity is minimal in the Superman world).If you've seen parts one and two, you may as well see this. But do keep in mind that the world of Superman turns a little bizarro for the next two hours of film time... "},{"Title":"Not that bad of a sequel.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"49 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will admit that when compared to the first two films, this is obviously inferior. But still, it's not all that bad. Christopher Reeves is still the best Superman, and Richard Pryor was okay. I remember seeing this a lot when I was real young, so I have a special place for this film in my heart. I will always remember the scenes when Superman fights the separate superman. The scene where that lady is turned into a robot used to scare me, but I think it's cool now. A good Saturday afternoon film. "},{"Title":"The first of two extremely weak sequels","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"47 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll be frank SUPERMAN III is NOT a good film. Having heard both from people who loved the movie and hated the movie, I watched it with an open mind, but in the end it was clear to me that this movie is weak. Very weak.Half of the movie revolves around Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor!), a dim-witted computer programmer who becomes involved in crime when he begins working for millionaire Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn). The other half of the film revolves around Superman (Christopher Reeve), as he is reunited with high school sweetheart Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) and becomes evil when exposed to synthetic kryptonite.One can't help but wonder what David and Leslie Newman, who co-wrote the previous two SUPERMAN films, were thinking when they wrote this film. It opens with a cringe-worthy slapstick sequence, and gets worse from there. Any and all scenes involving Richard Pryor are completely out of place in this film, making it seem more like an unfunny comedy than a superhero film. Director Richard Lester tries his best to make the movie work, but ultimately, it doesn't, thanks in part to the absence of Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor and the near-absence of Margot Kidder as Lois Lane (Kidder has a total of about three minutes on-screen). Christopher Reeve, however, is excellent as always, and Annette O'Toole is a good fit for the part of Lana Lang; interestingly, she portrayed Clark's mother, Martha Kent, on the hit Superman TV series SMALLVILLE.SUPERMAN III is mediocre at best, a failed attempt to continue an excellent series. While it couldn't hold my attention for the 125 minute runtime, I can think of worse movies to watch late at night with a bowl of popcorn and a Coke. Superman fans may want to check it out; all others, steer clear. "},{"Title":"A lot less humor needed","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're a fan of Superman you'll find plenty to enjoy in this third installment in the series. I do, but it must be admitted that this film is much inferior to the first two.This has Richard Lester written all over it. Superman II was Richard Donner's creation and Lester simply took over and wisely kept the tone of the film but with some added humor. This time around the humor steers the film as it's mostly a Richard Pryor vehicle. It doesn't come as much of a surprise that the film fares best when focusing on the Man of Steel, whether he's romancing an old flame in Smallville or in high flying action.This is also the film where Superman goes bad and fights his alter ego to the death. Those scenes are the best in the film. Some set pieces are pretty good and special effects are decent. However, the finale has to be deemed utterly ridiculous when Superman battles a sophisticated computer! Reeve is amazing as Superman/Clark Kent. Effortlessly switching to playing a meaner version of himself, he's simply perfect. Richard Pryor is always the same, so if you're a fan of his work you'll love him here. Everyone else is decent except those three villains; they're a little too much, especially Vaughn.A lot less humor and more seriousness would have made the film very good. "},{"Title":"Richard Pryor and Richard Lester and two Supermans... What else could a man want?","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"37 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie, for those of you think it's really bad because it's too ridiculous, you must not read too many of the comics. The very first comics I never read were Superman comics, and that was when I hadn't even got into kindergarten, and let me tell you, they could be pretty silly but never boring.The same could be said for this movie. First of all, I love Richard Pryor and he has a field day in this movie. Secondly, I love Robert Vaughn, and he plays a really juicy villain in this one. And then there's this great fight scene between two Supermen... but I don't want to give away everything from those of you haven't seen the film yet.There is everything you should expect in this kind of movie. My only complaint was not enough Lois Lane (Margo Kidder) and maybe I'm nitpicking, but continuity with the other two films seems to be ignored completely. According to this entry in the series, Clark graduated from Smallville high in 1962. The problem with that is that in the first film, is clear that when Clark is in high school, it's the late 1940s by the vintage cars and trucks in the scenes. But hey, if we can believe that a man can come from another planet, fly, see through walls, burn through things with his eyes and lift trains into the air then why bitch about little things like continuity?Not only do I have this baby on video from cable TV, but I also taped the network version just for the outtakes and edited out every single commercial. (The beautifully choreographed opening credits with the blind man, some mechanical penguins on fire and more is even longer and better in the TV version.)So hate this one if you must, but I will take it over the second film any the day of the week. (That is, the Richard Lester version. I LOVED the Richard Donner cut which recently made it to DVD.)I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's not all that bad folks!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) who is a fun-loving computer genius has been hired by a mad rich computer company tycoon named Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn)to help him with his plans along with Ross's sister Vera (Annie Ross) and girlfriend Loreli (Pamela Stephenson) but Superman (Christopher Reeve)interferes with their plans as they must plot to stop Superman for good. Clark Kent revisits his old boyhood town called Smallville, where he is reunited with an old flame named Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) at a high school reunion during his visit. Gus comes up with a scheme to make a special kryptonite with tobacco tar to make Superman evil including splitting up with his personality so that way Gus and Webster can make their supercomputer that can control the world's energy, can Superman come back to normal or will the computer take over mankind? Enjoyable sequel but not as awesome as the first two movies, Richard Lester who did his version of Superman II just added some unnecessary comedy relief such as the Three Stooges-esquire opening sequence that didn't help or that ludicrous video game footage but there was some good special effects and memorable moments like Clark Kent vs. Superman in the junkyard sequence or the part where Vera becomes a Dot Matrix from Spaceballs-like android, although Ms. Stephenson was pretty cute.All in all it's that bad folks, just relax, enjoy and suspend your disbelief. "},{"Title":"Great Superman sequel - underrated by traditionalists","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is not worthy of the 9/10 I gave it. But I saw that the average was below 5 and I feel the need to corrupt the statistics. I want to increase this average so that score is a truer reflection of the quality and public's perception of this film.Many may think that this is unfair or unreasonable. But I regard it as a reflex reaction to traditionalists who gave it '1' because it strayed from the typical superman formula, irrespective of whether it was a good film in its own right... and it was! Since they are unfairly under-rating the film, I feel justified in over-rating the film..... DEAL WITH IT! The traditionalists want the love interest Lois Lane to feature prominently, along with the naive Jimmy Olsen, the ranting Perry White and the conniving and ruthless Lex Luthor.Well, Jimmy breaks his leg in the first 15 minutes and is (presumably) hospitalised for the rest of the film, Lois (kidder) makes a cameo appearance at the start of the film to let us know that she's going on holiday, Lex (& his numb-skull sidekick Otis) isn't even mentioned and it seems as if the Daily Planet doesn't mind if Clark Kent goes to his high school reunion and then takes the next few weeks off work. With all the plot devices removed, I was actually interested in where this movie would take me, rather than rolling my eyes before the film has even begun.First and foremost, the film opens better than any other of th0e Reeve Supermans. First, Superman saves a man from drowning in his car (wait till you see it!) and shortly after, there is a fire at a chemical factory (and superman arrives again to save the day). I felt that this opening was rather thrilling and the film makers stuck to the traditions of classic Superman.Then we move onto the story of Clark Kent rekindling a romance with a high school sweetheart, who is, at the same time, fending off an old alcoholic ex-boyfriend. This scenario gives rise to a number of funny scenes (the one at the bowling alley was side splitting). As per usual, Reeves played the part of the bumbling, geeky Clark Kent to perfection.Running along side is the story of Richard Prior. He's an unemployed bum (scenes in the welfare office are hysterical) who suddenly finds that he has a knack for computers. He commits a fraud using his extensive knowledge of computers (the fraud is later repeated - with acknowledgment - in the brilliant film Office Space) and when he is caught, he assumes that he will be fired and arrested. However, his sinister boss has something else in mind for our comic computer whiz.However, their plans are thwarted by Superman and in response, Prior and his boss obtain kryptonite. However, the kryptonite is 'not quite right' and causes superman to become evil (rather than weaken him). In any case, superman is out of the way, which allows Prior and his boss go to work on a super computer that can control the world. Will Superman become good again and save the day in time? All in all, a very enjoyable film, even though there are short comings. The performances are very good and I couldn't imagine the computer whiz's part being played by anyone other than Prior. The villain was also terrific, as was his sister and co-conspirator.Yes - this does stray from the traditional Superman plot formulars. But it did so without dishonouring the Superman tradition if that makes sense. And besides, it's good to have a different villain than Lex Luthor and a break from the irritatingly unresolvable romance between Kent/Superman and Lois Lane.In closing, I found it rather amusing that the traditionalists put this effort down, but when the Reeve's series returned to it's old plot formulars (Luthor, Daily Planet, Lane...) in the woeful Superman IV - The Quest For Peace, the critics, traditionalists and general audiences all gave it a giant thumbs down!However, the film did lose a star for having this bizarre left-wing after-taste. Instead of a crazed criminal seeking world domination, the villain is a corporate boss who wants control of the coffee market and quotes Atilla the Hun. He is enraged by and destroys a small South American country that thinks it can dictate terms to the free market. Clark Kent's high school crush is now a perfect single mother - see it's perfectly OK if Hollywood says so; and the film opens with poor old lovable Richard Pryor getting booted off welfare. Ironically, the villain goes for the oil towards the end of the film. But alas, Superman saved the day by ridding the world of this capitalist threat. Almost as laughable as the politically neutral truth, justice, and .... all that stuff in the recent Superman Returns. Get over it. "},{"Title":"not so Super-man","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It'll keep you watching, you can say that.  Either on the bad levels or the good ones (if you should find some), since most fans are so divided on this third entry.  It falls somewhere under fair for me, as the effects continue to be awesome, but the story this time is tremendously lacking.  Part two had three villians equally as strong as Superman, plus the romance going with Lois Lane.  This one has a Lex Luthor clone (Hackman's Lex is left off-screen in jail) who also would like to rule the world, a dweeby computer genius (Pryor, as the much debated addition to the cast) and a romance you know will go nowhere with one of Reeve's lost loves.  We already saw that he couldn't give things up for Lois, so why bother brining on a new girl? Though O' Toole is gorgeous, a lot more than Kidder, who is featured at the beginning of the film looking aged, then at the end with a bad tan.  Rumor has it she outpriced herself which resulted in the character being shipped off to Bermuda.  With her out of the picture, Reeve attends a high school reunion where he bumps into O'Toole.  Meantime, Vaughn and Pryor are poised for world dominance, though Pryor is realizing the ramifications and is reluctant.  But he still goes through it, concocting a kryptonite like impairment for Superman, which results in some of the film's best scenes. Reeve develops a naughty alter ego, and we get to see Superbad-man get drunk, straighten the Tower of Pisa, even get horny,  among other things. There's a terrific showdown between Reeve and...well, Reeve in a junkyard where bad Supes confronts his inner goodness, Clark Kent.  After this, though, the film sags to it's conclusion, as Reeve goes up against more rockets and missiles, a la part one.  Despite missing the tension of part two, the film is interesting in a disjointed kind of way.  The flying effects are once again top-notch, and strangely enough, are better than in the next film which came out four years later!  And most have mentioned the dopey opening sequence that belonged more in a silent comedy than here, but it wasn't a horrendous mistake.  I must note as a kid that when Vaughn's sister is turned into that psycho-robot it FREAKED me out!  Biggest annoyance is the kid who plays Ricky, his voice is badly dubbed and incredibly nerve-racking.  Also could've done without O'Herlihy's drunken antagonist.  Most of the music is lifted from part two, but since I liked Ken Thorne's work, I didn't mind.  I could even say (Supe fans will kill me) I would rather watch this one than the first movie.  So even though the story isn't really there like in the previous films, the movie overall still FLIES (hehe). "},{"Title":"More comic-book than the first two.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take It never reaches the heights of its predecessors with its sillier story and ridiculous villains. Many consider this a weak entry in the Superman film series. Well, I thought it was at first. But when I watched it in numerous reruns, I began to like this. Christopher Reeve excellently reprises his role, alongside comedy favorite Richard Pryor, as a computer-whiz, who is hired by his boss to help fulfill his plans for world domination. Pryor may not do it right sometimes, but he's admittedly hilarious in spots. But painfully ridiculous in some. Among the things that make it a bit unsatisfying for critics is the lack of the characters from the originals. Lois lane had to go on vacation, so Lana Lang (played well by Annette O'Toole)is Superman's/Clark Kent's love interest. Robert Vaughn plays a sinister mastermind, an okay replacement for the famous villain Lex Luther. What some viewers don't understand is that director Richard Lester wants it to be more of a comic book adventure rather than what scriptwriter Mario Puzo did in the first two. Rating **1/2 out of 5. "}{"Title":"The Worst Movie In The History Of Talking Pictures","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadSorry, -1000, not 1. This settles the debate about Lester's cheese ball SUPERMAN 2 and about Richard Lester in general. The man never made one movie that did not feature five year old's unfunny humor? Do not believe me? Watch A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM or how about his terrible, crappy musketeer movies that even Racquel Welch's cleavage could not salvage. Want a sample of what you are in for? Richard Pryor, the most unfunny comic of the 20th century, skis off of a forty story building, lands on top of an awning, unharmed, skis off of it into the street. Wasn't that hilarious? It gets worse, he turns superman into an angry, drunken, prostitute chasing dirt bag in faded tights. Hey, bring the kids. He throws in the terrible actress Annette O Toole who single handedly laid waste to ONE ON ONE. Hackman refused to do the movie, do you blame him? So, instead of Lex Luthor you have Robert Vaughn who was a television actor, brace yourself. The acting in the movie was legendarily bad; Pam Stephenson was as untalented an actress as she was beautiful. It features boring, badly shot action scenes that make the first movie look like THE GODFATHER.You will love the missile attack on superman based on a ripped off Atari video game of the period with the worst graphics since PONG. The majority of the movie consists of Richard Pryor doing what he called comedy bellowing at the top of his lungs, or whining and complaining. Nobody, for PC reasons, was able to whisper the truth about this movie. It was the effects, or evil superman; yes, those were contributing factors but Pryor destroyed the movie. Nobody dared utter the truth, please OK, he always sucked. Find one movie he made that was a success? STIR CRAZY? One half of a good movie, yes it was so great Poitier never directed another movie. In my audience, people were yelling SHUT UP at him all through the movie. It opened in a 550 seat auditorium, by twenty minutes in, the exodus began. At the end of the movie, it was my friend and I with 12 other people. Stop with the false dichotomy, we do not have to pick Donnor or Lester, they both suck. Donnor's cut of Superman 2 was boring and awful but Lester's was like this stupid, unfunny and annoying. If you enjoy seeing an angry, drunken, prostitute chasing, loser superman interspersed with an annoying unfunny comedian, you have found your movie. The worst movie I have ever watched I prefer BARBARELLA to this. At least Jane Fonda had a hot body; who noticed how lousy the movie was? You will notice it here. "},{"Title":"Clark Kent vs. Superman!","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III isn't as good as Superman I or II, but there is still an epic inside waiting to get out. It's better than Superman Returns, and far better than Superman IV. So why does it get such a bad rap? The answer is Richard Pryor, a weird robot, slapstick comedy, and the absence of Gene Hackman. I wouldn't be bothered by Pryor's acting if he was actually funny! But there are still some elements that make this movie great. Like the bad Superman fighting against the good Clark Kent, Clark going back home to Smallville, Clark's relationship with Lana, Superman saving people from a fire, the best special effects in the series, and a fight against a supercomputer that can read Superman's weaknesses. Fans of the comic also don't like this movie because it doesn't really use the source material for villains. But if you look hard enough you will find that they are just different interpretations. Ross Webster is the Corporate Lex Luthor, not the underground criminal Gene Hackman portrayed, Evil Superman is a form of Bizarro, and the supercomputer is like Braniac. "},{"Title":"Superman vs St. Louis Assassin -part 3","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" this film is not at all as bad as some people would have you to believe it is.Once again the acting is superb (the acting was great in all 4 of these movies-even when the scripts aren't) I have a good time with this film every time I see it.It is the only Superman movie that doesn't open with John Williams awesome soundtrack. It's also the only one of the 4 movies where Superman fails to go to the fortress of solitude. It is also the only one without Lex Luther. ......so yes it was a departure from the first 2 films. this movie had far more comic relief in it. Richard Pryor done an outstanding job in this movie.yes I will admit that parts 1 and 2 are much better films than part 3.this is a good movie and curses to those who slam it. this is a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Fun, Cheesy humor","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III was no more than just a fun goof ball of a movie. Richard Pryor brought some laughs and the story was great with Superman battling his own alter ego. It's what every fan would like to see, an equal battle of good and evil, who will win?? Not as good as the first 2 but all out fun. "},{"Title":"Not Bad - Fun and dumb","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bought the third Superman on laserdisc to add to my collection.Wasn't as bad as I remembered - yes there's dumb effects - most annoying being the atari pac-man sound effects - but all in all, not bad. A lot more fun than any of the Batman movies. Batman is the better character but the Superman flicks - at least 1-3 - are a better trilogy. Watch it lazing on a Sunday afternoon or at 2 in the morning, sorting laundry and gaming cards, like I did. Reeve and Pryor are both great, it's a shame what happened to both of them later on in life. I ask you to kill Superman and you can't do that one simple thing...(drops phone) 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III is a good sequel. I like the action and the humor. Christopher Reeve is good as Clark Kent/Superman, Annette O' Toole is good as Lana, Robert Vaghn was good as Ross Webster, and I think Richard Pryor does a good comedic performance as Gus Gorman. I think Richard Lester did a good job directing this movie. I also like the other movie he directed Superman II. I like the sets, writing, cinematography, visual effects, acting and sound. Every time I watch this movie I laugh. I wish Superman IV was as good as Superman III. I wish Christopher Reeve never died. I think this movie makes fun of itself because most sequels do. The critics were wrong on this movie. I read some where that this was a Box Office hit. "},{"Title":"Never underestimate the power of computers! Superman 3","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The above comment, is what Ross Webster says, I know the power of this very computer that I do these reviews on. But the computer won't do anything I tell it. unlike that big computer on the film. also can you get Gus to tell me how to get all the half cents into my wages account as well. I also liked that drunk caretaker at that Webscoe Centere when Gus got him drunk! I also like it when Gus says Baby it's daddy to the big computer in that cave. I thought that the fight that those two Superman's had in the scrap yard was a lesson to everyone, that is. Good will triumph over evil in the end! this film also shows us just how dependent we are on oil! and coffee to get us going in the mornings, and for this world to function. I wish that Clark Kent would get some better glasses, maybe he should visit Specsaves!! I am glad we have superman on this planet, I sleep much safer in my bed, knowing that he is out there. I also wish that Lex Luther was banged up in the clink. "},{"Title":"Super-Underrated","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In truth, although I personally enjoyed Superman III and I scored it an 8, it probably lies somewhere closer to 7.5. What has become the major criticism has been a focus not on what the film was, but what it could have been. This is truly unfair to the finished product as SUPERMAN III did have a lot to offer and remains quite entertaining today. Please read on as I qualify a statement that may be viewed a blasphemous among many fans.First let's get something straight. The film was not a bomb. It made less than the first 2, however part II made less than part I, and yet is considered a strong film whatever cut of it you see. Part III made less, but was still very successful. Second, part III is attacked for 2 reasons. The first is of course the lack of DONNER and his influences (director Richard Donner of the first film and part of the second). Yes, it is indeed sad that we will never know how far he could taken the series had he not been so unceremoniously canned; however that is something we cannot change or know and Part III is it's own animal and should be judged thusly. True, it does suffer some major drawbacks. There is real lack of spark without Lois around and the humor is very overpowering in many spots (the opening for example is entertaining, but completely off tone for the franchise). It does however benefit from a wonderful Lana Lang (the still very beautiful and active Superman actress in the current Smallville series, Annette O'Toole), a fun and unpredictable battle with a supercomputer, the ever reliable Reeve as Superman once again, and a scene which should be considered one of the greatest scenes in ANY superhero film, good Supes vs. Bad. That scene alone warrants a viewing.The second complaint is with co-star Richard Pryor. Anyone who has seen BATMAN and Nicholson's dominance of screen time, or even the first SUPERMAN must acknowledge that SUPERMAN III is not the only film to focus at least as much on the villain (if not more so) as they do the hero. It is sometimes distracting the extent they focus on Pryor in the film, but he also brings both a lightly villainous but also strong sense of humanity to a part that could have simply have been just a forgettable henchman. There was a distinct overuse of his character, but he by no means sinks the film. It should also be pointed out that the first 2 films (I rank, as do many others as some of the best Superhero films ever made) also had their flaws both in continuity (if Krypton had been destroyed thousands of years earlier, how then does the education in the crystals on the way to Earth reference 20th Century information for example) and logic (so it's just mere coincidence that tossing a nuclear bomb/missile into the vastness of space would just happen to explode a phantom zone prison floating around from Kyrpton?) and even Donner's work was occasionally improved by the choices made by Lester (his contributions to the franchise are a real injustice on their own as he is also an immensely talented filmmaker). Of course the third is no where near the shear wonder of parts 1 and 2, but it does stand well on it's own as a side adventure outside the first two films' mythology and despite it's shortcomings features some truly memorable effects, action and of course legendary Christopher Reeve playing not just dual, but a trio of roles. Worth a watch for sure. "},{"Title":"The best of Superman","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, this is the BEST Superman's movie, in spite of unfortunate commentaries. The humor' scenes, perhaps, aren't the best, but that is compensated with the excellent plot. The introduction of computers in the Superman's list of enemas and the creation of synthetic kryptonite give the movie a very interesting story. And the Evil Superman's appearance -with the later fight between him and Clark Kent- gives a turn to the situation. Perhaps, the final fight with the super computer elevates the quality of the film, showing us a super hero facing with an enemy who knows his weaknesses. The evils -like in cartoon movies- are stupid, but very ingenious at the time of creating devices to kill Superman. Definitively, SEE IT. You'll not loss your time. "},{"Title":"As bad as a movie can get","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Superman movie, along with the following sequel, is one of the sorriest excuses for a movie ever conceived by producers. The whole thing just reeks. It's as bad as a movie can get. And the folks responsible for this sloppy, junky, stupid movie clearly had no respect for moviegoers. It's a total embarrassment for everyone involved. It seems that they tried to go in the BATMAN TV series route (notice how the super computer in SUPERMAN III looks like the Batcave in the TV series) but at least the TV show, as cheesy as it was, was fun to watch. This is just painful from beginning to end.Avoid at all cost!!!! "}{"Title":"Third times a charm!","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This third installment was hysterical, thanks to Richard Pryor and just flat out fun, thanks to Annette O' Toole who also plays Clark Kent's (Tom Welling) adoptive mother on the Superman t.v. series and MY favorite t.v. series, Smallville. I thought that the blonde was just flat out annoying! I liked the villains though. But, the best for me was being able to see Christopher Reeve and Annette O'Toole together back in 1983! Christopher Reeve cannot be replaced! Bryan Singer who directed Superman Returns which came out in 2006 didn't know what he was doing when he casted Brandon Routh who looks like Dean Cain from Lois and Clark Then New Adventures of Superman as Clark Kent and Superman! He bares on resemblance to Reeve! Tom Welling who plays Clark Kent, and only Clark Kent right now on Smallville is the spitting image of Christopher Reeve, he should have been cast! Not only that but, like I said, Annette was Lana in Superman three with Chris, Terrence Stamp who played General Zod in Superman and Superman 2 provides the voice of Jor-El on Smallville and does a wonderful job at it. I will never get tired of seeing Christopher Reeve in action! See this movie! "},{"Title":"The Best Picture of (1983)","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my favorite Superman movie right here.  I love this one a whole lot. I love Richard Pryor a whole lot.  He was very funny in that one.  I love the scene when Superman split in to two.  Like good Clark Kent and bad Superman.  Then, they end up fighting.  And, good Clark Kent wins against bad Superman.  The best part with Richard Pryor, was when he flew with Superman at the near end of the movie.  That was my favorite rated PG movie of all rated PG movies, my favorite Warner Bros movie of all Warner Bros movies, and my best picture of (1983). "},{"Title":"This movie is about Richard Pryor, not Superman.","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Superman III, a computer genius named Gus Gorman teams up with the evil president of a big company to take Superman down using the latest computer technology. Superman ends up being exposed to synthetic kryptonite, and instead of getting hurt, he turns evil. Now the good in him must fight away the bad and destroy the evil supercomputer once and for all. Due to its lazy plot and acting, this just isn't the same as Superman's first 2 adventures.The first two Superman movies had a certain style to them that made them epic. Now, with a new director, that style is completely lost. Everything that made the first movie so good is taken away. Lex Luthor is gone, and Lois Lane's role has been shrunk down to supporting cameo. The new love interest in this film is Lana Lang, Clark's childhood sweetheart. Whereas the first movie was a great mix of action, drama, and humour, this movie is mostly humour, and a little action, because this movie is mainly meant to show off Richard Pryor's comedy skills. The plot in general is a little weak, and the villain in this is no Lex Luthor.The acting is especially weak. Christopher Reeve doesn't do such a great job as the man of steel in this entry. It seems he's getting bored. Of course, Richard Pryor completely ruins the mood of the movie with his over the top acting.Overall, this movie is a joke, not really meant to be anything otherwise, and I suggest people just ignore parts III and IV and skip right on to Superman Returns.4/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better comicbook movies around","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cool things about Superman III 1. Reeve gives his best Superman performance; no messing about, kick ass and take names heroics. I love it. 2. The junkyard fight scene, the best superhero movie fight sequence ever, outside the Matrix trilogy. 3. When Clark becomes Superman again after that fight scene; the way he stands up, realises who he is and then rips his shirt open to reveal the clean, fresh, heroic S symbol is awesome, and is one of the most stirring and effective Superman moments ever. 4. Best special effects of the series. 5. Richard Pryor IS funny, even though he is clearly in the wrong flick. 6. That nasty Zelda-from-Terrahawks cyborg monster that woman gets turned into at the end - SCARY! 7. Lana Lang is so much better than Lois Lane, you can actually see why Clark would go for her. 8. The way Superman outwits the computer at the climax rather than just using his power to defeat it. Here's the ultimate cool thing when most actors play evil versions of their characters, they just play them as 2D bad guys. But Reeve makes the evil Superman a convincingly bitter, currupted version of the Man of Steel, who realises how great he used to be and hates himself and everybody else for his fall from grace. He's a disgraced hero, a fallen angel. Ironically, he's the best villain of teh Superman series. The whole good/evil Superman thing is awesome and for me makes Superman III a very good film. I'll take Superman III over Spider-Man, Daredevil and Batman Forever.  "},{"Title":"Fun but overly comedic sequel (spoilers)","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arriving nearly three years after Superman II, Superman III was completed without any of the infighting or backstage fuss that had hampered the release of its predecessor. There have been some signficant changes. Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) features very little in the movie and Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) doesn't feature at all. The storyline formula is virtually the same is the first two, but the film contains far too much of the sort of slapstick comedy that underscored, and nearly undermined, the previous efforts.The film opens with a ridiculous slapstick credits sequence that finishes with Superman (Christopher Reeve) rescuing a man who nearly drowns in his own car. Elsewhere, unemployed no-hoper Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) signs up to train as a computer programmer and finds himself to be something of a genius at it. Before too long, he comes to the attentions of magnate Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) who intends to use Gorman's talents to help him amass a fortune from coffee and oil. Unfortunately, Superman scuppers their plans, prompting Webster and Gorman to try and put him out of action...The usual superheroics ensure. Superman comes to the aid of a burning chemical plant, an imperilled coffee crop, before a final showdown with a deadly Supercomputer. Away from all the flying around, in his secret identity of Clark Kent, Superman reacquaints himself with an old high school flame Lana Lang (an appealing Annette O'Toole), and her young son Ricky (Paul Kaethler).In an interesting twist, the villains acquire some Kryptonite, the only substance to which Superman is vulnerable. Exposed to it, our hero turns into a drunken lout before splitting himself into two personas, one good and one evil, who duel it out for dominance in a fantastic, scrapyard-bound fistfight.Superman III works best when it's being played straight, especially in the gentler moments between Clark and Lana Lang. However too much of the film depends on unfunny, overplayed comedy. The main culprit in this is Richard Pryor, as far too many scenes function as setups for his strained and over-the-top standup routines.Robert Vaughn gives a good performance as Webster, but (like Lex Luthor before him) is neither sufficiently threatening or imposing as the main villain. Annie Ross and Pamela Stephenson, as his sister and mistress respectively, are ineffectual and unappealing sidekicks.Keeping his head through all of this is Christopher Reeve as the eponymous superhero. He really enjoys going bad in this film, and otherwise maintains a consistent and credible performance.An enjoyable flick, but for the excessive comedy. The series would eventually be killed off with the anodyne Superman IV The Quest For Peace.  "},{"Title":"2nd best in the Superman saga","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN III rocks. Everyone always looks down on this movie, but it was a really good addition to the Superman movies.Basic storyline *MINOR SPOILERS --Richard Pryor is Gus Gorman, a computer genius who becomes involved in a scheme where he writes a computer program to steal money from his company. (See OFFICE SPACE) He is caught and then blackmailed by the company's owner Ross Webster. (Robert Vaughn) It turns out they sort of blackmail each other -- Webster makes Gus reprogram the weather satellite to control the weather and change the course of oil tankers. He also has Gus create a recipe for Kryptonite to get Superman out of the picture. On the other hand, Gus makes Webster's company build him a supercomputer.Meanwhile, Superman/Clark Kent is back in his hometown of Smallville where he rekindles an old flame with sweetheart Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole, who ironically plays Clark's mom on the SMALLVILLE TV series). Superman comes in contact with the homemade Krytptonite and all havoc breaks loose.The most exciting sequence of SUPERMAN III has to be the Clark Kent/Superman fight in the junkyard. The final fight with Superman vs. the supercomputer (Pac-Man sounds included) is also pretty good.SUPERMAN III is my 2nd favorite movie in the Superman series. Better than SUPERMAN I & IV, but not as good as Superman II. "},{"Title":"Never underestimate the power of computers.","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After being caught for a money making computer scam, Gus Gorman is recruited by unscrupulous multimillionaire Ross Webster. With Gorman's computer expertise, Webster plans to take complete economic control. But first there is the considerable issue of eradicating Superman to deal with.Richard Lester, as everyone now knows, inherited Superman 2 from the jettisoned Richard Donner. Here we have a complete Richard Lester Superman film, and from the extended slapstick opening we are aware that this is far lighter in tone than the previous two films. Lester's credits are steeped in comedy traditions, so it's no real surprise that Superman 3 is more airy comic book than troubled caped crusader. This is something that many franchise fans are completely unforgiving about. Which is a shame, because viewed as a comic book bit of nonsense it's a rather enjoyable film, certainly it's the one with the most fun approach. The action is very well put together, with a franchise highlight as Clark Kent gets to fight a clearly off kilter Superman, and the comedy, if accepted on its own terms, is very rewarding.However, it only works as entertainment if one can cast off the mythology of Superman and his fantastical complexities. To do so is not a crime against ones superhero beliefs, it's just an acceptance that it's a different approach, and that Superman 3's only real crime is not being as good as the first two franchise belters. Hey, just think, Quest For Peace was around the corner... 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why it wasn't all that bad.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie really wasn't all that bad.WB and the Salkinds totally dropped the ball on the Superman movies up by removing the two key elements of the first two -- Richard Donner and Mario Puzo.The first two, while not being perfect, had the essentials - a great Superman (Reeve), an OK Lois (Kidder), an amazing soundtrack (Williams), and a pretty good directorial/writing team.The Newmans, the two men who helped write the first two movies, took charge in Superman III. This makes it BLATANTLY obvious, that these were the jerks who are responsible for the Otis and Teschmacher characters. Now the charm of these tidbits of comic relief are not lost on me, you can see that in III they jump headlong into comic disaster.It's obvious that the best parts of Superman I and II were not the silly parts. It was not Reeves' silly portrayal of Clark Kent, nor was it Otis and Ms. Teschmacher's ineptitude.The good parts of the first two films were the dramatic, serious parts. The music by Williams, the death of Jonathan Kent, Reeves' portrayal of Superman, General Zod/Presidential scenes. These were the parts that made these movies kick ass.I know that Clark Kent WAS portrayed as humbly bumbly in the 30s an 40s, but I think that Superman as a character is a lot more deep if Kent was a lot less one-dimensional. Although I am not a huge fan of the show, Smallville is proof that a nerdy, stupid Clark Kent is less entertaining (although does help explain the fact that no one knows he's superman a lot better).The third movie attempts to turn Luthor into what he evolved into in the comics-- a savvy businessman. In fact, I think it's possible that in the original script, Webster WAS Luthor. It's pretty obvious, the Lorelei Ambrosia character is a close take on the Teschmacher character, and Webster talking down to his assistant is reminiscent of the Otis/Luthor relationship.And also Websco = Luthorcorp? Superman movie makers should have evolved the Luthor character into one that more closely followed the comics, especially if they are going to CONTINUE USING HIM in EVERY ONE! What Superman needs is a villain, like the real Braniac, who is scarier and deeper than the I'm so evil but I'm not even scary villain portrayed by Hackman. The fact that Luthor (even in the second movie) is egotistical, considers himself a criminal mastermind, but has no reasoning for it, is ridiculous. I'm angry at the fact that Luthor is such a stupid, one-dimensional character. He is given no reason to even dislike Superman, other than Supes foiling every stupid scheme Luthor has.Parasite, Braniac... even DOOMSDAY, please, if you're not going to do a villain right, at least get a new one.Although when I saw Singer's Superman trailer, I got chills, he is using tired, old cinematic-Superman mistakes-- the addition to a character that's not in the script (a child), and even the Lex Luthor character, I do worry also.If anyone hasn't read the Kevin Smith Superman script-- I HIGHLY recommend it. The drama of the Death and Return of Superman has the potential for an amazing movie... as does a Batman versus Superman, and in the Marvel Universe, an Earth X movie, but I doubt any of them would ever happen.The problem with bad comic book movies is that they take a character with a rich and vibrant history, and don't respect it properly. Comic movie makers need to take the source material VERY seriously, and respect it. Comics ARE modern mythology, they can be some of the most interesting and deep stories in society today, but not when they are considered funny books and taken as childish, pulp trash. "},{"Title":"A Good Pryor movie with plot holes","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    I still think that Richard Pryor had more talent in this movie than Christopher Reeve. Pryor was comical acting as an out of work man (his last job was for 15 minutes as a dish washer ))who discovers he has a gift of computer programming. I really enjoyed the style that Gus (Pryor) used to make money for himself and his evil boss.  The other plot of Clark Kent (Reeves) going back to Smallville to reunite with Lana was all right but not thrilling.  The plot holes start when the evil boss decides to freeze Colombia, not more than a minute after the evil boss turns off the TV news, in comes Gus. Gus spends the next 3 minutes describing how the TV news showed Superman saving Colombia. The time factor does not fit.  The plot holes widening when Superman splits into an evil ego and his good Clark Kent ego. These two ego then fight each other in a confusing battle at a auto junkyard.  Overall Pryor saves this otherwise mediocre movie.  "},{"Title":"GREAT SECOND SEQUEL","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman the Movie was fantastic. Superman II was brilliant. And they did it again with Superman III.This movie had everything a Superman fan could enjoy and plenty of comedy. Richard Pryor excelled in many of the comedy scenes. Robert Vaughan and Annie Ross made wicked villains (wouldn't it have been nice if Lex Luthor would have been in this film to team up with them). And Christopher Reeve excelled again.(MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD) In this movie Superman turns bad and Christopher Reeve does a great job portraying the downright despicable evil Superman. The fight between Clark Kent and the evil Superman is downright awesome.Annette O' Toole (now starring in Smallville)made her debut as Lana Lang and played a great part. There were also some great scenes where Superman saved a burning chemical factory and saved Lana Lang's son from being run over by a tractor.The final showdown between Superman and the Supercomputer was awesome.Just like in Superman II, Superman defeated the bad guys by using his brain. Some people assume Superman is only capable of using his fists but time and time again he uses his brain to defeat the villains (he does it in Superman IV).This was a great movie which was followed by yet another great film. "}{"Title":"A classic example of so bad it's great.","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're a connoisseur of bad film-making, then this is a must-have for your collection.To be fair, it has a few good bits - most of them being Reeve's scenes - but it spends a lot of time being plain silly, and throwing together a yarn which looks far-fetched even by comic-book-movie standards. The daftness of the plot and shallowness of many of the characters, combined with a significant number of poorly-executed effects shots, produces an end result so awful that you can spend two very enjoyable hours just laughing at how bad it is.Superman the Movie begins on an epic note, and maintains a degree of gravitas throughout - but this second sequel starts off with a ridiculous piece of slapstick mayhem, and never really tries to be serious at all. Many films try to get their audience emotionally invested in what's happening during the finale, whereas this one, if anything, saves the daftest for last.Superman III also suffers from the fact that many of the main characters from the first two films are either absent, or reduced to minor parts, and most of the story focuses on people who weren't there in the previous instalments, which makes this feel less like a continuation of the existing story, and more like a completely separate entity which just happens to feature the same actor as Superman.I gave it 1 star for its few decent bits of acting and characterisation (yes, there are one or two), 1 for some half-decent set designs, and 1 for being amusing. It loses the other 7 for throwing away most of what it inherited from its two predecessors, and reducing the series to a cheap, cheesy comedy.This film can be enjoyed if you don't expect too much of it - it's best watched with your brain completely disengaged. "},{"Title":"Christopher Reeve at his best here...","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III is a great film. It has a good story about a millionaire Computer tycoon (Robert Vaughn) taking control of various economies and resources through the use of an IT expert (Richard Pryor) as well as Superman's struggle with the effects of a synthetic lump of Kryptonite which warps his heroic personality into a truly mean and nasty looking character.The best scenes are Superman's attack on an oil tanker, the chemistry with Pamela Stephenson's character atop the Statue Of Liberty, and Superman getting drunk in a bar. But the highlight is the fantastic battle between Superman and Clark Kent in the scrapyard, truly one of the finest moments in the series with Christopher Reeve at his best. His physical appearance was at its peak in this third film.Not as epic as Superman and Superman II but an enjoyable third addition all the same. "},{"Title":"More campy fun with Superman.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III isn't really a terrible movie but it's more a movie that has some flaws in it, which causes the movie to be a below average one to watch.The story really isn't that bad and works fine as a campy-comedy. The way the story is however told at times make the movie look lame and silly. So good moments in the story are ruined and not executed correctly by director Richard Lester, who just isn't Richard Donner, no matter how hard he tries.Of course the charm and atmosphere of the first movie is longtime gone. Only thing that is left is the typical humor of the first movie. This movie is quite honestly more a comedy than it is an action movie. It makes the movie fun to watch as long as you don't take it all too seriously. The atmosphere and story is even more campy as it was in Superman II.The movie really misses Lois Lane and Lex Luthor. Lois Lane has been extremely limited done in this movie and the main villain is this time portrayed by Robert Vaughn. He is a great actor but he just is no Gene Hackman. Hackman made the first two movies extremely likable and watchable and at the same time gave the movie some extra style and sense of profession. This time the love interested for Clark Kent is Lana Lang who simply is no Lois Lane. There isn't really any chemistry on screen and their love-story isn't worked out good enough.I was actually watching this movie when I heard the news that Richard Pryor had passed away, that was a pretty weird and freaky experience and caused the news to be extra shocking. I knew his health was declining rapidly the last couple of years but still his death came as unexpected. He was excellent in this movie and made it great as a comedy. There are some hilarious comical moments that involves his character. He was truly one of the highlights of this movie and prevented this movie from being completely lame and ridicules.The movie is extremely simple executed which wasn't always good for the story. Yes, there are some good scene's such as the Clark Kent versus Superman thing that was thought up pretty well and there most certainly were some hilarious comical moments that were truly fun, B-movie, campy like, at times. But most of the good moments are ruined by the poor execution of the movie in general.Still it can be a very fun movie to watch as long as you don't take it all too serious.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Superman III - Not your average Superman Movie!!","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie when I was very young and when I was older wanted to see it again but could not find it in any of the shops ( I don't think they sell it in Australia anymore ) So I ordered it from amazon.co.uk and got it for my birthday and watched it straight away. This movie when compared to the other Superman movies is a complete and utter load of crap. *WARNINGCONTAINS SPOILERS* For example the first 2 entries in the franchise opened big with wonderful intergalactic credits. However in this installment the credits are absolute rubbish. Instead of taking place in space accompanied by the Superman Theme as they should do they are instead put over some crappy slapstick sequence which has absolutely no place in a Superman Movie and is a disgrace to the name of Superman. On a high note however this movie has great special effects, A superb cast and some good scenes. Superman III has the best scene in the Superman Trilogy ( and yes before people remind me that there are 4 Superman movies I know this but I say trilogy because I think the 4th Movie is a disgrace to the name of movies and dhould be wiped off the face of the earth. which I'm sure it will once everyones forgotten about it in a few years.) Anyway back to the topic Superman III contains the best scene in all 3 oh alright 4 of the Superman Movies-The fight between Good Superman and Evil Superman. Best scene in the series and is the highpoint of this film. Also the Chemical Fire scenes are very enjoyable. However the climax I thought was absolutely crap and to campy and far fetched. So there you have it. I think Superman III is an average movie that although not nearly as good as number I and II is still a reasonably good movie and has great acting, good special effects and beats Superman IV  The Quest For Crap any day. "},{"Title":"Tolerable","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes this movie is nowhere nearly as good as the first two Superman movies.  Yes Richard Pryor is completely out of place in a movie like this.  Yet I enjoyed this movie despite its faults.  Christopher Reeve saves this movie with his good performance as Superman.  Annette O'Toole is very good as Lana Lang.  Unfortunately, Margot Kidder makes an all too brief appearance as Lois Lane.  I think if there were more scenes between Lois Lane and Lana Lang, this might have worked more.  The action scenes are very good especially between Superman and Clark Kent.  However, they pale in comparison to the fight between Superman and the three super villains in Superman II.  This movie lacks the magic the first two movies have.  If you take it on its own, you will enjoy it.  However, if you are constantly comparing it to the first two movies, you will not.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everybody says.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we have a clear-cut example of a superhero film that, in the hands of another director, might have been amazing. It's a guilty pleasure for some and a nightmare for others. As is the case with BATMAN FOREVER, this film is lumped in with its bomby successor and not given a fair trial. As with the other Superman films, however, the cast (at-least the good guys) give the film a major boost.The opening salvo basically sets the tone for the rest of the movie. If you like the pre-credits scene, then you'll like the rest of the movie. If not, turn it off.The plot involves a man named Gus Voorman (Richard Pryor) who gets tangled up with his evil boss, Ross Webster (uh...), his mean sister (uh...) and his blonde kept-girl (uh...). These three villains make Lex n' co from part 1 look like Zod n' co from part 2. They could have made it about computers (you have to admit, it was ahead of its time in that) and had Brainiac be the bad guy or something. People always complain that Pryor wasn't at his best, during this film, but if he were that might have been inappropriate for a PG film.What makes this film better than people say (and what leads me to believe it could have been better) is the subplot involving Clark's return to Smallville. Annette O'Toole (who plays Clark's mother Martha Kent on SMALLVILLE) is fantastic as Lana Lang. She rivals Margot Kidder's Lois mainly because she added something new to the character. In the comics of the Silver Age, she was supposed to be Superboy's Lois. Then Lana began appearing in Superman stories and basically became Lois's red-headed counterpart. Here, she's the opposite of Lois considerate, down to Earth and in love with Clark more than with Superman. This carried over into the comics when Superman's history was revamped in 1986, and his choosing Lois over her hints at a slight masochistic streak (understandable for an invulnerable man).SPOILER WARNING!!! The story takes a turn when Superman goes bad. It's a result of what is essentially red kryptonite (even though it's still green) and it starts with negligence, then he engages in pranks and acts surly. Aside from being seduced by the blonde chick into destroying an oil tanker or something, bad Superman doesn't do anything THAT bad. It's not like he kills someone. Whatever, he splits into two people. One, the bad one, is still in his Superman costume (albiet, he's unshaven and it's darker) and the other, the good one, is in the guise of Clark Kent. This hints at some really fascinating symbolism. Is it because Superman is a pretension that attracts women like Lois and Clark is who he really is deep down and he should be with Lana? Is it because Superman is a false idol who fights battles the human race should fight for themselves, and Clark is a reporter who gives people the knowledge to do that and is the part of him that makes an honest living? Is it because Superman is a jock and Clark is a nerd? Sadly, they're just Supes and Clark so you can tell them apart. They might as well have replaced him with the red-garbed player 2 Superman from the arcade game.The special effects in this film are an improvement over the second one. Unless you're a kid, they won't knock your socks off, but they're mostly fairly convincing and they're more at-the-service of the actors. As a fight scene, the Supes vs Clark scene is surprisingly vibrant and Reeve and Lester pull it off well. There's also a sequence at a chemical plant (which does have a payoff at the end) that's very well done. Anyway, the villains are truly uninspired and that's really what hurts the film (although, Webster does prefigure the post-Crisis Lex). If Superman was given a more compelling antagonist and if they'd played on the strengths of the subplot more, it could have been the best in the whole series. "},{"Title":"Lesters Baby The cleverest of the soar-away Superman movies","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Making the third Superman movie something of a comedy works in my opinion. Because this way the movie is kept fresh. I cant understand why people have had a problem with the comedy elements, because Superman III does tell a very entertaining and exciting tale, and all credit must go to David and Leslie Newman, and first and for most the main man Richard Lester. The Film starts off well enough. A slapstick opening adds to the fun and sets the tone of what is to follow. This is refreshing in comparison with the openings of the other Superman movies, and unexpected. Anyhow if you miss the outer space  credits, the movie ends with them. Richard Pryor, is funny and likeable as Gus Gorman. This again is due to Lester, i would imagine. Robert Vaugn is no substitute for Gene Hackman, but does O.K. Annete O Toole is slightly cliched as Lana Lang, but again is acceptable. The real star of the show though, and this is obvious, is the man who keeps the whole thing together, Christopher Reeve as Superman. Anyone whoever plays the role in the future is going to be compared with him and rightly so. He is irreplaceable. The movies finest sequence is the junkyard battle between the good Superman and the evil Superman. Again straight out of a comic book and again all credit to Richard Lester.  If you are apalled by Superhero movies that dont take themselves serious stay away from this movie and dont read this review otherwise enjoy what is the most fun of all the Superman movies. "},{"Title":"Christopher Reeve saves Superman III","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second sequel was directed entirely by Richard Lester, and it shows - it's all comedy, in fact almost a spoof. Richard Pryor's quite funny in it, Robert Vaughn's alright, but this time, Margot Kidder is left out (blame the producers again). Fortunately, Annette O'Toole is excellent as Lana Lang, and all the scenes with her and Reeve are the best. Both the romantic and serious parts of the movie are excellent, but the movie is overrun by farcical comedy, making it more of a Richard Pryor comedy than a Superman movie. Fortunately, the 'true' Superman (Christopher Reeve) saves this movie from destruction - he is so great, really adding dimension to both characters, whilst also successfully playing a third character - an evil Superman - in one of the best scenes of the film. Reeve saves this movie completely and makes it hugely enjoyable, although not half as good as the first (making $60 million in the USA in 1983, compared to Superman I's $135 million in 1978).   "},{"Title":"It wasn't honestly that bad!","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Who expects Oscar-worthy performances and total realism from a movie about a guy in blue-yellow-red tights who flies through the air saying he fights for truth, justice, and the American way?Superman III may be the weakest of the series, but it still works. Contrary to popular belief, Gene Hackman is replaced not by Richard Pryor, but by Robert Vaughn as the scheming industrialist who puts Pryor to work destroying coffee crops and stopping oil pumps. Vaughn is an okay villain, but the real strength of his storyline comes from the neverending bickering between his scary sister Vera (Annie Ross) and his psychic nutritionist, Lorelei Ambrosia (Pamela Stephenson of History of the World, Part I), who have some moments of true campy greatness together (Watch closely, people, I'm about to take a human life!) Also, Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) is a much better love interest for Clark than Lois Lane. Lois only cares about Superman, but Lana is a real three-dimensional character as opposed to some starry-eyed girl with a crush. And while the movie does feature Superman straightening the Leaning Tower of Pisa, blowing out the Olympic Torch, and freezing a lake to drop on a chemical plant fire, it still beats his little time-turning trick.The movie works not only as a superhero flick, but a comedy. "},{"Title":"unappreciated gem","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is not like the first two, and because the first two were such awesome masterpieces that alone is generally considered to be a grave and unforgivable sin.In my opinion, people let some very strong merits of Superman III get buried in the twin shadows of Superman I & II.Superman III is largely tongue in cheek and played for laughs. But that's not to say that it is throw away and silly. The acting is still superb, the effects are still well budgeted and convincing. The action scenes are exciting and well executed. It doesn't seem like a cheap half-assed sequel.Superman III is played more comic book than the first two, but it doesn't come off as cheesy, because whenever anything inane or implausible happens, the characters react with incredulity and have comical responses. You always laugh with it, not at it.In the midst of all this campy comic book fun there is however one of the most fascinating conceits and most powerful and iconic scenes in any of the superman films. (SPOILER) We see what happens when superman's sense of selflessness and duty is removed; we see a man who can do anything he wants but has always felt that he is duty bound to ignore his own desires and needs in lieu of the needs of everybody else in the world. With this sense of duty rapidly eroding, he becomes disinterested and neglectful, more interested in indulging himself, until eventually he becomes embittered and resentful in the face of public criticism, ultimately leading him to become consumed with anger, hate and self pity. He turns evil. The rapid and artificially induced nature of this change of heart comes to a head when superman literally develops a split personality.The scene in the scrapyard where superman fights himself is absolutely definitive of Christopher Reeve's superman. This scene alone, in my view, promotes Superman III from throwaway sequel to a serious and essential companion to the first 2 films. The way the scene can be interpreted as either a visualisation of an internal struggle, or literally as some kind of Kryptonian sci-fi voodoo, is genius. It ranks as highly as any of the moments of genius in the first two films.Not only does the film contain such a powerful and deep exploration of superman's character but it is also genuinely funny and exciting. People need to cut it some slack. "}{"Title":"Not a bad follow-up to the first two.","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought the special edition DVD not too recently and the extras were very intriguing. Also I'm a big fan of Richard Pryor, so I know that this one stands out from the first two.The film overall is pretty impressive, although critics at the time the film was released thought it was awful. The films new villains are not that bad, considering the lack the charisma of Lex Luthor and Co.One important subplot a man-made form of Kryptonite; instead of killing him, the Man of Steel was turned evil. The sudden change also has has a fling with one of the villains. The movie's climax was very awe-inspiring and pretty technical with a huge payoff.Overall this film has a real feel-good quality to it. It is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Problems at the door...","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III is something of a mixed bag, it is quite clear that the producers/director chose to go for a comedic take on the film series, but this is quite common for the third entry in film series to try and play it for laughs, it also happened with Jaws, Batman, and even the Terminator series. Some people think that this went too far, but I don't it is a movie that is incredibly enjoyable, every actor does their best with their roles as written, any problems with the characters come from the scripts, not the actors. Of course Christopher Reeve is in top form here (I dare you to name a role he did where he wasn't). But of special note are Richard Pryor and Annette O'Toole. Pryor proves that he is a true comedic genius by abandoning his profane style and proving that he can be funny for the whole family. And O'Toole is the breakout new star of the movie, her Lana Lang is far superior to Margot Kidder's Lois Lane and the relationship that she has with Clark is far more believable and real than the relationship Lane has with Superman. She brings out a truly romantic aspect of Clark Kent, that given different circumstances ten years earlier, they would have married and lived happily ever after. Oh and she is by far the HOTTEST Lana Lang ever! This is not a bad movie, maybe not the great epic of the first film, or the non-stop action of the second, but it certainly has merits of its own. In 1983 Christopher Reeve gave and interview to OMNI magazine in which he said, I hope Superman III makes it - it's two hours where you can check your problems at the door. And it succeeded.God Bless! "},{"Title":"A great movie, very enjoyable","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My rating - 4/5 stars CONTAINS SPOILERS Superman III was fully directed by Richard Lester. The script, written by David and Leslie Newman, focused more on comedy than any of the other Superman movies, hence the casting of comedian Richard Pryor, as computer genius Gus Gorman. Released in 1983, Superman III did pretty good in the box office, but received pretty lousy reviews, mostly because the reviewers tended to compare it to the first 2 superb films. Superman III doesn't exactly have a comedic tone (not counting the beginning credits) but it has a comedic person, Gus Gorman. Reviewers tended to only look at him campy humor (except for a few funny scenes) and judge the film solely on that. Superman III definitely had the best flying FX out of all four Super films, because of the large budget, and the technology advances at that point. The plot definitely relates to today's world more than any of the other movies. Although some of the commands Gus Gorman types in the computer are pretty silly (like override all security).A major highlight of the film is the evil Superman Gus Gorman uses the Vulcan satellite to examine various pieces of Kryptonite debris floating in space. The chemical analysis shows that there is one unknown element in the kryptonite. The genius Gus Gorman types in tar as the unknown, not realizing that it is UNKNOWN because there is no element known to Earth like that, and obviously tar IS known. The kryptonite is created, and Gorman manages to plant it on Superman. To Gus' dismay, the kryptonite seems to have no effect on Superman. Later, however, a truck is teetering off of a bridge. Superman doesn't save it, figuring that he always gets there in time anyway, and asks Lana Lang to sit down with him. He comes back to his senses later, but it too late - the truck has already fallen. Superman goes on an evil streak, putting the Leaning Tower of Pisa straight, blowing out the Olympic torch, that just happens to be being passed on that very day.  He breaks open an oil tanker, gets drunk at a bar, and then finally looses it in a junkyard, where a huge imaginary battle occurs between the evil Superman and Clark Kent. Clark wins of course, and fixes everything again.The Lana Lang/Clark Kent scenes are great, with good chemistry between the two. Unfortunately, due to the firing of Richard Donner, Margot Kidder was only onscreen in what could be considered a cameo.Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) left, and was replaced by the evil Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn). Webster plans to use Gus Gorman, computer genius, to do his dirty work for him. Webster controls the price of coffee beans in various countries, but apparently Columbia won't give in to him. Gorman uses the Vulcan weather satellite to create huge rain storms and tornadoes, in an effort to wipe away Columbia's coffee. Superman foils their plan. Webster's new plan is to kill Superman, so that he can go about his other plans, like stopping people from getting oil. Gorman proposes that they build a computer, that will do anything that he tells it to do, and that can find anybody's weakness, and destroy them. In the end, Superman manages to destroy the computer. Gorman was let off, and Webster, Vera Webster, and Lorelei Ambrosia were thrown in jail.The end was nice, with Superman crushing a piece of coal into a diamond, and then giving Lana the diamond as Clark (but saying that it was from Superman), because she had to pawn her last diamond ring to pay for her heating bill. After that, Lana gets a job in the Daily Planet as a secretary (but is missing from the IVth installment) and Superman pushes the now not Leaning Tower of Pisa back into shape.This was a great sequel, and although some may say it revolves around comedy, they're only thinking of about 15 minutes out of the entire 125 minutes (theatrical version) of the movie. 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Unfairly underrated","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is, by far, my favorite feature film with Superman to this day. It gets better every time I watch it. Unfortunately, its qualities not always are recognized.It's a great comedy, an action film, a science fiction and a very bright observation of the changes that the popularization of computers brought in the early 80s.Also, brings the best performance of Christopher Reeve in the series and, possibly, in all his career. Margot Kidder, although doesn't appear much, is always OK, but the greatest surprise is Pamela Stephenson, fantastic as the false dumb blonde, questioning Kant when nobody is looking.There are a lot of unforgettable scenes, but the movie becomes really great after Superman is exposed to a fake piece of kryptonite and becomes bad, blowing out the torch of the Olympic Games, straightening the tower of Pisa and destroying a bar with peanuts after a shot of whisky.This movie is unfairly underrated (maybe because it's so daring and original) and it is yet to be rediscovered. It is destined to become a classic. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie somewhat entertaining. It had some positive and negative aspects to it. The story really didn't seem to be anywhere near the same as the previous two movies. Christopher Reeve gave a fairly strong performance in this movie as he did in the other two movies. Unfortunately Lex Luthor (Hackman) was replaced by a character that is very similar to him. It also had a computer genius (Pryor, his performance was fairly humorous which sometimes worked and sometimes didn't). Unfortunately Lois Lane (Kidder)is barely in it do to arguments over the director switch in the second movie which was similar to the reason that Hackman left. She was replaced by Clarks first love Lana Lang (O'Toole). The movie also has its high points when superman has to face his evil alter ego. The special effects were still on par with the other movies. As long as you don't have high expectations for this movie you are most likely going to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The best superman movie of them all!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The great thing about this movie is that it does not take itself too seriously, unlike the other superman movies. Casting Richard Pryor as a bad guy is a great idea because he is funny and all too human throughout the entire movie, and he is very easy to relate to. Christopher Reeve does the best role of his career, and in the scene where he fights with himself, it is good to see such a talented, in control actor assert himself on the screen. The plot does not take itself seriously either, and is often played for laughs, which is by no means a bad thing - the whole movie goes for two hours, but you will have such a good time watching it, you will not even notice. Highly reccomended. "},{"Title":"Wasted opportunity of some fantastic ideas!","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This could of....should of been the best out of the 4 Superman films.It's not that it was bad, because it wasn't, it was just incredibly goofy.....in parts!The thing is the movie plays out like 2 different films. The Richard Pryor vehicle is pretty good in itself but unfortunately it totally marrs the great Superman film which is utterly bursting to come out from underneath!Removing the comedy Pryor parts, this film has a great story all in itself. Lana Lang, played by the beautiful Anette O' Toole is a fantastic slice of where Superman/Clark Kent came from and the scenes between O' Toole and Reeve are both revealing and very touching. Christopher Reeve is obviously enjoying this part of the romantic tale as it allows him to show a nostalgic and romantic side of Kent that he couldn't get with the more scratchy persona of Lois Lane.The best part of the film though is the most ignored segment which is the evil Suparman slice. This, combined with the Lana Lang story absolutely would have made an amazing film in itself. Far truer (at least by comparison)to the comics than the daft super computer part of the tale.Reeve positively glows with a rabid lust for being able to portray the ultimate good guy as an utter dick! The Scene where Superman gets drunk and trashes a bar with peanuts is probably worth watching the film alone!The ultimate scene has to be the junkyard battle. This would have been all the more mighty if it was evil Superman Vs Good Superman instead of evil Superman vs Clark Kent (Who obviously still has Supes powers)As a film, some aspects of it definitely are the best in the series. Reeves physical frame is the largest and most defined in the films thanks to pounding the weights and it's great to see a real dark side to the Man Of Steel.It's just a shame these aspects weren't explored deeper in the film and gave way to unnecessary comedy farce.A good, polished high budget and enjoyable film but an utter wasted opportunity to explore some well presented idea! "},{"Title":"Okay film, worth watching if your a Superman fan","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film takes more flack than what it deserves. The problem with this film is there's too many pointless characters, such as Gus Gorman don't get me wrong I absolutely love Richard Pryor but the character just served no purpose in the film whatsoever. Secondly there's Russ Webster, who in the absence of Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor basically just played the same kind of character, although I think Russ Webster is what Luthor should have been but less goofy, and then there's his sister who randomly gets turned into a cyborg robot thingy.Aside from all that there's some good things about the film, we see Clark Kent return to his roots in Smallville and reignite an old flame with Lana Lang. The best part of this film is Superman getting exposed to a type of Kryptonite that creates a dark Superman which leads to a classic showdown of Clark Kent vs Dark Superman.As a kid I used to love this film but now when I watch it it just appears to have no development or direction to it. One for a Superman fan no where near as good as Superman I&II. Definitely lots better than Superman IV though. "},{"Title":"A real mixed bag","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's not often that a film and it's sequel are both blockbuster hits, but it's happened. But what are the chances that a second sequel could also do really well? Pretty slim I'd say, but it's not an unreachable goal. All three of the original 'Star Wars' films were hugely successful, both critically and financially. The same goes for the first two 'Superman' films and after that how could the studio not push on with another sequel? Three years later fans got one, but maybe not the one they expected. While II did an excellent job of following up the plot of the first one, III doesn't do so nearly as smoothly. In fact, most fans and critics felt that a lot of things about the film didn't work. Now, almost three decades later, how does the film hold up? Is it really that bad? Pros Performances are fine. It's especially nice to see Christopher Reeve get to play a darker side of his character. Though some parts seem better suited for another kind of film, the score is still good. Moves at a very fast clip. Beautiful cinematography. Great production design. Some of the humor and gags work. Very good effects, a marked improvement over the ones in II. Some exciting set pieces and action sequences.Cons Plot is flimsy and really just an excuse to show off the effects and set pieces. Much of the humor and sight gags are too silly. It's no fault of the actors, but the villains this time are really weak. The way Margot Kidder and her character were treated here is unforgivable and she is sorely missed. Lacks the sharp wit of it's predecessors. Apart from the Evil Superman this film really brings nothing new or exciting to the table.Final thoughts I must have really liked this one as a kid because I watched it many times. Seeing it now many years later I see why so many were disappointed. This certainly isn't a terrible film and dull is not a word I would use to describe it, but it's farm from perfect. In terms of the acting, effects, and excitement it's fine. It's also a good looking and well shot film. It's just that this time it doesn't have the same amount of heart as the first two and you get the feeling that this time all the producers saw were dollar signs.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"This Movie Suffers From Some Kryptonite !","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before the flood of the superheroes at the 2000s' cinema, one movie gripped my attention as well as my love, and I mean Richard Donner's (Superman - 1978). It was simply great on so many levels. You can say the same thing about its first sequel (Superman II - 1980), however not exactly the same thing about (Superman III - 1983).First of all, it's not a bad movie. Yet, in despite of the huge sets, the consecutive action, the wonderful tenderness.. etc, I think the glamour wasn't that marvelous. It's not a comedy like the nice intro along with the comic presence of (Pryor) may reveal to you. It's still another Sci-Fi flick from the lovely 1980s, but with what made it not the very best like its 2 previous ones.As the Kryptonite imbibes the superpower, this movie nearly got its own, For instance  the embarrassing matter of the very visible wires up (Reeve)'s shoulder for most of the time, it's a deadly sin in a Superman's work and a Hollywood movie ! (to tell you the truth the whole special effects this time were strangely adolescent), the matter of letting (Richard Pryor) go at the end !? He is a criminal all along despite his try to save Superman at the climax (Lorelei did the same thing and he left her to the police !), how did Superman forget all about the crimes of (Richard Pryor)'s character (Colombia's disaster for example) for anything more than making the comic star of the era away from jail for a false happy end !, moreover the extra Kryptonite of letting (Margot Kidder)'s character go like this !!, that was too disappointing for all the fans of the first 2 movies (he is Superman, not James Bond for god's sake !), plus how the scenes of the evils' dialogues looked like a TV work, how the pride of the American hero got manipulated (I think that was a mega shock for the Americans), and how idiot to make Superman as a video game at parts ! Although (Richard Pryor) delivered some fine moments but particularly I didn't love some of them, like the scene in which he disguises as a general honoring superman; they gave a free hand to Pryor to handle this, yet the result was silly scene. Simply the screen time that was given to him made the pace of the adventure kind of dull. (Pamela Stephenson) was a spoof of the foolish blonde bombshell, she even got the name of Marilyn Monroe's character in (Gentlemen Prefer Blondes - 1953), but sorry..She wasn't bombshell; looking less sexy than the dashing (Valerie Perrine), and she wasn't comic either ; enough to recall her so provocative artificial voice! On the other hand (Christipher Reeve) as Superman was a stroke of genius. Few times to put the attributes talented and star before a Hollywood name, but (Reeve) deserves them both. Actually HE IS Superman, to the extent that at part 5 (Superman Returns) they, the producers, did nothing but selecting a look-alike for him to replay Superman, yet the talent wasn't the same super. God bless his soul.(Robert Vaughn) is born to be that rich silly evil man, here he made fine job as insane too. (Annette O'toole) looks like one of the 1980s' gems, she wasn't only the beautiful tender girl with the long dress, the fabulous eyes, the childish smile, or the kind roots of Superman, she was also the 1980s.. And at its best ! It had strong dexterous sequences like Superman's fight with his evil side which was full of the original sense of the comics. The joyful atmosphere is still the same; My car's oil is leaking, this is one of the wickedest ! The cinematography was better than the music which lacked intensity or the genuine musical appeal of Superman's previous soundtracks, maybe that's why (Giorgio Moroder) had nominated for the worst musical score of the year. Aside from couple of embarrassing moments director (Richard Lester) simply made the OK superman adventure without the epic's halo, and that was his intention since he knew so little about (the man of steel)'s legacy and didn't want to make the David Lean thing of the first 2 movies ! It, as a whole, ranged between the perfect idea of evil Superman, and the stupid credits' boards (totally distracting at the opening, and too fast at the closing). "}{"Title":"Superman 3, brought to you by KFC","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't get me wrong, it had its moments, but after seeing and reading the background of the Donner vs Lester thing with Superman 2, it is obvious that Lester was much more interested in the Comedy than the red cape. Its a slap stick comedy with a couple of scenes with Reeves in the blue tights to justify the name of the movie, and the money he was paid.The introduction credits are case in point, but I am more offended by the skit in which Gus is drunk and operating the computer. You know the scene, where the guy at the ATM keeps getting all that money and starts stuffing down his pants, the old dude stuffs an orange or a lemon or something into his wife's face (well she was annoying). However the worst part of this sequence was the part in which the lights go bung and the red (or stop) light man starts fighting the green (or walk) light.I swear on my left foot, and my right one as well if it helps,at this point in the movie, when I was watching this movie when I was 7 or 8, I thought I had accidentally changed the channel or dosed off for an hour and not noticed, because I was convinced I was not watching a Superman movie. I swear.As everyone else says, the bad guys sucked, the love story sucked, Reeve was great, the effects were the same, he story sucked, except for one part which was gold.The bad Superman idea was gold, GOLD. So good I consider the Superman vs Superman scene as the best in any of the Superman movies. I just wish the rest of this movie lived up to this one scene's goldness, yes thats right GOLDNESS.Hang on, don't forget the random scene where Superman blows out the Olympic Candle, a random skit that was made for cheap laughs. Did not exactly show him off as evil did it? Now, why I believe this movie was brought to us by KFC.First, it was placed in the hall way broom cupboard as Gus was walking to and from the computer room in Smallville.Second, 'You know that chicken in the bucket, nobody knows that secret recipe that makes it taste so good &#133;' Third, and last, Ricky is eating a nice piece of plump chicken on his first night in the big city. "},{"Title":"Not very Super","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After two successful films, the Superman franchise was unable to sustain momentum with Superman III. Superman III continues the series slide that was slightly evident in the otherwise solid Superman II from a mix of drama, action and sly self-referential humor to more slapstick oriented, silly entries. Superman III almost wants to just be a comedy, and the film's dramatic elements are fairly lacking.As Superman III opens, Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) is headed for a high school reunion in Smallville where he crosses paths with an old crush of his, Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole, who years later would essay the role of Martha Kent in the series Smallville), who is divorced and living in Smallville with her son Ricky (Paul Kaethler). Clark rediscovers his attraction to her and they begin what seems to be the road to a relationship. At the same time, Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor), an unemployed man who discovers he has a knack for computer programming, gets a job with Webscoe Industries and performs some hacking to inflate his paycheck. The company's head, Ross Webster (Robert Vaughan), discovers Gus' creative accounting but instead of firing him, decides to use his abilities to attempt to take control of the world's energy supplies. When Superman thwarts' Ross' plans, he has Gus use satellites to analyze the location of Krypton and determine the elements that make up Kryptonite, Superman's weakness, and plans to synthesize a version of it.Gus is unable to replicate all the elements and substitutes tar was the missing item, which produces Kryptonite that doesn't kill Superman, but instead alters his personality, causing him to be come evil and selfish. With Superman no longer helping people, Ross' plans go forward and Gus makes a request he has designed a supercomputer that he wants Ross to build for him that will allow him to control all the computers in the world.With the presence of Richard Pryor, it is unsurprising that Superman III has a more strictly comedy directed bent, but frankly, turning the Superman series into a much more campy variety of film just doesn't work. After the first two films were able to be somewhat tongue in cheek without losing their dramatic strength, Superman III doesn't even really try to match those films. Almost everything in Superman III is played for laughs, and not even good laughs. A majority of the humor falls flat, and the whole experience proves relatively lame.A significant loss is the virtual removal of Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) from the film. She makes a brief appearance at the very beginning of the film and the very end, but is missing from the rest. She had a disagreement with the producers over the firing of Superman director Richard Donner on Superman II and so they all but removed her from Superman III. In her place they introduced Lana Lang, and Annette O'Toole is capable in the role, but the Clark/Lana relationship doesn't have the chemistry of the Clark/Lois relationship in Superman and Superman II.Superman III also suffers from lackluster villains. Ross Webster is a rather bland adversary, with Robert Vaughan attempting to channel Gene Hackman but coming up a bit short. His performance isn't terrible, but it's not great either. Gus Gorman isn't a villain, per se, more of a misguided soul, so the film somewhat vacillates between making him a bad guy and thus sucks any possible menace from him. That plus he is portrayed by Richard Pryor, who is a capable comedian, but has absolutely no ability to play a villain. He's just too nice a guy.About the only places Superman III still hits are with the still solid performance of Christopher Reeve as Superman, who manages to mostly escape unscathed, and the film's visual effects are still up to par. Otherwise, Superman III under whelms on almost every level. Not so Super, indeed. "},{"Title":"Superman vs. Clark Kent ?","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first viewed this film as a child, I hated it, but when I saw the film years later I soon changed my mind. Although this film did go down-hill after the 'Clark Kent vs. Superman' scene in the junkyard, I thought this film had a good storyline to it. Not only the acting was good (especially by Christopher Reeve) for when he turned from 'good to evil' but I found this film humorous and exciting in every way as Richard Pryor contributed mostly towards the humour side. Although I liked this movie there were some aspects in it that didn't make sense, like why did Dennis Hopper and his crew tried to kill Superman after he turned evil as he wasn't a problem to them at that point. Also how they use the same actors in different roles thinking that the viewers wouldn't realise it.(ie. The weedy Policeman from Houston in Superman 2,was the same actor in Superman 3, who had cash spitting out at him at the cash-point machine in New York) but then again this has happened a few times in all the Superman films.Something else I figured out in this film that not all viewers may have noticed is that Lona's son Ricky mat have saved Supermans life. This is because after the scene when Superman left the pub drunk and little Ricky was shouting out to him saying how how he believed in him and how he'd be great again - as those words stuck in his mind when he was flying away, I think that somewhat softened the evil Superman which then forced Clark Kent - his remaining goodness within him to exit his body in the junkyard and thereafter battling one another. So if Ricky wasn't there to encourage the Superman, then Superman would have probably perished.As a film thats different from the other Superman films (ie. without Lois Lane, Perry whites Office and Lex Luthor) I thought this film carried itself quite well. The reason why this film may have had bad ratings is because the viewers are too narrow minded to accept a sequel thats different from what they're used to. Apart from this the scene in the junkyard with Superman vs. Clark Kent was probably one of the most spectacular scenes in the whole Superman trilogy which also says a lot for how good this film was. Despite a few minor errors in this film, I think this Superman sequel is a classic, for the acting was good, it special effects were okay and it had a great plot. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but certainly not the worst....","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Looking back on this movie, the negatives first  The supercomputer bit (as well as computers being able to 'create weather') was silly, but in 20 years things that are being done with computer technology as plot points now will seem silly as well.  That aside.....Good pointsOne can certainly appreciate the symbolism of Clark Kent battling Evil Superman in this movie, as well as Superman's gradual transition from good to evil due to the impure Kryptonite.  But when Christopher Reeves splits into two halves and contronts himself, that entire battle, the dialogue and the scenes were well-orchestrated, and poignant.  If only they'de written a better storyline centered around that.  Yet, that part of the movie seemed to take a back seat to the computer nonsense.  Ricky and Lana were good supporting characters.Also, Richard Pryor was great on his own, in his own scenes, but Pryor's brief scene with Christopher Reeves at the end was awful...their chemistry was non-existent.  And what I find odd about that is that they are both great actors. "},{"Title":"Reeve makes yet another strong showing","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III is among the better black sheep super hero movie sequels.At has been mentioned many time, having Superman sharing the lead with Richard Pryor was just an excuse to cash in on Pryor's popularity and his desire to star in a Superman movie. Therefore, the story idea in general is definitely awkward and a misfire. But, the script, production values and good performances make the story work better than it should have.First of all, Christopher Reeve is yet again on target as Superman and Clark Kent. He looks great physically as the Man of Steel and gives the most mature portrayal in the series. Clark is still a bumbling reporter, but Kent's mild-mannered ways flow more smoothly than ever before. Superman is written a bit more cynically in this movie, (i.e. If I had a nickel for everytime a little kid asked me...), which was a so-so decision. At the same time, it's refreshing to see Superman not smiling all the time. Watching him jump into the drama with furrowed eyebrows and ordering people around when a chemical plant is about to permeate the eastern U.S. is definitely cool.In addition, Reeve plays a frightening evil Superman during some of the film's more interesting segments. In short, nobody, to this day, has embodied a superhero more effectively than Reeve.Second, the Smallville sequences are marvelously well done and are probably the best written moments of the film. Third, the supporting cast fill their roles nicely. Now that Smallville has proven a great show, it's cool to see Annette O'Toole, who will eventually play Mrs. Kent in Smallville, playing Lana Lang in this movie. Richard Pryor is fun to watch and he also made me laugh. True, his presence in the film was seemingly out of place, but he still won me over.The regulars---Lois Lane, Perry White and Jimmy Olsen---are welcome as the returning trio in the Daily Planet. My main complaint is that I would've preferred to see Jimmy grow up a little since this is the third film.Fourth, although the script lacked the epic feel of the first two films, the dialogue accomplished what it wanted to and the flying effects never looked better. As a side note, the other cool thing about this movie is that it correctly predicted the domination of computers years before it proved true.About the one thing that really sticks out badly in this movie is the lack of a worthy Supervillain. They should've brought in Brainiac or Metallo, who are some of Superman's cooler enemies in the comics. I love Robert Vaughn, but his Ross Webster was too straight for the main villain in a superhero movie. For a main villain, he should've been written with more eccentric qualities, ala Lex Luthor. The supercomputer was not bad, but it would've worked better as a secondary villain or obstacle.All in all, SIII is  flawed, but entertaining in its own right and is best viewed when not comparing it to its predecessors. I'll take Superman III over most of the Batman films, except maybe Batman Returns. "},{"Title":"Pryor steals show with perm afro and molester stache","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This has to be the best performance that we have seen out of Pryor.  He is as Agustus Gus Gorman, not to be confused with the 60s Don Knotts movie, Gus, about the field goal kicking donkey.Pryor starts the movie as a bum in a rut, but unemployment services place him in a job as a computer programmer.  He soon realizes that he has a talent for hacking.  He writes over small portions of money into his account, hoping that no one will ever notice.  Not to be, Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn), who is the millionaire executive in charge of the company, realizes that Gus has been embezzling corporate funds.In a bind, Gus agrees to help catch Superman and he tries to produce Kryptonite, but only has 95% of the ingredients identified.  He decides to simply put tobacco tar in the recipe and he delivers Superman the tar-laden kryptonite in a military jeep at some convention.  Superman claims that the gift is nice, but has no clue what the hell it could be.Gorman's special mix created a reaction that caused Superman to become a vile gangster.  It didn't kill him, as he and Webster had hoped, but it did spin off a Superman who got drunk, got laid, straightened the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and blew out the Olympic torch, all just for fun.  He also fought himself as Kent vs. bad Superman in a junk yard and had tires all over him and then Kent crushed him in the end.  Oh, Superman as the gangster also tore open a crude oil vessel in the Pacific to attempt to cause massive ecological damage.In the end, peace is restored and Gorman ends up saving Superman from the super computer that is created to help Webster rule the planet Houston. Pryor skis down a skyscraper and has a good pube afro and stache.It is a great movie and I recommend it to any fan of the Superman concept. "},{"Title":"I love this one too!","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SUPERMAN IIIAnother classic film.I read Still Me earlier this year. Still Me is the autobiography of Christopher Reeve. It is such a good book. But he did not like this film very much. He said that there were bits about this movie he did like, but in general it just was a bit ridiculous.I thought it was slightly ridiculous, but it is still a great film. I love the scenes where he goes to his school reunion. I think the relationship he has with Lana is so much nicer than the relationship he has with Lois. I actually wished Clark got together with Lana.The other classic scenes are the ones where Superman turns bad. I loved bad Superman. He was evil! Then the big fight where Superman was fighting Clark in the scrap yard... such a great, action packed sequence.The acting is not too bad in this one... Christopher Reeve as always does a brilliant job. The villain, Ross, is played by Robert Vaughn. He is another classic actor. But I think the star of this film (apart from Reeve) has to be Richard Pryor. I love Richard Pryor. The man was a legend. So funny and such a character in all the films he was in. When I was reading Christopher Reeves book, he said that they wrote Gus' character especially for Richard because Richard mentioned in an interview that he would love to be in a Superman movie.The effects were not bad, but you did see the strings that helped Chris Reeve fly a few times. But then this film is old, so what do we expect from back in the day.I will give this film 7 out of 10.Another great Superman movie... shame I have to watch Superman IV next.For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Silly, mindless fun.","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I agree with everyone who says that Super IV is an awful, wretched movie. But III... well, it's mindless fun, actually. Nothing special, just a guilty pleasure.I know, I know, Super 1 and 2 (specially Donner version of 2) are great, wonderful films! But when I was little, I used to go to school, my mom was doing laundry, father working, back from school, it was the 80's, starts raining, couldn't get out of the house, finished homework from school, standing on our living room, playing with my action figures, reading my comics, listening to the vinyl records on our sound, and then I got bored and decided to turn on the TV and there it was, Superman III.And I used to watch this movie on TV a lot, so I just got nostalgic feelings by it. I didn't know any better, Richard Pryor always looked nice on the film for me and I used to laugh at him a lot. Of course I was little and unfamiliarized with his other films, specially the ones with Gene Wilder, so I just kept watching Super III.I mean, when you grow up, you tend to judge things a lot better, but for the time being, I used to have some mindless fun with this movie, and once it kept me from being bored on rainy days, I guess it did a good job on me.So I think it's not a terrible movie after all. Undeniably flawed, yes, weaker than its predecessors, no doubt! There is nothing epic or breathtaking about this one. But it still offers some nice fun for me from time to time.If you don't like it, OK, I can perfectly see where you're coming from. But I gotta say this... if you're on a rainy day... just give it a try. "},{"Title":"More than what it first appears","Date":"4 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know Superman III gets a lot of flack, mostly because of the inclusion of Richard Pryor, but -- after re-watching it recently -- I was surprised at how satisfying it is once you get used to the presence of Pryor.Christopher Reeves as Superman is good, of course, but you also have Robert Vaughn as the Luthor-like villain and Pamela Stephenson as his hot female assistant a la Miss Teschmacher. The cast really excels with the inclusion of the beautiful Annette O'Toole as Lana Lang, a sort of replacement for Lois Lane, who barely appears in this installment. Annette is a pleasure to behold throughout.Once you get used to the presence of Pryor the film really takes off in the second half with Superman fighting his dark side, an obvious type of the inner conflict of flesh & spirit within us all. Even more, there's the satisfying redemption of a certain character that illustrates how a person can make a huge mistake and still be applicable for redemption, as long as he or she is willing. The film just leaves you with a good feeling.BOTTOM LINE I suppose it's not as good as the first two, but Superman III really delivers if you overlook all the bashing and give it a chance. Richard Pryor is goofy, but amusing and likable; and Annette O'Toole shines. Most of all, the movie is deeper than what meets the eye and effectively conveys powerful truths about the human condition and potential.The film runs 125 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Superman is about as confused as the audience","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christoper Reeves' biography page contains a quote explaining that Richard Lester, who re-(and, some would say, mis-)directed most of Donner's footage in the second movie and did all of this, was always looking for a gag. This film proves that beyond any doubt. Following a hard-to-read title sequence over a scene of slapstick that would have had(and quite possibly did have) Benny Hill shaking his head and averting his eyes(featuring none other than Bob Todd, who often appeared with Hill), the entire film is a long line of attempted jokes. I say attempted because Lester has little respect for or understanding of comedy(nor the character of mythology of Superman, as has been firmly established); any joke needs proper setup for the punchline to have any effect, and no joke should be *immediately* followed by another, with no room to laugh in-between. This is similar to a recent and unfortunate development in the genre of action films, where a director who doesn't understand the need for the slow-down in-between the major action sequences, to allow the audience to breathe, to take in what they've just seen. Now, without these much-needed breaks in-between, the film basically becomes one very long sketch. Had this been a TV-special with a fraction of the running time and the title Silly Superman, perhaps it would have been tolerable. I don't care much for Pryor. Maybe fans of him will enjoy his performance. The acting is all overplayed... even in the case of newly added Annette O'Toole, who's definitely displayed her talent on Smallville. Clark continues to be a fish-out-of-water and more there for comic relief than anything else. The dialog and various actions of the characters are rarely too credible, and most of the film is marred by the overly comic-book-like tone. The humor has taken what must be the last leap downwards, not only reaching the very bottom but going through it. While the conflict seen at one point in the film, between the good-natured Clark Kent and the now-evil Superman could have proved to be interesting, it isn't used for anything, and ends up simply being an action scene. Near the very end of the film, the quality of the writing takes a solid dive... and yes, I, too, was surprised that it could manage to go any lower. Wasting the potential of an excellent science fiction idea put forth many, many years back and using it just to throw more adversity into our hero's path, the plot twist is unexpected and without any grounds in logic or any remainder of proper storytelling. As if the writer had no actual ideas left, and just threw in whatever sprung to mind. Then again, the film itself seems like one big case of that. The pacing is consistently off. The cinematography retains its comic-book look and feel. The special effects are of slightly lesser quality than the former efforts... easier to tell, less convincing. Margot Kidder, who portrays Lois Lane, confronted the producers of the film to complain about the firing of Donner on the second film... with the result that her part was cut down to an absolute minimum(though so unusually(for this film, and the other by Lester) well-explained that you wouldn't notice it unless you thought hard). To me, that seems like a juvenile act, and an abuse of power(though I will admit, I can't say for sure that I missed the character in this... Lana Lang certainly provided an interesting new development, if one of the only good things in this at all). All in all... this is probably a good place to skip this attempt at making a film series out of the character. This is not a good film at all... and from what I've heard, it only gets worse in the next one. I recommend this to those fans who *must* see every piece of film regarding the hero... and I urge you to save some episodes of Smallville, or perhaps the Singer film(soon to be plural) for after, to see a better representation as well as a more skilled execution of him. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Superman and Pryor not the Greatest duo","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman The Movie was the blockbuster of its time, an allstar cast, and a fresh new line of Special Effects, and awesome Storwriters. It is the best in the series, and has stood the test of time. Superman II was also very good, it lives up to the first one, and the new Richard Donner cut coming in November should be even better than the one we're all accustomed to! After the first seqel though, is where things began to change...At the end of the 2nd movie, COMING SOON SUPERMAN III! was the first sentence in the credits. Lets get our hopes up for the next one the First two were great! Audiences soon found that was not the case for the 1983 film starring Christopher Reeve and...Richard Pryor?!WHAT WAS WRONG?After I, and II Gene Hackman and Margot Kidder were openly angry at the Producers Ilya and Alexander Salkind for firing Richard Donner off the 2nd movie, he had filmed the 1st film, and most of the 2nd when this happened. So Hackman refused to show up in III. And Margot talked about the Salkinds or something publicly about the Salkinds firing Donner.So...They kept her pretty low profile in Superman III, saying she took a Vacation to Bermuda. This kinda killed off Clark Kent's original love life for the movie. The Salkinds also made some other choices that killed the movie. They decided to go with a campier movie this time. Completely diminishing the seriousness of Superman I and II. Richard Pryor wasn't too bad for the style of movie, but...he doesn't really seem like the best computer genius.Now to the point, Superman III suffered deeply from the aspects above. Being the only movie to fail to have Lex Luthor, and Lois Lane. It was a poor sequel to the 1st two. And I rate it a 3/10. The special effects as far as Superman flying, and using heat vision were at their best here, but still this wasn't enough to save the movie. The script was also way too Campy. Poor Job here Salkinds. So this movie failed to get good reviews, and lost popularity. The new November DVD Should be great though! The Best part of Superman III was the battle between Clark and Evil Superman. Christopher Reeve was a great actor, and showed a whole new role for himself in that small part of the movie where he is evil. But this was indeed a good performance by Reeve. (But without Lois Lane he had to start over again with the Lana in Smallvill, and Pryor also made too much of a competetor of all the attention) "},{"Title":"Better that I expected","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked this movie for the bad Superman. Reeve looked more charismatic when he was the bad Superman, especially during the fight with Clark. There was unnecessary humor throughout the movie which I disliked. I am a fan of Smallville and one of the reasons I watched this movie was to see Annette O'Toole as Lana Lang. After Smallville it is quite interesting to see her as Lana Lang. You could see that Lois Lane felt jealous after meeting Lana in the office. I liked that! Poor Clark was at last getting some attention from Lana. I am eagerly waiting for the next Superman movie coming up in June 2006. From what I have seen that movie is going to be great. "},{"Title":"Campy, but fun","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman and Superman II were two excellent examples of how a superhero movie should be. Excellent story, true drama, great performances. Superman III, however, takes a different approach to the legendary character. Not necessarily bad, but a little less serious than the Donner films and more of a focus on fun. Try to think of this film as kind of the story of an actual comic of Superman out of the 1960's. It isn't anything deep about Supes Kryptonian origins or furthering his love with Lois, it's just Superman off on another adventure facing a new evil villain along with Richard Pryor. It's pure meaningless fun that works pretty well and it is a definite recommendation to complete the Supes trilogy (but word of advise, stop at III, don't bother with IV or you'll just be disappointed) "},{"Title":"whatever","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not only did I feel that this wasn't a great movie, some people are going to hate me for saying this. I didn't like it as much as Superman IV. Now don't get me wrong, this was a descent movie but I just didn't feel it had as much magic as the 4th one.I missed the romance between Superman and Lois Lane, probably because Kidder only had a cameo. And the thing I missed most was Gene Hackman. For the first two movies, he was a great criminal and I think he got into it a little bit. But beyond that, I didn't like the idea of someone overnight being able to know everything about computers and do whatever he wanted.Finally the thing that bugged me was the opening scene. I loved seeing all the names fly by in the first two, now this just made me want to cry. "},{"Title":"Superman The Comedy","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" For years, many fans wondered about what has become known as the hybrid version of Superman II, which was half directed by Richard Donner and half directed by Richard Lester after Donner was unceremoniously dumped from the project.Superman II was a very strong sequel despite all the production woes, but has not held up nearly as well as the first film, and now plays more like camp in many spots. Was this Lester's influence, or was the plan always to lighten the tone of the sequel to create more of a popcorn film? Well, we all got our answer in 1983, when Superman III debuted, this completely under the guiding hand of Richard Lester.From the film's opening credit sequence, a completely farcical series of events, you get that sinking feeling and realize that anything resembling cheese and slapstick in the second film was directly the influence of Lester. The first Superman was grounded in a sense of reality, even if it was a comic book one, which is noticeably absent from much of Superman II. In the first film, Metropolis always seemed like a real city with real people inhabiting it. The second recalled a city on a sound stage with only the vaguest sense of a distorted reality. Well, the filmmakers decided to distort reality further in Superman III by ignoring what made the franchise great and going with a hipper, more today approach. They accomplished this by centering the film around the casting of Richard Pryor. The problem with this approach is that there is absolutely no reason for Richard Pryor to appear in Superman III other than the fact that he's Richard Pryor.The idea behind Superman III is actually a fairly intriguing one, where a computer genius constructs a super-computer, which in a unique turn of events alters the mental stability of Superman, turning him away from his All-American persona. Suddenly, Superman is no longer the hope for all mankind, but the anti Superman intent on destroying us. It also contains one of the best moments in the series, as Clark Kent and the evil Superman actually battle each other. It's one of the highpoints of the entire series, yet still can't avoid being disappointing by the overall poor quality of the production.I Thank the heavens that a good 20 minutes of this movie was cut for theatrical release because it just made the pacing even worse!, most of the footage cut was more pointless forced comedy moments and the only high point of the footage being reinserted for the Extended TV Version shown numerous times in the late eighties were the newly created opening credits in space, rather then the credits appearing during the opening montage in the theatrical cut.So what went wrong? I would put the blame squarely at the feet of Lester and the Salkinds, who seemed to want to make a Richard Pryor Superman movie rather than a film that was true to the spirit of the characters and the original film. Pryor is given far too much screen time despite the fact that he's not even the main villain. The producers obviously figured that, if they're paying Richard Pryor, they may as well use him, whether it benefits the film or not. So what would I have done differently? Well, the plot about a super computer and an altered Superman is a fantastic direction for the film to go, but that's where they left it. I would have eliminated the character of Ross Webster, the ultimate corporate bad guy, and everyone around him in favor of Gus Gorman, the computer genius trying to dominate the world on his own. The Webster character is totally unnecessary and a more maniacal Gorman working in solitude would have been far more menacing But the catch is that with Pryor in the role of Gorman, the producers obviously felt a need to allow him to redeem himself in the end, so I say they should have removed Pryor, too. This could also have cut out much of the unnecessary comic drivel that ruins Superman III.Ultimately, Superman III is not the worst entry in the series, but not for a lack of trying. Richard Lester proved once and for all that he really didn't understand what a Superman movie should be, seemingly relying on British slapstick comedy that is taken right out of an episode of Monty Python's Flying Circus where it belongs! and a pathetic, poor script that he and probably only ten other people found amusing. He must have forgotten that Superman is aimed towards an American audience. The movie does actually start to get good from the moment supes becomes anti-supes, Watching the dual between Clark and Superman really lets you see how the whole movie could have been made dark and serious and kept out of the silly comedy path even with Pryor and other factors etc If Superman III had been made this way it probably would have been better then II!. The Superman vs. Clark scene proves this, In Superman II where Zod and Superman battle it out, the end result is disappointing and nothing really happens other then Superman throwing Zod into a Coca-Cola sign, the confrontation in III is far far better!. With all the great characters and history that Superman has encountered, there were really limitless possibilities for this sequel. Unfortunately for fans, we happened to get stuck with filmmakers who obviously were limited in their abilities, talents and taste!. The last 35 minutes of this movie on a whole deserves a 6/10 rating. Why could the other 85 minutes of this movie not of been the same!, The rest of the movie deserves nothing more then a poor...3/10 "},{"Title":"The superman movie series slip with this one...","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  when i saw this for the first time i was more of a kid than now......a little kid and i was a big superman movies fan.....i even liked this one a bit....and when i see it right now i still enjoy some of it....it is enjoyable to see superman turn evil....it is the best part of the movie....or maybe the only good part of it......richard pryor is too dumb at some parts of the movie and the opening credits belong to a Charles Chaplin movie.....a bad Charles Chaplin movie........the musical score is not bad.....mostly because it is filled mainly with John Williams' music but still it could've been much better........the only excellent thing in this film is Christopher Reeve's performance......but the rest is disappointing....specially when the big computer battles superman....disappointing but certainly better than the fourth superman movie........** out of 5 "},{"Title":"The best film ever","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This surely is not only the best in the Superman series but possibly the best film ever made. The reason why? Gus Gorman of course played by the hilarious Richard Prior. The part was originally to be played by legendary Sub Patrol keyboard player Adam Davies due to Pryors bad health at the time of casting. A lot of people may say the first or possibly the second Superman in the series were the best due to their more serious storylines and characters but dig deeper into this comic tragedy and you'll find pathos acted superbly (mainly by Pryor). If your one of the only people on the (daily) planet not to have seen any of this series i advise you to give the first two a wide birth and head straight for this little gem. Genius! "},{"Title":"In retrospect, a great Superman movie","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Superman III is a great movie because it touches on so much of Superman's comic book history.  As many fans know, comedy plays a big part in the Superman comics.  Villains such as Mr. Mxyzptlk, The Toyman, and The Prankster gained fame in the 1940s as they were the only characters to humiliate The Man of Steel.  Gus Gorman is a foe of like character, although a more benevolent being.     Nearly 20 years removed from the film's release, it is easier for the general audience to understand computers, and henceforth makes Superman III a movie ahead of its time.  What is more ironic is that the villainy of Ross Webster, the evil billionaire businessman, predated the current interpretation of Lex Luthor, who at the time was an evil genius.  Ross's sister, and Lorelei Ambrosia are also two great villains, who represent overblown characterizations of the wicked sister and the golddigging girlfriend. "},{"Title":"I asked you to kill Superman, and you're telling me that you couldn't do that one, simple thing?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" * * *  (3 out of 5)Superman IIIDirected by Richard Lester, 1983I asked you to kill Superman, and you're telling me that you couldn't do that one, simple thing?  &#150; Ross Webster, played  by Robert VaughnEnjoyable and effective third instalment, high on comedy and spoof elements.Of all the African-American candidates in Hollywood in the early 80s, Richard Pryor was the least likely to pioneer a cross-over into mainstream Caucasian-dominated motion picture family entertainment. That's nevertheless what he did by way of Richard Lester's Superman III. Before other stars like Eddie Murphy, Will Smith and even Bill Cosby.After the epic original and the more dashing and dark sequel, Superman III turned out to be a true delight that nurtured its roots but also subtlety re-invented the formula. Once again offering neat visuals, there's also loads of laughs and an inventive plot. As Superman seemed to have run out of villains after the first two movies, finding him a worthy adversary would be the main concern. Enter the computer age. Superman III not only boldly paired the Man of Steel with an African-American sidekick, it had him battle a piece of machinery. Real sign of the times however the super computer.  A computer capable of everything from changing the weather conditions in South America to switching the traffic lights in Metropolis. This makes for an interesting sequence in which Superman battles his own evil twin &#150; created by computer genius Gus Gorman (Pryor) from a defunct recipe of Kryptonite (with a little help from a pack of Camels, naturally).  Superman III was bold; casting Pryor was one thing, but also notably missing is the omnipresent crime lord Lex Luthor as portrayed by Gene Hackman. To take his place are some new villainous characters; Robert Vaughn as the slick and sharp corporate mogul Ross Webster with Annie Ross as the bitchy sister-in-crime Vera Webster. Annette O'Toole is endearing as Superman's new love interest Lana Lang (staying true to the origins), and Gavin O'Herlihy makes for a great alcoholic small-town loser in Brad &#150; a man who cherishes his high school football achievements but hasn't taken another step since then. Jackie Cooper, Margot Kidder and Marc McClure all return &#150; only for small scenes &#150; but they lend the movie a nice continuity.  However, it's Lester's comic take on everything (and Pryor in top form) together with a strong performance by Reeve that saves the day. Richard Pryor has great mannerisms and Superman III ranks among this great comedian's best films. Reeve seems grittier than before and his transition  into his &#145;evil' alter ego makes for some intriguing scenes as Superman becomes frighteningly subversive. Well done.  Side-note The opening slapstick sequence &#150; meticulously crafted by Lester &#150; is straight out camp but makes for a charming set-piece in the tradition of Blake Edward's Pink Panther series.        "},{"Title":"Not as good as 1 and 2, but still lots of fun","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so there is too much comedy in the movie. But at least it's funny. The comedy inserted into the Batman movies was just plain awful. There are enough daring rescues and superhuman feats in this film to more than keep you entertained. Christopher Reeve is great in this. Especially when Superman becomes evil. The fight between Superman and Clark Kent is AWESOME! This is a grossly underrated sequel that, as far as superhero movie sequels go, is an Oscar winner when compared to ANY of the Batman sequels. "}{"Title":"by far one of the worst movies ive ever seen","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just rented superman 1 2 and 3 and watched them in succession. 1 and 2 rule of course.... but this piece of  needs to be banished from video stores everywhere. not only is ot completely far-fetched with the whole uber computer who has more powers than the terminator and my pentium III combined, but the plot is WEAK, and the acting is HORRIBLE. check out the scenes where evil superman tries to act tough. oooh.. tough man he is. whatever. dont rent this.. its a 1.5 hour trip into a bad place. even worse than batman and robin  "},{"Title":"What a downer.","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Richard Lestet returned for another pay cheque film, upping the slapstick, and lessening nearly everything else.The production design is good, the cinematography and acting is good, Christopher Reeve is in top form, as usual, this time in three roles Clark Kent, Superman, and Evil Superman, and he pulls off all of them quite well. As far as the villain goes, we go from excellent General Zod and his goons in Part II to Robert Vaughn playing Robert Vaughn, and Richard Pryor, who looks either unsure of what he is doing here, or just bored to be here, as he is forced to create synthetic Kryptonite by Lex Luthor's replacement, Robert Vaughn, to try to kill Superman.The film seems unsure what it wants to be, as it veers wildly from zany slapstick, to dark scifi, and action, to horror, as Vera's transformation scene is creepy as hell, and I don't mean that in a good way. The fantasy of the first two films has been replaced with completely out of place horror elements at the climax, which makes it a downer, followed by more silly slapstick in its closing moments, to try to raise the audiences' spirits, unsuccessfully. "},{"Title":"They really should have stopped with the second one...","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...because this is a terrible sequel that nearly undoes all of the goodwill created by the first two films. Christopher Reeve returns as Superman, who, in his alter ego of Clark Kent, travels back to his hometown of Smallville to attend his high school reunion. While there, he crosses path with an evil business magnate (Robert Vaughn), his equally evil sister (Annie Ross), and Vaughn's ditzy assistant (Pamela Stephenson). They've hired a computer genius (Richard Pryor) to help develop a super computer to help in their plan for global domination. They also develop artificial kryptonite that turns Superman evil. You know he's evil because he quits shaving, has dingy clothes, and straightens the Leaning Tower of Pisa.Margot Kidder was fighting with the producers at this point, so her role as Lois Lane is reduced to short cameos at the beginning and end of the film. Jackie Cooper returns as Daily Planet editor Perry White, and Marc McClure as junior reporter Jimmy Olsen. Annette O'Toole appears as Kent's high school crush Lana Lang, and Gavan (Son of Dan) O'Herlihy as a drunken high school bully.Director Richard Lester tries to accentuate the comedy in this, but the script is so awful that nothing can save it. The effects are bargain basement as well, with some really shoddy miniature and matte work.THis film has one of the zaniest rather stand-alone moments in any film ever- near the end when the Super Computer the villains build starts malfunctioning and they try to flee. The villain's sister- who up to now really has served zero purpose in the story- is sucked into a claustrophobic compartment of the computer and- in one of the most disturbing moments that I can recall in what is supposed to be a relatively family friendly film - she screams in agony as the computer strangles her with wires and staples metal all over her face. She then emerges as the most ridiculous looking robot ever, by which I mean even Robbie the Robot would laugh at this thing.The director of this film had to have had some serious issues with his mother (or maybe his sister?).i just cannot fathom how it was felt by the writers that this was necessary or appropriate in a movie that children were going to want to see. Annie Ross is actually an accomplished jazz and standard vocalist who, i can only assume, was being blackmailed into appearing in this or really needed to pay off a loan or something.So this was the end of WB's relationship with the Christopher Reeve franchise of Superman. Given the goofiness of it all the fourth one was taken on by The Cannon Group, which was such a goofy production company that it was worthy of a documentary all of its own, and actually HAS a documentary all of its own. "},{"Title":"Horrible excuse for a Superman movie!","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What were they thinking when they made this? This movie barely focuses on Superman and mainly focuses on Richard Pryor acting like an unfunny idiot. Also even though Richard Pryor seems to have no experience using a computer he somehow gets hired to do payroll on a computer. Not only that but he intentionally does it wrong and gives everyone more money than he should. Instead of being angry about this his boss actually likes that he did this. Seriously? That is dumb! Also who the heck wants to see a Superman movie with a plot point about someone doing payroll? There are maybe a few scenes with Superman that are entertaining but Superman/Clark Kent is not focused on enough. This movie spends way more time on comedian Richard Pryor than it does on Superman. The villains in this movie are not even from the comics. Some say the giant robot at the end is supposed to be Braniac but having read old comics with him that is a bunch of bolony. Frankly this whole movie feels like it was originally supposed to be a Richard Pryor comedy and then they added in Superman at the last second. Some might like the scene of Superman turning bad then turning into 2 different people but frankly I think that's really confusing and don't care for it. Anyway this movie is awful and I don't get how any sane person could like it. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been so much better","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" They say the third time is the charm, but I might tend to think that this movie proves the law of diminishing returns. To be fair though, the first two Superman movies were SO good, with such great stories and talented casts, that even had all the elements come together for a third film with all the original cast and crew, it still might not measure up. Oh what could have been though! After being fired while directing Superman II, Richard Donner (Who directed the original) was replaced by British filmmaker Richard Lester, who, a competent director in his own right, was maybe not the right fit for the tone of the original Superman films. Out was the somewhat dark, serious film, and in was the overly slapstick style that began in the middle of Superman II. Returning to direct the third installment, Lester again throws sight gags at us as if it was his job. The opening montage starts out with a bank robbery then slides down the slope into pratfalls, and pie in the face routines. Richard Pryor as computer genius August 'Gus' Gorman, lays it on a bit thick, and is really wasted in what could have been a better part. But really, there lies the problem with Superman III. Instead of battling Lex Luthor, or Zod, Superman is set upon by Richard Pryor, a boring business tycoon and a supercomputer! Instead of a known villain, we get jobbed. As if the producers just didn't care to invest the time into really writing a strong story with a great conflict. What they do accomplish however, is staging some very good action sequences, whereby Superman saves the day in several different scenes. The most exciting in my opinion, being the fight between the 'Good' and 'Evil' Superman, a high point for the series. In addition, the back story of Clark's life in Smallville is brought to the fore as we are introduced to Lana, Clark's high school crush, (Annette O'Tool) in a fun trip back to where it all began for Clark on Earth. Kudos must go to Christopher Reeve for his portrayal of three characters, Clark Kent, Superman, and Bizzarro Superman. He was a wonderful talent and this movie really shows off his acting chops. The rest of the cast holds their own, but the script is not up to par, so you really can't blame them. What could have been a GREAT cap to the series is only a fair effort, a shame as this was the last gasp of a great series of films. "},{"Title":"Three-prong attack against Superman in this sequel, but Superman prevails","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ross Webster now becomes sort of a offshoot of the evil Lex Luthor in the Superman and Superman II.With that, Ross in Superman III focuses on Gus Gorman (a computer expert played by Richard Pryor) to defeat the powers of Superman by modifying all of his regular behaviors of what Superman stands for---good, kindness, and sincerity.The attack on Superman was three-prong. First, Ross forces Gus Gorman to alter the weather satellites on a computer mainframe system, so that the altering will cause a major tropical storm in Colombia that would destroy the country's coffee crop and terribly destroy the world markets that depend on that valuable crop.Gus does his evil deed but was informed that Superman countered this super-storm over Columbia by his common super-strengths (like turning a twister upside down or blowing strong winds with his mouth to dry up the flooded crops), which made Ross mad.Then, the second prong is to find Superman's chemical qualities, which included of course, Kryptonite, made of course from the planet Krypton, which detonated completely by the super-heating sun in the first Superman movie. Gus gets back to a mainframe computer station and does find the exact chemical qualities in the Krypton, and then, a Krypton rock is sent to Superman, and then, Superman becomes two parts--one angry and drunk--called bad Superman, and the other part, called good Superman. This leads to the final battle in a garbage dump between the two different Supermans...finally, a choke hold by the good Superman ends the bad Superman for good.The third prong attack on the good Superman (with the bad Superman now gone) focuses on Gus's design of a supercomputer somewhere in the desert Southwest. Ross then beckons Superman in the final conflict, and Superman knows that he has to be stopped before the supercomputer rules Ross's goal of world conquest that could lead to worldwide chaos and destruction.This third prong attack was in 2 stages. In stage 1, as Superman comes towards the location of the cave from the outside, he is greeted by plenty of surface-to-air rockets (part of the computer's exterior defense system) that aims toward him, but Superman does evade the destructive missiles as Ross, along with two lady assistants, uses the supercomputer as some time of video game as they were destined to kill Superman. When those regular missiles were ineffective, there was a call to fire the MX--a much bigger surface-to-air missile, which does hit Superman and he falls to the ground near the cave. At the same time, Gus Gorman goes into the cave and sees his computer creation come to life. Gus then is greeted graciously by Ross, to join in the computer's bells and whistles to try to finish off Superman.Superman does get up and go right into the supercomputer cave, and tells Ross that this game is over. This leads to Stage 2 of Ross's attack, when Ross then stops Superman with the computer's Krypton laser pulse--the chemical Gus made. As Superman is stunned in terrible pain and collapses, Gus then runs into the main power switch and pulls the plug, turning the whole computer off.This buys time for Superman, but suddenly, the computer goes on again, and Gus realizes that the computer wants to be something like a monster. It had gone completely mad, and one lady assistant is entrapped by the device and becomes an evil cyborg. Superman leaves the cave and comes back with a closed special acid canister that is inert. He then stops the cyborg, but then the mad computer was about the eat at Superman with shock hits and is about to fatally entrap him; at this point, he opens up the acid canister, and the acid does its work. It eats away and then destroys the whole supercomputer from the inside out--starting with small--and then big--explosions.The supercomputer is now rubble with twisted and bent steel, and Superman comes out from the destruction, was able to find Gus alive (he hid somewhere to evade the carnage), and takes Gus back alive, out of the cave, to his original workplace. Superman says that the other people will be brought to justice, including Ross.From all of the seriousness of this flick, there is a lighter part of this movie where Lois Lane is introduced to a brand new writer for the Daily Planet, Lana Lane. She appears brighter in appearance than the original Lois. "},{"Title":"Weird...Why?","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is just a weird film. If you accept the fact that it is composed partly of light, throwaway comedic sketches interspersed with some interesting looks into Clark Kent's past, interspersed with some marginally compelling Superman action, then maybe it isn't that bad of a viewing experience. At least it makes no real pretensions of being a serious or dramatic take. But as for my personal opinion, I find it very disappointing that the creators of Superman III did not take it more seriously.Anyway, I enjoy Annette O'Toole's turn as Lana Lang; I feel that she has a good grounding effect on Clark Kent (as in real or down-to-earth). No disrespect to Margot Kidder's Lois Lane, but I found Lana to be a refreshing change of pace. I also like the utilization of computers as a plot device. It is too bad that Brainiac was not specifically figured into this story (I understand that to have been an abandoned part of the initial plan, or somesuch), but the more general supercomputer is a good, relevant threat for Superman to be up against. While this film does not feature the best depiction possible by any means, it is still a good concept.This, like some of the other more screwbally early superhero films, is a fun one for kids. It would also probably be a fun trip for Mystery Science Theater 3000 to take. For me, it is pretty far down towards the bottom of my superhero film list, but it is not the worst. "},{"Title":"Ok, But Could've Been Better!","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Reeve, Richard Pryor, Robert Vaughn, Annette O'Toole and Margot Kidder star in this 1983 action sequel. In this sequel, Clark Kent/Superman (Reeve) reunites with his Smallville high school crush, Lana Lang (O'Toole) and deals with ruthless wealthy businessman, Ross Webster (Vaughn). Pryor plays Gus Gorman, a computer expert who works for Webster and is persuaded by him to build a super computer to harm the Man of Steel. He starts by making synthetic Kryptonite laced with tobacco tar which makes Superman bad. Soon, Clark/Superman fights his evil alter ego and faces Webster. This sequel is OK, but could've been better. I think one of the problems is it focused too much on Pryor. Vaughn isn't bad as Webster, but I missed Lex Luthor and Kidder isn't in this long as Lois Lane. O'Toole is great as usual and the bad Superman thing is kind of good. I still recommend this. "},{"Title":"An inferior third installment with usually unfunny humour, though the film is definitely not as bad as I believed it would be","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the third of the four Superman movies starring Christopher Reeve, in a role which the actor was very famous for. It was directed by Richard Lester, who also directed the final cut of Superman II, and before seeing his contributions to this franchise, I saw A Hard Day's Night and Help!, two 60's comedies which Lester also directed, starring the Beatles as themselves. Having seen the first two installments in the Superman franchise within the past few weeks and being impressed with both of them (though slightly more with the first one than the second, unsurprisingly), I intended to watch this one next, since I have been planning on watching them all. I was expecting Superman III to be far inferior to its two predecessors, as it was clearly much less popular, but to me, it seemed to be only slightly inferior.Gus Gorman is a man in Metropolis who can't seem to get a job and is informed that he is not eligible for unemployment. He then comes across a computer training ad and decides to enroll. His amazing computer skills catch the attention of Ross Webster, a wealthy businessman who intends to use Gus's skills to help him take over the world economy! Gus ends up joining the scheming businessman, his sister Vera, and assistant Lorelei Ambrosia in their evil plans! Superman/Clark Kent is unaware of this activity while he is away from the city and back in Smallville for a high school reunion. Ross forces Gorman to take control of a weather satellite and create a hurricane to destroy the coffee crop of Colombia, a country which has refused to do business with him! After Superman comes and stops this disaster, the evil businessman realizes he must kill the renowned hero in order for his schemes to work! Kryptonite is the only thing that can kill Superman, so Gus uses his computer skills to find the elements of the substance, and finds all but one. The kryptonite with one missing element replaced by tar does not kill Superman, but it does make him turn evil! The first segment of this second sequel shows Gus, played by groundbreaking comedian Richard Pryor, in the unemployment office. This part basically shows what the humour is like throughout the film, sometimes just a little funny, but not usually even that. This part is followed by the opening credits sequence, featuring a series of pointless and usually very straight-faced sight gags. This might be the worst attempt at humour in the entire movie, which is certainly saying something! For a long time, most of Superman III seemed basically mediocre to me. There are times early on when it does get intense, such as Superman trying to save a chemical plant from a fire, but the high school reunion and the scenes involving Clark Kent and Lana Lang reunited in Smallville usually didn't grab me. Also, Lorelei Ambrosia, played by Pamela Stephenson, is borderline annoying. However, during the second hour, it finally became clear to me that the movie was above average in my book, as it gets more exciting at this point, starting with the evil Superman and the good Clark Kent getting into a fight! I can understand why this third installment in the famous Superman film adaptation franchise is less popular than its two predecessors, due to the usually unsuccessful attempts at humour and maybe an inferior main villain, but after watching the whole film, I don't quite get what makes it a REALLY bad film to many people. It did look like I would by rating Superman III 5/10 for quite a while into it, but with the sequence showing Superman's fight with himself, I knew that I would not be able to rate the film any lower than 6/10, and what I saw after that didn't change my mind, even if it is a little overlong. It helps that Christopher Reeve's portrayal of the protagonist still has the same charm. Criticism for this particular installment in the franchise turned out to be very high, but it does seem to have a following, and it definitely turned out to be better than Joel Schumacher's contributions to the Batman movie franchise when he took over as the director for the third and fourth installments, so I won't call Superman III a must-see, but also won't urge people to avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Superman III Richard Pryor","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III is a curate's egg. There is much in it which is very good - the good/bad Superman fight topping that particular list, giving Chris Reeve the opportunity to add a third characterisation to Superman and Clark.Yet there is much more in it which isn't good than was the case in the previous two movies. From a technical point of view, there are noticeably fewer effects, and they are noticeably shoddier (there is some appalling colour work on matted elements one would have thought they would have been aware that Superman's costume is blue, not green!) But by far the worst element is Richard Pryor. Don't get me wrong - I like Richard Pryor, and the story (and Gus Gorman's part in it) was fine. But Pryor was allowed - possibly even encouraged - to overpower the film. Just as happened with the Burton run of Batman films, the focus moved away from the titular character to someone who should have been secondary. This is at its very worst in the truly dreadful sequence when Pryor is explaining Superman's feats in a sequence which should have centred on those feats instead of a verbal recounting of them.Potential - 9 out of 10, but delivery falls far short of this. "}{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III has a few moments of greatness, but overall it is a failure. Contrary to popular belief, it did not bomb, but it is just not as endearing as the first two. Richard Pryor plays Gus Gorman, a computer hacker who ends up working for the millionaire Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn). Webster is really just a third rate Lex Luthor. It's sad that they had to copy Luthor in the only Superman film that he does not appear in! Gorman and Webster come up with some plan to control the weather with computers, and to get Superman out of the way, Gorman invents synthetic Kryptonite.In the mean time, Clark Kent goes back to Smallville for his High School Reunion, and reunites with his old girlfriend Lana Lang, who is now a single mother. Their romance is not as exciting as the Clark-Lois-Superman love triangle in the first two films, but it does present us with a Clark Kent that is more down to earth and less of a disguise. Unfortunately Gorman ruins everything for Superman when he presents the fake Kryptonite to him as a gift. The Kryptonite has an unexpected effect on Superman- it turns him evil, and he wreaks havoc all over the world.The most common criticism of Superman III is that it is not really a Superman movie, but a Richard Pryor film with Superman in it. I think this is definitely true. Richard Lester went far too overboard on the humor here. It is much more intrusive here than it ever was in the first two films. I think after making two films about one character, it is OK to focus more on a bad guy, but only when the bad guy is a good character. Gorman is some kind of bad sitcom character and feels out of place in a Superman film.What frustrates me the most about this film is the wasted potential. So many of the ideas in the script could have been executed better. The evil Superman story was a great idea, but it does not take up a considerable amount of time. Can you imagine a movie where Superman turns evil, and his human friends try to bring him back? That would have made for some great comic book melodrama! The scene where Superman fights Clark Kent ranks as one of the best moments of the series. It was a good metaphorical way to portray the good side of Clark Kent trying to take over his body again. Unfortunately the bad Superman story is played mostly for laughs, so it does not come close to saving the film.Lois Lane is also sorely missed. It is rumored that Margot Kidder hated the Salkinds so much for firing Richard Donner that she did not cooperate when Richard Lester took over Superman II, so the Salkinds decided to give her a 5 minute cameo in this movie. Her presence could have made the film so much more interesting. Lana Lang loves Clark Kent for who he is, whereas Lois Lane loves Superman. Having to choose between the two women would have been a very interesting dilemma for Superman. Who would he be happier with? It would be like deciding which side of himself is more important to him. They tried to do something like this in Superman IV, but it was played for laughs since Clark was not in love with Mariel Hemingway.While Superman III has good action scenes, the best special effects in the series, and a sincere performance from Christopher Reeve, I cannot recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A Pastiche of Superman's world according to Richard Lester","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When you have talented actors like Christopher Reeve, Richard Pryor and Robert Vaughn, Director Lester clearly thinks it's easier to be cheesier and still come out with a consistent film. If we can agree that it's okay to betray the Superman mythos, then what's bad about this film is it's severely dated and it has the look of one-take Richard Lester. When you see the quality of the image and the framing in part 1 and see Lester's sort of shoot-on-the-go approach, it doesn't mean Lester's direction is worse, but it does show that he does not have the same feeling for image that Donner had. Lester's style is documentary-like.Superman 3 is a mess of a film. If you can be entertained by a PG Pryor and love completely absurd moments like him skiing off a skyscraper and landing perfectly unharmed on his feet hundreds of feet below, then god bless you. Even the best part of the film - the junkyard scene - makes no sense. Really, how are there two separated Supermans? We just have to follow along. I'll admit, if I'm looking for mindless, and I do mean mindless pleasure, like a bad b-movie from the 1940s, then that's what this film has to offer. It betrays true Superman fans, though, and doesn't mind smearing it in their faces either. Is this technically a bad film? Yeah, it's ugly. But, it has a style of ugly that can be pretty to some. 6 out of 7 days of the week I'll hate it. The other day I consider it mindless fun and I can be entertained by it. In its' defense, you can't say that about a lot of films. "},{"Title":"Forget kryptonite, you can kill Superman with a bad movie!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not long ago, I wrote my ideas as to what SUPERMANs III and IV should have been for Superman Cinema's fan-fic section. My version of SUPERMAN III picked up where the last film left off, with the relationship between Lois and Clark/Superman dead and gone. In it, Lana Lang returns to rekindle her relationship with Clark while a pair of insane government scientists mass-produce Bizarros for use as a disposable army. Spurned on the basis that such an army would violate human rights, the scientists use the Bizarros to wreak havoc upon Washington and end up in direct conflict with Superman.Why am I telling you this? Because what I came up with was way better than the actual SUPERMAN III. It's no secret that the Salkinds originally intended the SUPERMAN films to be camp comedies, a plan that Richard Donner and Tom Mankiewicz undid when they made SUPERMAN as a dramatic film. Even though both men had been fired from SUPERMAN II after filming 80% of the picture and replaced by Richard Lester and the Newmans (who rewrote and reshot much of the final film, and are the masterminds behind III), enough of Donner and Mankiewicz's influence was stamped into the film to keep it from being totally screwed up. With SUPERMAN III, Donner and Mankiewicz's influence is completely absent, and we finally see what the Salkinds intended the SUPERMAN series to be all along. And what we get is a campy, dumb, and unfunny insult to the mythos. Not even the superb FX work, a good rescue scene at a chemical plant, and Robert Paynter's comic book-panel photography can make this film feel like genuine Superman.It's not the idea of having Richard Pryor in a Superman film that makes this film bad, or using Lana Lang. It's not even the idea of using new villains. What makes this film bad is the sheer carelessness and idiocy of it all. For a film that revolves around computers as a menace, the villain should have been Brainiac, the genocidal AI of the comic books. Instead we get Robert Vaughn and Annie Ross as greedy tycoons who sucker a computer wiz into helping them corner the commodities market. Not very exciting. Instead of giving Pryor a meaty, serious role that would have tested him as an actor and have fit into the tone of the Superman mythos, we get Pryor as Gus Gorman doing standard Pryor shtick and not being funny at all. Instead of Lana Lang having some zest and excitement to her, we get a very bland and dull character played by a very boring Annette O'Toole. It also doesn't help that Pamela Stephenson's Lorelai character is beyond annoying, that Lois Lane barely appears in this movie at all (the Salkinds were punishing Margot Kidder for openly sticking up for Donner), that none of the plot threads are remotely satisfying, that Superman is now a bit player in his own movie, that Ken Thorne's abysmal and boring score continues to reduce John Williams' powerful fanfares to shrill and campy disgraces, that Richard Lester's disdain for Superman shows in his indifferent direction, and that the acting is all-around awful. Even when Superman ISN'T evil (and the Superman goes evil and fights himself scene is the lowest point in the film), Christopher Reeve comes off as smarmy and insincere (probably because he realizes the film sucks). And let's not forget the horrible slapstick gags, which are totally out of place here. And why does Metropolis have such a strongly British feel to it in the opening sequence? Shouldn't it be more American? Shades of SUPERMAN II's Idaho residents with British accents....I can't say that this is as low as the SUPERMAN films can sink; the upcoming Jon Peters-produced SUPERMAN movie promises to be even worse. But of the Christopher Reeve cycle, this is by far the worst of the four. To those who assert that this film is truer to the comic books than the first two, I beg to differ. The first two films are kin to the best Superman comic stories. III is kin to the absolute worst. "},{"Title":"They should have ended the franchie with superman II","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  a silly,embrasing entry to a once impressive series. There's a number of thing's wrong with this film,long not to mention unfunny splapstick scene's involving richard pryor,no lois lane and above all else,CRAP SPECIAL EFFECTS. they looked fine in the first two superman film's,but they were starting to date by the time this film came out. it really should have ended with superman II  because at the end of that film superman had to decide to if he was going to sacrifice his powers and fall in love with lois lane or dedicating his life to saving the world continuously in danger. he picked the later option and ditched lois lane,deciding it would be impossible for him to have a loving relationship with another human being. so why the hell is he romancing lana lang in this film. not only that but another thing that confused me was the fact that when clark went back to smallville to the school reunion,he was dressed up very much like clark kent(nerdy glasses and everything)and everyone recognised him. but clark kent dresed up normaly in the beginning of the first film. the point i am trying to make is if somebody could recognise him years later under a geeky disguise why the hell cant they recognise him when he's superman.RATING **/*****    "},{"Title":"What is different about the third one?","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I saw the movie, and I loved it... along with Superman 12 and 4. But will somebody please tell me something? What the he-- does this have to do with the rest. You have Gene Hackman, Louis Lane, and Metropolis; Gene Hackman, Louis Lane, and Metropolis; then you have Richard Pryor, Smallville, and some badguy; and then back to Gene Hackman and Louis Lane and Metropolis. Did the producers get high or something while making the third? Huh huh... Hey guys, let's cast Richard Pryor in here... Aww man that is soooo funny.  Don't get me wrong, I loved all of them, but the difference is something I just can't hold in.I still give it a 10! "},{"Title":"A silly but unexpected turn of events","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first checked out Superman 3 the year it came out...back in 1983. Believe it or not, I was shaken up by Superman's antics. I was only 5 years old at the time, and thought Superman was the perfect gentleman until this. I watched the film from start to finish, and was more comfortable with the early moments of the movie. Parts like when Gus Gorman was pulling the drunken body of Brad to hook up the PC, knowing that Gus needed both hands simultaneously...funny. And also when Gus was making light chit-chat with the boss Ross Webster. One particular scene I thought was funny was when Ross' sister Vera came down to join her brother and Gus commented You didn't tell me your mother was gonna be here it got a big laugh from the audience. Other than that nothing else really enchanted me from this film. Moving on to the Superman versus a human-like Clark Kent was very tight and dramatic. The only real spark the film had to offer. Superman had become a womanizer or cad and through guilt created his alter ego and knew he had to destroy it. Note that during their battle, Superman became a bit weaker while Kent gained invicibility. Most people believed the Man of Steel changed because of some bogus chunk of kryptonite, however, if studied properly, Superman changed on his own free will. The fake green stuff was just an excuse to make him do it. Realizing that the stuff didn't kill him, Superman felt that nothing may be able to harm him anymore. He felt to be more potent than ever. Superman then decided to act up merely because he had nothing else better to do, and was feeling bored. Being the bad guy for once added some spice to his life...think about it and you will agree with me. "},{"Title":"A disappointment that makes you squirm","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are some redeeming qualities which saves this movie from being as awful as Superman IV  the Rube Goldberg-esque sequence in the beginning of the film (where one mishap causes another & things get worse); the charming courtship between Lana & Clark (for a change, Lana really likes Clark but doesn't care much for Superman); and when Superman's evil twin starts doing naughty things like flick peanuts at windows to break them, or straighten the Tower of Pisa, I think he even comes on to Lana!  But it's not enough to save the entire movie from being an embarrassment  the writers & director have overemphasized the comedy, casting not only a lame Richard Pryor (who lost his sharp wit after he almost torched himself), but also a typical blonde bimbo as the villain's mistress, and the guy who plays Lana's drunk ex-husband. And Lana's kid is such a pain you wanna slap him!  The production values are cheaper, due to a slashed budget.  Reeve and Annette O'Toole as Lana give nice performances, but the film is quite average, a far cry from Superman I and II.  Too bad "},{"Title":"Reeve's crowning moment. Too bad it's not a good movie.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The drastic drop in quality after the first two Superman films is a real shame. As a kid, I enjoyed the Superman films even more than the Star Wars movies, and about a year ago I took the time to view all four movies once again. Superman III is still a bad film, but that scene where Clark Kent battles the evil Superman is unforgettable! If anyone needs convincing that Christopher Reeve is a great actor, the only proof that is needed is that scene. Unfortunately it is surrounded on both sides by a lame film. If this scene were edited out and released as a short film, I'd rate it a 10. Superman's brutalization of Clark is incredibly frightening, but the way Clark gains more and more strength after every blow is incredibly inspiring and heroic. If you've never seen Superman III, it's worth checking out simply for this scene. Reeve has never been better. "},{"Title":"The decline of the Superman in the Movies!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firstly the highlight's of this film are for it's time a timely storyline about the threat of computers and those whom abuse the power of them,the sub-plot of Clark Kent's trip back to hometown Smallville rekindling relationship with former high-school love Lana Lang. The Smallville Chemical-plant fire-acid disaster that Superman fly's into action for and the split/personality confrontation between the good Clark and the evil Superman are standout's in a pretty abysmal slapstick slock of a comedy weakened by poorly written characterisation's and un-intentionally or not ludicrous humor. SPFX are less impressive, the film's budget was far less than the previous two and it shows production values in decline as a result. WONDERFUL performances by CHRIS REEVE and ANNETTE O'TOOLE and the under-used regular's JACKIE COOPER,MARC McCLURE and reduced to a breif-cameo this time around MARGOT KIDDER as Lois Lane. Nothing wrong with the guest-cast,as actors all are good but their respective roles in this film were dreadful. Not really a movie for repeated viewing's but recommended for small children who should enjoy fantasy and nonsense after all it's a Superman flick and despite as low as they got CHRIS REEVE kept the portrayal's top-knotch despite the behind the scenes creative difficulties that let soo many fan's down.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad, but not really good either...","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III was definitely not as good as the first two intallments, however it did have its moments, like Superman straightening the leaning tower of Pisa when he was evil, or perhaps the Chemical Fire scene. Another good element to this film was that they got Margot Kidder out of the way for the better Annette O'Toole as Kent's old crush, Lana Lang. It was a big break to see less of Kidder. Superman being evil was good, how he looked like more and more of a dark wreck.To the bad stuff. Superman isn't supposed to be a comedy, yet they snuck in a whole lot of uneeded humor, especially at the beginning with the slapstick sequence at the beginning. Wasn't very powerful like the first two. I know the network TV version has a different main title sequence. Mainly this was due to Richard Pryor, who is known for his comedic skits. I like this one sinfully though.** out of **** "}{"Title":"Not Really Funny","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that seems very talky in it's first half.  Superman III tries to pull out a different assortment of humor (most of it feels awkward and exessive)there's slapstick, one-liners, and at one point a lame attempt to pull out a gross out gag that involves dog food.  While this is going on, the movie seems to be devoid in the action department.  In what was perhaps a perfect moment to pervide an action sequence at early on at one point, it's basically delivered via brief clips and is essentially an excuss to provide yet another slapstick sequence.  If you look passed the cheap jokes and contrived slapstick in a film that seems to be lacking in depth, there is also awkward sexual tension that can be found, and a certain level of storytelling that seems juvenile.  Not to mention that it's dated in certain areas e.g. disco music being played at certain points and a game that involves missles that incorporates sound effects from the old video game Pac Man.  I would consider Superman III to be the 1980's equivalent to Batman & Robin.  A movie that's based on a well known comic book that revels heavily in cheap jokes, and contains a certain level of juvenile storytelling.  Not to mention the other ironic paralels that lies within both of these films. Both incorporates a satelite in outer space at one point, computers play an essential part in the story at one point, and brief plugs for fast food chains can be found (in Batman & Robin's case Taco Bell, in Superman III's case McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken).  "},{"Title":"Live at Comedy On Broadway...","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III.  Still an Enjoyable sequel, but didn't measure up to I or II. I'd say III is considered more of a Comedy than an Adventure film.  But, Richard Pryor helped to breathe life into the comedy element with his role of computer prodigy August Gus Gorman.  Robert Vaughn does well as Baddy Corporate Tycoon Ross Webster.  While he's no Lex Luthor, he still delivered.  Pamela Stephenson's portrayal of 69% Ditz-31% Serious employee Lorelie Ambrosia was both funny and annoying.  That high pitched voice got to me, but was tolorable compared to the Scary, Stern and Stubborn attitude of Vera Webster, the baby sister played by Annie Ross.  And while it lacks the writing power of Mario Puzo, It's still enjoyable.You could wonder if Gus Gorman's (Pryor) creation of the all knowing superior defensive ultimate computer could have been the breaking ground for the Y2K problem and the mindless schemes it has caused, had that computer, which I dubbed the Macintosh Of Death, had been a real life creation.You could also feal sorry for Gus being used by Webster for evil.  You could also wonder if Lana Lang, Clark Kent's High School Sweetheart, would be a problem with Lois Lane, who we didn't see much of in this film.  Also, I wondered how people felt when Superman almost decayed into, in a way, Bizarro after exposure to the missing ingredient Kryptonite.There is a disturbing moment in the film when Vera is pulled into the super computer's mainframe and turned into an android slave.  That made me wonder if computer technology could become disturbingly powerful enough to be able to manipulate humanity and eliminate it completely.  Similar situations have been seen in The Terminator pictures, The 1999 film Virus, and the book Reaper which became the TV Movie Fatal Error on TBS. Possible?An interesting thing in Superman III, When Superman faced the onslaught of The super system's missile attack, Atari provided the simulated Video Game that Webster plays, as well as the sound effects from the Atari 2600 port of Pac-Man.  Another interesting thing is how the super computer ignorantly underestimated the hot and lethal potential of the Acid which led to it's destruction.While not measuring up to the power of I or II, All in all Superman III is in my opinion a good picture. "},{"Title":"This film let down the SUPERMAN franchise","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meet Gus Gorman, a naive computer programming natural. For him a keyboard is a weapon- and as a result, Superman faces the microelectronic menace of his life. The MAN OF STEEL becomes his own worst enemy after kryptonite exposure. This film stars Christopher Reeve, Richard Pryor & Annette O'Toole also featuring Margot Kidder as Lois Lane If you have read my reviews on Superman 1 & 2 you will see how highly I rated the two films I gave them both 9/10. This got me excited to watch this one when I got around to it and it was a let down. You would get a laugh every so often with Richard Pryor but this was not a very good film. It was not terrible like some people on here think however compared to the first two it was a massive let down. So if you like the first two and are ready to watch this one don't get your hopes up for it to be as good as the first and the second entry***/***** good I suppose "},{"Title":"This screw?........Never.....","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wealthy businessman Ross Webster discovers the hidden talents of Gus Gorman, a mischievous computer genius. Ross decides to abuse his talents, in a way to help Webster with his plans for economic control. When the man of steel interferes, something must be done about him. When Gus' synthetic Kryptonite fails to kill Superman, it turns him in an evil incarnation of his former self. The tar-laced Kryptonite pits man against himself, setting up a Superman vs. Superman battle.....In terms of franchises, Superman is one of the strangest ones going. The first two defined the comic book movie, and were two of the best hero movies made until the advent of Marvel and the releasing of a comic book movies almost every week.Then the this and four were released, and killed the franchise, and then Singer made another, which was arguably a little bit boring.There are some good things about this movie though, and the pivotal point of this movie was the bad Superman sub-plot. Its not just the best part of the movie, it's one of the stand out scenes of the whole five movies.Seeing Reeve let himself go a bit is wonderful, and it's a nice change from all the niceness that oozes from the hero.Pryor is good, but is very out of place in a film like this. A little humour is good, but when a film turns to almost parody on the strength of a stand up comedian, it doesn't have faith in the movie, hence the audience losing faith.Vaughn is a weak substitute for Hackman, and acts more like a child than a megalomaniac.But there is still fun to have, the opening montage is genuinely funny, and the final scene with the robot lady still freaks me out a bit today, but as a sequel to two wonderful movies, it stinks... "},{"Title":"The Richard Pryor Movie, co-starring Superman!","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's an interesting subplot in Superman III in which Superman goes bad (complete with 5 o'clock shadow and dark colors). Beyond that point of interest, this film is a disaster.For no discernible reason, the powers-that-be decided to turn Superman into a comedy. Central to that is the casting of Richard Pryor as the bum-turned-hacker-supreme who creates trouble for the Man of Steel (but he's just the stooge, not a villain). Also central is an overall comedic tone that turns everything (read everything) into a ha-ha. The opening credits sequence is a series of sight gags, pratfalls and comic mischief, turning the citizens of Metropolis into hapless buffoons. It's this general attitude that threads through the duration of the movie, turning the sequel to arguably the greatest Superman film ever made (II) into a grueling slog of cheap laughs. Not cool.To his credit, Reeve plays the character straight as always, making the big save the day setpieces welcoming respites from the film's idea of comedy. But it was a sinking ship at the script stage. Fraught with pacing issues, Superman III has a two-hour runtime that feels like three. And there's not really a bad guy. Sure, there's Robert Vaughn playing a poor Lex Luthor imitation, but he's just a money-hungry tycoon. He's no threat to Superman. And the majority of Pryor's presence is just uncomfortable to watch. Young 'uns should take heed that the man's comedic charms are best seen in his stand-up routine. Not here.It's unfortunate the Salkinds decided to go in this direction with the series. It didn't have to be a gagfest written around the star presence of Pryor, and it didn't have to feel so cheap. What's most upsetting about watching Superman III (aside from waiting for something to happen) is that Lester and Co. delivered a pie-in-the-face to the heart and verisimilitude of the Donner film. For that reason, this is the worst of the series, for me. Even Quest for Peace had good intentions. This was just a cheap shot.2/10 "},{"Title":"Should have focused less on humor","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The great debate amongst Superman film fans is whether this film or #4 is the worst of the series. I gave Superman 4 a 4 out of ten rating, and this one also gets a 4 out of ten. So, neither ones wins! Unlike my last review, I'll split this into pros and cons to make this speedier. Pros Christopher Reeve is great in his trio of roles (good Superman, Clark Kent, and evil Superman). You really believe him in all three, and the battle in the junkyard is one of the best scenes (if not the best) in the entire series. His romance with Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) is done solidly, and his efforts help overcome some of the flaws. The effects are also good (though not quite up to 1 & 2's level), the music is improved from #2, and some of the humor works.Cons The main problem is that there's too much humor. Admittedly, that is director Richard Lester's forte, but there is such a thing as overkill. The much-lampooned opening sequence demonstrates this; instead of an epic space opening, we see the citizens of Metropolis bumble through one slapstick scene after another. From mimes to pies in the face to blind people running crazy to penguins on fire to a person drowning in their own car, you'd think this was the opening scene of Saturday Night Live instead of Superman!Another problem is the insertion of Richard Pryor into the film. By this point, Pryor's movie career was in a bit of a rut, and here the director tries too hard to make the film focus on him instead of Reeve. Pryor's character, Gus Gorman, is meek and a push-over, definitely not a character you'd expect Pryor to play. And some of his scenes (such as when he skis down a skyscraper) fail to produce laughs. So he's wasted somewhat in his role.The plot (where the antagonist Ross Webster, played by Robert Vaughn, tries to gain economic power by using Gorman's skill with computers) is hard to take seriously. How can you expect Gorman to be a computer whiz when he can't even land steady work prior to this? And the creation of synthetic Kryptonite by placing tar as the unknown ingredient? Genius! In seriousness, the plot would have been better had they created Brainiac (which was considered, but not done).The climatic ending looks like it was ripped directly from a low-budget 50s horror movie, complete with one of the worst movie robots of all time. It looks like the love child of C-3PO and Sharon Osborne! While it is somewhat scary (if you're a kid), adults won't find it anything but laughable.So, if you want to watch a Superman film that has a few good scenes but is plagued by abuse of humor, then 3 is your picture. If you want a film that has the right combination of pathos and humor, then get Superman 1. If only they had that junkyard scene in it... "},{"Title":"Clunky but has a Few Moments","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" On a re-watch after seeing this movie multiple times over 15 years earlier, I'd felt like I'd never seen the movie before. There's a good reason why I forgot most of the scenes in the movie, it's jumbled and it's story is retrodden. Probably the best idea in the movie and indeed the most entertaining was the development of the evil superman. The junkyard scene was easily the most memorable as Reeves shines and pretty much holds down the movie from completely sinking. Alas that whole subplot only lasted a scant 30 min or so of the movie's runtime. Richard Pryor creates a few scenes worthy of a chuckle, but along with the clunky story, the film is badly devoid of a villain. The 2 sisters and Robert Vaughn seem poorly inadequate. Margot Kidder is an after-thought in the movie at best, as is the other original actors. The movie is really a small shadow of it's predecessors. "},{"Title":"Forget Tyson VS Ali. I want to see Superman VS Clark Kent!","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is my essay on why 'Superman III' is actually better than **both** versions of 'Superman II.' I would never have agreed to that statement growing up &#x96; I really liked 'Superman II' and it wouldn't be decades later before the Richard Donner version is released. However, after watching with a closer eye, as an adult, the good actually outweighs the bad in all three movies ('II,' 'IIb' and 'III.')Still, 'III' wasn't that great of a movie. Pryor can play a drunk &#x96; he certainly seems drunk for most of this movie, but he was thoroughly unconvincing (even as slapstick) as an accidental computer hacker. Sure we're dealing with 1983, just shortly after computers the size of apartments were being reduced for everyday use. And I understand the whole use of a farce/fantasy, but the bubble gummed supercomputer was a bit much. (Although, it was a plausible foe for Superman, when there was an absolute absence of any real super-villain here.)In addition to suspending your disbelief for Pryor as Bill Gates, we also have shameless walk-ons by series regulars, Kidder and Cooper, the upside down tornado (??), the campiness is in over-excess (I used to like the opening, but wow &#x96; this really is going to the juvenile extreme) and some of the special effects, or lazy effects see Superman The 1983 Video Game! in closing), but I have always loved a lot of this movie. And here are 5 good reasons to actually watch what could've been a below-the-belt mediocre movie#1 No Lex. Of the 5 'Superman' films, 4 have Lex as the villain; kudos to Batman for his variety on villains.#2 Though Kryptonite is overused in the series, at least they introduced Red Kryptonite, well, sorta. It's still green, but Superman fans will know the difference.And this brings up a good #3 We finally get to see a different Superman, the one Batman's always concerned about sick Superman as a weapon vs. hero. Batman's concerned eventually Supe's going to unwillingly and uncontrollably turn on Earth, and 'III' finally explores this. (Minus Batman, that is.)#4 The score and music were very good &#x96; for the time, and the performances were better. Pryor was funny and had some decent lines, the blonde femme fetal, Stephenson, was hilarious when she thinks she's alone and they did an excellent job introducing the Lana Lang (O'Toole) character. She had great chemistry and lines with Clark, and paved the way eventually with the 'Smallville' TV series.#5 Though, I did like the chemical rescue scene, we get a much better Superman action sequence&#x85;. Finally! Superman Vs. Clark Kent! Despite not being perfect (they seriously leave a pool of acid around for someone to fall into?) it was great seeing them go at it and good triumphant over evil. And the darken suit, Supe's messed up hair and attitude/disruption at the bar was a great new twist.Unfortunately, I still give it ***/5 stars. Because, despite its achievements, it really falters in comparison to any superhero movie, namely, 'Superman The Movie' or later, 'Superman Returns.'Side note I love all the little mannerisms Reeve showed in this one, he showed he thoroughly enjoyed playing Kent/Superman by this sequel and possibly the best acting range he's had in the series. One of the best he had was on the bus with Jimmy, when Jimmy droned on about his family. After seeing his sure, I'm paying attention on the outside, but I'm severely rolling my eyes inside scene as a kid, for some reason it stuck with me. (Almost the same scene goes on for a few segments in 'Airplane!' when Hays tells his neighbor a story of love lost.) I still use this, especially at break at work when almost everyone I come in contact with goes on and on with either boring stories or high drama. Though, it does get hard to keep that rolling eyes inside of me at times. For those times, I love sunglasses. "},{"Title":"A Super-mixed bag","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" To follow up my lambasting of Superman 4 The Quest for Peace, I'll write a review, my 17th for IMDb, of the third installment in the franchise. The Positives -Christopher Reeve is still fantastic as both Clark Kent and Superman, and he still seems to have a lot of the charm and respectability that he had in the first two movies. Also, he manages to pull off the new evil Superman, which gives him something new to do acting-wise. -Annette 'O Toole, while no Lois Lane replacement, is still very good, and she gives Lana Lang a sweetness and genuine likability that is very beneficial to the film. -Richard Pryor is funny... sometimes. -The visual effects are still very impressive, and are on par with the first two films (it fluctuates between the two). -The junkyard fight between Clark and the evil Superman is great, and is the best action sequence in the film, and the question of whether it's a real fight or a battle in Superman's makes it interesting.The Negatives -Unfortunately, the junkyard fight is also the only good action sequence in the film. The rest of them, despite the presence of solid visual effects, were only average and dutiful at best, and struggled to hold my interest. The climactic battle, on the other hand, was terrible, with most of what was happening on screen being incredibly stupid (especially Vera being turned into a robot). -Speaking of the villains again, who were they? To be blunt, Ross Webster is barely even a second-rate Lex Luthor replacement, and his sister Vera was simply bland. And that curly blonde-haired assistant of his... god, her high pitched voice made her sound even worse than one of the chipmunks! -Richard Pryor isn't funny... sometimes. Also, the film seems to give equal screen time to Gus Gorman and Superman, and the whole film feels like an odd blend of so-so Superman movie with so-so Richard Pryor comedy. Look kids, it's Richard Pryor! On skis! Sliding down a mountain! And he can't ski! (I have the odd thought that the remake of Last Holiday with Queen Latifah ripped off this scene) -If I find the knucklehead who replaced the John Williams Superman score with bad '70s music... HULK SMASH!My 3 choice words Okay, Supertoole, Chipmunkwoman "},{"Title":"Only good in places","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The sequence of accidents at the start is garbage. The guy hitting the metal post would fall right back, not to his right. The girl on skates could easily avoid him and not hit the cart.What are the little flaming things that catch the penguin on fire? If they are road hazard markings, surely a reflective one would be used or a battery powered light, NOT a naked flame. The guide-dog would not run after the other dog, they are specifically trained not to.Why don't the people in front of Clark notice the burning penguin or put it out and why doesn't Clark take his paper of the pile thats very visible.No bank guard would fire in a crowded street and the guy in the car had plenty of time to open a window/door and get free. None of the bystanders try to break any of the windows either, which is easy.The photo-booth would not take pictures so quickly after having money put in and most take money from the inside of the booth anyway. The guy with the bucket on his head could easily have taken it off. The 2 men who fall over are actors but the public walk over the slippery gum-balls easily.The pie man could have stepped over the gum-balls easily also. Why is the Daily Planet in the same street as the Empire State Building? (visible from the front on the street).The hacking that Gus does is impossible. He uses his employee number to hack into the company system. He's a data processor, he'd have little to limited system access. His terminal would be limited to the task he was doing and nothing else at that time. And any hack would be traced back to his employee number. Being a data processor certainly wouldn't involve a light-pen in any way. And it's unlikely the Webscoe system would accept commands typed in plain English. There was plenty of space on the road by the chemical plant for the bus to get past if the police car had moved.Inflammable? Doesn't that mean won't catch fire? Why didn't Superman freeze the acid when he was talking to the scientist. Now it's clearly stated that no-one knows where the half cents are going and aren't accounted for so how do they work out they are being defrauded?And how does Gus whose only just learned to be a data processor learn so much about hacking so quickly? (like he was taught it when he was taught DP). And Gus hacking a weather computer would NOT effect a bank ATM, or Bloomingdales Billing Department, or traffic control (they are totally independent systems). Traffic lights are very basic circuits built into the light itself.Vulcan can only monitor weather, that's all it's designed for, it would never make weather. This is totally beyond belief, that a novice hacker could reprogram a weather monitor system to actually create weather.And Gus would have smashed right through the window he landed on when he fell down the building. How can a satellite designed to predict and monitor weather analyze chemicals from an asteroid?Ricky only told his friends that Superman was coming (who wouldn't believe him anyway), so how did the whole town find out Superman was coming? And more to the point how did Gus, who isn't even in Smallville find out? Superman knows Kryptonite is green, why didn't he suspect the gift from Gus right away? Why do Lana and Ricky live in such a big house? No wonder her rent costs so much.Superman blowing out the Olympic flame is no big deal, it could easily be re-lit when he left. Oil ship steering isn't computer controlled. They might get instructions by computer but they are steered by humans as the sea is too unpredictable. No ships captain is going to take notice of orders to go to the middle of the sea and stay there. They know the lack of oil would cause chaos. Oh, and why isn't the British Reliance flying either the Union Flag or The White Ensign which she would do if she was British registered.How did Gus design a computer? He was only ever trained in data processing, Not like he learned computer architecture there. And once again we see The Statue Of Liberty (In New York) but heavily featured as near Metropolis.Am I the only one who thought the tanker should explode when Superman is welding the side closed? And how DO the Websters balloons stay inflated when they have no heat source inflating them?The instructions Websters sister gives are useless unless the people she's giving them to designed the computer. And she would have no idea how to operate the computer seeing as she's never seen it before and Gus designed it to his specifications. The screens attacking Superman are from the Atari 2600 Superman game, the sound effects are from Pac-man.Superman in a bubble with no air is no big deal, he can fly in space in a vacuum. Oh, and the string of a yo-yo would not support the weight of a fully grown man. Why didn't Gus just throw the power switch that Lorilei used to activate the computer at the cave entrance?The end for this is weak and the whole film hasn't lasted well under the passing of time. "}{"Title":"Is this actually a Superman movie?","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After two excellent Superman films, the franchise deteriorated. Superman IV (1987) was awful, but this third outing from 1983 isn't that great either.The main problem lies in the fact that the director, Richard Lester, sees the movie as a comedy, and therefore tries to make it as funny as possible. Proof? He cast Richard Pryor as Gus Gorman, a dishonest worker who teams up with Robert Vaughn's Luthor copycat, Ross Webster, to dominate the world through a computer. But first they need to get rid of Superman (Christopher Reeve), who's visiting his childhood town Smallville and reuniting (under his Clark Kent identity) with old friends, particularly Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole, currently playing Supes'mom in the Smallville TV series).Their lethal weapon? Synthetic kryptonite which splits our hero in two, Good Superman vs. Evil Superman.Now, this movie has its good moments the two Supermen fighting each other is an awesome sequence, and Reeve (who finally received top billing in the credits) is as good as ever. However, the rest is a mess Lois Lane is quickly sidelined (due to an argument between actress Margot Kidder and the movie's producers), and 90% of the script is based on utterly silly set-pieces involving Richard Pryor, who could have been a good villain hadn't his dialogue been so dire. Vaughn, on the other hand, does a good job, but it's kind of obvious he can't successfully replace Gene Hackman as a power-obsessed millionaire.All in all, Superman III is watchable (once or twice), but it's absolutely not what a Superman film should be like. It sort of looks like a Supes version of the '60s Batman show (the one with Adam West), and that's not an entirely good thing.5,5/10 "},{"Title":"Superman III suffers from an Identity Crisis","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I look back at this film I truly think that a grave injustice was done with DCs biggest hero.Imagine what this film series would've been like under the direction of Richard Donner?I shudder to think what the Spiderman films will be like without Sam Raimi. By now we all know about the Superman II director swap etc so I won't go into that only to say I can't wait to see the Donner version of Superman II when its finally released. Now let's get into Superman 3.It doesn't know whether to be a comedy (the slapstick opening sequence) or a serious action film (the chemical plant)the inclusion of the late Richard Pryor doesn't help either and while I am a fan of Pryors work I think he's out of place in this film it's not that he doesn't put in a good performance its just that this film was not the right vehicle to showcase his talents. Like many previous reviewers have said this film sorely lacks the presence of a strong villain and you wonder what it would've been had Hackman returned as Lex Luthor and the character of Lois Lane had returned longer than a 5 minute cameo,even if they had recast the role it would've been better.Don't get me wrong Lana Lang is a big part of the Superman mythos and deserves to be in the film series somewhere.I don't know I just think that the producers and studios thinking people would go see this film no matter what decided to rush it through development. The film does have its good points though. Christopher Reeve will always be Superman to me(although George Reeves is also great in the role)and once again puts in a great performance despite a poor script. The Superman turned bad plot showed some promise and the whole Smallville thing was good,it shows the contrasts between Clark and Supes,Lois loves Superman Lana loves Clark. Its still an enjoyable flick to pass the time and well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"The start of the end","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the start of what would be a huge and sudden crash of the franchise in the theater. It is no fault of Chris Reeve, he again puts everything into Superman that was evident in the first film. We even get a nice subplot of Clark going back home and meeting up with Lana. But all of this is derailed by a absolutely ludicrous premise and the lack of any kind of true villain.We know things are going to be a lot different this go around when we are subjected to 7 minutes of pratfalls with absolutely horrendous music and credits playing in front. I don't know who decided on doing away with the famous opening credits, I am sure cost was a reason, but the opening credits are hideous. Richard Pryor was brought in and the script was tailored to his talents. Which is not a bad thing under normal circumstances. But when you are dealing with a character from an established comic mytho, having a character like Pryor's is totally out of place for the premise. Not only that, confining Pryor to a PG premise, one where he is playing a supposed computer genius, is just not smart casting. In the current DVD that details the history of Superman, Ila Salkind boasts that Superman III did really good at the box office and it was Superman IV that sunk the franchise. Well, all due respect to Salkind, but his Superman III put the iceberg in the way of the Superman ship that IV hit. This film lacked any of the charm of the first two, noticeably this was the first one that Donner had done zero work on. Further evidence that the producers sabotaged what could have been a great trio or more of films. "},{"Title":"O.K. but isn't quite as good as the first two!","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first two Superman movies were both,in my opinion,close to perfect.So I hoped this one would be just as good as the first two,but I was wrong.For starters they added a lot more comedy,which means lots of camp.Don't get me wrong some of the comedy is good,but most of it is just annoying after the more serious first two.I do like Richard Pryor in this movie,he can be pretty funny but he just isn't bad guy material.I really wished they continued the Lois/Clark/Superman love triangle,but the Lana Lang love story is an O.K. substitute.Plus there really is no Lois in this one and she was a really fun character in the previous two,but she is at least in one or two scenes.The only two real redeeming facts is Christopher Reeves' great performance as Clark Kent/Superman and the action is good.Overall it is O.K.,Christopher Reeves redeemed this one from being a complete disaster.A decent 6/10!!! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as i expected,","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must be honest right off the bat, i was expecting pure garbage from superman 3 when i checked the DVD out of my library. I remember enjoying the film as a kid, but now i wanted to go back and view it as an adult, and as a future film maker. I remember as a kid, liking the visuals, but never paying attention to the story. I was like this with all films and usually if the film looked cool or had cool moments in it, i loved it. Now as an adult, story and plot take front row to cool looking visual effects without context. Surprisingly, superman 3 had SOME.Now, this film is by far, not a classic. It has its flaws, and many of them, but the overall experience is fun and entertaining, more so then the current version of superman 2 and the god awful waste of film that was superman 4. If any complaints, its mostly the over the top comedy. It plays off more like a 3, or in this case 4, stooges movie with superman guest staring, then an actual superman film, but then again, the comedy for the most part is funny if not overkill. As for the story, its almost scary how it shows the world to become. Computer hackers robbing everything in sight, oil trouble, freak storms, etc. It seems a little less like science fiction and more like dated science fact almost, if you take away the superman.In all, the film isn't that bad as i was expecting. Its handled well, has funny moments, stumbles a bit towards the middle, but, manages to pick itself up. Sadly though, like ALL of the current superman films, it is dated, and the special effects are almost laughable when compared to todays super photo realistic effects, but then again the great chris reeves, god rest his soul, was the superman of 1978-1986, and the best man for the job at the time. Lets hope routh manages to do the same thing.If your a superman or a comic book fan, check it out for a few laughs. Don't expect a spiderman 2 or xmen though. Its good, not Great! "},{"Title":"Stabs the franchise through the heart with badly misjudged change in tone and questionable casting","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The opening sequence to the film, kind of a Rube-Goldberg type slapstick thing which ends with a man almost getting drowned in his car, is a dead giveaway to the audience that this film is not going to be in the same league as the first two Supermans. It's supposed to be funny, but it just clunks along like a tank with lead caterpillar treads, and it goes nowhere fast. Apparently Lester and the Salkinds really didn't understand how slapstick stunts work, and they should have been locked in a room with a copy of Monty Python and the Holy Grail until they got it right.The movie does pick up a little bit from there, and there are a few good bits that save it from being utter crap the fight between 'good' and 'bad' Superman in the junkyard, with its denouement where Clark undoes his shirt to reveal the original hue of the costume, is quite nice. Some of the moments with Annette O'Toole as Lana Lang are decent, too - I'm not her biggest fan, but she suits the role of the small town girl that Clark left behind and fleshes it out well.Everything else until the very end is, well, bad. Going from Terence Stamp and Gene Hackman to people like Robert Vaughn and Richard Pryor is a terrible, terrible decision and completely undercuts any sense of real portent or menace that a decent villain is meant to have in a film like this. You can't believe for a moment that Vaughn's lightweight character and his nitwit entourage would be any kind of match for the Man Of Steel, and Pryor's role, even as an innocent dupe, just isn't what this film needs - he is completely out of place here. Give me the Pryor from BiCentennial ****** instead; THAT character belongs in a Superman film. There is just a bit of style and flair in the final showdown scene with the Super Computer where the villains are transformed into nightmarish robot slaves and then Superman is lashed repeatedly with huge energy bolts and pulled helplessly inside the guts of the computer - you actually get a sense of conflict and drama, and the clever way Supes saves the day by using his smarts and cunning almost saves the film.But it's not enough. 75% of the film has the same problems as the opening sequence - it just doesn't work or hold together. Unlike the first two films, the stuff that is supposed to be funny simply isn't, and most of the stuff that is supposed to be dramatic is spoiled by bad timing or misjudged performances that ruin any sense of involvement in the film.Rent the tape or DVD once so you can fast-forward to one or two of the scenes with O'Toole, the fight in the junkyard, and the fight with the Super Computer. Otherwise, I think this movie killed the franchise - by the time Superman IV appeared, no one was interested anymore. "},{"Title":"You have to be a comic lover","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" You have to be a comic lover to understand this movie.Anyone who doesn't read comics that tries to rate this movie would be like Forrest Gump trying to give a lecture on open-heart surgery.People are talking about how unrealistic this movie was, but let me ask you, when was the last time you looked up in the air and saw a guy in a bright blue suit and red cape flying around? I think this movie's story could have used a little work, but the fight between Clark Kent and his evil alter ego in the junkyard is a concept any comic lover would appreciate.I think the fight in the junkyard could have been a little more brutal and better scripted, but it was a nice concept.And then to have him reveal his costume, the brighter one afterwards was extremely poignant.I just thought the crap with the super computer was stupid.But it was not a bad addition to the series, just not a great one either. "},{"Title":"Deserves its low rating.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III starts off with promise. Richard Pryor is funny as the real loser, collecting unemployment because his last job lasted 28 minutes at a fast-food restaurant. On a matchbook cover sees an ad for computer programmers (remember, this is 1983) and finds out he has an unusual knack for it. Annette O'Toole is refreshing as Lana Lang (she also plays Clark Kent's mom in the Smallville TV series). But the story that develops I find very silly, and the last half of the movie falls flat. And, true to the low-budget approach, the wires holding up Superman can be seen in several different scenes.some SPOILERS follow, read further at your own risk.First Pryor figures out he can cut himself a big bonus if he would create a fictitious expense account and dump in all those half cents of pay that get truncated company-wide. Presto! An $85,000+ check, but the big boss gets wise, and pryor is a naive crook. But boss doesn't get mad, he sees something in it for himself, Pryor is to re-program a satellite that will cause havoc in Columbia to create a scarcity of coffee. Superman foils that, so the satellite is programmed to search the universe for Kryptonite, and gets the chemical analysis. Except for the 0.57% unknown, which Pryor changes to tar. But the synthetic kryptonite is flawed, instead of killing Superman it changes his personality. He loses interest, becomes a womanizer, gets drunk, and his colors change to dirty blue and burgundy, instead of bright blue and red.There is also a side scam of diverting all the world's oil tankers to a spot in the mid-Atlantic to create an oil shortage. Plus Pryor designs the ultimate computer, which big boss builds, so they can control everything. In a final showdown in a cave, Superman prevails.There's another strange side story, where Clark Kent comes out of the changed Superman, in a junkyard, and the two fight until Kent chokes Superman, until at his death simply disappears and Clark/Superman become the good and powerful one again. It isn't clear what happened to arrive at that point, and it was an interesting but chilling scene.There were some moments, but overall for me not a very satisfying Superman movie, too dumb to be fun, nowhere near the original Chris Reeves Superman film of 1978. The DVD is just OK, some picture flaws are seen. The extras are so limited that they are not worth considering. "},{"Title":"Where is the Expanded Edition?!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a Superman Fan,and I began to enjoy the movie franchise since SupermanThe Movie,which was a great piece of art.Superman II was OK,and it is one of the most controversial of the super films,this movie had 2 versions,like Superman III has.My problem with Superman IIII is the soundtrack and the poor special fx.I know that it was 1983,but even some 1980s films were very well done.See Back To The Future(1985) and you ll know what I mean.Rychard Pryor as Gus Gorman was OK,and Annete O Toole as Lana Lang was very welcome.But what I really hate of the film are the poor FX and Lana Lang s son,Ricky. The Expanded Edition of Superman III saves this film from total destruction,because in the theatrical realise some things doesn t make sense at all.If there is an Expanded Edition,why did Warner Bros decided not to restore it into the DVD?Some DVDS have their special editions,like Terminator 2 and Independence Day.My opinion on the 4 DVD realise of Superman is that the first Superman film on DVD is great, and the rest seems like the original VHS realise of the films,with nothing special in particular.(No storyboards,no Music Track,no director s commetary,nothing).If you want to see Superman III again... look for it on the Expanded Edition.The movie really flies with that! "},{"Title":"The world's superhero in his toughest adventure, but not his best!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can understand why people hate this movie. It is a corny comedy, which ruins the genre of Superman. But I can also understand why some people would like it. Considering it was made five years after the original blockbuster, it was never going live up to the same sort of expectation. As a movie critic who cringes at some scenes in Superman III, I can also take away something from this mediocre sequel.Superman III follows Clark Kent as he ventures back to his hometown of Smallville, to attend his high school reunion and meet up with high school sweetheart, Lana Lang. Meanwhile, billionaire businessman, Ross Webster, wants to be that little bit richer and asks for the assistance of computer genius, Gus Gorman. But to ruin the plans of Webster is Superman! So Gorman is asked to kill Superman with kryptonite. Yet the kryptonite Superman is given does not kill him, instead turns him into an evil mean creature. It's Superman fighting himself, Good verus Evil. Can Superman save himself and the world in time?The only real shining light amongst the cast again is Christopher Reeve. He is amazing. In this Superman, not only is he Superman and Clark Kent, yet he has the diverse role of being the not so super Superman. This really is the highlight of a dull shot at a third film in the Superman series. Scenes such as Superman straitening the leaning tower of Pisa and blowing out the flame to the Olympic opening ceremony were different to see from Reeve, yet he portrays this role like only he can. But the best scene in this one by far would have to be when Superman fights himself at the Car Junkyard. This scene is compelling, filled with tension and acted brilliantly by Reeve. I must say I did enjoy the direction the film took in letting us see the homeboy side of Clark Kent. Being involved at his high school reunion and the way he involved himself with his best friend, Lana Lang.The other cast members that deserve a mention include Richard Pryor, who played the role of computer genius, Gus Gorman. It might not have been the funniest role he has done, but he was ok as the middleman in the evil money making scheme. The world has been robbed to not see the true talents of Richard Pryor. Unfortunately, Richard developed M.S. (Multiple Sclerosis) and in the last ten years or so he hasn't been on the big screen. The other role that deserves a mention here is that of Anne O'Toole. She was very attractive and portrayed the role of Lana Lang, just nicely.But there are some bad characters in this film. Firstly that of Ross Webster, played by Robert Vaughan was not that great. Neither was that of his Sister (Anne Ross) or his personal assistant (Pamela Stephenson). There is a gap in the cast and I can explain why there is. Firstly, Margot Kidder might as well have not been scripted in this movie. She only appears in two scenes, which hold virtually no importance to the make-up of the film. Plus without Lex Luthor, the evil side of the film does suffer. Gene Hackman was brilliant in Superman I and II and could have helped bring this film up to scratch. Some of the special effects in this film were ok. Scenes like at the acid plant were pretty good. I love it when the area is in a cloud of fire and to help put out the fire, Superman just flies off to a near by lake, freezes it up and lifts a huge iceberg. This was excellent to watch. The other memorable scene with special effects would have to be at the end with the computer, it wasn't bad. I won't give it away, but trust me if you like this film you will enjoy the end.In summary, I have read the book to Superman III. It was better to read than it was too watch on screen. But at the time of it's release, this movie would have had created quite a commotion. But without brilliant director, Richard Donner, it was never going to be as good as the previous Superman films. I don't know whether to say I hate it or like, because I can flick this movie on and get involved in what it is on about. But it is nowhere near the quality and greatness that you would expect the Superman legend deserves. I must agree with the general consensus, that this film could have been much better.Rating 3 out of 5 Stars or 6/10. "}{"Title":"Watered down Man of Steel sequel.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Either way you look at it, this film fails to live up to its expectations. If you are wanting to watch an epic Superman adventure, you will be disappointed, if you are wanting to watch a comedy/adventure, you will also be disappointed.Superman II had enough balance of comedy, most of it funny, and action, most of it exciting, to entertain its audience members.  Yet for some reason the producers decided to go overboard on comedy in Superman III.Richard Pryor does his best to entertain audiences with all of his antics, and some of them are funny; the best is when he falls off the top of a skyscraper and lands in the street unharmed.  However the rest of the film suffers from the over abundance of the painfully misplaced comedy.  The opening sequence is the best example of this.Christopher Reeve is wonderful as Superman/Clark Kent, like always!  Here in this movie he gives his best job at portraying Clark Kent.  The scenes with him and his old girl-friend from high school, Lana Lang, are nicely executed and show the evolution of Clark Kent's character, by adding more depth and dimension, especially when the audience realizes she falls for Clark and not his alter ego.Some of the scenes are moderately entertaining, the scene with Superman taking on the chemical plant fire is amusing, but pales in comparison with his other two previous outings.  Rescuing Ricky from the combines is also another example, it almost seems that the producers decided to quit inventing ways for Superman to 'save the day' and just rehash old ideas.There is hardly any plot to this movie, viewers will eventually stumble across one about 2/3s of the way through it, and will yawn at the lack of creativity and excitement of it.  There is only one scene that will place viewers on the edge of their seats...The scene when Superman is split into two different personalities, one evil and one good, is actually very interesting to watch.  When I first saw this movie back in 1983 I was actually scared of the evil Superman!  The scene where the moral side of Superman, Clark Kent, and the evil side of Superman, the tar infected Superman, do a fight to the death in an automobile grave yard, generates lots of excitement as well as goose bumps when Clark prevails.  This scene stands alone, and the contrast Christopher Reeve gives between the two Supermen is incredible, his contributions to the scene and the movie can not be overstated.As for the rest of the movie, Robert Vaughn does well for a villain, but is no Gene Hackman.  And the finale with the 'Ultimate Computer' is rather lame.  It can be argued that the climax of Superman III is the battle between the two Supermen.The special effects are not so stunning this time around, and the wires that hold Reeve and make him fly are visible in nearly every scene!  The bluescreens are not executed so well either, one can tell that Superman is flying in front of screen rather than appear to be flying in the actual location.This film could have been so much more, even with Pryor in it.  However, poor writing and directing plague this sequel in nearly every faucet of it. It is such a shame that Christopher Reeve give an incredible performance in such a weak film.  Had this film been up to par with the other two Superman films, chances are the Superman series would not have died a slow quiet death. "},{"Title":"It was decent","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III was the beginning of the end for the movie series. It was okay but was wasn't nearly as exciting as the first two movies. This was more of a comedy, rather than a action movie. Superman is not meant to be funny, it's supposed to be action packed and exciting. The only really exciting part was that fight between good Clark Kent and bad Superman. The film does have some high points. Most notably Christopher Reeve's great acting. The film is decent. It sucks compared to Superman I and II but is far superior to Superman IV. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Criticised","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pathetic 'purists' are giving this movie an unfair low score so I am giving it ten out of ten. I love this movie. To me,a 'purist' also, this is the best Superman film.It is simply the most enjoyable and has the most heart. Christopher Reeve is superb in this. Richard Pryor is excellent also.Goodness me! No! We can't have a Superman movie without Lex Luthor! Get over it and stop being so dull. Familiarity breeds contempt. This movie had the balls to do something different. And it worked out just great.It's funny that a movie so scorned by 'uberfans' should contain one of the best sequences of all the movies The Superman V's Clark Kent battle. The 'purists' must be feeling very sick that such a great scene was not included in Richard Donner's movie. Leave it to Richard Lester, the enemy of most Superman fans, to pull of such a great scene! Well done, Mr. Lester.People complain that Gus Gorman is just too comedic yet Richard Donner's movie gave us 'Otis' (Ned Beatty), a character that makes Gus Gorman look serious.There is never a dull moment in Superman III. The best of the bunch by a long shot. "},{"Title":"Powerful Romantic and Moral Tale","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really enjoyed seeing this film again, twenty years after the first time. The romance between Lana Lang and Superman is very powerful and we see that Superman is fallible after all and that the unassuming, unacclaimed Clark Kent is the real hero of the piece. Some people talk of bad framing but the bit where bad Superman's crotch is framed alongside the face of the bad girl who seduces him is brilliant. The fight scene between bad superman and good clark is a very powerful moral tale that tells us again that the true hero is the boring, pacifist Clark (but even the Coward of the County sometimes has to fight to be a man).So I don't see why everyone slags this film..its a pure gem and hilarious to boot.I just watched Star Wars Return of The Sith and now there is a real turkey! "},{"Title":"It's better than the other 2!!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I adore Richard Pryor. While I'm not as fond of his raunchier performances, he is very endearing, otherwise, and this movie is no exception. While some have expressed dismay at his participation in this endeavor, I found his performance very refreshing as the comedic involvement, rather than Ned Beaty's whiny, unintelligible gibberings. The plot is much better than the first two installments, and actually raises this endeavor above the originals.Also, the part of Jimmy Olsen was expanded, giving Marc McClure a chance to better demonstrate his talents. Unfortunately, no one seemed to be noticing, as his movie credits are few and the parts rather obscure. And while Annette O'Toole's list of credits is much longer, her career has also been riddled with obscure, little-known parts. That is truly unfortunate, as she is a very talented and much under-rated actress. You may remember her from Stephen King's TV movie IT; she portrayed the adult character of Beverly Marsh. While this is by far my favorite of the Superman series, I am of a split mind about this movie in that the idea of a bad Superman just does not do it for me.Premise The bad guy has created a synthetic form of kryptonite, but has replaced the unknown element in the chemical make-up with tobacco tar. Okay, fine. Tobacco's bad. Got it. But it causes a split between the Lighter side of Kent and the Dark half/Steely side of Superman and the steely side has no conscience, morals, nor empathy for anyone but himself. I found that whole episode to be rather distasteful. Yes, I understand the situation is a metaphor for the blackness/sickness of cancer caused by tobacco, but it was still distasteful, and I was very unhappy with the whole idea.But in support of the premise, it was not exactly the fake kryptonite which split him into two distinct halves. It changed him, but it was not what divided him. That, too was a metaphor for the battle raging inside him; his better side trying to exorcise the evil side brought to light by the kryptonite. Quite intelligent, actually. I just hated seeing Christopher Reeve's character being drug through the mud like that. Aaaaand, the battle between the two was quite lame, but effective in ridding him of the dark half of himself.Meanwhile, Gus (Pryor) and the bad guy are creating a super computer in order to better utilize Gus's computer skills, to assure Ross Webster's (the bad guy's-Robert Vaughn's) success in his financial domination of the world. What? You didn't expect a world domination ploy? It's Superman! Of course there is a world domination ploy!Why, the same thing we do every day, Pinky! Try to take over the world! the Brain.I even loved the Demon Seed homage factor towards the end of the movie involving Webster's sister. Absolutely wonderful. The effects of this production are at least decent enough. This movie is a fun movie. Take off your thinking cap and just enjoy it.Fortunately, the evil twin part is over soon enough, and there are enough of the better parts of the movie to lift it above the sub-plot; ie Reeve, Kidder, and Pryor. In my opinion, this was the best Superman yet, for the inclusion of Richard Pryor! I didn't get enough of Margot, though. But in all fairness, she was also filming Trenchcoat and Pygmalion at the same time. There just was not enough of her to go around, it seems. Luckily, she is back full steam in Superman IV, and is one of the few bright spots in that installment of this series.It rates a 9.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"The Salkind's Have Done it Again!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Superman III is not an epic, but an awsome sci-fi thriller. What made it so great is that there are new characters, new story, new villians, new style. We'd seen the first two Superman movies and noticed that they were both epics. Well, be ready for something new.Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) has been unemployed for 36 weeks and is looking for a job. Its discovered by a computer teacher, that Gorman is the best computer hacker on the face of the earth. So, Gorman is hired to work at a computer industry known as Webscoe Industries. After embezling money from the pay roll department, Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) begins to notice what a genius Gorman is. So he and Gorman try and pull off a scam by destroying Colombia, South America with the weather. But, it's discovered on the news that Superman (Christopher Reeve) has saved Colombia from the scam. So, Gorman finds out that Superman's weakness is Kryptonite. That ends up giving Gorman the idea that he could splice tobacco tar with Kryptonite and it could turn Superman into a dangerous predator towards the earth. When Superman recieves the Kryptonite not knowing what it is, he does turn into an evil one. Gorman and Webster then talk about taking all the oil in the world so that nothing can run like ships and such.Later on, Superman (the evil version) finally cracks and has a battle with Clark Kent in a junkyard. It becomes a fight to the death when Clark Kent wins and finally turns good again. Now its a battle with Gus Gorman, which will be hard to win since Gorman personally had a special computer built in Alberta, Canada. This computer can destroy anything that trys to attack it. So the end is a battle between Superman and Gorman.I should also mention that Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) is in the movie, but only in two scenes. This time, Clark Kent goes to his high school reunion in Smallville and sees his high school crush, Lana Lang (Annette O' Toole) and immediatley falls in love with her all over again. He also develops a friendship with her son Ricky.Other stars in the movie are Pamela Stephenson as the menacing Lorelie Ambrosia, Annie Ross as Vera Webster (Ross's Sister), and Gavin O' Herlihy as Lana Lang's ex-boyfriend Brad Wilson.Produced by Alexander & Ilya Salkind, Superman III is an awsome sequel with great special effects, great acting, great screen writing from David and Leslie Newman (Superman I & II). See it! "},{"Title":"Another underrated sequel","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is another example of how the third movie in a series is often the best but is over looked by so many.  It follows the same pattern as movies like Star Trek III, Nightmare on Elm Street III, and Rocky III.  Although the third installment of a series is often the best, it is most times the least shown and the most hated by many people.Richard Pryor gave a classic performance as the unemployed bum turned computer whiz.  Although many critics seem to hate much of his work, I don't think he made a single bad movie until Another You, which was a great Disappointment.  His antics make me laugh over and over no matter how many times I watch him.I do think that the scenes involving the chemical plant fire were unnecessary.  Do we really need that much of a reminder of what a super hero he is?  But other than that it was a spectacular film.It was a breath of fresh air to see Clark's love interests move beyond the tired old path of Lois Lane, and although Lex Luthor is your classic Bad Guy, it would be unbearably monotonous for him to be involved in EVERY attempt to take over the world.All in all I give it a 9 star, minus one for the unnecessary scenes that made some of the beginning drag more than needed. "},{"Title":"Evil side of Superman you never thought you'd see","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always associated Superman with being good but in this movie he turns BAD! The transformation to the evil Superman is most enjoyable as his suit becomes darker and he is unshaven, He looks cool and it really shows how good of an actor the late Christover Reeve was. He had great timing and showed that he can play more than just one role. I don't see why this movie has been slated by many, people take this movie too seriously and look at it negatively, maybe these people had a bad childhood or something as they seem to have a constant chip on their shoulder about this film. It may not be a masterpiece but it is still a very enjoyable film and much better than trash such as Hulk and Spiderman (First one)which pass as movies nowadays when all they are re doing are exploiting the franchise in order to sell merchandise. Long Live Superman! "},{"Title":"The worst Superman movie I've seen, so far.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Possible spoilers...Just a bad implementation of anything Superman. Here's a typical exampleQuestion If Superman's Super Breath is capable of freezing a lake so he can carry the ice to the scene of a fire five miles away so as to melt the ice, put out the fire, and cool the acid that shouldn't boil... why can't Superman's Super Breath put out the fire and cool the acid, directly?Answer Bad writing.This type of thing is endemic throughout this film. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Clark v Superman","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't deny Superman III is a flawed movie, but damned if I didn't have fun with it! Even during the opening scene I prior to the credits I already found myself relating to Richard Pryor's character of Gus Gorman, and I thought this was supposed to be a bad movie? The monotony of a Benefits office and the employees who don't want to be there and that they probably don't like you as evident through their body language. Then Gus complains about his experience being employed by a fast food restaurant and how they expect you to learn that stuff in one day. Let's just say I've had some similar real life experiences. Untimely I enjoyed his character and didn't mind him sharing the spotlight with Superman in terms of screen time.The opening credits do look like they were done on Windows Movie Maker (or whatever the 1980's equivalent was). But I won't lie if I didn't say the slapstick comedy in the opening credits doesn't amuse me. The slapstick is at least done a director who understands and knows how to do physical comedy. But how do I justify the use of slapstick in a movie which likely didn't need it to be used to such a degree? I could say it ties in with the fact that Clark Kent is a bumbling fool, plus the series is light hearted and campy as a whole, so there are other movies in which the inclusion of widespread slapstick comedy could feel more out of place. Regardless, it gets a few laughs out of me. Not all of the comedy is successful in my eyes; the scene in which Gus explains Superman's exploits in Columbia is really head scratchingly bizarre (plus just an odd way of progressing the plot), plus the green man and the red man in the pedestrian traffic light was going too far. But I do enjoy the gags which use Superman's powers for comedic effect such as his altering of the Leaning Tower of Pisa and the blowing out of the Olympic Torch.The villain Ross Webster comes off as a lesser Lex Luthor. I still quite like Robert Vaughn's charismatic performance, but I wish they could have taken the villain in a different direction rather than just being another evil business mogul. Also why does the villain's view of Superman flying through the canyon look like a video game? It doesn't make sense but is fun to watch. However I will say Vera actually turning into a cyborg was going too far. The action scenes however are fantastic, full of creative old school special effects; the highlight being Evil Superman vs Clark Kent (a sequence which really shows of what a great actor Christopher Reeve was). Is it ironic in relation to today's needlessly dark and gritty superhero movies that Evil Superman's appearance is similar to Henry Cavill's Superman in Man of Steel, right down to the darkened colours. Forget Batman v Superman, this is where it's really at!But like Superman II, the element of the movie I found myself enjoying the most was the character relationships. I was surprised I liked Lana Lang almost as much as I do Lois Lane. Just look at the scene in which Clark and Lana are cleaning up the gym together and she tells him about her ambitions and how she wants to leave Smallville. At this point in the movie I thought to myself how can people dismiss this movie as much as they do? Yes it is flawed, but when you have brilliant intimate moments like this then how can you not see it isn't without merit. "}{"Title":"The Beginning of the End","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wrote an almost essay long review on Superman II gushing about how great it was and how much it (along with the first movie) helped set the benchmark for what comic book movies should be like. The following two Superman movies on the other hand helped set the benchmark for what comic book movies *shouldn't* be like, and that's really all I feel like saying about Superman III in general (I'm not sure I have the strength to re-visit Superman IV The Quest For Peace)It takes everything that was wonderful about the first two and strips them away, creating a brainless comedy that is almost a page by page adaption of a typical Superman comic book, which, as this movie proved, is NOT how you make a good comic book movie.All the emotion of the first two films? Gone, replaced by the comedy of Richard Pryor, who drags the movie down with his awful character and performance, ultimately being totally worthless to the plot.The compelling antagonists? Also gone, replaced by a typical evil businessman villain that seems like a cheap replacement for Lex Luthor due to the absence of Gene Hackman because of his loyalty to Richard Donner.Margot Kidder as Lois Lane is disappointingly absent, reduced to a cameoHell, even the small sense of plausibility is gone, replaced by a plot that drowns in silliness.The one thing the movie still has going in its favour is Christopher Reeve, who continues to play his iconic portrayal of Superman to perfection, and this time gets to stretch his acting muscles by also playing a brainwashed, evil Superman, which he pulls off superbly.Roger Ebert said Superman III is the movie I feared the original Superman would be and with that line he nailed more than I have in this entire review why the original film worked and this didn't. "},{"Title":"Superman III","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III is the beginning of the end for the series since the next one completely killed the series for everyone. But is Superman 3 really that bad? No it's not sure it has a campy humor and one of the most strange opening credits i've ever seen but it's not that awful although it looks more like a Polica Academy film without police officers and Superman in it. Lois Lane is mostly absent from the whole movie since we see her around 10 minutes in the beginning and the end of the film. Another big problem for me were the villains which they were pretty weak and Richard Pryor was the comic relief of the movie which it wasn't needed. I think a 4.9 is a little bit way too harsh at least a 6 would be good. Like i said Superman 3 isn't perfect but when Christopher Reeve turns into a bad Superman then this is were the greatness starts especially that Superman v.s Clark Kent fight is what really won me over. I give it a 8 out of 10 it's entertaining for what it is. "},{"Title":"This is where the Superman franchise begins to fall","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has got to be one of the most painful, if not the most painful movie to sit through. First, you have the first one which I thought it was a classic. Second, you have the sequel where different directors have their own cut of the movie as Lester's cut did fine, but I much prefer Donner's cut. Now, we have the third movie that had just made this franchise go way overboard. I'm not happy with the direction for what this movie went, because like I said it is painful to watch. Here is my take on it The movie centers mostly on Gus Gorman, who is nothing more but a bum as he looks for a job by working as a programmer on computers; while that is going on, CEO of the computer company, Ross Webster hires him to do on what he is being told but Superman foils his plan. So they try to make Kryptonite to kill Superman, but instead of that, his personalities has now change. On the other hand, Clark Kent returns to Smallville for a high school reunion with one of his best friends Lana Lang. So, that is what the movie is about. This plot for the third movie isn't as interesting as you thought it would. Heck, I didn't think it was that interesting either. This movie is not only having its camp factors like Lester's cut of Superman II, but having put too much comedy in it. There is nothing wrong for putting comedy in a superhero movie, but all jokes that were putted in the movie are being forced; its just trying too hard to make something on what is suppose to be funny. None of the jokes ever worked. I hated the opening scene, where instead of the tradition opening credits like the other Superman movies, they just show the city of Metropolis for becoming a madhouse as well as having the credits for making it look like the opening text crawl from the Star Wars movies. Richard Pryor is not funny in this movie, and doesn't belong here to be in this movie. I've read the movie's trivia on IMDb, where Pryor read the script and thought it was terrible, but agreed to do it for paycheck. I'll forgive Pryor for his involvement, but if he wants to be in this movie then have him play a villain or something, instead of being a comedic sidekick. The villains in this movie are uninspiring, because they couldn't used any villains from the comics but just have to be created for the movie. I honestly don't care for Ken Thorne's music or some of Giorgio Moroder's music that he created for the movie, which I find them nothing to be appealing. The acting is so-so for the cast, except for Christopher Reeve, Annette O'Toole and a small appearance from Margot Kidder. Margot Kidder's look for Lois Lane is okay, but miss the way she look in the first one and the second one in Donner's cut. Her acting is still good, but wish that she had more screen time. As for Annette O'Toole, her performance as Lana Lang is well done, but I don't find her chemistry with Christopher Reeve well enough as much as I enjoy the chemistry between Reeve and Kidder. Now for Christopher Reeve, he is still giving a great performance for playing Clark Kent and Superman, and there is nothing to dislike about him. I love him when he becomes corrupted by a fake Kryptonite as he turns to the dark side; he seems to have a blast for this role for playing such a bad superhero. I do like where evil Superman fights his ego Clark Kent as its pretty much a fight between Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. As Clark Kent finishes off his evil self, I love when the Superman theme comes in as he is now fully redeem, while he opens up his shirt by revealing his costume and fixed the damage that he caused. That is where I get the feel of that I'm watching a Superman movie, until it goes back to being painful. The child actor who plays Lana Lang's son Ricky is really annoying aside from Pryor's character. Even his acting is very wooden. The special effects are similar to Lester's cut of Superman II as there are parts that are good and bad. Lester's direction is terrible, and you still wish if the Salkinds have not fired Richard Donner for making Superman II as if this franchise would still be strong. This is not an easy movie to sit through, because at least when you have some bad movies like either Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, X-Men Origins Wolverine, or X-Men The Last Stand; there are at least not as painful as Superman III. Although, I do thought the third X-Men movie is okay, but still not good. I'm sure you're going to disagree with me on one of those movies, but that just me being bias about something. This movie sure does feel like Pryor's movie than Superman's, because Pryor really steals the show. This movie should have more scenes with Superman, than having more scenes with Pryor in it. I don't like Superman III, and I strongly don't recommend it. I give it a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Is by far less enjoyable than Superman (1978) and Superman II (1980), but also isn't that bad either","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After witnessing unknown actor Christopher Reeve successfully fill the enormous shoes of Superman in Superman (1978) and then do it again in Superman II (1980), it would seem doing it a third time would be no problem. The question however, that many fans of the first two films can't seem to get a clear answer to, is why was this the turning point for everything else? For most, this entry would mark the point where fans became baffled and disappointed with the lack of care that went into later Superman productions. It's not to say that this film is awful, no it's not unwatchable. However for those who loved how the first two movies complimented each other, this time the experience will feel quite different. After defeating Lex Luthor with Zod & Co. in Superman II (1980), Clark Kent / Superman (Christopher Reeve) runs into his next villain who looks to control the world via global satellite.This greedy manipulator known as Ross Webster and his sister Vera are played by Robert Vaughn and Annie Ross respectively. There they convince a self-discovered computer whiz named August Gorman (Richard Pryor) to help them acquire their demands by hacking into a global satellite to control the weather. This plot isn't exactly plausible in any respect but, to at least enjoy the positives of this entry, the concept of belief can be suspended (mostly). Unfortunately what really hurts this installment is its writing, which shockingly is written by the same duo (Leslie & David Newman) that penned the first two movies. One big change that is strongly noticeable is its tone. This might be due to director Richard Lester who worked on more comedies than anything else. But here, the comedic bits feel weird, forced and sometimes out of place. This is more for the last half of the running time. There's also a very abrupt change in genre for a small time too. It feels like a totally different movie.An example of this is always happening when Clark Kent is talking with an old school friend named Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole). Every time they exchange lines, one's asking about one thing while the other answers that question but is talking about something else. It's always a conversation where one ends up getting confused about who's talking about what. Along with that are unexplained problems and resolutions to those problems. When something occurs and people make assumptions about it without any proof, then it's not credible. So how does an audience accept that if the characters themselves don't even truly know? You can't really, that's the whole point. The other component that did not fit this entry were the villains. For one thing, Richard Pryor as a sniveling computer hack was not convincing or funny. He was just obnoxious. Even more annoying however was Ross Webster, Vera and some other female that hung around them named Lorelei (Pamela Stephenson). Stephenson was absolutely useless.Be that as it may, these parts don't drag down the whole movie entirely. Aside from the writing, the rest of the parts that make up a movie remain well put together. Although the last half of the film feels odd, the first half however reminisces more of the traditional tone. That means more of what everyone was originally used to with scenes like Daily Planet with Perry White (Jackie Cooper), Jimmy Olsen (Marc McClure) and a cameo of Lois Lane (Margot Kidder). Even with Margot Kidder having a reduced role and Annette O'Toole taking her spot wasn't that disappointing. Lana Lang had a different backstory involving a drunk named Brad (Gavan O'Herlihy) who was once a football jock from Smallville. These relationships are acceptable and feel worthy of a subplot. Heck, even the infamous Good Vs Evil Superman subplot entertained at a decent level. Seeing an evil Superman was certainly something Reeve had never played before.Speaking of which, Christopher Reeve again verified to his fans in this film, that even with an uneven script he still can play the man of steel with ease. Reeve was undoubtedly still the best part. The cinematography provided by Robert Paynter, who also shot for Superman II (1980) maintained the ability to include great scanning POVs and capture unique set pieces. This blended nicely with the special effects as well, which also had practical areas included. And here I was thinking its effects budget wasn't going to be good for all the negative responses about it before viewing. I was impressed however. Finally for the music, although harder to find an actual copy, composer Ken Thorne returned to score the film. Just like before, Thorne held onto Superman's theme from the last two films and does include new tracks. These themes are mostly for evil Superman. If the script was handled better, it probably would've been easily another enjoyable follow-up. But the attention isn't there.For what people say for it to be, it isn't THAT bad. If you can suspend your belief, it will be easier to accept because half of it is decently written. It's just the other half involving its annoying antagonists and forced comedic tone that don't work. Its special effects, music, camera-work and cast of actors from the first two however still remain the best parts, especially Christopher Reeve. "},{"Title":"Special effects as good as ever; the story, not so much","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite this being my first time going through the Christopher Reeve Superman movies, I am keenly aware of the general public attitude toward them. So, I knowingly lowered my expectations for this third entry in the series. Even with those lowered expectations, I still wasn't prepared for how insipidly stupid it would be. Yes, there was plenty of Superman action. Yes, the special effects were as good as ever. The acting was fine. But the story? Oh my god! Richard Lester was merely a hired gun on SUPERMAN II, due to Richard Donner being fired. Here he was in charge the whole time, and the sillier aspects of that film were given too much free reign here.The plot this time around is certainly one of the weakest aspects of the whole film. In short, an evil corporation that has ambitions for economic domination taints Superman with synthetic kryptonite (laced with tobacco tar), and this splits him into evil Superman and good Clark Kent. All of the best parts of the first two films are either shoved to the side or left out entirely. This means hardly any Daily Planet, and Lex Luthor is nowhere to be found. The replacement just doesn't compare favorably, no matter how much I didn't like Lex Luthor's characterization before. That being said, Superman having an identity crisis was an intriguing idea, but the way it's executed is so hamfistedly literal that it kills whatever impact it could have had.However, in the interest of not coming off like I absolutely hated the film, I will say that the technical aspects of the film were really good. All of the special effects were handled well, and the flying sequences were deftly handled, even if it's fairly apparent now how they were achieved (front projection). I also thought the cinematography was excellent, with a number of beautiful shots of landscapes and scenery. As previously stated, the acting was fine. In the TV special on the making of SUPERMAN II, Christpher Reeve talked about how he preferred playing Clark Kent because he was more relatable as a person. Here, the plot allowed for him to explore a darker side to Superman's personality, which I'm certain he had a hand in seeing as he's the film's star and it probably gets tiresome playing the same character over and over again. That one aspect of the plot is something I'll give the writers kudos for. If only they (and the director) hadn't made the film so silly...What's wrong with the film is nearly everything else. Richard Pryor plays an opportunistic con man and computer genius (who discovers his talent in a computer programming course). There is absolutely nothing wrong with Richard Pryor. I quite like his standup act. However, he seemed extremely out of place here. In general, the silly tone just rubbed me the wrong way and there was too much reliance on slapstick for laughs. A perfect example of this is the opening scene which just went on far too long. At some point, it felt like I was watching a Keystone Kops movie than a Superman film. Beyond that, some elements of the story were nonsensical and just plain stupid. First of all, is this the same Clark Kent/Superman who reversed time to save Lois Lane and gave up his power to be with her (temporarily, at least)? If so, then why does he go back to Smallville and almost immediately hook up with childhood friend Lana Lang? Also, compared to the villains' schemes in the previous two films, the plot to turn Superman into a jerk (so that they can dominate the coffee industry?) seems like a step back. Not only that, but they bungle the one clever plot element by having Superman literally fight Clark Kent, and then having the evil side just disappear when Clark Kent puts a choke hold on him. And when you think about it, kryptonite is pretty stupid as it is. I could go on, but hopefully I've made my point.Overall, SUPERMAN III feels like a huge step back in storytelling when compared to the previous two, which I didn't exactly love to begin with. Entertaining? Yes, in some respects, but this one was borderline painful to watch. The idiocy displayed on screen was barely tolerable. Richard Lester was allowed to indulge in his slapstick tendencies to a degree which wasn't possible in SUPERMAN II (since he had to use stuff that Richard Donner shot), and the result was rather unflattering. Having watched nine of the original Superman cartoon shorts, at times this felt like a return to that style, which I was not a fan of. I'll give the filmmakers credit for making a visually appealing film that displays some technical prowess. I also still get goosebumps when I hear John Williams' iconic theme. But literally everything else works against that to make an unfortunately sub-par film. "},{"Title":"The first bad Superman film, but not the worst","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Superman franchise changed hands again with the release of III. A move which aggravated a lot of cast, crew, and fans. Christopher Reeve was disappointed in the series' new direction, but not so much as to turn down the paycheque of another role. Margot Kidder's negative reaction gained her a back seat in the film, and Gene Hackman left the piece altogether. Though there's plenty to be said about Christopher Reeve's acting ability, as he plays Clark Kent, Superman and a darker, uncaring version of Superman, all in the one film with vigour; this is essentially all Superman has going for it by this stage. Richard Pryor is out of place in the DC universe, making slapstick terror and taking up nearly as much screen time as the Man of Steel himself (much to my chagrin). Robert Vaughn's Ross Webster makes for a poor Luthor substitute. Lana Lang's insertion as a love interest was completely disrespectful to the effort that had been put in with the first two films, making Superman's sacrifices and emotions all but redundant. There's very little new material in the piece, and everything that is new, is for the worse. The end result is a cheap disappointment that should never have been made, whose only saving grace is it's titular character. which the film severely under uses in favour of boring sideline exposition and pointless, deranged silliness. 21%-Gimly "},{"Title":"Drop In Quality For Superman Franchise","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a lot of hate for Superman 3 out there and to a certain point I understand why. But that doesn't mean it's all bad.After replacing Richard Donner on directing duties during Superman 2 Richard Lester is given full control this time around and boy does it show. The movie is a bit of a misconception, it's more of a Richard Pryor comedy that featured Superman than an actual Superman movie. All the worst elements that Lester added to Superman 2 are back, all the slapstick comedy and lots of plugs for KFC again too.The problems start from the off, we get a Richard Pryor sketch that features him being refused his benefits and then the credits start. It's no longer in space and instead we get a series of comedy sketches that show men literally falling over themselves ogling Pamela Stephenson. And making matters worse Ken Thorne has replaced the brilliant John Williams. We do see Superman briefly when he saves a guy following a botched robbery. A lot of the dialogue is often cringeworthy (calling Metropolis The Big Apricot is dire) and Robert Vaughn is a weak bad guy. AThere are some things to enjoy here, Reeve as always is brilliant, Anette O'Toole is effective as Lana Lang, the ending is enjoyable, and the video game is fun whilst the fire at the chemical plant and the junk yard fight between Superman and Clark Kent are the two obvious highlights of the movie for this reviewer. "},{"Title":"Richard Pryer makes up for some of its deficiencies","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) is thrown off unemployment after 36 weeks. He discovers that he's naturally gifted as a computer genius. Wealthy businessman Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) finds Gorman's scheme stealing his money and uses Gorman's skills for his own corrupt gains. Meanwhile Clark (Christopher Reeve) goes back to Smallville and reconnects with Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole). Webster sends Gorman to Smallville to take over a satellite. Eventually he creates a synthetic Kryptonite that turns Superman dark.This is the much maligned follow up to the original two. I seem to like it more than most people. Whereas the comedy in this franchise is often campy, at least Richard Pryor provides a real comedian to direct the jokes. What this one lacks that was in Superman II is the great villain Zod. It becomes a series of rescues like firemen rescuing treed cats. The introduction of Lana Lang could have led to some good romantic entanglements. However the general public, still pulling for Lois Lane, was probably put off by his change of heart. They probably still pine for the missing Lois Lane and Lex Luthor days. And I actually like the supercomputer set. For all of its problems, Richard Pryer's likability makes up for much of its deficiencies. "},{"Title":"Superman vs. the Evils of Technology  Or How I Learned to Conquer the World from a Computer in a Wheat Harvesting Co.","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am no more than a casual fan of the original Christopher Reeve SUPERMAN films. I appreciate the films for what they are but, having been raised in an era where CGI was constantly improving and cynicism became prevalent, I'm not as amazed by the dated effects or as drawn in to the gee-whiz mentality of the films' whimsical natures. Still, SUPERMAN and it's sequel (well, primarily the Donner-directed version) were pretty good movies. But by the third film, any element of Richard Donner's involvement had faded and we were left with a total Richard Lester goofball-fest with a ridiculous script from David and Leslie Newman. The series takes a definitive turn here, dropping any fantastic action/adventure vibes for a more comedic approach that vaguely reminds me of the Adam West/Batman television series from the '60s. In SUPERMAN III, the hero faces his more heinous villain yet technology! Cue the dramatic music. I suppose there must have been some sort of technophobe phase in the early '80s and the filmmakers were attempting to tap into that vein with Superman versus a self-aware super-computer. Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) is a perpetually unemployed loser who discovers one afternoon that he's a computer genius and had never realized it before. His talents come to the attention of evil business mogul Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) and his sister Vera (Annie Ross). Gorman's skills are employed in hacking into satellites to manipulate weather and, ultimately, the world before eventually constructing a massive computer designed to accomplish the impossible kill Superman.There might be a fun superhero movie in there somewhere. Maybe. In the hands of Richard Lester, we get a campy adventure filled with sight gags and cheese performances. You know we're in for a rough ride when the opening credits, once presented to the score of John Williams over a field of stars, now come at you in a weird blur over a series of slapstick gags in the streets of Metropolis. Imagine the scene in SUPERMAN II where the villain uses his super-breath to create a bunch of jokes with people being blown around in bizarre scenarios, but expanded to fill a two-hour film. That is SUPERMAN III. Most of the goofiness comes from Richard Pryor and his bumbling Gus Gorman. Pryor is a funny dude and all, but I just don't see how they ever expected his brand of humor to fit into a proper Superman movie. Or maybe it wasn't so much that Pryor didn't fit. After all, we had Gene Hackman's eccentric performances as Lex Luthor and&#x85;*sigh*&#x85;Ned Beatty as Otis in the first two films. The problem is that the comedy is the focus of the movie. Pryor's antics are just the tip of the iceberg. At one point in the movie, Superman is corrupted by some impure kryptonite and becomes evil. His evil agenda practical jokes such as straightening the leaning tower of Pisa and blowing out the Olympic torch. If the movie had taken itself a little more seriously and not embraced the comic in comic book, the movie might've been a little stronger. Well, except for&#x85;you know&#x85;the stupid.Seriously, this movie is stupid. There have been countless articles about how Hollywood just doesn't understand technology and SUPERMAN III is the epitome of it all. To start, there's the laughable thought that average unemployed bum Gorman can sit in front of a computer and suddenly program at a genius level without any prior experience/training&#x85;to his own surprise as much as the audience's. Then we're expected to believe Gorman can hack into a satellite and use it to control the weather. Why? Because it's a COMPUTER! Duh! Computers can do anything! The same satellite is later used to locate Krypton's remains and scan the debris for its elemental structure from light years away&#x85;because COMPUTERS! The whole thing really is so unbelievably stupid that it's hilarious. And this is why I can't outright hate this movie, even if it deserves it. It's so dumb that it sort of redeems itself. What it lacks in action/adventure or fantasy, it makes up for in full-on stupid and I laugh just enough that I can't come down on it too hard. If the movie didn't try too hard to find a sensitive side with a side plot involving Clark Kent finding love with high school sweetheart Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) in Smallville and bog the movie down in the mid-section, I'd enjoy SUPERMAN III even more. It's so off-kilter that it almost works as a parody of the franchise itself.So I guess, on some level, SUPERMAN III almost works. 'Almost' being the operative word. In no sense does it actually work as the next chapter in the Superman saga started by Richard Donner with the original two far superior films, but it can still be good for some laughs, whether they be intentional (from Lester's comic leanings) or unintentional (the evils of technology!). In the end, it all sort of balances out to a tolerable medium and a less disappointing stain on the Man of Steel than the final nail in the coffin that would come four years later SUPERMAN IV. "},{"Title":"Computers rule the world today. And the fellow that can fool the computers, can rule the world himself.","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first two Superman films with Christopher Reeve were enjoyable and imaginative romps. Without Richard Donner behind the wheel, however, the task fell upon Richard Lester to continue the series. The man previously touched up Superman II for its release, so why not? The problem is, Superman III cranks up the camp and cheese so much that all sincerity is stripped away. Even the film's opening credit scenes are a long-running joke...literally, it's one comedic slapstick gag after another, strung together in an almost Vaudeville fashion. The rest of the film is littered with similar gags, and they often aren't that funny. At the center of it all is Richard Pryor, for some odd reason; the man seems totally out-of-place in this picture, with all his bumbling, mumbling, and unfunny antics. Oh, there is action as well, but it is of an absurd nature. The climax is a series of cheesy and unlikely events that pushes this film into bad B-movie sci-fi territory.To be fair, the story has its merits. It does touch upon some interesting ground, first by taking Superman back to Smallville for a while, and secondly be having him literally battle himself. The film also touches upon a few clever ideas, regarding oil dependency, the advent of computers, and the notion that a computer could become self-aware (I think having Superman battling a powerful AI is an inherently cool idea, but the film plays it out so cheesily that it falls way short). Otherwise, the film's story is strangely unremarkable; most of the side characters are shoved to the side, in favor of a new cast of rather uninteresting people, and most of the story is displaced by the comedy and camp.The film has its share of decent photography and editing. Christopher Reeve offers the most earnest performance here, while the rest of the cast really hams it up. Writing is pretty bad. This production seems to use a lot of ambitious sets, props, and costumes, but a lot of it hasn't aged well, and parts of it look cheap and gaudy. Music is not all that great either, despite the usual reprise of John Williams' original theme.Good for a laugh or two, but ultimately weak in so many ways, Superman III earns a marginal score from me, and represents a steep decline in quality from its predecessors.2.5/5 (Entertainment Average | Story Poor | Film Poor) "}{"Title":"Aside from the best action sequence, everything else in this film is just mediocre","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the first two Superman films were well-received, another sequel has been made and not only did it disappoint fans, but caused a downfall for the franchise (We'll get to Superman IV later). To me, I thought it was OK. Nothing terrible or anything, but certainly not that good. Just an example of a mediocre sequel to a successful franchise.Let me start off with the positive assets, first. It does have some nice cinematography as is the beautiful scenery. The special effects are decent, score is good, Christopher Reeves did a fine job as the Man of Steel once again and the Junkyard scene is by far the best action sequence in a superhero franchise. There are also some comedic bits that got me a chuckle or two.Sadly, there are some flaws that ruined the entire movie for me. The storytelling is pretty lackluster, the direction from Richard Lester is disappointing (it's a shame since he did a fine job with his directing in the previous film), the story (aside from a decent subplot where Superman turns evil after getting affected by tobacco kryptonite), is thin and lacks the heart and charm that made the previous two so endearing, the script is awful, and aside from Christopher Reeves, the rest of the acting is a mixed bag. Margot Kidder isn't given much to do other than a cameo, Robert Vaugn's role as the villain is a poor replacement for Gene Hackman and using Richard Lester as the source of comedy doesn't work.Superman III, on it's own, is a mediocre entry to a successful franchise aside from the junkyard action sequence, which in my opinion makes it worth-watching. Besides, it isn't as terrible as Joel Schumacher's trite to the Batman franchise (I'm looking at you, Batman & Robin). It's pretty much worth-watching to those who haven't seen it, but to those who grew up with Superman might want to avoid it. "},{"Title":"A trip down nostalgia lane","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watched this film, must have been at least fifteen years since i last saw it. Wow. didn't realise how terrible it was... but somehow the nostalgia made up for it. There is much that sucks about this film which will escape the kids (at least for me, kids raised on transformers may laugh at it for the wrong reasons) but Richard Pryor adds some redeeming comedy to it to make it a good film for all the family, if Richard Pryor is not your sort of thing you can always pick out the sometimes laughable errors to have your fun with, for me the nostalgia and Richard Pryor kept me there until the end and for this I would give it a 7, but if these doesn't appeal to you the film is more accurately a 4 or 5, 2 or 3 for anyone expecting the same as the two previous films, as it is more a comedy, the action in it is quite weak. "},{"Title":"A Trivial, Campy Approach to the Superman Mythology","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Richard Donner was the visionary director who cemented the Superman movies as larger than life fantasies radiating romance and adventure before being fired during production of Superman II for which Richard Lester directorial credit. Here, Lester is on his own with the Salkinds tightly holding the purse strings and fully responsible for the casting of Richard Pryor as a goofy computer hacker who conspires with the oily Ross Webster (blandly played by Robert Vaughn) to steal billions of dollars and kill Superman. Christopher Reeve once again steals the show in his signature role but sadly Margot Kidder isn't given the opportunity to shine alongside him as Lois Lane. Her role was reduced to an insulting cameo with Annette (Smallville) O'Toole cast as a new love interest for Clark Kent. The special effects are as shaky as the meandering script. Pryor's casting should have been a casting coup but in the end is Superman III's downfall. His comedy routine here is second rate and every joke that falls flat drags this multiple Razzie nominee further down. Superman III was a huge hit for the studio but received mostly negative reviews and was largely denounced by fans. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman faces off against himself after being exposed to a new form of kryptonite that has tar in it. So can the world trust a Superman who now destroys oil tankers? The movie has enough to keep you entertained and the directing and cinematography are well done. A little too slow-paced for a film. The urge to just walk away almost got me a couple of times. But, in the end, this is an excellent character study. I really like this type of series, as it reminds me of French movies where it's more about the characters and their environment. This is one of those movies that Reeves isn't only in for the paycheck. I was deeply impressed, but from an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. "},{"Title":"Unnecessarily bad","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movies like this beg many questions. One prime question that was running through my mind during my viewing of Superman III was How could they screw this up so bad? Other questions, such as What were they thinking and Why didn't someone tell them this was a bad idea also popped up sporadically. When the two previous movies were a smash and had good stories going for them (despite limited special effects) you really wonder where things went so wrong. See, it's not that the third installment in the Superman movie franchise is bad...it's completely horrible!All the familiar cast members show up again -- from Superman himself, Christopher Reeve, to Jackie Cooper, Marc McClure, and even Margot Kidder, doing what can only be described as a brief cameo as Lois Lane. This time, Gene Hackman's brilliant Lex Luthor is substituted for a new villain (who is so forgettable, it's sad) as played by Robert Vaughn. The story itself is outright ridiculous, and I swear the script was written by an A.D.D. riddled eight-year old. Not only do we have Superman heading home for to Smallville for a class reunion, but he forgets his feelings for Lois Lane, and falls for hometown honey, Lana Lang (played by Annette O'Toole). In the midst of this, a Kryptonite substitute splits Kent in two -- one part good, one part evil -- which reduces to an admittedly amusing scene where Superman gets drunk in public and loses his temper. Eventually, he settles his differences in a Fight Club-esque manner -- which is more ridiculous than it sounds -- in order to make way for some more subplots that make absolutely no sense and go nowhere. From controlled weather changes, to a super-computer that merges itself with a woman, to a video-game being played by the villain against Superman, what happens in this movie is best forgotten. In fact, I'll be damned if I can sort any of it out. I started dipping into an insanity and boredom induced coma towards the end of it.Put quite simply This movie makes no sense. When it's not being outright cheesy, it just betrays the spirit of the first two movies. What a surprise, since Superman II director Richard Lester was behind the lens. Which still begs the question What went wrong here? This should have been a good movie. No wonder nearly twenty years went by after Superman IV before we got a new movie. Movies like this do no good. I only gave Superman III the two-stars because, for one thing, Richard Pryor was entertaining in every scene, and for another, because it was a thrill to see Superman burst into a drunken rage. If you thought other franchises such as Batman and Star Wars went awfully sour after a while, perhaps you should avoid this little turd. "},{"Title":"A very disappointing sequel","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not a very good film either in comparison to the first two or in general.Reeve is very good as Clark, the good Superman and the bad Superman but the plot is nowhere near as interesting as in the first two films. I love evil Superman stories but, in comparison to most of those, this falls flat. It's rather uninspired. Margot Kidder only appears in two bookend scenes as punishment for publicly criticising the Salkinds for replacing Richard Donner with Richard Lester and the film suffers badly as a result. Gone is the relationship which served to ground the previous two films. Annette O'Toole, better known these days for another Superman- related role, is very likable as Lana and it's a nice character but she gets nothing of much interest to do. She has good chemistry with Reeve but Lana still pales in comparison to Lois. Jackie Cooper and Marc McClure are wasted. Robert Vaughn is a wonderful actor and his first scene in the film is one of the few genuinely funny ones but Ross Webster is a poor man's version of Lex Luthor. Similarly annoyed at Donner's firing, Gene Hackman refused to return at all. Richard Pryor isn't one of my favourite comedians but he can be very funny. Sadly, he very seldom was during this film. I was as stone-faced as Webster and his charming sister Vera during the scene in which Gus Gorman imitates Superman and describes how he saved the Colombian coffee plantation. Pryor was awkwardly shoe-horned into the film and dominates much of it, having only slightly less screen time than Christopher Reeve. They should have given him his own film rather than stick him into a Superman one. At times, it felt more like a Richard Pryor film with Superman in it, which ain't a good thing. Much of the humour falls flat but there are occasionally some funny lines. The computer angle means that this film has dated far more than the first two and the special effects aren't great in comparison to the earlier films. The video game sequence is very boring compared to the surprisingly tense one in Never Say Never Again, another 1983 film featuring Gavan O'Herlihy.The back of the Complete Collection DVD reads After Superman The Movie's epic storytelling and Superman II's awesome battles, how could the first two hits be topped? It's never a good sign when the DVD packaging has a tongue in cheek comment about the film not being very good. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently I finally got round to watching Superman 3. From everything I heard about it mixed with the major step down that Superman 2 was from the first Superman, I expected that downward slope to continue and for Superman 3 to be even worse. Though I was somewhat surprised by the film that it was. Whilst it was certainly nowhere near the standard of the first Superman and contained no real drama or imagination of the comics, it still remained surprisingly enjoyable and certainly a step up from Superman 2. It really surprises me to say this since I'm a comic book fanatic and I hate it when the films do not live up to their source material which this film ignores to almost it's entirety. Instead of choosing from the 45 years of the comics history of great stories, it instead follows Gus (Richard Pryor) who creates a piece of Kryptonite mixed with tar which splits Superman in two causing a good and evil version of himself to emerge to give him time to create an ultimate super computer. But just like the camp fun of the 60's Batman, this is a film that has a lot of fun with itself and embraces its own ridiculous nature. Seeing scenes like seeing an evil Superman push the Leaning Tower of Pisa up straight are absolutely ludicrous, but are still strangely enjoyable because it matches the ludicrous nature of the film. But throughout the film I couldn't help wondering why I found this funny and not Superman 2. Why could I laugh at the ridiculousness of Superman helping a small kid get a strike out in the most over the top manner and not his beating up a guy at a road caf? I realised that ultimately Superman 2's attempts at drama were its downfall. By trying to keep the drama from the original Donner version and mixing with it the comedy of Lester the film failed at doing either because they counteract one another. The drama made the comedic moments feel out of place whilst the comedy meant that I could not become invested in the drama. But by focusing entirely on comedy the world loses any need for sense and allows the audience to fully embrace the comedy. Also the film does have some good action moments. Not all of these are well made with some awful effects where we're able to see the strings Superman flies on. But there is one great sequence where after Superman is split between Clarke Kent and and the evil version of Superman the two fight it out in a junkyard. It's an impressive brawl demonstrating the full extent of Superman's strength as he tries to beat himself to a pulp. It was mostly impressive seeing Reeve juggle the evil Superman with Clark Kent in an almost Jekyll and Hyde battle. Also I was very glad that Lois was not a major part of this film. She was the most irritating part of the first two films and this time her role was cut down to two scenes instead being replaced by Olsen as the damsel and Lana (Clarke's college sweetheart) as the love interest. This was a great improvement since she actually had character. She wasn't just constantly obsessed with Superman, if anything seemed to treat him more like a regular person. Through this she becomes an enjoyable character who we can become invested in. Though not all the additions to the film were good with the unfortunate choice of including Richard Pryor in the story. Whilst he can be one of the greatest stand ups at times, here he seems to only be annoying with all the jokes he tells falling flat. Also because of the awkward comedy, I'm never entirely sure how much of a villain he's supposed to be. One scene he'll be trying to take down Superman with Kryptonite and the next scene he'll be trying to stop the other villains from hurting him. Also no comedic take on Superman can ever be able to match the brilliance of the likes of Superman (1978). Superman is one of the all time iconic characters and because of this can be capable for some incredible cinematic outings. Thus it is a shame to waste such potential on only a comedy rather than attempting an all out drama for him. But for what it's intended to be Superman 3 is an enjoyable film with some good moments and whilst not anything special is still probably worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Not super, but pretty good.","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Reeve's third outing as Superman, where this time a synthetic kryptonite with tobacco tar in it splits Superman in two, resulting in a good Clark Kent and a bad Man of Steel. The two alter-egos end up batting each other in a pretty captivating story and plot with some neat special effects. However, the more dramatic and suspenseful elements from the previous two films is replaced with more comedic elements in this sequel, especially surrounding Richard Pryor's Gus Gorman character.The acting, nonetheless, is pretty good. Reeve is amazing as Superman/Clark Kent as always and Pryor delivered some nice comedy and laughable moments. Annette O'Tootle gave a refreshing role as Lana Lang and had good on-screen chemistry with Clark Kent.This sequel, though, does have that lack of superhero feel to it probably do to its slapstick comedy elements. It's still good fun, but a little more on the campy side.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Superman Versus Richard Pryor","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ambitious but uneven Superman III underlines comedy and slights drama. A Hard Day's Night director Richard Lester and What's Up, Doc?scenarists David and Leslie Newman allow Richard Pryor to indulge himself as villainous but accommodating Gus Gorman. Pryor imitates Superman in one scene with a pink tablecloth. In other scenes, he dresses a fast-talking, chummy, rube in a suit liquor salesman and later masquerades as General George Patton. Most of the time, Pryor amuses us with his crazy antics, but the comic approach seems out of place in what should have been a straightforward Superman saga like the original and its sequel. The opening credit sequence depicts chaos forged by a babe whose sexy demeanor triggers a Rube Goldberg series of accidents. Meantime, the Man of Steel is appropriately heroic, while Clark Kent is hopelessly goofy. At one point, Kal-El freezes a lake to douse a chemical fire. He uses his sensitive hearing to locate a whining dog beside its fallen master in a hay field with harvesters bearing down on them. He rescues a man who is drowning inside his own car. He blows an oil spill back into the tanker ship! Tycoon Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn of The Magnificent Seven) replaces Lex Luthor from the previous two outings. The dastardly Webster wallows in so much dough that he never has to wear the same pair of socks twice. He is wealthy enough to have a ski slope built atop his skyscraper apartment. Webster persuades computer embezzler August Gorman (Richard Pryor) to carry out his schemes of economic world conquest by manipulating computers to change things. Warner Brothers should have called this epic Superman Vs. Richard Pryor. Essentially, Pryor plays an unemployed African-American computer genius. He isn't the chief villain, but a henchman who gets in over his head with Ross. Gus is the lynchpin character and seems more interesting than Superman.Superman III opens with August Gorman (Richard Pryor of Car Wash) awaiting his weekly unemployment check. Sadly, Gus hasn't been able to find stable employment after 36 weeks of searching for work so the city cuts off his benefits. As he is about to leave the employment office, he borrows a book of matches from a brother and sees on the match book that he can earn big money as a computer programmer. Later, Gus winds up taking computer classes at Archibald School of Data Processing. The opening credits occur in downtown Metropolis as all Hell breaks loose. Lorelei Ambrosia sets off the chaos with her clingy white dress covered with strawberries. She totes a strawberry shaped purse, too. A robber holds up a bank, and the police blast away at him as he flees. The cop's bullet strikes a motorist's car and he smashes into a water hydrant. Clark Kent has already blown out a flaming penguin when he spots the motorist drowning in his own automobile. Our hero ducks into a photo booth, tears off three photos of him as Clark Kent, hands his Superman picture to a kid, and then rips the sun roof off the car to save the motorist. Afterward, Kent convinces Perry White to let him attend his high school reunion and turn it into a story. Lois sets off on her vacation to Bermuda and we don't see her again until the last ten minutes. Anyhow, Clark encounters a chemical fire along the way, and Superman puts it out in the most singular fashion. Meanwhile, greedy Gus embezzles over $85-thousand by funneling off the half-cents into his expense account. Ross is impressed with Gus' computer skills, and he persuades Gus to do his dirty work for him. It seems that Webster has been looking for a computer genius. Eventually, Gus convinces Webster to build the ultimate computer. This computer is comparable to HAL in 2001 A Space Odyssey. Not only is it the biggest computer in the world, but also this computer can defend itself against attack.The original 1978 Superman had its share of comedy, but humor pervades Superman III. The dry humor at the beginning looks like something that Blake Edwards might have staged for one of his comedies. Of course, Pryor is always a pleasure, and Christopher Reeve gives Superman greater depth. Tricked into accepting fake kryptonite from Gus as General Patton, Superman splits up into a good and a bad Superman. Lester gives us a glimpse of the Man of Steel as we have never seen him. We see Superman blow out a torch at an athletic event and get drunk at a bar. Moreover, Superman makes time with Lana while a trucker dies that he could have saved. Robert Vaughn has some memorable moments as Ross Webster. He has about three ironic lines. I ask you to kill Superman, and you're telling me you couldn't even do that one, simple thing. Even earlier, with a hint of irony, Webster says, Gus, if there's anything I hate, it's greed. Gus, if there's anything I hate, it's greed. Superman battles with the computer and the villains challenge him with their technology. When he isn't tangling with Webster and Gus, Clark Kent rekindles a romance with Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) who has a son. Unfortunately, her son Ricky has no father to play with.Superman III qualifies as ambitious but uneven. Richard Pryor steals the show, but Christopher Reeves embellishes his performance. "},{"Title":"Much Better the Second Time Around, But It Should Have Been Superman II in the Series,","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the stirring triumph of Superman - The Movie and Superman II, a majority of people considered Superman III a bafflingly ignoble and comically disgraceful disappointment. At the time over 30 years ago, I was no exception. But yesterday afternoon on February 5, 2014 at about two-thirtieish P.M. I decided to watch Superman III on HBO to see if my opinion changed, especially since I had forgotten some movie scenes. You know, Superman III was much more palatable and enjoyable the second time, even though its overindulgence in slapstick and pratfalls keeps it from occupying the lofty perch of the first two Superman movies.Superman III is preoccupied with the insidious threat of technology and computers, and tycoon Ross Webster's (Robert Vaughn)'s insatiable desire to exploit them, with the somewhat reluctant help of unexpected computer whiz Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor), to become still wealthier. Of course, only Superman (Christopher Reeve) can thwart this ambitiously global plan. However, three events complicate matters. One is the kindling of an unexpected romance (as Clark Kent) with Smallville High School prom queen Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) at their high school reunion. A second, minor one is uncouth former high school football hero Brad Wilson (Gavan O'Herlihy), Lana's jealous ex-beau. The third and most formidable event is artificial, impure green kryptonite. Manufactured at Webster's bidding by Gus to kill Superman and thus stop his interference, instead it unleashes his darker, selfish impulses. Can Superman overcome these obstacles, plus a gigantic (and possibly sentient) supercomputer designed by Gus for out-and-out world domination? As I mentioned, Superman III goes overboard a bit with the physical comedy (and Pryor's hapless blundering and improvisational schtick as Gus) and seems poised to trivialize the kryptonian superhero. But Reeve, as both Kent and Superman, maintain things on a dignified but touching keel, handling sweet romance, outrageous disasters, and planetary threats with a nimble mixture of seriousness and self-deprecation. In other words, Superman never becomes a joke. Even when the ersatz kryptonite and the pleas of Lana's son Ricky force Superman to confront his malicious Hyde-like alter ego in an externalized, knockdown, junkyard battle for his soul, it somehow rises above absurdity to a gripping psychological revelation even a Superman has his demons. Furthermore, Superman atones for his misdeeds (not really so much felonies as mischievous misdemeanors) like pushing the Tower of Pisa back to leaning position. Furthermore, besides the supercomputer, Superman III has its share of disasters for Superman to tackle, like an explosive chemical plant fire, tornado, missile assault, and female cyborg.Perhaps the only true flaw in Superman III is its position in the series. Maybe it should have been the second one, since the first movie does have its comedic pleasures and was just beginning to test Superman and Superman III could have been a more logical extension of the first, leading to a crescendo to Superman II where Superman's powers were tested to the limit. Entertaining as Richard Vaughn's greedy CEO was, it might have been better to retain Lex Luthor in the corporate role to keep the continuity going and employ a delectable teaming of Gene Hackman and Richard Pryor. While I'm making Monday morning quarterback suggestions, perhaps Brainiac and red kryptonite (which has unpredictable effects on Superman) could have found their way into the plot. It's just speculation.The simple point is is that Superman III is not quite ridiculous as it seems, mainly because Reeve believes in both his Clark Kent and Superman personas and helps both personas reasonably rise above the outlandish doings. "}{"Title":"A Strange Movie Great  yet  Stupid","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why an 8? Because Superman IV is so bad. That film looks half-finished and has plot-holes you can drive a bus through. (You can't cut Superman's hair and humans can't breathe in space.) So on to what's wrong and right about III Director Richard Lester basically filmed a comic book adventure of Superman. The comedy is too broad here, and Richard Pryor (Gus) plays it way over the top. A bumbling fool as a software genius? British spelling and received spelled wrong? The St. Louis Bar is obviously in Canada-It's a licensed tavern. Designing a super-computer by doodling on matchbook covers? What's with Gus wearing that giant cowboy hat at the computer terminal in Smallville? All the alcohol, tobacco and fast-food plugs? Handing Superman a trophy that looks exactly like a Kryptonite chunk? Touches on a lot of good themes that should have been handled better A Jekyll and Hyde Superman. Nothing original Renegade computers and satellites trying to take over the world. It's been done before. Robert Vaughn is so terrible as the villain. His evil ugly sister changed into a rampaging cyborg? Good idea, bad execution. I bet this all looked great on paper. The sets just don't seem to work, too elaborate or too cheap-looking. Too many British accents including Lana Lang's son! So was Clark engaged to Lana Lang? We will never know, will we? I wish I could recut this film and shorten a few scenes, so it didn't come across as such a silly comedy. This will forever be known as the movie that almost killed Superman's career. I can't explain why it is still fun to watch, in spite of all it's faults. Annette O'Toole and Reeve give good performances in an otherwise bad movie with good intentions. If not for the better sequels such as Lois and Clark and Smallville poor Superman would have been gone forever, after this film. "},{"Title":"A Richard Pryor film that features Superman.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those films that you love as kid but as an adult experience it is hard to accept the choices made by the producers.Its been said countless times that this is a Richard Pryor film that happens to feature Superman.Director Richard Lester is much more interested in exploring the comic talents of Pryor than continuing the character of Superman.His style somehow merged quite well with Richard Donners when he finished the cut of Superman II but its obvious from this outing that he is not the man for the job.There are good elements such as Superman turning bad after an encounter with a dodgy dose of Kryptonite which,in truth,is largely thanks to Christopher Reeves performance.The rest of the film is messy and ill considered.An overlong slapstick introduction sequence replaces the inspirational opening credits of Donners film.Pryor seems to improvise his way through the film while Letser ignores any interesting character moments preferring silly gags which date the film and echo more in common with a British 'Carry On' movie than the epic heartfelt intentions set out for the character by original director Richard Donner.In short,a disappointment. "},{"Title":"When even Richard Pryor can fly, who needs Superman?","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although modestly profitable, Superman III was enough of a disappointment to convince both the Salkinds and Warner Bros. to call it a day as far as their direct involvement in the series went. It certainly magnifies all the problems in Richard Lester's version of Superman II and throws in a slew of new ones for bad measure.For a couple of minutes the film looks like it might have some potential, even opening in an unemployment office in a passing nod to the real world and Reaganomics, but no sooner have the main titles begun than Lester is back to his slapstick tricks, throwing in a prolonged series of silent movie pratfalls that really belong in another movie entirely. Indeed, it's a shame that Lester didn't make that movie instead, as he really doesn't seem at all interested in Superman, who, along with Clark Kent, has little to do in the first two-thirds of the picture and is sidelined in favor of Richard Pryor. A man whose 80s work not only squandered his hard-won reputation as a cutting-edge stand-up comedian but also made Eddie Murphy look like a man who's heard of quality control, he's never remotely funny here and unfortunately he's firmly in bland family entertainment mode. For the first half he's inoffensive enough before becoming an increasingly absurd and irritating figure quite what anyone was thinking having him imitate General Patton in one scene we may never know. Worse still, in a world where Richard Pryor can survive skiing off a skyscraper completely unharmed, what's super about Superman? Yet there are far worse performances than Pryor's on display here. Pamela Stephenson overacts horribly as a blonde bimbo who reads Kant and keeps on forgetting she's supposed to be dumb while Robert Vaughn's villain seems more like a guest star on a bad children's' TV sitcom than much of a challenge to the Man of Steel. The feeling of bad TV is only heightened by a plot revolving around computers and early video game graphics that look positively primitive today &#150; nothing dates as quickly as 'tomorrow's' technology.To save money, the film even breaks cinema's cardinal rule of show, don't tell in one seemingly endless scene where, rather than showing the Man of Steel saving the day, Richard Pryor spends five minutes talking about what he did while wrapping himself up in a tablecloth. Well, it's cheaper than special effects&#133; and while this doesn't cut as many corners as Cannon's fourth film, saving money is always high on the agenda. The star cast is anything but (after Pryor, Robert Vaughn's the only 'big' name in it) while Margot Kidder gets relegated to two brief scenes as punishment for publicly badmouthing the producers for firing Richard Donner from Superman II. By pushing her off the stage so quickly and replacing her with a romantic rival in the shape of Annette O'Toole's Lana Lang (forget the unlikelihood of Supes forgetting he cannot have a normal relationship), the producers simply showed how little they understood that the relationship between Lois and Clark was at the very heart of the first film's success lose that relationship and you've only got half a hero. Or a quarter, since the plot involves some bad synthetic Kryptonite making Superman go bad.This section does at least showcase the best of Reeve's performance as the evil Superman, showing a convincing vein of self-loathing as he drinks himself into a foul mood and circles the world doing bad deeds, and the film briefly comes alive as he literally battles Clark Kent for his own soul in a junkyard dustup. Unfortunately once he's triumphant it's on to a very pedestrian and unimaginative finale that pits him against a less than supercomputer that's largely played for laughs that aren't forthcoming. Yet poor as this is, even worse was yet to come for the franchise&#133;. "},{"Title":"Gus and Ross The Movie.","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem with Superman III isn't so much the presence of Richard Pryor, it's the fact the script was written for and around the comedian. Last I checked, the franchise was called Superman not Gus Gorman. And it's not the fact that Gene Hackman is absent, per se, it's the fact the script wastes the talents of Robert Vaughn on a villain who is nothing more than a Lex Luthor impersonator.But the biggest sin of Superman III is the fact Clark Kent and the Man of Steel show up for a surprisingly small percentage of the running time, and when they do show up very little of significance seems to happen. Ross Webster and Gus Gorman push the plot forward, and folks, that's a problem. Compounding said problem the amazing abilities of Superman feel trivialized, almost like superhuman feats are a footnote at the end of his grocery list.Take for instance the opening credits sequence &#150; a painfully long series of sight gags involving people slipping on gumballs, mechanical penguins on fire, and a blind guy losing his seeing-eye dog &#150; it all leads up to a car running over a fire hydrant, where water starts filling the car. After two minutes of slapstick build up from director Richard Lester, Supes comes to the rescue, rips the top of the car off, and saves the day in 10 seconds.Later on, Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) implements his plan to control the weather via satellites and destroy the coffee crop in Columbia. So, how does the film approach Superman versus the man-made uber-destructive storms? Gus Gorman (Pryor) gets to retell it with a pink table-cloth tied around his neck, and the audience gets quick cuts to the blandest angle to show what Superman actually did. Imagine if a bystander half a mile away caught the feat on camera.Heading into the final showdown, Webster lures Superman to his mountain super-computer fortress where an ambush awaits. Armed with an arsenal of rockets, they pummel Superman. And do we see the Man of Steel dodging their firepower mid-flight (side note would Superman even care? Nevermind.) Instead, the movie insists on showing much of the dogfight from the perspective of an Atari 2600esque game screen.Robert Vaughn steps into a role that begs a comparison with Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor &#150; an insane, greedy, billionaire bent on world domination wants Superman dead. An insane, greedy, billionaire bent on world domination who has no power over Superman unless he goes out of his way to get kryptonite (a la the first Superman movie.) Add in the comedic spin, and Ross Webster is nothing more than a poor man's Lex Luthor. A photocopy with a few bits changed with white-out and an ink pen. Robert Vaughn is a very talented actor who could've made for a great original and inimitable villain for Superman (just like Hackman's Luthor, or the immortal General Zod played by Terrence Stamp), but again the script fails to deliver the appropriate opportunity.One of the inherent flaws to a character as powerful as Superman is the fact that for the film to be satisfactory, there must be a threat to match the Man of Steel's titanic capabilities &#133; and a threat of that caliber is pretty hard to come by as evident in Superman III. Nothing in this movie really comes close, and the two events that do measure up A. come early in the film, and B are severely mishandled. The aforementioned satellite-made storms is robbed the adrenal experience since we never really see Superman face it (that and the fact it's preceded by more unnecessary sight-gags a la Richard Lester.). And let's not forget the fire at the chemical plant that would put an acid cloud in the sky (a threat that isn't convincing since everyone is way too calm in the face of imminent disaster). What's on the line at the end of the film? Oh yeah, gas prices.Superman III is playing poker with potato chips.It doesn't help matters either that the script wrote Lois Lane out of the story in favor of Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) who stays forever on the sideline. Since Superman/Clark Kent are basically secondary characters, that makes this love interest tertiary. So much for emotional grounding in that relationship/subplot, and so much for building on what the first two films established.In the end, Superman III is the saddest types of failures &#150; one where the resources and talents are, for the most part, on the screen; however, it's all built upon a flimsy foundation. Richard Pryor, Robert Vaughn, could've been excellent additions to the pantheon of great Superman characters. The plot could've made more effective use of Marc McClure, Jackie Cooper, Annette O'Toole's and especially Margot Kidder as the Superman regulars.While Richard Lester's insistence on sight-gags definitely hurts the picture, the biggest downfall of Superman III rests squarely with the script. This is a film that needs to remember who its titular character is. "},{"Title":"Wow, that's terrible...","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prior to watching Superman III, I had heard many people brand it a complete turkey, but I was willing to give it a chance anyway because I'm a fan of several underdog movies in long-running franchises (e.g. Alien 3, Star Trek V, Rocky V...) But this movie really is bad. The plot feels very random and cobbled together. The villains chuck all kinds of obstacles into Superman's path - including a weather-manipulating satellite, artificially engineered Kryponite, oodles of missiles, and a malicious supercomputer - but most of these threats are underdeveloped, impersonal and dull.The only sort-of-interesting sequence involves Superman splitting into good and evil doubles, who get in a fistfight in a junkyard. It's a somewhat surreal and effective bit of spectacle. But, on the other hand, the scene doesn't make much sense, and since it's merely a fight it can't really qualify as an intelligent exploration of the character's duality.Richard Pryor, meanwhile, fails to make any kind of impression whatsoever. He's amusing in some scenes, but on the whole his jokes - and the movie's overall sense of humor - come across as dated and precious (read annoying). Take, for example, the scene when Pryor slings a tablecloth around his shoulders like a cape and tries to imitate Superman. It ain't funny, it just looks stupid.The special effects are another disappointing aspect. The missiles seem like something out of a Godzilla movie, while the various ray-beams look like they come from Forbidden Planet (I mean no disrespect to that movie - only to the much later Superman III!) One good thing about Superman III is that it helped me to appreciate director Richard Donner's take on the character more. The first Superman film does feature some silly comedy moments, but it also has some dignity and genuine drama. Superman III, on the only hand, is just two hours of silliness and stupidity. It's not witty, it's a condescending bore. "},{"Title":"This Super-man is nothing of the kind.","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quit while you're ahead, that's what my old Mum used to say &#150; of course this is the same woman that paid a man 200 not to install an oven with her new kitchen because she only tends to use the hob but nevertheless, good advice and what a shame that the Salkands didn't listen, but then listening isn't what they're good at is it? So what WERE they good at? Well initially ceding creative control of the Superman franchise to people who knew what they were going. Donner knew the right tone and conscious of David and Leslie Newman's shortcomings in the scripting department, the much heralded 'verisimilitude' approach substituted for camp, he'd hired Hollywood script doctor Tom Mackenwitz, to inject some box office saving self-importance into the proceedings. By the time the third instalment was gearing up Donner had been sapped of his powers but some producer slight of hand and tossed into the fortress of solitude's icy depths &#150; his success coming at the expense of his relationship with the interfering money men. With Donner a goner, Mancewitcz went too, as did Gene Hacked off, leaving the third Superman looking a little like a beaten up Clarke Kent in a rundown diner before a single frame of film had been shot. The Salkinds, certain that their original, as yet untested, ideas about how Superman should be done would triumph over the tried and tested approach, moved quickly to undo the source of their success. In Donners place was Superman II's director Richard Lester. Anyone who'd seen a pure Lester movie would have had reason to fear this appointment &#150; the man was a peddler of farce who liked things light and strewn with slapstick, The Three Musketeers anyone? Add to this an unrestrained David and Leslie Newman and you had the filmmaker's answer to the movie's tar infused synthetic kryptonite &#150; it's not enough to kill Superman but it certainly going to do him some serious damage.Whether you like or loathe Superman III will depend on how seriously you take this kind of film. If, like Lester, you don't take it too seriously, then the movie's light, farcical approach dabbed with the occasional dramatic flourish will leave you with a big stupid smile on your face &#150; the kind you used to get when someone flashed their genitals in class during a primary school maths lesson. Those who think the first two films, and we're including the second film despite Lester's involvement not because of it, got it right, have reason to feel genuinely angry &#150; the golden goose was eviscerated here and never recovered. That it's a very different Super-outing is evident from the off with a long slapstick sequence giving us a taste of the jollies to follow. Richard Pryor, stunt cast here as the computer genius who falls in with Robert Vaughn's trio of villains, is the most obvious indication that comedy has edged out drama as the series' creative engine. The trouble is that Pryor isn't particularly good and nor is the script &#150; the gags tending to clunk while the occasional sequence lapses into the kind of camp Donner tried so hard to avoid &#150; the fighting green and red traffic crossing men been the most puerile example. When its good, its pretty watchable stuff - the Clarke/Lana story providing a much needed bit of grounding and Annette O'Toole, by and large replacing the exiled Kidder, is a much better catch for Supes&#133;and much easier on the eye. The Chemical plant save is pretty impressive, so too the junkyard fight between 'evil' Superman and his old self but the mirth has watered it down to tasteless proportions long before then and good leaning tower of Pisa joke aside, we're as relived as Gus when its finally all over. The Superman movie that proved Donner was right all along, it's a shame that the Salkinds took the opposite view and blamed the audience for its relative failure. When they say that nobody knows anything in the movie business here's the producers who set out to prove it&#133;and did. "},{"Title":"Superman vs. Richard Pryor... who will win the power of the silver screen?","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched Superman III and was excited to see Richard Pryor on the cover, but then I even thought as I was paying for the rental wait, why am I excited to see Richard Pryor more than Christopher Reeve?, it was an interesting thought. But I was thinking maybe it's just because I was just more used to being excited about some kind of comedy, but the problem was that it seemed like the comedy took over what could've been a great super hero story.Superman/Clark Kent is now invited to his high school reunion where he sees his old high school crush and they hit it off. Gus, played by Pryor, is a computer worker, he is asked by a big boss to play with the computers and control the weather and more! But when Superman interferes with that, they decide to throw some kryptonite at him, but it fails, but turns Superman into a bad guy! Hence the alternate title of Superman vs. Superman.Like I said, it just didn't seem to balance right with these two huge movie stars. In the 70's and 80's, Richard Pryor could do no wrong, he was so popular, and I think that overshadowed Christopher's presence on the screen. The comedy and drama didn't mesch well, I just think that this could've been a great sequel, but just didn't excel to what it could'v been.4/10 "},{"Title":"Man of steel justice..","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This time the man of steel takes on a computer genius and due to kryptonite gelled with tar, makes Superman split in two personalities, good guy Clark Kent and bad guy Superman. Superman III's hands down highlight goes to the sequence where Superman fights Clark Kent, this sequence is amusing and fits with the overall comic-book feel. Aside from that however this movie is too silly and relies to heavily on comic set pieces, when Superman isn't a premise that needs to be done with much comedy. Still I did enjoy a lot of the movie and it's a perfect example of guilty pleasure, if there ever was one.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"What happened, Superman?","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching Superman 3 for the first time, I had to say to myself, what happened? I mean, the first two films were true to the spirit of Superman but this one takes Superman down the comedic route. The entire beginning slapstick sequence is funny enough but doesn't work whatsoever in a Superman film. And although the bad Superman angle was well done, Lex Luthor is sorely missed (with Vince Vaughn and the late Richard Pryor - RIP - not up for the acting task). I mean, Superman fighting an AI computer (which they built in what, a few weeks it seems?) - the logic has completely been thrown out the window here. And how could they make Lois Lane's character completely unimportant in this film? It's no surprise that Byran Singer wants to make Superman Returns a sequel to Superman 1 and 2 ONLY (discounting Superman 3 especially). A poorly done 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Where Are Lois Lane and Lex Luther When We Need Them?","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN III is an interesting film, but it is very much a disappointment.  It lacks everything the first two SUPERMAN movies had.  This time, there is no real villain since Gene Hackman's Lex Luther character is missing in action, and there is not much screen time for Margot Kidder's Lois Lane.  Instead we get Richard Pryor, whom I say is one of the greatest comedians of all time, playing a computer hacker, but the problem is that Pryor is not fit for a role like this, and it's probably what killed his film career, and also what caused the likeable film series to go downhill.  I would still recommend SUPERMAN III for fans of the comic book superhero, though.2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"It has its moments.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I sort of like this film...definately better than 4, it amazes me how many people say they actually think 4 is better.  This movie is almost a pure comedy except for some scenes.  Reeve is tolerable in this one...another thing I can't believe is how many people think Reeves was so great as Superman.  I know a bunch of people who could have done better, just cause the man had a terrible accident doesn't mean you have to praise his acting ability (other than Superman he has basically done nothing).  Reeve does his best when he plays the dark superman.  Richard Pyror steals the show though and is the main reason I like this one.  Blessedly gone is Margot Kidder who only has a brief cameo.  Like I said this one is more of a comedy and it isn't trying to take itself to seriously...to bad the same can't be said for 4. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, AT BEST.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The most boring of the Supermans. Most of the special effects look phony (Superman does a lot of flying over matte paintings in this one), Richard Pryor's broad comic relief is out of place, and Richard Lester lingers on the violence too long, and as a result ideas that start out witty (Superman turning into a destructive, amoral alcoholic) end up looking simply misguided (the Clark Kent vs. Bad Superman battle is weird more than anything else). Still, there is one aspect of the movie that is handled well Clark's brief idyll with his old schoolmate Lana Lang (a very sweet and honest performance by Annette O'Toole). He should have dumped Lois Lane for this woman!     (**) "},{"Title":"An awful movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman 3 is without a doubt an awful movie. It's the worst movie in the Superman series, although there are people who will disagree with me on that.Christopher Reeve is the film's main saving grace, but it's a shame he plays second fiddle to Richard Pryor as Gus Gorman. Reeve is the only star who truly shines in this movie.Superman 3 does have some good bits about it, such as the special effects; the junkyard battle between Clark and the Evil Superman; and Reeve's performance, most especially in the junkyard battle.The film's main problem is the script, written by the talentless David and Leslie Newman, which is just truly awful and an embarassment to the Superman legend. Richard Lester is another problem with the movie as he doesn't care for the Superman character and only wanted to provide cheap laughs.Being a Superman fan, I do watch the movie but only once a year. I have this strange habit where I watch the movie on Christmas Eve before I go to bed, and I've been doing this for 5 to 6 years now.Superman 3 is an embarassment to the Superman legend and it's certainly a film I'd never recommend anyone to watch. "},{"Title":"Some humor, but the awe is gone","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III is a so-so entry in the series, and while it is extremely better than Part IV, it doesn't measure up to the wonder and awe of Superman I and II. There is like one main plot and 2 little subplots. First the main plot Corporate tycoon Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) uses computer genius Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor) to get rid of Superman (Christopher Reeve) so he can take over the world with his company. Little subplot Clark Kent attends his Smallville class reunion and reunites with his old crush, Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole). After Superman gets exposed to a fake chunk of Kryptonite laced with tar, he turns evil and splits apart, and a battle of good vs. evil erupts in a junkyard. There is also a fight between a super-computer too. I don't know, this is what I got out of it. This film relies to much in slapstick comedy too much. Richard Pryor is ok, some of his bits are funny. Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is nowhere in this film, so the audience is treated to Robert Vaughn's Ross Webster and his 2 henchwomen baby sister Vera (Annie Ross) and Loreli (Pamela Stevenson). Annie Ross is ugly and scary, Pamela Stevenson is ditzy and annoying. The bit with the super-computer is retarded, the computer game with missiles sounds like the original Pac-Man for Atari and Margot Kidder, who was essentially a very MAJOR character in I and II, is reduced to a 5 minute cameo in the beginning and the end, although I do like Annette O'Toole's performance better. This is an ok entry in the series, for die-hard fans only. "},{"Title":"Where's the magic from the first two?","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a terribly boring movie. It is uninteresting. No Lois Lane. The villains are weak, as Gus Gorman is just treated so terribly in my opinion. The first two were great. The climax of Superman was undoubtedly one of the best in history, but the rest of the movie drags, but is still great. Superman II is just amazing. Zod is a great villain, as are Ursa and Non. But Faora should'v been used. Then comes this insult to your intelligence. It took me 3 attempts to finish this pile of garbage.My main problem is that it takes more than an hour for something interesting to happen. Then when you think things are gonna pick up, all Superman does is straighten the leaning tower of pisa. Just awful. The end, while good, doesn't make up for the terrible lead in. All in all, this movie had high expectations for me, as i loved the first two. But it fell flat completely. This is just too much of a parody, and I couldn't stand it. In fact, it was so bad for me, that I find myself enjoying Superman IV The Quest for Peace. Now that one doesn't deserve hate. It raised the bar a little after this mess. "},{"Title":"Superman, you're just in a slump.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I were the Salkind's or Richard Lester, or quite frankly anyone who had anything to do with this movie I'd be embarrassed, up to and including Christopher Reeve. I mention Reeve with all due respect because he's not around to have his say about it anymore. But this was simply terrible. In fact it's terrible right from the start with the contrived attempt at slapstick comedy with the opening scene that just doesn't work for an iconic character like Superman. If you wanted to put the Man of Steel into this kind of universe, than make it totally Bizarro World, or better yet, bring in Mr. Mxyzptlk so you could blame the nonsense on an other-dimensional character.In terms of story continuity I was left baffled time and time again. How is it for example that Clark/Superman at one moment is attending his Smallville High School reunion, and then suddenly is straightening out the Leaning Tower of Pisa? What's the connection? Or sitting on a bar stool in St. Louis getting wasted as the alter-ego 'villain' Superman? As if alcohol could affect Superman, but that's another issue. The elements of this story are so contrived and haphazard that it appears to have been made on the fly.As for the inclusion of Richard Pryor, had this picture any kind of sensibility his presence might have been a useful one. As it is, he uses the typical mannerisms he's known for in films like Stir Crazy, but here he's just not funny at all. Nor is Robert Vaughn an effective villain; his character as far as I can determine didn't even exist in the comics, so there's no back story a comic book fan can relate to.As awful as some of the half hour Superman TV shows of the Fifties were, I'd be inclined to recommend any one of them over this sequel. I guess the best way I can put this is to refer to Gus Gorman's (Pryor) scheme to take all those half cents and divert them into his own personal payroll account. Take all the story elements involved in this picture, mix them up at random, and you wind up with something that only makes half sense. "},{"Title":"Decent Superman Sequel","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this is not as good as the first two or the last Superman movies, it isn't as bad as you'd excpect.The story is about a computer genius named Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor).  He and Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) use computers to take over the world.  In the process, Ross has Gus make some kryptonite to destroy Superman.  There is a missing element in the kryptonite.  The synthetic kryptonite turns Superman in twoGood Clark Kent and Bad Superman.There are great special effects and a good plot that make this movie a decent installment in the Superman series.I give it 7/10 Stars "},{"Title":"highly disappointing","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" the filmmakers had an interesting idea with this movie,but that's about as far as it goes.the movie is more silly than anything,even ridiculous at times.Richard Pryor is funny,but after awhile he becomes annoying.as Superman II was a significant drop from the first one,this one is an even more significant drop from number II.the supporting players have almost nothing to do in this movie.there was some potential with the main storyline line,but they just didn't do as much as they could have with it.the secondary storyline is silly and almost pointless.i didn't really find it worthy of Superman the character or the franchise.this is just my opinion,of course.for me,Superman III is a 4/10 at best "},{"Title":"A good sequel to Superman!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III is good but very different. As always Christopher Reeves is great in this as the Man Of Steel.The story is good but I would have stuck with big bad villains instead of what the film is about. This is my least favorite film of the series but its a good film,it just doesn't match up to the two previous movies of Superman! "},{"Title":"Why was Richard Lester allowed to touch this series?","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought that the first Superman was excellent and pretty amazing with how the story was powerfully told. Superman 2 was better than Superman, because it had more action and a better story. As good as that movie is, I can still see the problems that appear in the film. Mostly are due to Lesters taking over of the Superman series after Richard Donner was fired. The same problems that Superman 2 had are now in this movie, and there is a large increase in those problems. First, this movie is filled with too much comedy, and no real villain to top the ones in the last movie. Second, Gene Hackman and Margot Kidder are totally absent from this movie. Kidder has five minutes of screen time because of her protest to Donner being fired the way he was. It was a big mistake to take them out of the movie, because of that the magic is lost. Even Perry and Jimmy are reduced to small cameos, and they both look like they're sleepwalking through their scenes. Richard Pryer is a very funny man, but in this movie he wasn't at all. Christopher Reeves is totally wasted in this movie, and that's a real shame. This character was not suppose to be a comedy sideshow, and because of that reason we know have the start of the downfall for the superman movies, and they're won't be redemption until 2006 when Bryan Singer resurrects the series in a big way. "}{"Title":"part 3 is better then the first 2.","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This a great movie. Better then the first 2 Superman movies. Superman IV a quest for pieces is a little better. Superman returns is also better. Man of steel is also better. But still all the Superman are good. This movie has great acting. Great story line. Great special effects. See this movie. See all the Superman movies. They are all most sees. Great movie great movie great movie. Better then watching a hockey game. In spite of what most people in my home country of Canada would say. You will publish my reviews. If you do not I will keep writing them over and over again. This movie as a lot a action. C.h.r.i.s.t.o.p.h.e.r Reeve was one of the best actors of his time. "},{"Title":"Ruins the Legacy of Superman and an Insult to the Previous Two,","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman 3 is a terrible movie with a very poorly written storyline that is brutally directed with a less than inspired cast.The acting is beyond cheesy, it was in the first two as well,but in an enjoyable way,this time around however it was extremely cheesy in a way that was just very irritating.One of the things that excited me the most about seeing this movie was that Richard Pryor was in it,because he is hilarious,both as a stand up comedian and an actor,but they didn't really make any use out if his comic talent in this,his character was very plain and really could have been played by anyone.Christopher Reeve is also clearly lost interest in playing Superman,probably because of how cheesy the dialogue was and that his character dosen't make any important contribution to the story until about the last twenty minutes.Superman 3 is a brutal movie that I would not recommend to anyone,it's boring and filled with very little enthusiasm,even if you've seen the first two,I would definitely say avoid it. Ross Webster has big plans for economic control and uses a computer genius to help him do so,while Superman must defeat his alter ego. "},{"Title":"Would be great if the title character wasn't practically a supporting character","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there were ever a film to bleed early-eighties, cinematic camp it's, unfortunately, the third sequel to the original Superman franchise. It's no doubt certain pictures can pull off the aforementioned camp to great effect, but after two serious (well, somewhat straight-forward) films centered around the Man of Steel, here is the third installment, which can't even take itself seriously, leading to the audience not being able to take it seriously. What happened? Were the filmmakers shocked they got this far? If you were a die-hard fan of the first two Superman films, Superman III is at least something of a significant disappointment. Director Richard Lester returns using the one great thing him and the three writers brought to Superman II in extreme excess, which was providing light-hearted comedy and borderline satirical elements of the superhero genre. Here, his direction feels flatter than before and the Newmans, David and Leslie, write the film with a comedic tone that feels out of place.Most notably, the film features a watchable, but often half-baked performance by Richard Pryor who, despite enormous comedic talent and mainstream recognition, feels simultaneously overused and underused here. Overused in the regard that he seems to be the main star, where Superman is the supporting role in his own film, and underused because Pryor is never given much funny to do. He plays Gus Gorman, who goes from collecting unemployment checks to being a talented computer programmer, whose acts of embezzlement attract Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn). Webster wants to hack the computers of the world and create a financial monopoly on the wealth. Or something like that. In the process, he wants to effectively transform Superman (role reprised by Christopher Reeve) from the caped-do-gooder he is known to be to an evil brute with no compassion or morality at all.On top of this, Lois Lane is away covering a story in Bermuda (actress Margot Kidder probably found better things to occupy her time with), and Clark Kent goes to his high school reunion alone, only to reconnect with Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole), an old friend.This is all well and good, but where is the sly wit from the third film's predecessor that was presented very conservatively in the trailers? Where is the agony that Kent experienced as living two completely different lives? Where are the touching scenes with Lois and Clark? Everything that made the first two films likable and functional is omitted and what we're left with is a film that feels tired and obligatory. There is no longer the excitement there was in the first two installments. While some parts felt as if they were plastic and kind of cheesy, this entire effort feels plastic and cheesy. And when you have a sequel to a Superman film headlined by Richard Pryor, that's the last thing the project should feel.Superman III, as a whole, simply doesn't work. There's too little energy, not enough drama to care about, too much emphasis on a campy personality, Ross Webster as an archetypal villain doesn't invite much suspense as a whole, and Reeve, once again, does his best, although he is trying to humanize a rather bland hero and the only thing he is given interesting to do is to show Superman's evil side when the time comes. If Richard Pryor would've pulled something like he did in See No Evil, Hear No Evil - perhaps that scene when him and Gene Wilder are pulling out their car from the river - we'd have a movie. Or, you know, if the title character wasn't practically a supporting character.Starring Christopher Reeve, Richard Pryor, Robert Vaughn, Jackie Cooper, Marc McClure, Annette O'Toole, Annie Ross, Pamela Stephenson, and Margot Kidder. Directed by Richard Lester. "},{"Title":"I think it is OK","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not the best superhero movie you will ever see. This movie, in some ways, it turns into a Richard Pryor comedy. If you are expecting a masterpiece, then you are going to be disappointed. The good 1.Christopher Reeve does a good job. 2. Good special effects. 3.I like the Superman turning evil part, that was kinda cool. 4.I liked the fight scene with Clark and evil superman. 5.I thought that the scene where the woman turns into this robot was cool. 6.It did have a interesting premise. The Bad 1.The dialogue is not very good. 2.It is not as good as the first 2 films. 3.Even though I thought the robot scene was cool, I thought that it made it seem like a horror movie and less like a superhero movie. OverallIt is an okay film. Not the best of the 5 movies but it is better then Superman 4The quest for peace. It is my 4th favorite of the series. My overall rating for Richard Lester's Superman III is 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In mortal enemies, the Man of Steel has no match. Even faced with a trio of sinister super-powered villains from his home planet, Superman saved the day. But can super-strength stand up to the diabolical circuitry of a criminally insane computer? Enter Gus Gorman (Richard Pryor), a genial half-wit who just happens to be a natural-born genius at computer programming. In his hands, a computer keyboard turns into a deadly weapon . . . and soon, Superman faces the microelectronic menace of his career. Clark Kent meets his old flame Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) at a Smallville High School reunion and Superman turns into his own worst enemy after exposure to a chunk of red kryptonite.This is when the series got dumb. Lack of storyline makes the movies get silly and stupid, but this is an average sequel to 1 and 2.Rated PG for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"What Happened!!!!","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ****Possible Spoilers****I Seriously don't get it. you have Superman 1 and 2 which are amazing films then they come along with superman 3.Did they even read through the script before green lighting it. The only good thing about the film was the Superman vs superman fight and Christopher Reeves performance. I am sure if they had a better director and reworked the script (get rid of Richard Pryor all together) it might have been an OK film but its hardly watchable.Also when vera turns into a Robot near the end it scared the crap out of me as a kid. "},{"Title":"The Man of Steel is back...sort of","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS)I am split on my opinion of this movie.  On the one hand, we have a great superhero film with excellent special effects and moments that delight and inspire.  On the other hand, we have a sequel that fails to equal the power of its predecessors and has moments that provoke anger and confusion. Indeed, Superman III is a guilty pleasure at best and a major let down at worst.The changes begin at the opening credits.  If you're a fan of the first two films, you're naturally expecting something spectacular and semi-cosmic. Not so with this film.  The credits slide across the bottom of the screen as a series of slapstick comedy incidents play out on screen.  This is one of the movie's more perplexing and less favourable moments.  The scene is played for laughs, which along with being a radical change in tone from the first two entries, fails to humour at all.  This is the film's rough start, and is likely to turn off many people to Superman III instantly.The most recognizable change in the series is the presence of Richard Pryor. What can I say?  Pryor is hilarious.  Watching him is a great experience, but he seems terribly out of place in a Superman film.  Sometimes his Gus Gorman character is a delight, other times it is an annoyance.  He receives way too much screen time, and in many instances Superman III appears to be more of a Pryor film than a Superman one.  However, there are other times where Pryor shines as a good addition.  He portrays the innocent, well-meaning, manipulated character of Gorman quite well, but these moments are few and far between.Superman III also includes the addition of an evil Superman, and this is where the film gets very interesting.  When the Man of Steel is exposed to synthetic kryptonite laced with tobacco tar (via Gus Gorman), he is twisted into a dark, corrupted Superman.  Christopher Reeve portrays this change beautifully and leaves with the impression that the new Superman is truly a force of menavolent darkness.  After a few scenes displaying his new anti-heroic disposition, the dark Superman and good Clark Kent face off in a junkyard.  This is easily the highlight of Superman III, and probably one of the major highlights of the entire Superman series.  Whether or not the fight is occuring in reality or in the minds of the characters is ambiguous, but the visuals that result are fantastic.  This leads us to the movie's most inspiring moment.  After defeating the evil Superman, Clark rips open his shirt and reveals the clean S shield underneath and flies out of the junkyard.  It is a great cinematic moment as well as a great Superman moment.Superman III's final battle is, well, rather anticlimatic.  Superman faces off with a giant super computer that has a mind of its own.  Great concept, but it's executed fairly poorly on the screen.  All of the effects and ingenuity appeared to go into making the technological colossus come to life instead of creating an entertaining fight sequence.  In the end, Superman wins using brains instead of brawn.  This seemed to be a cop-out on the part of the writers and producers, and the ending seems rushed and ill-planned. What we are left with is a film that starts and ends on a bad note.Overall, Superman III is a mediocre Superman movie.  Although it has outstanding special effects and a few moments that show that it is indeed a Superman film, it lacks the heart and verisimilitude of the first two. However, the movie does not deserve the burning it generally receives from critics, either.  Christopher Reeve delivers another stunning performance as Kent and Superman and Annette O'Toole is charming as Lana Lang.  The Man of Steel would not appear on the big screen again for four more years, with decidedly mixed results. "},{"Title":"SUPERMAN II - a hard act to follow...WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the end of SUPERMAN II, the first credit on screen is SUPERMAN III - COMING SOON. The cheers that went up after that appeared were awesome on the 1981 release. So, we all anticipated something special.Unfortunately, like some substandard sequels, the characterisation is misguided in this third offering. Robert Vaughn and his supporting cast do not have the 'charismatic, fiendishly gifted, try twisted' manner of Lex Luthor (Ms. Teschmacher's description in SUPERMAN - THE MOVIE) or the skill of Gene Hackman and Ned Beatty.The big surprise is the lack of scenes between Lois and Clark. As mentioned in my comment of SUPERMAN II, one of the great strengths of that and the saga in general, not to mention to original comic strip, is that it is an essential part of the story. Margot Kidder's open criticisms of the producers didn't probably help matters, but in all fairness, I think it was one conflict that did more harm than good to the film.Although the ploy of having a part-good, part-bad Superman is an imaginative way of providing conflict, it is not Superman as we know it and inevitably this is another reason why the film suffers a great deal.Ultimately, this is a Richard Pryor film posing as a SUPERMAN one. The best moments are down to Pryor, who at the time was the biggest comedy star in America, bar none. The best moment is when Clark whacks a car door into Pryor. "},{"Title":"Superman and Richard Pryor don't mix!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What were they thinking when there hiring Richard Lester? Richard Donner had everything going great until they hired Mr. Lester and fired Donner for creative differences(?). I can see what Mr. Lester was trying to do when he brought along his humor to this movie, but let's face it, Superman is a man of steel, camp humor just isn't the name of the game in for a movie like this.  It might have worked for his Beatles films, but this isn't a movie about kid rock n roll bands.The overall humor is so bad, it even seems that the movie is making fun of itself!  Camp humor is exactly what Richard Donner wanted to avoid.  Richard Pryor is the same clumsy, humorous character he plays in all of his movies, but combining his elements with a Superhero capable of dishing out all the goods, just doesn't seem plausible, even though, this my personal favorite Pryor movie.Without any much of a star studded cast with the, exception of Christopher Reeve himself, this is a very unbalanced movie all around, though it pleased me when I was little, this movie is like watching paint dry now.  The special effects were a nice try, but are way out of their league.  However, if you want to spend time to watch this, go ahead, this is actually a great film for all ages, just don't take anything seriously. "},{"Title":"Look Up in the Sky!?! It's a Turkey,It's a Turd,It's the Massive & Bloated Egos of the Salkinds!!!!!!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the overwhelming success of Superman(with STM ranking #2 in the year end box office & being placed on Roger Ebert's 10 Best of Year list)& Superman II(also ranked #2 in year end box office gross & again praised by critics)it was only natural that a third follow-up to the first two blockbusters was invetiable,however,keep in mind that director Richard Donner, (who was mainly responsable for the verisimilitude of the first two installments),& Screenwriter Tom Mankiewicz(who wrote the screenplays for STM & SII,despite the Creative Consultant credit),were neither involved,an early warning sign to say the least,plus the stakes were raised even higher when Richard Pryor,one of the great modern comics of our era,was cast in an important role as the chief villian, now don't get me wrong,Pryor is  a very talented & funny actor in such classics as Car Wash,Silver Streak,Muppet Movie,Stir Crazy,Bustin' Loose,& The Toy among others,but what the heck is he doing here?ahhh,but that's where our good ol' friends the Newman's come in,who decided to play the material for laughs,thus nailing the coffin lid on the series(& effectually killing it.)Want to know what the upcoming Jon Peters/McG project Superman Lives will look like? Look no further than here,only with McG at the helm,& not an auteur like Richard Lester,my guess is that it will be much,much worse. "}{"Title":"An okay movie, but why did they get Pryor?","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I borrowed the DVD of this from my younger brother last night, and while I'd seen this movie before and been interested in it, it had been several years since then.At its heart, the movie is a solid one -- the villain is okay (if a bit nutty -- certainly no Lex Luthor, but passable here), the story is decent (Superman's heretofore non-existent evil side was an interesting side plot, as was returning to Smallville, but the oil shortage plot seemed thin and not well thought out), but what really seems to ruin the movie is the presence of Richard Pryor.What were the producers thinking when they brought him on? They must have seen 'The Toy (1982)' (q.v.) and thought hey, we could make this guy a goofy computer programmer! Problem is, The Toy was a horrible, boring movie. Pryor was decent in some of his other movies, but neither Toy or this movie were really appropriate for him. His role seems like it was added on as an afterthought.There's a few moments that seem pretty non-sensical, even for a fantasy movie, like the acid that can eat through anything while hot (and changes color, too!), the Ultimate Computer that gets a mind of its own for no reason at all (and plays Atari 5200 games, too!), and the scenes where Pryor's character wreaks havoc on pretty much every computer system in the US while trying to find the Vulcan weather satellite (which can also MAKE weather, too!)...while it's all good-intentioned fun, it really seems to bear the marks of some really hurried script-doctoring.That leads into another problem with this movie It runs on and on and on. The scenes between action sequences drag badly, and the entire movie's pacing is far too slow for the lack of real meat the script has. It could really use a trim here and there -- they could have covered most of the major plot points in 130 instead of the 205 the DVD version of the movie runs.Also, most of the computer references are gobbledy-gook (and it looks like the set designers wanted to be EEs as well), but then, this was the 1980s, and people were far more ignorant of computers (and what they could and couldn't do) then -- in the a PC in every room and a cell phone in every hand world of 2001, this seems pretty quaint.To summarise, this is a decent movie at its core, but they really could have done without Pryor (or at least done a better job of adding his character to the story), and trimmed down the slow parts some. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as Superman IV","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It features Robert Vaughn as an evil megalomaniac, and Richard Pryor as a down-on-his-luck bum turned brilliant software programmer.  As implausible as these things are, they actually make the film interesting compared to what it could have been.  Imagine Cotton Comes to Harlem meets Carl Andterton from Law & Order and you have the movie otherwise known as Superman III - it's still better than IV. "},{"Title":"my least favorite","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i loved superman 1,2 and 4 but when it comes to part 3 i sayit will always be my least favorite why?the unfunny comedy and the not so cool villains.the villain ross weber will never replace the cool lex luthor.their are some cool scenes,here's twothe fight scene beetween good clark kent and the evil superman and the end scene between superman vs.the villains.the rest is nothing good.seeing black wires on superman as he flys up to save the people in the chemical plant is crap!the special effects are good and bad.richard pryor is semi-good as the anti villain.the rest is crap the stupid plot(computers helping a rich mad man destroy columbia and get oil!stupid,stupid,stupid)i'm glad part 4 was better.hey i still like it,but it will be always be my least favorite in the superman series. "},{"Title":"A Horrid Mess","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why I liked this movie when I was a kid, I don't know. This is a God awful film that even when released in 1983 must have had people scratching there heads. Richard Pryor is poorly casted.. VERY POORLY casted. The comedy is so bad it hurts. When Superman goes crazy the movie suddenly goes completely nuts with bad man cliches. Oh NO! he's drunk! Oh NO! he didn't make it to an accident scene in time! Oh NO! he's screaming in a junkyard! They should have jumped a few years in the future and named this movie Superman's Dead. 0 out of 10, for being a ridiculous mess.  "},{"Title":"The Series Begins to Show Its Age","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III goes away from everything that made the first two so good. Gene Hackman is absent, Margot Kidder only has a cameo, and Christopher Reeve struggles to carry the film by himself.  Robert Vaughn is a rich maniac who enlists the help of the wise-cracking Richard Pryor to create chaos with his uncanny computer programming skills.  Overall Superman III should have been a success, but somehow falls flat anyway.  Reeve, Vaughn, and Pryor are all good in their roles.  However, the franchise just does not seem the same without Hackman and the entire film collapses due to that fact.  A real disappointment.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An Unreasonable Sequel!!!","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most Unreasonable, Superman that I ever saw. The saddest thing in this one, Margot Kidder (had 12 lines, and was written out), Jackie Cooper, and Marc McClure were only in the very beginning and end, that means the magic was gone. The most memorable scene is when, Clark Kent goes on to a violent fight with an evil Superman. Also Superman, fixed the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and it was the good SUPERMAN. Richard Pryor was funny in this!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the quest for peace","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman turns evil after being given a piece of Kryptonite by Richard Pryor with the wrong ingredient.  There are some unusually funny scenes for a superman movie such as straightening the leaning tower of pisa.  Not as bad as some critics say but still a lot better than Superman IV The quest for peace.  "},{"Title":"Worst Superman EVER","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is quite possibly the worst adaptation of Superman ever produced. The Special Effects look homemade (notice how Superman's suit turns GREEN whenever he is flying due to the use of blue-screen), the acting is horrible, the film quality is poor, and the plot is even worse.  Who ever heard of a satellite that could CONTROL weather!??  Richard Lester thought that this movie should be a comedy.  Bad choice.  It's a shame how bad this film is when compared to some of his other films, even Superman II.  Oh, but what happened... "},{"Title":"What Happened?","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a horrible movie. Exactly how did Superman lose itself after such a solid start? But really, why did Reeve's go along with this and I love Richard Pryor, but why is he in this? It's the most ludicrous idea ever. Everything about this movie is a running gag and props to Gene Hackman, who obviously had no trust in the script and sensibly kept away from it. There may be a minor audience for this, but I really just don't get this movie. I will never understand who sat down and read this script, then green lighted this picture.Final Verdict It's funny because both the Batman & Superman franchises just seemed to replicate one another. A great first movie, a decent follow up then two horrendous instalments that just doesn't do the characters justice whatsoever and this has evil Superman in it! Keep away from it. 2/10. "},{"Title":"What Were They Thinking?","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman III (1983) * 1/2 (out of 4)A computer programmer (Richard Pryor) starts working for the evil Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn) and soon the two manage to use a weather tracking device to actually control the weather. Soon Superman (Christopher Reeve) is on the case until he is given a poison, which turns him into a bad guy. Every negative thing that has been said about SUPERMAN III is pretty much true because this thing is a real stinker but what's worse is the fact that it's a real head-scratcher in regards to what they were trying to do. The opening sequence alone is without question one of the worst moments of the first three films as we just get some slapstick situations that would have been better in a Buster Keaton movie, not with Superman. The entire comic tone of this opening is just so weird and off that you can't help but wonder what the filmmakers were trying to do. Even worse is that Richard Pryor is given a major part and does nothing with it. Pryor is one of my favorite comedians if not my very favorite but he's is just so wrong here on so many levels. I'm guessing his introduction at the unemployment office was meant to say something about the times but it's just stupid. The comedy he tries to bring to the film just doesn't work and you have to wonder why the producers wanted him so bad if he couldn't be Richard Pryor. Robert Vaughn doesn't come off any better as he's rather bland and boring as the villain. Annette O'Toole is good in her part but Jackie Cooper and Marc McClure are pretty much wasted. As for Reeve, he actually turns in another very good performance. As with the first two films he does a very good job playing good and nerdy but this one also allows him to play bad and he does a very good job with it. There are some good action scenes like the one at the chemical warehouse but there just aren't enough of these to keep the film entertaining. SUPERMAN III is an incredibly disappointing movie considering how good the first two were. "}{"Title":"Without Donner and Hackman,Superman III Becomes A Disaster","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third Superman film departs from the first two films and it becomes a slapstick comedy and a joke with less interest on the complexities of the characters and adventures.In fact,Superman himself becomes two characters - one good and other other a villain which makes it even more funny.Superman III is the third film in the Superman film series based upon the long-running DC Comics superhero.It stars Christopher Reeve and Richard Pryor together with Jackie Cooper, Marc McClure and Margot Kidder are joined by new cast members Annette O'Toole, Annie Ross, Pamela Stephenson, Robert Vaughn.It was directed by Richard Lester.When the movie starts,Gus Gorman,played by comedian Richard Pryor, and a subsequent slapstick sequence upstage Superman, who later develops an identity crisis. Gorman, newly trained as a computer whiz, starts working for a conglomerate run by the corporate nemesis Ross Webster,played by Robert Vaughn,intent on world domination. Gorman is sent to Superman's small town of Smallville to wipe out Columbia's coffee crop by fiddling with the computer side of a weather satellite. Clark Kent is in town for his class reunion, leading Superman to clash with Gorman, which in turn, leads Gorman to develop a hybrid red Kryptonite. Unwittingly, the Red Kryptonite causes Superman to split into a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde schizophrenia -- but in two separate bodies. As the evil Superman swaggers around town, megalomaniac Ross Webster has other tricks in mind -- and in one of the more memorable action scenes, Superman is chased through the Grand Canyon by a fast-flying, very determined missile. Lana Lang is on hand for romantic interest.The third film becomes a big joke!!!!It diminished everything that the first two films stood for in exchange for comedy especially with Pryor's presence.Aside from that,Vaughn's villainous portrayal of Ross Webster was an uninspired fill-in for Lex Luthor or the Supervillains.Of course,the big blame goes for Richard Lester,a director who more into comedy rather adventure films like Superman.It would have been better that they have retained Richard Donner for the Superman franchise,who could have done a better job with it.Added to that,the absence of Gene Hackman and the near-absence of Margot Kidder,who was limited to 5 minutes of screen time by Salkinds for expressing her disgust on the firing of Donner,proved disastrous to the film. Obviously,the love story between Lana Lang and Clark Kent isn't as interesting as compared to Lois Lane and Superman/Clark Kent after what they have gone through in the first two films.The only good thing about it is the performance of Christopher Reeve,who proved himself to be have great acting skills when portraying the good and evil Superman. Overall,if you are looking for some laughs,the Superman III is the film to watch!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Just Doesn't Cut It","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman versus the world's most powerful super-computer worked pretty well back in the early eighties; now it just doesn't cut it.This third instalment starts brightly enough, and the presence of the bumbling Richard Pryor always lifts proceedings. The film quickly peters out however when things start to heat up between the man of steel and the powers of evil.Superman III suffers from the missing personnel that made the first instalment so much fun and the second a good yarn. Margot Kidder only makes two fleeting appearances as Lois Lane, while Jackie Cooper (Chief White) and Mark McClure (Jimmy Olsen) are scarce. Gene Hackman is missing completely, as are Ned Beatty and Valerie Perrine. Robert Vaughn and Annette O'Toole cannot replace them, nor can Pamela Stephenson. Who cares about Lana Lang?Special effects are only so-so. Thank goodness Christopher Reeve pulled on the blue suit again.Tuesday, January 11, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Not Strong But Has Pryor For Comic relief","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the first sign that the Superman movie series was going bad. It is as long as any of them, but the plot is pretty lack luster, & Robert Vaughn is pretty dull as a bad guy. If it wasn't for the late Richard Pryor there would be no reason to watch.The film has a lot of errors in it, & several times the special effects look contrived. This film proves, as has been proved in other films, a talented cast needs good material to make a good movie. Here, the script falls flat & so does the Superman series. Most of the tickets sold for this was because Richard Pryor was in demand for almost anything by this stage of his career.This film is a big let down after 1 or 2 in the series. "},{"Title":"Disappointment is not even a close word for it...","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll save my total disgust for Supes IV. But here is my beef with Superman III The opening sequence was ridiculous. I appreciate that the filmmakers want to make a fun movie, but to do a scene that reminds the viewer of the Keystone Cops is off the mark.Richard Pryor. Great actor. Great comedian. Poor choice. But I guess it's not his fault. The premise of the movie itself was silly. But I love Richard. (God rest his soul...) Okay...I'm still waiting for someone to explain how someone with no computer training or education can solve this unsolvable code...using print statements! Christopher Reeve. I'm a big Chris Reeve fan, so I won't bash him. (God rest his soul...) The only thing that REALLY bugged me was that his hair was brown...with highlights! HELLO!?! Supes hair is jet black...or did no one look at the first two movies? The line Let's see how long he can live without air! What??? Are you kidding me? Ummm...didn't he just send a nuclear elevator from Paris into space a few years back? Get real! Lana's son...Tommy or Timmy or whatever. What an annoying little kid. He deserves to get beat up.Special effects. Did they fire the SFX people from the first two movies and hire some graduate of Devry? No offense Devry...Aghghhh!!! I was just so frustrated watching this movie. Oh but wait until I saw Superman IV The Quest for Peace! "},{"Title":"Superman III Ugh!!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought Superman III was one of the worst sequels of all time. From the start it veers in to Slapstick comedy. And what the hell is Richard Pryor doing in a Superman movie?!?!?! I thought the villians were useless, the blonde just sheer annoying, and the direction of the movie, its production values, the script, everything was below mediocre. It looks like the Salkinds aimed for the sidewalk, but couldn't get past the gutter. Lois Lane is all but cut from the film. Lois Lane! Just about the most important supporting character in the entire series/comic books. And all because she had the guts to tell the Salkinds the way it was. There were so many missed opportunities with this film. The return to Smallville and Clarks relationship with Lana could have been something special. And the evil Superman thread could have been an absolute barn stormer. But in the hands of those idiot producers and Richard Lester it amounts to nothing. Nothing. The ball was dropped so often on this picture you'd think it was smeared in baby oil. I really felt for Reeve as once again he rose above all mediocrity to put in a performance so honest, so regal, so Superman, that it is he and he alone who earns this picture any marks whatsoever. It is no wonder that when Singer made Superman Returns, he chose to pretend parts III and IV never happened. The producers and their best mate Lester - I am presuming that is how he got the job again! - almost destroyed a 20th century icon, and then for years after claim it wasn't their fault!!! Yeah, right. In Donners/Singers hands this film could have been special. A continuance of a great saga of one of the movie worlds greatest hero's. Instead, we get Pryor, a nameless blonde, and an over tanned millionaire. Poor, poor film. "},{"Title":"Superman III * * 1/2","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman III works only because Christopher Reeve is in the film.But the casting of Richard Pryor and Robert Vaughn in order to give the film a comic style doesn't work at all.The first two films were great and fun and the filmmakers gave us what we wanted which A great time at the movies.I was disappointed also at the locations they used for Metropolis.Superman III suffers from the visual effects.They're not good but they're not that bad.The vision of Superman III had me wishing the film could get better.Director Richard Lester I think added a lot of weight to the series which made it difficult for me to enjoy.Stick with the first two.They're the best in the series.  "},{"Title":"Simply horrible","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Bad, bad, bad.  This film could be used as a torture device.  Ithought Superman could save anything.  Obviously not this movie. This movie was the Richard Pryor Movie, not about Superman. Since when was Superman a comedy and not an action/drama?        Richard Pryor and poor script writing made this film absolutelyhorrible.   It was very slow moving, and went nowhere.  I wonderhow Warner Brother execs.  approved this. I like Richard Pryor, buthe had no place in this movie. I thought Superman IV was wasworst Superman movie.  I may have to re-think that now, afterhaving to endure watching this one again. "},{"Title":"He Stopped Being Super","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here are 9 reasons not to like 'Superman III'1. Richard Pryor...a good stand-up comic, not a good actor.2. Only about 19 seconds of Lois Lane.3. Clark fights Superman...it sounded good on the page, but didn't make much sense in the movie. Watch the Married episode of The Incredible Hulk '70s show to see this good/bad battle done properly.4. No Fortress Of Solitude.5. Reeve no longer makes much effort to differentiate between his nerd self and super self.6. Director Richard Lester thinks he's directing 'A Hard Day's Night' again.7. Superheroes shouldn't be receiving keys to cities or slamming back whiskey in bars unless that's their gimmick.8. F/X look cheesy after being so jaw-dropping 5 years earlier.9. The machines are bad polemic is stolen from the works of Stanley Kubrick, yet has none of his subtext, style, or intelligence.Regarding my #3 up there, what exactly made Superman turn into a heel in the first place and what exactly was it that snapped him out of it? You'd think the marquee moment of this movie would be more clear than it is.Just pop 'Superman' or 'Superman II' into your DVD player again and watch the credits. They're more entertaining than anything in 'Superman III'. "},{"Title":"What the?","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II turned out good mostly because the bulk of the film had been directed by Richard Lethal Weapon/The Omen Donner, but here the distinct lack of Donner takes its toll as a bad plot destroys the film and the franchise, as the Salkinds never completely respected the material of Superman or the audience.Well, Richard Pryor tries to make some fake kryptonite for villain Robert Vaughn, his evil sister and some blonde, so that they can kill Superman/Clark Kent/Christopher Reeve, but instead what they get is something like the old-and-now-defunct red kryptonite that turns Superman evil instead of killing him. By the way, that almost wrecks Clark getting close to his old high school flame Lana Lang, played by Annette O'Toole, who went on to play Ma Kent on Smallville. Then Superman returns to normal and fights a giant super computer.I'm ashamed to say that as a child it used to scare me when the computer tried to eat Superman because, well he was Superman! I have no problem now with the idea of Superman fighting a computer, but I have a problem with the rest of the film, or at least most of it. I liked Annette O'Toole as Lana Lang (much prettier and more likeable than Margot Kidder ever was as Lois Lane) and I thought Reeve himself did a decent job of portraying an evil Superman (that was actually a well staged fight in the junkyard), but the film's story just doesn't go anywhere and Richard Pryor, well, he doesn't really belong in this film, despite how much he may have liked the Superman comics. Too bad they didn't use comic book villains like Brainiac and Bizarro.Then they had to go and drag Supergirl's good name through the mud when they should have given her a push off start as a supporting character in a SUPERMAN film. Oh the shame of it. "},{"Title":"and I thought the first 2 were bad","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't think much of either of the first two and I think even less of this one. There is NOTHING, repeat, NOTHING in this film that would make me even think of watching it again. This one was so bad that I didn't even try the fourth and (thankfully!) last of the series. This has an awful story, abysmal acting and even the editing of this film isn't up to par. I gave it a 4 and now wish I'd gone lower. Don't waste your time with this one. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the third entry of the Superman movies the director focuses on the comedy in such a way that you get the impression that you're reading a comic book! Yes, Superman is a comic book character, but we didn't get that feeling in the first two. It is still a lot of fun to watch. The opening sequence at the beginning is a tribute to the slapstick era. But, where is Lex Luthor & Lois? The evil characters are fun to watch, especially Annie Ross! Great special effects.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best one!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman 3 perhaps the best part of Superman series left a deep impression on me ever since it appeared on the big screen! As a kid it was hard for me to completely understand the plot, but as I grew older I was beginning to see the real value of the film! First of all I'd say that Annete O'Toole is definitely best possible replacement for Margot Kidder and I think she should have played in all four installments! The same goes for Robert Vaughn! They are both much more serious than Margot Kidder and Gene Hackman who played childish, stupid and naive characters all the way from the start! Also the whole idea of having an evil Superman for a change is the most original one if you ask me! In other parts it's very obvious who is against who and it doesn't require much brain to figure out the plot! But Sup 3 is full of original tricks (like the one with Pisa tower)! I agree that film asks for a little patience from the watchers, because there are many scenes of conversation and other stuff where Sup does not appear, but film also contains some really romantic scenes that just can't be seen in other parts! Not to mention the scenes with evil Superman hitting the tanker and spilling the oil or the one at a car junkyard! All these scenes are very unique and you won't see them in other parts! I would give this film all 10 stars!  "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first two","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN III is a very good movie. Many people don't like this movie because it is a comedy. Personally, I think that the comedy works and is well suited to the film. The acting is again good and the story is original. I give SUPERMAN III a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated.","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Superman III is actually the dark horse of sorts in all 4 of the Superman movies. This movie was met with much disappointment, and I think grew on viewers as time went on. Some movies don't do well at the box office but then eventually become cult classics. We see a completely different type of Superman movie in the 3rd installment than the others, and this one really stands on it's own. Unlike Superman 1 and 2 that started out very large and epic in scale from the beginning of the opening titles, to the space scenes, the planet Krypton exploding, the 3 criminals in space, etc. Superman III starts out very small, and builds to an exciting battle between Superman and Clark in the junkyard and then eventually the ultimate showdown with the Super Computer in the end. We see a completely different side of Clark Kent in this movie. His character has drifted away from the normal bumping into walls, nervous, nerdy, clumsy and awkward Clark that we are all use to. He scaled back a bit of the physical comedy. I read in an interview with Chris Reeve that he felt the audience would be tired of this, and to show a different side of him. In addition if you remember in the first movie when Clark was living in Smallville he didn't have that awkward personality. It was part of his made up disguise when he arrived in Metropolis. So when he goes back to Smallville we see him act normal. We also see that Clark meets up with High School friend Lana Lang when he goes to his H.S. reunion. He and Lana seem to hit it off and there is a definite attraction, however it never goes past friendship, and I think that's important. Superman had his one shot at romance and his one true love Lois Lane, and now that it's over I think it was important to not show Superman jumping from bed to bed. I think it was also refreshing to see someone else other than Lex Luther and the three Kryptonians be the villain. In this case, Ross Webster, A Millionaire business man who is use to getting his way, played very well by Robert Vaughn and his evil sister Vera helping him along. We see a side of Superman that we never thought we would see come out after the Kryptonite alters his personality. Christopher Reeve demonstrates more than ever how good an actor he is to be able to play not 1, not 2 but 3 different personalities. The junkyard scene in my opinion was the best part of the entire movie. Now you add the innocent but always spontaneous and funny Richard Pryor to the cast and I think it made for a great mix of characters. In addition, I think this movie had some of the best flying scenes in any of the four movies, with many of them not being done with a Blue screen, but mostly by crane and harness. Chris just masters the take offs and landings like nobody else can. All in all this is one of those movies where you can check your daily problems at the door for 2 hours, and really be entertained and I think it brought Superman back to the comic strip a bit. I think if you watch this movie again or maybe for the first time you will realize just how good it is. "},{"Title":"Lacklsutre but it does have its decent assets","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" PROS The cinematography is beautiful, and the special effects are above average. The score is still rousing, and Christopher Reeve is likable enough as Superman. The film is decently paced and there are one or neat touches such as when Superman turns nasty.CONS The storytelling is very clunky for me, while the script is awful. Margot Kidder apparently wanted little to do with this film and if true I'm afraid it does show, while Robert Vaughan is a pretty poor replacement for Gene Hackman and the less said about Pamela Stephenson the better. Also the direction is rather heartless and using Richard Pryor as the source of the laughs just didn't work.Overall, it is disappointing and lacklustre but it is watchable unlike the fourth. Anyway that is another story. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"An insult to Superman fans","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After hearing about Superman Returns and feeling goosebumps every time I saw the teaser trailer, I remembered I had only watched glimpses of the original Superman in my childhood on TV. So, I decided to watch all four. The original was great, the second was... I don't have words to describe it. And while I haven't seen number IV (and probably never will), I was disappointed at having to watch number III. Everything in this movie sucks. First, no Lois Lane, no Lex Luthor and, above all, no real danger for Metropolis. Then, you add Richard Pryor to the mix and a drunken Superman. Seriously, it was painful. After you see Superman on such a glorious representation in comics and movies, you end up seeing him next to Richard Pryor in a bad clown show that tries hard to make you laugh with old and not funny jokes. Not being a complete Superman fan like others might be, Superman III was even to me an insult. "},{"Title":"what were they thinking?","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, Richard Pryor can be a very funny comedic actor. And Christopher Reeve is the definitive Superman actor in my book. I don't want to criticize either actor because they're both great in their own right. But what madman decided these 2 style concepts could go together? For years comic books adapted into films and TV usually had a high camp and rather cheesy look about them. I think this was largely due to the misunderstanding producers and screenwriters had for the medium, and the lack of respect for the art form.Then we got the first of this Superman series, and it changed everything. Someone actually came close to getting the writing style right, and put the grandeur comics always strove for into a movie. Superman 2 largely continued this feel and look. But I guess someone got bored with the genre and decided to mix it up. Who knows, What we ended up with, is one of the worst sequels to anything, and certainly one of the worst films of the 80's. (I say this in context with how good the first 2 of the series were, and what comics in this style are supposed to be about.)I guess this is a common theme for sequels. By the third installment, you've gotten so far away from the concept it's unrecognizable (Jaws 3-D comes to mind). It's just too bad so many talented people showed up to work on this waste of film. Come to think of it, the same fate befell the Batman franchise, the last of which (Batman and Robin) challenges Superman III for worst ever.Now I'm not going to say that someone couldn't possibly enjoy this movie in some context. Folks like all sorts of things (thank God). It just doesn't have anything to do with the previous films aside from some of the castmembers, and so on that level it completely fails. Let's hope the Spider-Man sequels do better - at least Mr. Raimi's a Spidey fan. "},{"Title":"Yes, this was pretty dull for a Superman movie","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's really too bad. There were a lot of talented actors from top to bottom in this, but the writing was an atrocity.One imagines most reviews of this movie will begin with the overused phrase The trouble with this is... But here the phrase fits.The movie strives for humor way too much. And from top to bottom, the abilities of the performers was there for humor, but the trouble here is in the writing.We begin with a very ridiculous street scene, written to showcase performers, but horribly written. There is no purpose, and there is no freshness. It is completely flat. It would've been flat in 1935.The production crew tried too hard to make this a comic effort. There was a little bit of the old time home town charm of Superman, but it wasn't captured hard enough. It's as though director and staff couldn't agree on what to make of the movie, and it became a muddled mess.The worship of blonde women by men makes one wonder if the Nazi party funded this movie. It's one of those myths that women want to be true, but sorry, it isn't. It was goofy when the opening scene had men agape at a blonde woman and totally ignoring a super hot brunette on skates. Wishful thinking by women. It looks phony to men. Obviously, the women involved had the biggest say in how this movie was made.The comic book appeal is lacking, too. It isn't important that the Eiffel Tower looks like a drawing. No one cares about that. What is important is that the atmosphere isn't there. There is no warmth, nor is there any style. The humor isn't natural. Neither is the action. The lack of style and atmosphere is what truly brings this movie down. There is no atmosphere at all. It is too cold for Smallville, too urban for comic book appeal.This was a disaster on the drawing board. It wasn't the worst movie ever made. It was just a disappointing movie. "},{"Title":"Stupifyingly Awful film which shouldn't have been made.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No joke. this film was a piece of garbage. Trying to stray from what Donner wanted to a Superman image, the producers of the Superman films went with Richard Lester in this mish mash of a sequel that pits the man of steel against nimrods who want to take over the satellite that orbits the earth so they can control weather(!) Whilst the man of steel is caught up in trying to unite with his not so high school sweetie Lana Lang, portrayed horribly by Annette O Toole. Bad action sequences contribute to the pile of garbage this film has going for it-which begins in the first few minutes! The film starts with a stupid flap jack, slap stick sequence that has no business being in a Superman film, and goes on to bringing the audience to the Daily Planet, where the audience is SO CRUSHED to learn the truth Margot Kidder will not be in this film! And then it is off to the heavens of insanity and away we go(Oh no!) Avoid this film like the plague! Thank fully, the Salkinds followed this film up with Supergirl a redeeming film that brought this series back to snuff for on more try. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Disaster.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" High on the list of What were they thinking about? sequels ranks Part III of this series, so utterly wrong-headed and ridiculous is the plot and miscasting of Richard Pryor, who is simply not funny here, since this kind of slapstick humor is truly out of place, and this film has no heart at all. Only good sequence has Clark Kent returning to Smallville for his High School reunion(Where he meets up with Lana Lang, played by the beautiful Annette O'Toole), but the rest of the film is so bad, that it makes little difference.Robert Vaughn plays an evil industrialist who discovers some krypton, and uses Pryor to make it kill Superman, but things don't go according to plan. Absurd climax further sinks this mess into an utter farrago.Christopher Reeve is still appealing, but wasted with such inferior material. "}{"Title":"Absolutely.....DIGUSTING.....how this film is considered remotely 'good","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whilst I was initially disappointed watching 'Superman The Movie' mainly in terms of having Lex Luthor as a villain, I fell in love with 'Superman II' and I somewhat hoped that 'Superman III' could in some ways attempt to resemble and continue a film that had a great story and some brilliant characters. What I got was a complete cash grab, an unintelligently written sloppy mess that provides a terrible story, poor characters, no excitement and tension and relies far too heavily on goofiness in order to pass the time and attempt to match the brilliant comedy of the first two.Superman III is based around a genius inventor named Gus who is recruited by his boss in many of his evil schemes including one of destroying Superman using Kryptonite whilst Clark Kent leaves for a high school reunion party where he meets a former friend, Lana Lang with whom he has an affair for.Next to Marlon Brando, Christopher Reeve was always the second best actor of this franchise and once more, delivers a fantastic performance in this film, generally bringing the same wit and charm to his character. Further brilliant acting by Reeve is shown during Superman's time of being evil whilst under the influence of Kryptonite. His performance is so brilliant that it is the only thing that is truly fantastic about this film. The rest is all either mediocre or downright terribleJohn Williams is my favourite composer of all time and Superman is my second favourite movie score of all time and so, his classic Superman theme is such a memorable one that I happen to love so much. The very start of Superman III was completely wrong and I knew I was in for something bad. The way the cheap looking titles crawl in did not resemble the brilliance of the original and the fact that it wasn't the classic theme playing was downright frustrating. However, when you do get to hear the classic theme play early on when Superman is trying to save the man drowning in his car (in the most ridiculous fashion), I was relieved but later disappointed considering most of the film has an uninteresting musical score that certainly doesn't make the Superman films seem that much better.There were definitely some great Superman moments, particularly early on when he is saving the man from drowning and the short scene in the photograph booth. That was somewhat of a classic Superman moment but the best moment of the film is most definitely when Superman bad is defeated and the bombastic theme song starts playing. This is brilliant for many reasons and not just because of the music but because of the character of Superman and his determination and love for his country. However, when the film is viewed as a whole, the few great Superman moments really fade considering the film heavily relies on overly goofy scenes, especially with Richard Prior's GusRichard Prior's performance in this film is most definitely not a great one but more so, an annoying one. His character is particularly uninteresting and Richard Lester and crew thought it would be appropriate to shove as much lame and unoriginal comedy to his character as possible to the point that he could never be taken seriously, even when he is afraid that Superman may be killed due to his inventions. Not only is Prior's performance ineffective but the story given to Gus is completely ridiculous that it betrays the tone of the first two Superman films. The worst thing about the film, believe it or not, is not the overuse of comedy which at times seems like a warm welcome when compared to the overall story told in this 2 hour waste of time. Much of the film deals with Gus going to Vulcan Weather Satellite and altering the weather, then building a computer to help rule everything and even steal cheques for himself. The story told in its entirety is more awful than in separate pieces and whilst the Superman story may seem great early on, by the end of the film it most definitely becomes laughable. The first two Superman films exceeded because they had great characters. Part of the reason of Superman III's failure is with all the new characters and how old characters are replaced with much worse characters. This is definitely true as Lana takes over Lois, who was a lovely woman to be around. Lex Luthor, Superman's nemesis is replaced by a man with absurd plans, Webbster. Superman III is full of clichd new characters that add nothing good to the story.Whilst Superman The Movie is a classic and Superman II is a great sequel, Superman III is an utter failure in all aspects suffering from poor writing and directing, overuse of recycled jokes, characters that are NOT endearing, a story that is uninteresting. This brings the film down to a joke which is pretty much the tone of the film, throwing aside the cleverness of the first two and making it a complete comedy film instead of a Superman film. Whilst there were a few Superman like moments, this is soon forgotten under the horrible mess of everything else in this awful picture. "},{"Title":"How do these producers find work","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's be clear right from the start; this film is a gigantic bag of excrement. It has fallen straight out of Salkind sphincter (the producer) but does serve to exemplify everything that can and should be avoided by future film makers.From the outset this film bombards the audience with its wit; this in particular seems to be directly related to the very real possibility that the producer may not have been a legally responsible adult.To Surmise; the producers and writers of this film should not be left unsupervised with potentially dangerous items, namely scissors, pens or cotton-wool. "},{"Title":"It breaks the great rule of movie making","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Film-making is one of the most comprehensive of artistic enterprises. Whatever other artistic activities it uses, the most essential component is story-telling. One can be subtle, but one dares not confuse the audience.Superman is supposed to be a good guy, but here he gets some kryptonite that instead of weakening him makes a villain of him. Yes, we can accept that Superman could weaken into a real Clark Kent if he so chooses, but turning into a bad guy whose vanity causes him to make travesties of human rituals and culture?It is not subtle; it is confusing, and confusing a mass audience is unforgivable. Movies are storytelling, and at that this movie fails badly.So here's how I see the tetralogySuperman the movie .... 7 -- good but not great.Superman II .... 6 -- entertaining, suitable for occasional watching, especially of one likes the genre.Superman III .... 3 -- clearly substandard, and best forgottenSuperman IV .... 2 -- What were they thinking? Better yet, were they thinking?  "},{"Title":"The Man of Steel Gets Rusty","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At some point during Superman III, a little boy tells a strangely out of character Superman that he's just in a slump. Audiences will probably say the same thing. After really enjoying the first two Superman movies, Superman III comes as a big disappointment. As directed by Superman II's Richard Lester, it makes a misguided turn towards campy comedy, while the screenplay by David and Leslie Newman simply serves as a vehicle for two popular icons of the early 1980s comedian Richard Pryor and the computer.Pryor plays an otherwise ordinary man who discovers an uncanny talent for computer programming. He's recruited by an unscrupulous industrialist (Robert Vaughn) to aid plans to dominate the world's economy. At the same time, Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) visits his hometown of Smallville and is reunited with his high school crush Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole). When Superman interferes in the bad guys' schemes, they attempt to synthesize Kryptonite to destroy him, but they get the formula wrong and the resulting compound instead alters the Man of Steel's personality (much like the Red Kryptonite from the old comic books did).Superman III goes wrong on many different levels. Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is absent and Margot Kidder's Lois Lane only has a cameo. Vaughn's okay, but Annie Ross is one dimensional as his haggish sister and Pamela Stephenson is annoying as a psychic nutritionist who may not be the blonde bimbo she appears to be. As for Pryor, he's simply miscast and has no place being in a Superman picture. Pryor's racy stand up act usually gets toned down for film and here he's reduced to silly pratfalls. I wouldn't have minded the greater emphasis on comedy if most of the jokes were funny (watch Star Trek IV as an example of how to do it right), but much of the humour in Superman III is forced and out of place. An opening sequence involving a slapstick chain of accidents belongs in a Keystone Kops episode.Superman III does have a few saving graces. Christopher Reeve gives another good performance as the title character, even when the script lets him down. Reeve is also convincing portraying Superman's evil split personality. I don't want to give the movie's high point away, but there's a technically impressive fight sequence in a junkyard that brings a touch of darkness and psychological complexity to a movie otherwise lacking in it. O'Toole also provides a pleasant alternative love interest for the Man of Steel. Just like in the comics, Lana prefers Clark as he is while Lois only had eyes for Superman. There are also some decent action sequences, like when Superman puts out a chemical plant fire, but I found the climactic fight against the villains' giant super-computer to be nothing more than an ad for an Atari video game. Unfortunately for all, Superman III marked the beginning of the end for a once great movie franchise.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"PRETTY GOOD","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, it is kind of goofy and silly, but overall it is good. Pryor is hilarious as always, and Reeve does a good job. I think the scene where he plucks peanuts at the mirror is hilarious!! Anyhow, this is the last good Superman sequel (please don't see Part 4!!). "},{"Title":"The movie that made the series Jump the shark.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is not terrible, it is a decent movie. However, it is not nearly up to par with Superman or Superman II. The star of this movie is not Superman, they tried to make a comedy using then box office star Richard Pryor.The movie takes place in Metropolis again. The evil guy in this movie, unfortunately is not Lex Luthor, but an evil, greedy tycoon who is hell bent on taking over the world. With the help of Richard Pryor, they make a super computer that could kill Superman.Not a bad movie, however, this is definately the movie that caused the series to jump the shark. (If you don't know what this means, go to www.jumptheshark.com, although this term is usually for television shows.) The comedy in the film is not very funny, however there are some memorable moments. We finally get to see Clark's childhood sweetheart Lana Lang, as he returns home for a class reunion. There is also the battle between Clark and the evil Superman that is pretty wild.Again, this is the movie that caused the series just to go downhill. After an amazing sequel like Superman II, I can not believe that they took the series into a totally different direction.Hopefully, a new film maker will resurrect the character of Superman, and we will see a new, better series.However, nobody can replace Christopher Reeve. He just seems to be born to play the role. "},{"Title":"Superman III","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This time around, the comic book adventure lacks the zip of its predecessors. Reeve is still the Man of Steel and for some ungodly reason, Pryor was cast as comic relief. It doesn't pay off and gets sort of embarrassing at points.  "},{"Title":"Bad Jokes, Campy Foils and a Bland Threat Spoil Clark Kent's Third Foray","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A trainwreck of epic proportions, with almost no connection whatsoever to the first two films. Superman has long had a cheesy side to him, it's no secret, but in trying to uber-emphasize that aspect of the character above all else, this stretches itself way, way too thin. If one were to remove the rich, interesting back-story from the first two films, cram every forced, campy slapstick pun into one long reel and inexplicably insert Richard Pryor at his mainstream worst, the final product would look startlingly similar to Superman III. The shameless Luthor stand-in's villainous plot is vacant and nonsensical, Lois Lane is written out after twelve lines, The Man of Steel himself is basically a supporting character, and both the central plot vehicle and the final battle are so far over the top they've lost sight of the Earth. The Superman-gone-bad scenes are good for a laugh, if just in a wow, they actually filmed and released this manner, but otherwise it's catastrophic, toilet bowl stinker. "},{"Title":"Superman III is actually really good","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it hard to explain that Superman III has such a bad rep. From the moment I originally saw it in the theater in 1983 or '84 at the age of 12 or 13, I loved it. During the 1990s, as far as I remember, I only watched it once, and wasn't too impressed with it, although I read the comic book adaption several times. Recently I developed a new interest in the Supes movies (largely due to the release, of course, of the Donner Cut of Superman II), and watched them all again, this time on DVD. And I was pretty blown away by all of the three first movies. Christopher Reeve is seminal, no, *epochal*, as Superman/Clark Kent!I don't see what's not to like about III. I have nothing against Pryor, nor the comedy (it reflects the comics well), and I think the 125 minutes are absolutely packed with good story and great adventure. There's so much going on here that one is pretty breathless at the end! The dark Superman and the whole fight between Supes and Clark was great stuff. I loved the Lana Lang subplot, I loved the super-computer, I loved Ross and Lorelei and even Vera - deliciously campy characters, depicted with the right amount of irony and parody. I Am Im-Pressed!Nay-sayers, begone! You wouldn't know quality if it took a big bite outta your butt!My ratings of the Superman moviesSuperman I (2000 Expanded Edition) 8/10Superman II (2006 Donner Cut) 10/10Superman III 9/10Superman IV 5/10 "},{"Title":"Starts with an idiotic premise and goes downhill from there.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Richard Pryor as an unemployed loser who can't even hold a job at a burger joint for more than 28 minutes accidentally realizes he's a genius computer programmer at the age of what, 35? Whatever. After half a dozen incoherent plot developments we get to the final battle -if you want to call it that- which is one of the most embarrassing debacles in all of action cinema. (The SISTER of the villian gets turned into a cyborg (?) by Pryor's (AI?) napkin-sketch Superman-killing-machine. Then her first act is to stick the villian's girlfriend to the ceiling with some stupid blue ray that comes out of her finger? Slop.) This movie was little more than a parody of a Superman film, but its half-hearted shifts from slapstick comedy to real action prevent it from even making onto my camp classic list. The beautiful Annette O'Toole is about the only reason to watch Superman III. "}{"Title":"Superman vs. Superman","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pathetic addition to the Superman series has The Man of Steel (Christopher Reeves) pitted against multi-millionaire Richard Pryor and his greedy employer.How Pryor achieves his wealth is interesting and was copied in Office Space (even referenced by that movie, too). But it's ridiculous. He takes the half-pennies from co-workers' accounts and adds them together. How does he become a millionaire overnight? It would take a heck of a lot of half pennies to become a millionaire.The end is just plain ridiculous.Sort of a guilty pleasure. It is actually the Superman movie I think of the most when I hear the word. Why? I don't know. I guess because it's so bad.1.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Goddamn awful!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well I'm going to rip this film to pieces. 1)The Vulcan satellite A satellite does not create weather! Also the satellite is sent out to outer space to look for kryptonite. There's no way a satellite can leave orbit just on the order of a computer instruction. 2) The analysis of the kryptonite showed plutonium, a man-made element and xenon which is a gas. The other elements in that list don't exist. Besides plutonium is radioactive and I can't see how some chemists could produce that crystal! They would instantly say it was dangerous! 3) The rocket defence system for the master computer. How on earth did they install that without the knowledge of the authorities? It would have taken months do install! 4) When the master computer draws power you see an overhead shot of North America largely in darkness as the lights go out. Yet where the master computer is it is still daylight and when Superman goes to the chemical plant to get a container of the corrosive acid it is still daylight 5) How can you turn a tornado from under the cloud to be above the cloud? Thats just a few of the goofs. It really is a very poor film, a sequel too far! "},{"Title":"The Last Gasp of the Last Son of Krypton.","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a Richard Pryor movie starring Superman. No, it's a Superman movie starring Richard Pryor. Whatever it is, no one's taking SUPERMAN III seriously.Richard Pryor's performance is the only credible meat in this debacle, which features the relatively new concept of computers being utilized for eeeevil, and with a subplot of Superman affected by hybrid kryptonite which doesn't kill him but makes him do really bad things like get drunk and flick peanuts at mirrors. (See what I mean about taking it seriously?) Though Pryor is surrounded by now-veteran SUPERMAN co-stars, Doug McClure (as Jimmy Olsen), Margot Kidder (as Lois Lane), Jackie Cooper (as Perry White) and A-Listers Robert Vaughn (as the villain) and talented comedienne Pamela Stephenson (as the villain's T&A, who does nothing more than minimally expose her T&A), he alone saves the movie from descending to the Ninth Level of Hell with his inimitable patsy turn as a computer hacker hired by Vaughn for evil ends.Christopher Reeve is once again the Man of Steel and is given such an abominable script to work with - coupled with the worst and cheapest flying effects you will ever see - that wearing his neon blue and red duds out in public is starting to look exceptionally gay.Gone is the slick production value; gone is the tagline You'll believe a man can fly because when you watch SUPERMAN III, you're pretty sure a man can't fly and that he's being levitated by guy wires attached to a crane. Gone is the majestic music - Ken Thorne is only allowed minimal snatches of John Williams's grand theme, the rest of the soundtrack consisting of slapstick toodles to accompany director Richard Lester's supposedly uproarious slapstick action. To call the opening credit sequence a third grader's idea of comedy is a compliment.The references to computers (in their boxy housings with big qwerty keyboards and green text on black screens) will look especially dated to youngsters; the acting will make you want to kill your pet, the audio looping will make you want to slap your child, and when Superman goes bad we see that his idea of badness is as juvenile as his idea of goodness...I've said this before with the powers that Superman possesses, he shouldn't even THINK about bank robbers or people falling down and hurting themselves - this guy should be dealing with crime at the highest corporate levels, the white collar crime that CREATES low level crime by creating economic social rifts.But who is really paying attention when his undies are so bright and tight? By the mid-1980s, Superman comicbooks had been developing story lines and character over 50 years - yet this third modern SUPERMAN movie still retains the provincial mentality of the 1950s.Superman is handed pseudo-kryptonite by Richard Pryor (doing his best General Patton - one of the films three great laughs) which doesn't kill him, but makes him do bad things straightens out the Leaning Tower of Pisa, blows out the Olympic torch, punctures an oil tanker, and gets drunk. You know, true evil. Oh, and he almost grows a three-day shadow, the universal stamp of sexy Euro villains. And when he has the opportunity to slam Pamela Stephenson atop the Statue of Liberty, he accedes to doing her a favor first in return for her sexual favors! Yeah, badness like Mister Rogers.It takes an hour for the film to reach this semi-interesting point - and then it goes nowhere with the concept. Superman merely splits into two people - himself and Clark Kent - and battles soporifically with himself in a junkyard, raising the film almost to the level of boring. Clark Kent triumphs. Hooray for dorks! Another subplot involves Clark Kent returning to Smallville for a school reunion and hitting the picnic blanket hard with Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole) and her son. A plot strand - like the factory fire or the dual personality bit or the fat couple vacationing in South America - that goes nowhere at super speed.One would think that director Richard Lester, after making such a hash of SUPERMAN 2, would have been issued a restraining order against any Superman product. Instead, producer Alexander Salkind re-hires the insipid comedy director to make a hash of SUPERMAN III as well.And Lester succeeds beyond anyone's wildest expectations. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd heard this film was bad, but ye gods! I had no idea it would be this awful. Turning the whole epic superhero movie into a silly, superficial comedy was definitely a big mistake, and you know this is going to be a chore to sit through right from the diabolical opening sequence (which seems to go on forever). An embarrassed-looking Robert Vaughn takes over chief villain duties as a rich businessman who harnesses the power of computer technology to rule the world (and kill Superman at the same time). Much of the focus is on Richard Pryor as a supposedly amusing computer programmer but I could barely bring myself to look at the screen, so badly was his character written.There's some minor amusement to be had from the dated technology and it's a relief that the awful Margot Kidder has barely any screen time, but the film's so poorly made it's difficult to watch. The idea of an evil Superman is a good one but underdeveloped, although it does set up a fun action scene in a scrapyard later on. Annette O'Toole is a far more charming love interest than Kidder ever was, but even her sub-plot is sidetracked in favour of more relentless inanity. Could it get any worse than this? I doubt it, somehow... "},{"Title":"Like the previous 2 films and the ones following","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is horrible...The story, the effects, the script, the dialogue and so much more.The good part is the 2 Supermen battling each other and that's about all there is that is entertaining.Richard Pryor is horribly wasted here as is most of the other actors, but Richard is so under-used that this movie is failed because of that reason.What I do find very i9mpressive is that my home was used in the bar scene in Calgary where the drunk Superman sits and sloshes himself away.I was looking for City Hall in the background, but I don't believe that part was built yet.Overall, just another Hollywood letdown. "},{"Title":"I feel vindicated! Other people hated this to!","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTSuperman was much more then a movie to me as a kid, I saw the first one when I was very young and part of me really believed that superman existed. I saw it over and over. I grew up loving Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder as well. Then part two came out. I liked it. A lot. Not quite as good as the first but that was to be expected. Then out came number three. Well, you've heard the expression three strikes and your out...WHAT HAPPENED? Man I wish the internet and IMDb had existed when I was a kid so I could have let forth my frustrations then. The acting was still great but where was the plot? The whole thing was such a wasted opportunity! Disjointed, sloppily thrown together, NO chemistry between superman and his new girl(why DID they take away Kidder as his love interest anyway?) After the beauty of one and two, it was ridiculous. I never did see any other superman movies.Reeve, Kidder, and the cast in general still rocked. But the writers ruined this third edition. None of the beauty, adventure or just plain magic this time and why split up the best couple in superhero history anyway? They should have just left the original story alone. Whats that saying-if its not broke don't fix it.... "},{"Title":"Best of the Lot","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do declare that the third instalment of the Superman series is the best by a mile. I know what you are thinking, this guy is out of his mind and that film was pants. But let me explain. The whole idea of Superman is ridiculous and he is the lamest of all the comic book heroes. It's such an unimaginative concept to say a bloke can fly, is really fast, nothing can hurt him, oh, except part of his home planet. Why was he not dying on Kypton as a baby?? Anyway, I digress. This movie has Richard Pryor in it, being generally goofy. He plays Gus Gorman, an unemployed man claiming benefits until he is told he won't be given anymore unless he finds a job. He gets a job at some computer company, and whilst having a chat with some bloke about how fractions of pennies are deducted off peoples salaries, he somehow knows exactly how to find these fractions, and also puts them into his wage packet. Eh?? You were unemployed last week, where did you get the training to be an expert computer hacker? So anyway, naturally the boss notices quite a bit of money has gone, then good oul Gus, the genius that he is, turns up in a Ferrari with loud music. Nice and conspicuous! Rather than just call the police and have him sent to jail, the bad guy reckons it'd be better to use his expert knowledge on computers to his advantage and start sending oil tankers into the middle of nowhere and stuff. He also somehow develops Kryptonite, but is missing an element of it's composition, so adds tar. When Superman receives this gift from Gus (posing as an army dude) he starts going bad for some reason. This is where I have a problem with this flick. surely it's not the chemical composition of Kryptonite that affects Superman?? Anyway, superman goes bad for a bit until some little wiener kid says you can do it superman, you're just in a slump, you'll be great again. He stops flying and fights with himself in a junkyard. Clark Kent jumps out of a car crushing machine and throttles the bad Superman til he disappears, then goes about redeeming himself for all the petty stuff he was doing, such as spilling oil all over the sea, and straighting the leaning tower of Pisa.Gus astounds us further with his knowledge of computers, and designs a super computer on the back of empty cigarette packets. And when it is built for him by the bad guy (who I can't remember the name of), they decide the best place to put it is in the Grand Canyon. Excellent location. Just popping out to check my emails dear, I'll be back in a month! The computer somehow has a beam of Kryptonite as one of it's weapons, and turns the bad guy's sister into a robot for a period of five minutes while she fights Superman. This film is absolutely ridiculous, but excellent to watch when you've had a few brewskis, or watching with your mates if they are similarly minded.Long live Gus Gorman! "},{"Title":"Look Up.....Is it a Bore? Is it a Pain? Yes it's all those and worse....","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Picture this The year is 1983. Girls Just Wanna Have Fun is drifting from the radio and Dynasty is on the TV. A wide-eyed child sits in the cinema, having been vowed by the two Superman epics of 1978 and 1980...the apocalyptic death of Krypton, the baby lifting the truck in Smallville, Clark's bumbling crush on Lois, General Zod's defiant screams at an emasculated Son of Jor-El, Metropolis a battleground...ahhhh, it was going to take some doing to top all that. But that child had faith in the people who made I and II. And then along comes a camp slapstick comedy to make a particularly corny episode of the Batman circa 1968 look like the work of an auteur. Yes, I was that child and this review is turning into a rant but by God, I was only one of many many wide eyed children. The first two movies made $100 million each, compared with around $59 million for this one. And yes, Superman IV probably grossed about $19.99 (about twice its budget) but the idea of Superman breaking his rule of non-interference in human history is a good premise, spoiled by lack of money and talent. Superman III, conceived as a comedy vehicle for Richard Pryor, was a bad idea that exactly lived up to its promise. Pryor plays Gus Gorman a man whose IQ is supposedly high enough for him to be able to do ridiculous like make the green and red man brawl on the traffic lights but exposes his wealth to the villain Ross (Vaughun) and shoots off the edge of the villains's skyscraper penthouse on skis (which he survives). Gus; computer skills get him in with Ross and his lover and sister who are plotting to use computers to control the world's wealth, something that Superman is constantly thwarting. For example, he puts out a fire in a chemical factory but blowing cold on a lake, lifting the huge chunk of ice and laying it down on the scene of the blaze...we can't imagine that doing good for the community that's been robbed of its lake. Using a shard of radioactive kryptonite, they manage to create an evil superman. I hope you don't expect me to save you...cos I don't do that any more! he tells the blonde bimbo sitting atop Liberty's crown. Never mind, he will have his way with her later on (I thought in SM II he had to be divested of his powers by the red rays of Krypton before an erection was possible?) Still we would imagine that an evil superman would do something like lazer ray the waste tanks open on a nuclear power plant and irradiate the whole west coast of America. Instead he goes into a bar and fires peanuts at the mirror...What ya lookin' at?! the drunk, dark-caped crusader, now sporting a jawline of stubble, slurs at the plebs in the street. He also does things like blow out the Olympic flame (whoa major league evilness here!) and beat up his goodie-goodie alter ego in a junkyard. As for Clark, he goes to Smallville and comes face to face with one time crush Lana and his bullying nemesis Brad, the movie's most bearable part. But at the end of the day, this is not so much Superman and Pryorman the Movie. And Pryor was always at his best when a foul-mouthed, taboo-busting stand up. No disrespect either to Robery Vaughun but as a screen villain, he has neither the wit of Gene 'Miss Tessmacher!' Hackman nor the menace of Terrence 'Kneel before Zod!' Stamp. Let us hope lessons have been learnt and we don't see Brandon Routh pared with Chris Rock next summer with the latter taking up half the movie... "},{"Title":"Wasn't Well Written Was It ?","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's obvious as soon as SUPERMAN 3 starts that not a lot of thought has gone into the screenplay of this movie , I mean the opening sequence is taken up by an unlikely sketch of someone paying attention to a sexy blond , not looking where they're going then BANG all sorts of mayhem ensues . It's like watching a very tired episode of THE BENNY HILL SHOW and seeing Bob Todd in a walk on part does nothing to help this feelingYou could claim that the producers are more to blame than the screenwriters David and Leslie Newman because the previous two entries were somewhat disjointed plot wise and those previous movies were written by that guy who wrote THE GODFATHER but even so this sequel is the worst written of the first three movies in the series where we get two different plots competing for screen time and needless disasters that call for Superman to save the day every ten minutes . Notice too that main villain Robert Webster has cruel put downs involving innuendo like  Get a hold of your self - because no one else will  . Very witty , except all the characters in this movie seem to be able to spout these type of crude witticisms indicating that the writers are incapable of writing idiosyncratic dialogue for the characters in this movie "},{"Title":"Surprised!!!","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm surprised. No, really, I am. How can people claim that Superman 3 is better than the first 2? Amazing. Truly Amazing, considering the great talents of Richard Donner who brought one of the most beloved superheroes to life in the first film. These people obviously have no exposure to engaging and epic storytelling; that sense of wonder and genuine awe, something that this POS NEVER HAD!!! To be frank, the only redeeming qualities of this film are Ol' Supes fighting his evil twin (also known as Bizzaro) and the first appearance of Lana Lang, played by a young Annette O Toole who is much better in Smallville than she is in Superman 3. Don't even get me started on the plot because quite frankly, Superman fans and true believers, THERE IS NONE!!! The appearance of Lana Lang is for lack of a better term phoned in. In short, Lana Lang was a wimp compared to Lois Lane. She's nothing more than a mere stand in than an actual love interest. The concept of Superman fighting his evil twin is a nice idea, but ultimately falls flat on its a**. As with Richard Pryor, this movie's idea of comedy relief is easily rivaled by the act of trying to scrape a used condom off the floor.This review goes out to those with an IQ of a 10 year old. Trust me because after seeing this film you may want to seek remedial attention. "}{"Title":"What are we teaching our children?","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, I know it is out of comic books but when is it okay for little kids to see and understand when a couple have a child out of wedlock? This is not good and shame on your people who came up with this story line. This story line was offensive to me when I looked around in the theater and saw the little kids watching this as I did as a child. What is coming next? What is OUR world coming to? People please take a good hard look in the mirror and ask yourself what are we teaching our children? By the way, I have teenagers ages 16 and up. I fear with all the things on TV and in movies that they will not have a youth. They will just come out knowing it all. Our Christian values are in jeopardy. "},{"Title":"Superman III","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film was a huge success, the sequel was almost as good, but sadly this third film is when the series completely sags and it is obvious it was the beginning of the end, from director Richard Lester (A Hard Day's Night, Robin and Marian). Basically Superman aka Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) is still busy and popular saving the lives of everyone in the city of Metropolis, and no mortal or from other planet enemies have managed to defeat him. Meanwhile we see computer genius Gus Gorman (Razzie nominated Richard Pryor) being a bit villainous, working out a way to steal thousands from the company he gets a job in. His skills attract the attention of wealthy business Ross Webster (Robert Vaughn), and decides to exploit his talent to help his plans to for economical control, starting of course with the ridding of Superman. They know that the only that can stop the Man of Steel, his only weakness, is Kryptonite, so with the help of Gus he works out the ingredients needed to create a piece of the substance, but with an unknown ingredient identified, he improvises and puts tar in the mixture. It should be mentioned that since he reversed the memory of Lois Lane Margot Kidder, who wanted nothing to do with this sequel, due to director Richard Donner being fired), Clark is spending time with his old flame from Smallville High School, Lana Lang (Annette O'Toole). At an event Gus gives Superman this piece of new Kryptonite, which he accepts and seems to have no reaction to, but slowly it turns out it did have an effect, he is slowly turning, becoming selfish, angry and depressed. His darker side has pretty much completely taken over, but in a junkyard his true self is pushed out, so the dark Superman and Clark Kent are two halves, and they fight each other until the darker side is strangled to death and disappears into thin air. Restored, Superman goes to beat Webster, who with Gus has managed to find the true ingredients to create the real Kryptonite to weaken the superhero, but in the end of course he is strong enough to defeat the villains, while letting Gus go. Also starring Annie Ross as Vera Webster, Pamela Stephenson as Lorelei Ambrosia, Jackie Cooper as Perry White, Marc McClure as Jimmy Olsen and Larry Lamb as Miner. It was in the first few minutes with characters in the street being dumb and stupid with mishaps that I knew this was going to be terrible with rubbish attempts to make the audience laugh. Reeve is still a good as the superhero, and also makes a reasonable turn becoming an evil side, the fight between the two Superman sides is pretty good, Pryor is almost completely out of place, Vaughn is indeed no real replacement for Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor, and Stephenson is silly as the dumb villain's girlfriend. The special effects in most moments are unintentionally laughable, the story is wonky and not all interesting, and the attempted comedy streak just doesn't work, a rather disappointing fantasy action adventure sequel. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Musical Score for Giorgio Moroder. Superman was number 26 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, and he was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Pretty poor! "}]