[{"Title":"Hugely funny film - Eddie Murphy's finest moment","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"85 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Right from the opening credits, this film shows quality.  It stands above other comedies due to the lack of filler material - every line is memorable. The cast is great; the two leads make the most of their characters (both as brokers and bums) but never overstep the mark, thanks partly to the tight editing.  The plot becomes a little bizarre, but by that time you're already hooked, and the ending of the film is pure joy.  To my mind, no recent comedy has been this good; it mixes high and low brow jokes without resorting to toilet humour, it doesn't pull any punches (spot the social commentary), the performances are masterful and the script achieves depth without sacrificing the one-liners or slowing the pace.  "},{"Title":"Murphy and Aykroyd at their best","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"61 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Could this movie honestly have been any more funny? I saw it again, as I have repeatedly for years, and still laughed. My new son had never seen it before and liked it as well. Murphy was at the top of his game back then and Aykroyd is the perfect snob-class elitist. Some of these jokes are so timeless that I still refer to them from time-to-time and they STILL get laughs, both from people who have and haven't seen this film.Yes, the jokes are a bit dated and somewhat slapstick, but this was a sign of the times. Most 80s comedies were full of slapstick moments. Jamie Lee Curtis was at the height of her sexy image and I'd forgotten how well she'd played her role. The late Don Ameche is so animated that it played perfectly into the mood of the film.You can find this film in the bargain bin of most stores these days. I saw it for sale for only $5.50. It's worth owning. "},{"Title":"Hilarious... best movie either Ackroyd or Murphy have done.","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"61 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I skimmed over the comments to this movie and was heartened to see that so many people love it like I do. It just doesn't seem to be considered by the mainstream to be in the same league as, say, Beverly Hills Cop or Coming to America when talking about Eddie Murphy's movies, but the fact is that this is hands down his funniest part ever. And Dan Ackroyd is equally hilarious as the (at first) repulsively elitist Louis Winthorpe III. Add the stellar supporting cast, particularly Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy as the Dukes, Paul Gleason as the slimy Clarence Beeks, Jamie Lee Curtis as Ophelia, your standard hooker with a heart of gold (rarely done as well as here), and Denholm Elliott as Coleman the butler, and you hit a rich vein of comedy gold.The plot is a classic farce situation. The Duke brothers, who clearly feel they are above everybody else, make a bet, for one dollar, over whether anybody regardless of breeding can, in the right environment, become an upper-crust gentleman. So as an experiment to see which one is right, they work circumstances so that the rich Louis Winthorpe III is turned into a miserly bum, while they have Billy Ray Valentine (Murphy) take his place. He takes over Louis's job, his house, and his standing in the community. Realistic? Well, no, not really, but this is a farce, so it doesn't really have to be. It is, however, hilarious, which is exactly what a farce should be.If there's a running theme in this movie, it is duplicity and mistaken identity. People are constantly being mistaken for something they are not, or forced into a situation where they become something they are not. We see this happen not only with the two main characters in the basic plot, but also with Billy Ray pretending to be a Vietnam veteran, then a karate master; Louis, who despite all appearances as a wimp, claims to have stood up to Billy Ray during their earliest encounter in the movie, when he actually hands Billy Ray his suitcase, setting him up for an arrest, when he was not actually trying to steal anything; Ophelia, who for a price pretends to know Louis outside the police station, further besmirching his name; all three plus Coleman, who each dresses up as a different hilarious ethnic character to trick Clarence Beeks; and Beeks, who in a subsequent scene is mistaken for an actual gorilla because he's wearing a costume (Al Franken and Tom Davis as the baggage handlers, marveling over how human the gorilla appears, are priceless).Eventually, Billy Ray finds out what is going on, and gets together with Louis to turn the tables on the Dukes. Ophelia (who has fallen for Louis) and Coleman (who feels guilty and used over his part in the whole ruse) help them out. Do they get their revenge? Watch the movie and find out. It will be well worth your while. This is easily the funniest movie either Ackroyd or Murphy have ever done (its only real competition in this regard is The Blues Brothers) and to think this was originally meant as a vehicle for Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor is odd, because it's hard to imagine either of them in the parts done so well by Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy. John Landis keeps the pace going at a nice fast speed, and being a native Philadelphian, the locales and opening montage (including a scene of the Rocky statue) are a kick. But of course you'll love this movie even if you're not from Philly. "},{"Title":"Great Early Vehicle for Eddie Murphy","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably one of the funniest films of the 1980's. It not only is a play on the classic nature vs. nurture theme, but it is also a somewhat comedic commentary on the greed is good decade of the 80's. However, it is also a nice bridging of the generations as it features two of the biggest stars to come from Saturday Night Live Eddie Murphy does a fine job as con man Billy Ray and Dan Ackroyd is great as Louis. Jamie Lee Curtis is also wonderful as Ophelia. In fact, it was good to see her do something other than the scream queen roles which she became famous for during the early part of her career. She definitely shows the comedic timing that she would display later in her career and would make her one of the finest comedic actresses in film today. However, the one that really steals it for me is Denholm Elliot as Coleman. He delivers a very low key performance that is befitting for that role. This is a real gem. "},{"Title":"Ahmwoonanawoonanawoonana-huh!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mark Twain's The Prince and the Pauper has seen many incarnations from Disney to The Simpsons. But none have been as cruel (and funny) and John Landis' Trading Places, which proves just how funny Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy used to be.Louise Winthorpe III is a spoiled, snobby managing director at the Duke & Duke commodities brokerage. Billy Ray Valentine is a poverty-stricken street hustler. Randolph Duke makes a wager with his brother Mortimer that the men can be successfully swapped . The con is on as Valentine is plucked from the streets and Winthorpe is ungraciously dumped on them. There's loads of fun watching him hit absolute rock bottom while Valentine quickly becomes spoiled and snobby himself.Jamie Lee Curtis is the hugely-boobed hooker with a heart of gold who takes Winthorpe in while the always brilliant Denholm Elliott is Coleman, the unwilling butler caught up in the Dukes' evil plan. Once all four unravel the scam they team-up to destroy the Dukes.Trading Places is crammed full of hilarious scenes, great dialogue, and funny cameos. Who cannot resist Eddie Murphy's foreign exchange student disguise or Ackroyd's Lionel Josef. Even the gorilla in the train is a brilliant character.For those of you who love dark, cruel comedies Trading Places is utterly essential. It may be very 80s, but it never gets old. It's a must see and must have. "},{"Title":"Murphy and Aykroyd are Perfect!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When it comes to great comic films, nobody recalls the magic between Murphy and Aykroyd in Trading Places. In the early 80's Eddie Murphy was considered the funniest black comedian next to Richard Pryor. Dan Aykroyd was one of the all time great cast members of Saturday Night Live. Both actors started on SNL and were ready to make their career in films.  Trading Places is an example of a perfect comedy. It is funny yes, but there is so much more. With its story, the acting, and the political, racial, and economical plots in the film add to its greatness. One of the best comedies to come out of the 1980's, it stands as one of Eddie Murphy's best earlier films as well as Aykroyd's performances as a character actor. A wonderful and somewhat good family film. If you're that kind of family that is. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining, thoroughly enjoyable and highly recommended movie&#133;","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Trading Places' is one of the best movies and one of the best comedies that I have had the privilege of viewing and almost every aspect of this movie is done to the highest excellence and the highest quality. I have always considered that some of the most entertaining and enjoyable movies came out during the 1980s and `Trading Places' definitely falls within this category.Everything is a success with this movie &#150;the high quality of acting from both the main actors and the supporting cast, the wonderful humour and engaging dialogue contained within the script, the development of the plot, the music selection provided for the various scenes and even the atmosphere and scenery contained in the movie. Eddie Murphy and Dan Ackroyd are particularly outstanding in their various roles &#150;and keep the excellent performances up in their reversal of roles. Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche and Denham Elliot also provide their characters with a great amount of depth and dimension and make what would have already been a wonderful comedy success even more entertaining. The only very minor criticism is that Jamie Lee Curtis is meant to portray a prostitute in this movie. Jamie Lee Curtis is much too high quality of an actress for the role of a prostitute and I think if the emphasis had been on her character's profession it would have weakened her contribution to the movie. But thankfully the writers and producers recognized that she shouldn't be portrayed in a one-dimensional role and her truly wonderful and highly excellent acting abilities shone through during the whole movie.The script flowed naturally and had an edge to it that made it both entertaining and intriguing. Even though the storyline and outcome was slightly predictable, the scriptwriters succeeded in keeping you interested and keeping you entertained as the sequence of events unfolded. The humour contained in the movie is genuinely entertaining and doesn't sound forced or strained in the same way that it does in some other movies. Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy make a thoroughly wonderful team and I hope they someday consider doing another movie together. I think the 1980s marked the high point of Eddie Murphy's career and this was one of the movies that cemented his reputation as a great comedian. I couldn't recommend this movie highly enough. A truly great comedy masterpiece and classic.   "},{"Title":"Unusually good 80's comedy... contains a lot of sad truth","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I couldn't remember much of this movie when I borrowed it from a friend to watch for the second time... I can't have been very old when I first saw this, because there were not much more than one scene that I recognized. Even the title seemed new to me. Furthermore, I don't recall thinking about the film... about what it meant. This contains a lot of sad truth. The scenes of Aykroyd's character going from the peak of America's business life to rock bottom in a disturbingly short amount of time provide food for thought. Landis presents these events without pretense or heavy-handedness... he gives us the facts as they are. No bias. This direct, almost indifferent tone makes it all the more scary... this is the way it is, and that's accepted. The movie also has some insight to prove on racism and greed. Paul Gleason, whom I have only seen in The Breakfast Club(and Not Another Teen Movie, spoofing his character in aforementioned movie) plays a radically different role, yet still shows some of the authority he's famous for as the principal in The Breakfast Club. That was amusing to watch for someone who enjoyed said film so much. Jamie Lee Curtis bares a lot of skin, for those in the audience looking for that. Aykroyd and Murphy are both extraordinary. They get to play with their characters a lot, to great effect. They create so many funny moments, there are simply too many to list or for mere words to do justice; you'll just have to watch the film for itself. If you are a fan of either actor, you won't be disappointed. The language surprised me, with how uncensored it was, compared to today's standards. The plot is interesting, and based on an intelligent idea. The pacing is dynamic. The acting is all top-notch. The humor is mostly good and tasteful, with few but glaringly obvious exceptions(the fate of Beeks being an almost offensive one). The film has more heart than most of its kind... if you watch only one movie of this type, let this be it. I recommend this to fans of the actors and/or director, and people intrigued by the general idea. If you are even considering watching this... take my advice and do so. It is intelligent without being preachy and funny without trying too hard. John Landis has yet again created something big. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I had the most absurd nightmare, I was poor, no one liked me. Phinellipe hated me, and it was all because of this terrible awful Negro","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places, one of the best comedies of all time! I don't even know where to start on how great this movie is. I've been watching this movie since I was a kid, know that sounds weird as this is an adult comedy, but I actually loved it growing up. As an adult it just gets better and better each time I watch it. It's one of the most intelligent comedies mixed with some great slap stick and take on our society. What a great idea, take an educated man, take away everything he knows and owns and see if he could survive. Then take a man with no education, given the right encouragement if he would rise to the occasion. Trading Places isn't just one of the best comedies to come out of the 80's, but one of the best comedies of all time.Duke brothers Randolph and Mortimer own Duke & Duke, a successful commodities brokerage in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Holding opposing views on the issue of nature versus nurture, they make a wager and agree to conduct an experiment switching the lives of two people at opposite sides of the social hierarchy and observing the results. They witness an encounter between their managing director, educated Louis Winthorpe III, and a poor street hustler Billy Ray Valentine; Valentine is arrested at Winthorpe's insistence because of a misunderstanding robbery attempt. The Dukes decide to use the two men for their experiment. Take away Winthorpe's fiancé, home, job, money, friends and respect, frame him on a drug charge, will he bounce back because of his education and manners? Give uneducated Billy Ray a great job, beautiful home, respect and encouragement, will he turn hardened criminal into an upstanding citizen? Trading places, what a great idea if the boys only knew of the Duke's scheme.Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy were just way too awesome together and had amazing chemistry. Their comedic timing is always on key. A mix with Jamie Lee Curtis and Denholm Elliott added much more to the story and jokes with their reactions and presence. My favorite scene with Dan was definitely seeing him exit the prison with his fiancé and Jamie Lee Curtis has been paid to make it look like he's her lover/drug dealer and her all over him in front of his fiancé while he's just shocked as Jamie goes down on him and to add it all he gets a hard slap to the face! Ouch! But you'll have to pause the scene because you'll die of laughter. Eddie's best scene is also when he gets excited that he could go to his low life acquaintances and show off, he throws a party and they trash his house and he kicks them all out was so funny the way he did it. What a classic movie, one that I will watch again and again. I proudly show this movie to my friends when they need a good laugh. This movie is a treasure to comedies, it's well paced and one of the best movies of all time. The only change I would have made is that at the end when they are on their own private island they toast each other on a job well done and since ironically they ruined the Dukes with orange juice, it would have been more hilarious if that's what they were toasting with instead of champagne. But it's still a perfect movie, highly recommended.10/10 "},{"Title":"Good, well written comedy","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best comedies of the 1980's, this stars Eddie Murphy in one of his best roles alongside Dan Aykroyd. The plot is great, a poor, homeless man who has resorted to a life of crime (Murphy) and an upper class yuppie involved in the stock market (Aykroyd) trade places when two devious brothers (Aykroyd's employees) have a bet. This is a very well written, well acted, and well executed comedy, that makes you laugh, but also grips you with a strong plot. Also has a satisfying ending. "}{"Title":"Very funny very entertaining movie - murphy's best?","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie the whole way through. All the characters are well portrayed Murphy (at his funniest), Ackroyd (loved that Santa Claus scene with the salmon), Curtis who we see plenty of, Ameche and Bellamy as the amoral traders, and the utterly obnoxious Gleason (as Clarence Beeks) who gets his comeuppance in the end. Funny scenes all through this movie, lovely revenge-laden ending without violence - excellent movie, possibly Murphy's best. "},{"Title":"Oscar Wilde would have been proud","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a classic social comedy. It is like an Oscar Wilde play Americanized and moved from London to Philly. Every time I watch it, something new makes me laugh. One usually expects poor screenwriting and directing from a silly comedy such as this, but that is not the case here. The eighties knew how to handle B-comedy. The script and acting are filled will subtleties and nuances that make it a hilarious in every aspect of the word. Clearence Beeks is the funniest of all the characters, with his one liners and actions. Eddie Murphy--enough said. Dan Akyroyd--a perfect fit for the role. Don Ameche is awesome too. Many of the lines are highly memorable, despite (or rather because of) their crudity. If you haven't seen this film--get off your butt and watch it. The comedy central (censored) version will NOT suffice. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies of the 80's","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In Philadelphia, Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) is a successful commodity broker of the Duke & Duke, owned by the cheap millionaires Randolph (Ralph Bellamy) and his brother Mortimer (Don Ameche) Duke. Louis, who was graduated in Harvard, has an upper class lifestyle, living in a mansion with the butler Coleman (Denholm Elliott), who also drives his Mercedes Benz, and is engaged of the wealthy Penelope Witherspoon (Kristin Holby). After an incident in the sophisticated Heritage Club with the homeless beggar Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy), Randolph defends that the situations of Louis and Billy Ray were caused by the environment where each man lives while Mortimer defends a genetic issue. They bet one dollar and decide to force Louis and Billy Ray to switch places they frame Louis, planting drugs and a theft in his pocket, and he is arrested and loses his job, house, car, savings and credit cards; and they invite Billy Ray for the position of Louis. The desperate Louis meets the golden hearted whore Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis), who lodges him at her house and helps him. When Billy Ray overhears the Duke Brothers discussing their bet in the bathroom, he seeks out Louis and together they plot their revenge.Trading Places is certainly one of the best comedies of the 80's. Eddie Murphy in the beginning of his career was extremely funny and together with Dan Aykroyd, they are hilarious; the veterans Denholm Elliott, Don Ameche and Denholm Elliott are amazing; and Jamie Lee Curtis extremely sexy. I have just watched this movie again now on the DVD released by Paramount Pictures in Brazil (Special Edition for Collector) that shamefully does not have subtitles in Portuguese. I can read and understand English, but most of the Brazilian population does not. Therefore it is a complete lack of respect from this major distributor. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Trocando as Bolas "},{"Title":"While it is a comedy, it is also an intelligent film about economics.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A snobbish investor and a wily street con artist find their positions reversed as part of a bet by two callous millionaires. Louis Winthorpe is a businessman who works for commodities brokerage firm of Duke and Duke owned by the brothers Mortimer and Randolph Duke. Now they bicker over the most trivial of matters and what they are bickering about is whether it's a person's environment or heredity that determines how well they will do in life. When Winthorpe bumps into Billy Ray Valentine, a street hustler and assumes he is trying to rob him, he has him arrested. Upon seeing how different the two men are, the brothers decide to make a wager as to what would happen if Winthorpe loses his job, his home and is shunned by everyone he knows and if Valentine was given Winthorpe's job. So they proceed to have Winthorpe arrested and to be placed in a compromising position in front of his girlfriend. So all he has to rely on is the hooker who was hired to ruin him. Roger Ebert wrote Trading Places resembles Tootsie and, for that matter, some of the classic Frank Capra and Preston Sturges comedies It wants to be funny, but it also wants to tell us something about human nature and there are whole stretches when we forget it's a comedy and get involved in the story. And it's a great idea for a story A white preppy snot and a black street hustler trade places, and learn new skills they never dreamed existed. Trading Places is one of the best movies and one of the best comedies that I have had the privilege of viewing and almost every aspect of this movie is done to the highest excellence and the highest quality. "},{"Title":"comical genius","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest films i have ever seen, and having just come back from Philadelphia where i believe the film was partly made i can see why it was so brilliantly made.Eddie murphy is a genius ,Dan Ackroyd is histerical, and Jamie Lee Curtis is as beautiful as her mother.This film must be one of the best ever comedies ever made. Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche were suberb. The best actor though was the late Denholm Elliot, who in my eyes was the epitomy of the British serving class. How this film never got an oscar for, not only the actors but for the film itself is a mistake that the film industry will regret for a very long time. "},{"Title":"Perfect Pair","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the most funniest movies ever. Ackyroyd and Murphy work GREAT together. The premise is wonderful. A poor person switching lives with a rich person, so original! I give this movie four stars. Great work!!! "},{"Title":"Yeah!!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly wonderful, from the opening score to the final credits, this film exceeds all expectations that one would wish to throw at John Landis. The Murphy/Ackroyd combination is perfect, and with excellent support from Curtis and Elliot, there are laughs galore. Murphy really is in his element as the fast talking Billy-Ray Valentine, while Ackroyd excels in the pomp of Louis Winthorpe III. But it is perhaps the lines of the 'incidental' actors that really set this movie apart. The two black cons are a wonderful double act - something like little and large, without the little. Meanwhile, Denholm Elliot as Coleman is his scathingly brilliant best. Watch this film, enjoy it, then watch it again! "},{"Title":"Laugh Your *** Off!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gotta love that part where Eddie Murphy is Upstairs with the Duke Brothers and they are explaing the different types of items sold on the stock market and Duke says Pork Bellies, which are used to make bacon, which you may find in a bacon lettuce and tomato sandwich.  Eddie murphy looks at the camera and it is SO funny! "},{"Title":"A fine film to enjoy this time of year...with a glass of OJ close at hand.","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's the efforts of a superb cast that make this comedy work as well as it does. The premise is a time honoured one what if you switched a have with a have not? The nefarious Duke brothers, Randolph (Ralph Bellamy) and Mortimer (Don Ameche) decide to have a little wager, meddling in the life of their bright young employee Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd). They scheme to utterly ruin his life, and put in his place fast talking, street dwelling con artist Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy). Their plans work all too well, until the ultimate moment of revelation sparks a desire by our two pawns to get some revenge.Trading Places does go on pretty long, and isn't always terribly funny. In fact, it's not afraid to get rather dark. But our two stars are extremely well cast, and in top form. Aykroyd mostly plays the straight man, while Murphy lights up the screen from the moment that his character is introduced. Screen veterans Bellamy and Ameche are excellent; Denholm Elliott is wonderful as the devoted butler, while Jamie Lee Curtis is extremely engaging in the role that helped her escape from being typecast as a horror genre star. (Some people will be very pleased to note that she bares her breasts on a few occasions.) Paul Gleason is amusing in one of his standard issue jerk roles. Landis dots the landscape with some great cameos (Alfred Drake, Bo Diddley, Frank Oz) and bit parts by a bunch of now familiar faces Nicholas Guest, John Bedford Lloyd, Giancarlo Esposito, James Eckhouse, Eddie Jones, Bill Cobbs, Philip Bosco. Look also for James Belushi as a drunken reveller, Stephen Stucker (Johnny in Airplane!) as a stationmaster, and Al Franken & Tom Davis from 'Saturday Night Live' as baggage handlers.By the time that Trading Places has reached its final half hour, when Louis, Billy Ray, Ophelia, and Coleman put their revenge plan into motion, it's all too easy to root for our main characters.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stands the test of time","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't watch this when it came out, thinking it sounded lightweight, with a totally improbable plot. I finally gave it a spin after hearing it quoted on NPR, the part where the Dukes teach Commodities for Kiddies to Eddie Murphy. Look, this is a pretty dumb movie that splices together ideas from many different sources. The characters are cartoonish and the plot leaks like a sieve. Yet, out of it all comes something reasonably creative and entertaining. In short, I enjoyed it. And I do not suffer foolish movies gladly. Why did it work? - Skilled comedic acting all around. We've got some early Saturday Night Live alumni, including a current U.S. Senator who actually did graduate from Harvard (who plays a really dumb baggage handler), and some genuine, seasoned actors in Don Ameche (who's previous film was with Jamie Lee's father), Ralph Bellamy and Denholm Elliott. I think the actors were having fun, and it rubs off on the audience. - I actually cared about and liked the main characters Akroyd, Murphy, Curtis, et al. - - this despite being highly unrealistic.- Good pacing. The plot pulls you along fast enough that you never have time to think about how stupid it is (well, not too much). More important, the film gets you to suspend disbelief early on. The opening scenes of Philadelphia are the most realistic part of the movie, and helped along with a loud dose of Mozart -- highly reminiscent of Hopscotch. At about 4 minutes in we meet Winthorpe and see him go to work. He is obnoxious, and Akroyd's acting is not realistic, but the movie isn't either, so he is setting the tone. In essence, Landis is telling the audience This ain't Shakespeare, despite the Mozart. Take it or leave it. He is also setting the quality bar low, so it can only get better, and it does. Smart. (Akroyd's acting becomes more genuine later in the movie, and he did a fine job in Driving Miss Daisy). Then at 6 minutes we meet the Duke brothers in their sprawling estate (filmed on Long Island) and the tone becomes that of a fable, a la Prince and the Pauper. At 9 minutes, Eddie Murphy does his Porgy thing pretending to be a lame beggar. The Dukes beat him with a briefcase, yet the absurdity of the acting brings a smile to your face. At 10 minutes, the Dukes enter their private club, and I'm hooked. About 50 minutes in we feel like we're in a 1980s version of It's a Wonderful Life, as Winthorpe tries to go home and his butler pretends not to know him. There's something eternal in that theme. We're dealing here with a particular genre that may be foreign to 21st century viewers 1970s Saturday Night Live alumni, Animal House, Blues Brothers, etc. Blues Brothers is by far the strongest - a classic! So contemporary viewers had a sense of what to expect. Yet Trading Places stands the test of time because we all (or most of us) like a nice story of revenge on mean, old rich people. Events in the news have only strengthened this theme. The ending is sweet. "}{"Title":"Higher and lower","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is essentially a role reversal comedy. An uptight rich man brought up in a live of privilege and wealth reduced to a pauper and is befriended by a prostitute whist down on his luck.A small time crook takes his place as a privileged black man in a big city firm. All because of a $1 bet from two conniving brothers. Of course once they realise this they join forces and turn the tables.This was Eddie Murphy's second film after his well received debut in 48 hours. In both these films he shows he has the acting chops and comedic talent which blew others away a year later when he did Beverly Hills Cop.In fact all the cast are on top of their game here, from Ayckroyd to Lee Curtis, Don Ameche to Denholm Elliot. Even some of the bit part actors elevate the proceedings. Damn even the Gorilla is funny.Credit to the the writers for writing the very funny screenplay and John Landis to get the best out of everyone for what is a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"Decent comedy","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Trading Places' stars Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd in roles perfect for them. In other movies especially Murphy can get annoying but in this one that was not the case.Aykroyd is Louis Winthorpe, a guy with a high position in the company Duke & Duke. Randolph & Mortimer Duke (Ralph Bellamy & Don Ameche) make a bet. They can put homeless guy Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy) in the place of Winthorpe and make him as good and smart as him. On the same time they want to destroy Winthorpe's life and make sure he becomes a criminal. We follow Murphy in the high society and Aykroyd who has to live with a prostitute (Jamie Lee Curtis) because he has nothing.Eddie Murphy, Dan Aykroyd and Jamie Lee Curtis are all very funny. The story sound familiar but has some nice surprises. If you just need a nice film to entertain yourself this one is perfect. "},{"Title":"comedy of biblical proportions","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This monster classic comedy is an all-time great. Murphy and Aykroyd distill a comic chemistry of perfect symmetry - Aykroyd is possibly the greatest deadpan straightman of all time, and Murphy was just hitting his stride as manic genius. The storyline is superb in fact, it's so classic that today's ignorant film freaks still fail to discern the origin of the tale. Trading Places is a modern retelling of the Story of Job, Old Testament style - read your bibles, folks. Bellamy and Ameche play God and Satan, respectively, putting the mortals to the test, only this time, the ending has been changed. In the original, Job the Straightman is properly chastened, but in Trading Places the power of the gods is broken, as the mortals corner the orange juice futures market. No respect for religion these days.Some reviewers don't see the purpose of all the supporting characters Jim Belushi, Franken and Davis etc. They are utterly necessary to complete the character structure of the film, however. Even the giant gorilla it fills the warrior role for the protagonists, to balance the evil ape Beeks, the holy Warrior of God.This review may seem a tad incomprehensible to those who didn't have a gold star attendance record at sunday school. No problem whip out your bible, read the Book of Job (it's not that long, you can do it) then watch this movie. We've come a long way, baby.10 out of ten halleluyah, praise jesus and check out jamie lee in a hot mary magdalene. "},{"Title":"Murphy And Aykroyd In Their Prime","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places is the best example of Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd in their prime. Both are funny, neither are silly and useless, and both portray the best of character's fit for a movie. Both will keep you laughing until you cry.Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) is has a perfect life. He lives in a luxurious house, has a butler, a beautiful fiancée, and a top job in the commodity broker's business Duke and Duke. Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy) on the other hand is a low life, homeless, and a con artist. After a brief confrontation resulting in Billy's arrest, Randalf and Mortimer Duke (Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche) have an idea to have a little fun. Suddenly Louis finds himself in the shoes of Billy Ray Valentine and Billy Ray in the shoes of Louis. Now, with the help of the beautiful Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis), Louis must find out what happen and seek the ultimate revenge of throwing the Duke's into bankruptcy with the help of his new partner, Billy Ray.As I said earlier Akroyd and Murphy will keep you laughing until tears stream in your eyes. Aykroyd above all others acts like no other role he's ever done before. Don Ameche is hilarious as the sinister greedy brother while Ralph Bellamy does more of the drama acting and thinking. Jamie Lee Curtis is great in one of her earlier roles and Delholm Elliot as Louis and Billy Ray's butler put the cast into an excellent category of acting. The story will keep you thinking and a little is needed at the end to see how the money was earned.Trading Places. Starring Dan Aykroyd, Eddie Murphy, Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche, Jamie Lee Curtis, and Delholm Elliot.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Saturday Night Live alumni show us how to be funny.","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a wonderfully funny film with superb comic performances from every cast member (except perhaps Curtis but she does have beautiful breasts). Eddie Murphy has never been better. He works best when he doesn't run the film and has solid direction from someone like Landis. Elliot, Bellamy and Ameche give beautiful, tasty supporting performances. Denholm Elliot particularly rules the roost when he's on screen with a raised eyebrow and subtle understated silent commentary  on whatever ridiculous action is taking place. Aykroyd demonstrates the ultimate in sickening snobbery. The premise is ridiculous but superbly enjoyable and a good time should be had by all. I'd watch this film a thousand times before even considering enduring Lord of the Rings again! Classic American comedy. Thank you Saturday Night Live.  "},{"Title":"Dan Ackroyd's greatest role.","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is supposed to be a comedy. Well, it isn't. It has its funny moments, but the theme is profound and serious, namely, what happens when a man, portrayed by Dan Ackroyd, who has money, a house, a butler, and a beautiful girl friend, is suddenly and inexplicably divested of every symbol of who he is as a person, leaving him completely baffled, utterly destitute, and for the first time in his life, totally alone. So complete is the man's fall that his rage soon turns into an overwhelming despair that soon compels him to attempt suicide, which fails, further reinforcing the his feelings of utter destitution. For he has no idea why this has happened to him; has no idea that he is the patsy in a cruel game devised by his bosses who hold him in utmost contempt. And what makes this joke even more outrageous and emotionally devastating is that the man, who is smug, conceited, vain, foppish and entirely clueless as to how little he is liked, is immediately replaced by a street person, played by Eddie Murphy, thus proving that he is easily replaceable, entirely expendable, and therefore of no real value to anyone. The effectiveness of this movie depended on having an actor who could convey the frantic desperation of a man whose life has been turned upside down and whose false sense of security has been forever shattered as he is forced to come to terms with the precariousness of his own existence, and here Dan Ackroyd does the job. As far as I am concerned, Mr. Ackroyd's performance warranted at least a nomination for best actor award. Eddie Murphy was excellent too as the homeless man who unwittingly is also a pawn in this elaborate game of switching places, but this movie is first and foremost a Dan Ackroyd vehicle. This is Dan Ackroyd's greatest movie. "},{"Title":"Still Stands Up Well","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The brothers Randolph and Mortimer Duke are the wealthy owners of a Philadelphia-based commodity dealership. They make a bet with one another that they can switch the lives of two people, a successful commodities broker with their firm and a homeless beggar. They arrange for the broker, Louis (pronounced Lewis, not Louie) Winthorpe III, to be fired from his job, evicted from his luxurious home and arrested on trumped-up charges of theft and drug-dealing. They then approach the beggar, Billy Ray Valentine, and offer him not only Winthorpe's job but also his house. Winthorpe is reduced to despair by this sudden crumbling of his world, but Billy Ray proves an unexpected success in his new role, as though his life on the streets has given him an instinctive understanding of the economic facts of life. When Billy Ray and Winthorpe (who has been befriended by a prostitute named Ophelia) discover the trick that has been played on them, they combine to seek revenge on the Dukes.Film critics like Roger Ebert and Janet Maslin compared Trading Places to the comedies of earlier directors such as Frank Capra and Preston Sturges, and it reminded me of the screwball comedies of the thirties and forties. Of course, if it had been made during that period it would have been very different. Billy Ray would almost certainly have been white; here he is black. On the other hand Winthorpe's butler Coleman, who here is white, might have been black, as domestic servants were one of the few types of role exempt from Hollywood's unofficial colour-bar. Ophelia would probably have been a poor-but-honest working-class girl rather than a hooker. And in the days of the Production Code there would have been no toplessness, no sex references and none of the bad language with which the film is liberally sprinkled.Thinking how the film might have been made in the past also made think of how it might be remade today. Today, of course, there would be no objection to casting a black star. Indeed, the film-makers might even be daring enough to make Winthorpe black and Billy Ray white. Although the colour-bar had gone in the sixties, in 1983 there was still a tendency to think of black actors in terms of working-class roles. The idea of making a wealthy, aristocratic character black would probably have been a little too far outside the box for the eighties.I suspect, however, that a lot of the sex and bad language would go. In 1983 the cinema was still suffering from a seventies hangover, and it was a defining principle of the Decade that Taste Forgot that film- makers were under a solemn duty to show just how hip, trendy and adult they were by breaking as many taboos as they thought they could get away with. Today this attitude is not as prevalent as it once was- gratuitous bad language and sexual references often seem more adolescent than adult. Trading Places, which is essentially about money, class and status, is not a sex comedy or a gross-out comedy, so a lot of the sex and profanity could safely be discarded. A modern remake would doubtless also dispense with all that eighties political incorrectness (Of course there's something wrong with him. He's a Negro!).In some respects, however, this is a very modern story. Its satire on greed and corruption among the super-rich leaders of the financial services industry is just as relevant to the post-Lehman Brothers world of the 2010s as it was to the greed is good eighties. Moreover, its satire is not just relevant to America. One thing that struck me was just how British the rich characters seem to be. The Duke brothers' surname was presumably deliberately chosen to suggest a link to the British aristocracy, and their country house is a self-conscious replica of an English stately home in the Tudor style, down to the stained-glass windows. Louis lives in the Philadelphia equivalent of a Georgian London townhouse and employs an English butler. His upper-class chums all wear English-style cricket sweaters, although none of them presumably play cricket. He even speaks with a quasi-British accent. (This is particularly noticeable with the short o in words like job which Louis is careful to pronounce in the rounded British manner; most Americans either flatten this vowel (jaahb) or drawl it (jawb). The acting is of a generally high standard. Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy combine well as the two men whose lives are inadvertently swapped. Aykroyd's Louis is honest, good at his job, intelligent and well- educated, and yet he is a classic example of the man who is, paradoxically, limited by his very intelligence and education. He is quite unable to imagine what life might be those who did not go to Harvard and who do not have a job in high finance. Murphy's Billy Ray is, for all his petty dishonesty, a likable streetwise rogue who possesses hidden reserves of resourcefulness. There are also good contributions from Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche as the cynically avaricious Dukes, Denholm Elliott as Coleman and Jamie Lee Curtis, surprisingly sympathetic as the hardened hooker Ophelia.In some respects, as detailed above, Trading Places can seem rather dated today. In others, however, it still stands up well as an amusing satirical comedy even thirty-odd years after it was made. "},{"Title":"30 years later, it's still prime Eddie Murphy","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We just watched this film on Amazon Prime. I haven't seen it in 30 years. It was a real joy to see Eddie Murphy in prime comedic form. Dan Aykroyd is fine, but this isn't a breakout for him compared to the Ghostbusters series or The Blues Brothers. What I particularly liked was the view of Philadelphia in the early 1980s, with its blue-collar workers, unemployed people standing in the street doing little or just warming their hands near a burning trash barrel, and the run down neighborhoods. It was surprisingly reminiscent of post-2009 America in Detroit or other hard-hit areas. A reminder that the more things change, the more they stay the same.As for the movie, it has the antic energy of a comedy from that era. Compare it to last summer's comedic hit, Guardians of the Galaxy. The production values are vastly different and show what's happened in 30 years of filmmaking with the introduction of CGI. However the writing, the plot, and the acting are just as good if not better in the older film. "},{"Title":"Of course there's something wrong with him, he's a Negro!","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A slyly funny comedy from producer John Landis. The very old and filthy-rich Duke Bros. (Bellamy and Ameche) make a dollar bet that down and out Negro con man Eddie Murphy can run their company as well as Dan Aykroyd, the white guy with all the snooty advantages. (Nature vs. nurture). Also starring almost all of Jamie Lee Curtis as the young and gorgeous hooker with a heart of gold. Great social commentary as well as great writing plus an all-star cast make this a classic comedy from the 1980s. Eddie Murphy mugs the camera as always, playing pretty-much the same persona as he does in Beverly Hills Cop and Shrek. He opens the movie by pretending to be Porgy, blind and without legs, as a Viet Nam War Vet beggar. Only he could make this a funny situation. He fools no one including the cops on the beat. I don't like that bit about the gorilla. (Tasteless.) A bit long and crazy toward the end. Featuring Several topless women, a very young Franken & Davis, Jim Belushi in a gorilla costume, and Dan Aykroyd in blackface! Almost as good as an old Frank Capra production, but with a twisted attitude! It shows how foolish commodities trading really is! One of Eddie Murphy's and Dan Akroyd's funniest performances. "},{"Title":"Looking good and feeling good","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie was at first destined to be a Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor vehicle , but in the end we have Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd duo which is even better. Both were almost at the peek of their careers in the 1983 (One year later Aykroyd made Ghostbusters and Murphy made Beverly Hills cop). Aykroyd had the success of Blues Brothers , Murphy had 48 hours. Both were stars at the Saturday Night Live show. Trading places is one of the best movies in their careers.The premise is similar to that of Hoi Polloi (1935), The Three Stooges film. Two rich guys are arguing about what matters most breeding or upbringing. One bets the other they can take any bum off the street and make him a gentleman. The story about the Dukes' cornering of the orange juice market was probably inspired by the Silver Thursday market crash of 27 March 1980, during which the Hunt brothers of Texas tried to corner the silver market and subsequently failed to meet a $100 million margin call. It's also more than possible that Mark Twain's The Prince and the Pauper was the main inspiration for this movie.Trading places is one of the best 80's comedies and comedies overall. The screenplay is rich with humor . There isn't any dull or boring moment . The story has heart and depth. TP isn't afraid to make a social commentary about racism , prejudice and capitalism. There is one running theme in this movie &#x96; duplicity and mistaken identity. People are constantly being mistaken for something they are not or forced into a situation where they become something they are not.The humor mixes the sophisticated jokes with the not-so sophisticated ones , never resorting to cheap humor. The baggage handlers marveling over how human the gorilla appears are priceless. The last 30 minutes is not bad education about stock market. Extremely witty comedy , no poor taste and little obscenity, no slapstick.The cast is great . Aykroyd and Murphy have great chemistry together and they shine in their double roles (each one has to play both a bun and a broker). The supporting cast is also stellar. Who could forget Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy as the arrogant Dukes , Jamie Lee Curtis as the adorable hooker with the heart of gold Ophelia or Denholm Elliott as Coleman the sympathetic butler.John Landis keeps the pace going at a nice fast speed . There is something about his direction that is very sweet and has a wonderful liberating feel. Good use of classical music too. The movie obviously stands the test of time , unlike some other 80's comedies.Interesting thing - In 2010, as part of the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act, which was to regulate financial markets, a rule was included which barred anyone from using secret inside information to corner markets. Since the movie inspired this rule, it has since become known as the Eddie Murphy Rule.Watch out for cameos from John Landis , Frank Oz and Jim Belushi .Trading places is a great intelligent farce and somewhat good family movie. I give it 8/10. "}{"Title":"Sweet, sweet revenge, baby!","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's not necessarily a Christmas movie (but then, there's room for spirited debate when it comes to that subject), but for some reason, Trading Places has become a December tradition. It's probably the wintery Philadelphia atmosphere, or hell, the image of Dan Aykroyd stuffing hi manky Santa Claus costume with gourmet meats.But everything comes together exceedingly well here; the writing, the cast of character actors (Denholm Elliott and Paul Gleason add unbelievable color to this movie), Jamie Lee Curtis' knockers, and it gets some admirable laughs mileage out of privileged elitism. And it's pretty cool that you can craft human relationships out of the quest for the almighty dollar.It's an ideal vehicle for two SNL alumni. It's not just one of my favorite comedies, but also some of my favorite work from both Aykroyd and Murphy.9/10 "},{"Title":"Murphy and Aykroyd are Great","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places begs the question, what the hell happened to Dan Aykroyd's career. He and Eddie Murphy are brilliant as two guys who switch lifestyles. It is the classic old nature vs. nurture argument between two rich brothers as they drive drive down a street in their limo. Randolph(Ralph Bellamy) and Mortimer(Don Ameche) discuss breeding and the influence of environment on how men turn out. The spot a street beggar, Billy Ray(Eddie Murphy), and they wager each other on whether he can be made a success by being given the advantages of money. The other side of the bet involves Louis Winthorpe III, the director of their brokerage firm, who is the prototypical yuppie. He is engaged to their niece, and the decide to wreck his life by taking away his job and money, to see how his supposed superior genes will overcome the obstacles.Louis is framed for a crime, and drugs planted on him. He becomes homeless and is taken in by a prostitute, Ophelia(Jamie Lee Curtis; who shows off quite a rack in a brief nude scene), as she helps him on the condition of a reward, once he gets back on his feet. Billy Ray adapts quickly to his new situation and Louis attempts suicide, but is rescued by Ophelia and Billy, who has overheard a conversation regarding the bet by Randolph and Mortimer. They plot revenge using inside information on a business deal. Murphy and Aykroyd are a perfect duo, and Trading Places should have begun a comedy team in the tradition of Martin and Lewis. Just sit back and watch the two create a great comedy. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will keep it short You have to see this movie, it's worth it for every possible reason and any audience will appreciate it.What i particularly never forgot about this one is that it's a deep psychological/sociological theme (that is also very valid) AND it contains a lot of humor. That combination is very rare.The first thing i learned in sociology is that a huge percentage of people with psychosocial problems (thats 90% of the people seeking psychological help in that sector) could have their problems instantly solved with a large sum of money.This movie illustrates that and i mention it sometimes as an example in discussions. But don't let this bring you off it; as i said, it contains a lot of humor and that alone is worth it.A must see. (rated 9) "},{"Title":"My Favorite Philly Film of All Time!","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie and I have to watch it from beginning to end. I love the beginning shots of Philadelphia, a great American city, in the autumn. They only filmed a couple of weeks in Philadelphia and the rest in New York City where Eddie Murphy was on Saturday Night Live. Still he admits it was his favorite working experience on the verge of stardom, Dan Ackroyd plays the WASPY guy who gets to trade places with Eddie Murphy's homeless character. They are unwilling participants in the billionaires, Randolph and Mortimer Duke played by Hollywood royalty, Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy. They bet their usual bet that nature versus nurture. Don's character believes that nature controls who will succeed while his brother argues that nurture is what causes success. They build a great film by starting it slowly. The shots in Philadelphia are always worth watching. Once the trade is succeeded, Louis played by Ackroyd is devastated. His fiancé leaves him and his butler played by the wonderful Denholm Elliott takes the Duke brothers orders. Eddie's character is brought in to the townhouse. When the two men learn of the Dukes' deception, they plan revenge with help from the wonderful Ophelia played by Jamie Lee Curtis and Paul Gleason in a supporting role. Look for others like Al Franken, Tom Davis, Jim Belushi, Arlene Sorkin, Kelly Curtis (Jamie Lee's sister), and the fiancé played by Kristen. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned, familiar financial caper with new-fangled language and nudity.","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Following his hit big-screen debut in 48 Hours, Eddie Murphy followed it up with another terrific comedy turn in Trading Places. Murphy is matched all the way by Dan Akroyd, Denholm Elliott, Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche in this light-hearted financial caper, all of them breathing life and wit into a plot that has been done many times before. In fact, apart from the periodic nudity and foul language, Trading Places comes over as a very old-fashioned comedy story.Ultra-rich businessmen Randolph and Mortimer Duke (Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche) run a successful firm in Philadelphia, buying and selling their way to ever-increasing wealth. One of their best employees is business executive Louis Winthorp III (Dan Akroyd), a pampered brat who lives in a huge house and has his every need tended to by his faithful butler Coleman (Denholm Elliott). The Duke brothers disagree that Winthorp's success is the result of good breeding and education. Randolph believes that Winthorp was born into an easy life and that anyone - even a lowlife from the streets - could do his job if given the chance. Mortimer is adamant that a lowlife would fail in the world of big business and etiquette, and that Winthorp would still find a way to succeed in life if he were cast out on the streets. The brothers place a one-dollar wager against each other to determine who is right. Via a series of engineered lies, Winthorp loses his job, his house, his fiancée, his butler and his reputation. Then, foul-mouthed street hustler Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy) is plucked from the gutter and put in Winthorp's place. Winthorp struggles to adapt to his new-found poverty, while Valentine proves a surprisingly perceptive and effective financier. But when Valentine discovers that the whole thing is just a wager - and that the Dukes eventually plan to fire him from their firm - he tracks down Winthorp, and together they plan an audacious sting on the scheming brothers, aided by Coleman the butler and Winthorp's new girlfriend, street-wise hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis).Trading Places is, in many ways, a 20th Century variation of the story of The Prince And The Pauper. The comic dialogue is expertly handled, and the casting is just genius. Who would have thought that old veterans like Bellamy, Ameche and Elliott would be able to bounce off a volatile, foul-mouthed fast-talker like Murphy to such brilliant effect? That's not to say the film is perfect. Others have pointed out, correctly, that the wit runs dry about two-thirds of the way in and the film becomes more caperish. The final third deals with the revenge plotted by Murphy and Akroyd against the Duke brothers - while it has some passable silliness (check out those stupid disguises they wear during the train journey to New York), it is all rather plot-heavy and seems disappointingly similar to those caper movies that were all the rage in the '70s (eg The Sting, Bank Shot, The Hot Rock, Silver Bears, etc.). Still, on the whole Trading Places is a lot of fun and, at least for two-thirds of the way, it is a comedy of real quality! "},{"Title":"80's comedy at it's finest","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" SPOILERSOne year before he famously became Ray Spengler in Ghostbusters, Dan Ackroyd was superb in this film from 1983. Teaming up with comedian Eddie Murphy, Ackroyd was brilliant as the stock trader who's life is ruined by two arrogant businessmen's bets.Louis Winthorpe III (Ackroyd) works for the major Duke Corporation. Earning money for arrogant brothers Randolph and Mortimer Duke (Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche), Winthorpe is thrown on the street when his bosses conduct a social experiment. Replaced by Billy Ray Valentine (Murphy), Winthorpe's life slowly collapses in on itself. Eventually with the help of Valentine and prostitute Ophelia (a young, occasionally topless, Jamie Lee Curtis), Winthorpe goes out on revenge.With a film style which is typically 80's, Trading Places could so easily be cast aside like the majority of comedy from the decade. As an exception however, the story is a fun, lighthearted escapade with a stunning cast.As the downward spiralling Winthorpe, Ackroyd gives perhaps his finest comedy performance, most notably shoving a huge cooked fish inside his Santa Claus outfit.Eddie Murphy, as Ackroyd's contrasting number is great as a former bum who develops an obsession with keeping his house clean and who finds it hard to cope with his new found wealth.In terms of supporting cast, Jamie Lee Curtis produces a decent performance as Ackroyd's love interest, although she never outperforms her role as Wanda in A Fish Called Wanda (1988). In contrast, deceased actors Denholm Elliot, Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy are great in their respective roles, whether loyal butler or cruel millionaire.All in all, with a superb cast and the typical 80's comedy element, Trading Places is a great film. What makes it different from other 80's comedies (Weekend At Bernies for example) is that whilst others grow tiresome and old, this film is always a pleasure to watch. Whether for the first time or for the hundredth time, Trading Places is always a guaranteed laugh and a true feel good movie. "},{"Title":"Pairing of Murphy and Ackroyd are the best in comedy today","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Murphy and Aykroyd work well off each other.  They both know how to deliver the punchlines.  Supporting cast helps bring the comedy to fruition. Delightful performances by veterans Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy knowing how to work with todays young talent. "},{"Title":"Great socio-economic satire, fine comedy","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places is a modern-day Pygmalion a couple old codgers make a bet on whether or not they can turn a homeless con artist from a petty thief to a proper wealthy businessman and the opposite to a prim and proper wealthy young gentleman. More than an opportunity for comedy, this social experiment premise offers genuine insight into class prejudice. So even if the film doesn't go entirely topsy-turvy, its poignancy -- an accomplishment so rare of the comedy genre -- warrants Trading Places a must-see of '80s comedy.Then-Saturday Night Live stars Dan Akyroyd and Eddie Murphy star as Louis Winthorpe and Billy Ray Valentine, respectively, as pawns in the wager of the Dukes, played by famous yesteryear actors Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche, two wealthy old commodities traders who are cheap, greedy and self-centered bigots. Winthorpe runs the Dukes' business, but when he has a run-in with Valentine, the old men see an opportunity and strip Winthorpe of everything from his job to his fiancée and they give it all to Valentine.Although the men making the bet are pretty terrible people judging mostly by their feelings about N-words, the experiment is a timeless one Is a man's moral fiber in his genetics, or is it merely a product of environmental circumstance that can be changed like a set of clothes? In the case of this film, can you take the man out of the ghetto and take the ghetto out of the man? Can a man of utmost principle be turned into a depraved lunatic? In the early 1980s, the new era of Civil Rights was barely 15 years old. Racial prejudice, economic prejudice -- these things were just beginning to improve, and even today they need work.No other film can boast two SNL stars and a social conscience, which makes Trading Places so special. Akyroyd is at his best as Winthorpe and Murphy gives one of his least eccentric (yet still humorous) performances. For opposite ends of the spectrum, they fit well together in this film. I've laughed harder at numerous more '80s comedies than this one, but the smarts that back up Trading Spaces keep it in the upper-echelon. But a story with the potential for a social statement needs a director who sees that ideas as being of utmost importance. Esteemed '80s comedy directory John Landis has this covered from the very beginning with shots of wealth, poverty and the city of Philadelphia where the film takes place all intermingled. The film is very subtly about these greater social issues, but it's definitely about them.~Steven Chttp//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Akroyd is a very successful business man who works for Duke and Duke, and Eddie Murphy is a Bum, who at heart is not a bad man. Randolph and Mortimer Duke have a wager that they can reverse the two men in both status and attitude, by disgracing Dan Akroyd and Giving Eddie Murphy a leg up.The Plan works and the two men do become their own opposites, but then they find out about the bet (for $100) and they team up to plot their revenge against the Dukes.With brilliant performances from Jamie Lee Curtis, Eddie Murphy and Dan Akroyd, Trading Places is a really funny film, played out within a brilliant story.8/10 "},{"Title":"From a jack to a king. This is a loaded deck comedy.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Top flight comedy directed by John Landis.  Two millionaire businessmen(Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy) have fun with a brotherly bet that surroundings effect behavior. To prove this they pull all the strings to have their nephew, a snobbish investor(Dan Aykroyd), to trade places with a cunning, smart mouthed street hustler(Eddie Murphy). This is a well written laugh riot. The jokes are high brow, low brow and in between without getting absolutely filthy. And be ready for a one-liner free-for-all.Murphy steals the show. There is a very talented supporting cast. Denholm Elliott is the butler that provides some dry humor. The classy Jamie Lee Curtis is a 'lady of the streets' and causes a few freeze frame moments that are hard to forget. Also notable are Kristin Holby and James Belushi. Rock 'n' roll legend Bo Diddley has a cameo as a pawnbroker.  A wealth of enjoyment rich in fun, fun, funny! "}{"Title":"Comedies Like this Will never Die!","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places, although old and almost Ancient in Modern Times, is a great comedy and a well put together Movie! Louis Winthopre (Played by Dan Akroyd) is a rich high-end businessman working for Duke and Duke Stock Exchange in Philidelphia, Pennsylvaina, owned by the rich and greedy brothers Randolph and Mortimer Duke. But, when the poor, sly con artist Billy Rae Valentine (Played by Eddie Murphy) Runs into Louis on the street, Randolph and Mortimer make a bet that they could successfully switch each other's lives quickly. So within a matter of days the Dukes build up Valentine and destroy Winthorpe, and the comedy gets even better from there, because you can bet they aren't getting away with this! The non-stop comedy and constant laughs keeps the audience in stitches throughout the entire movie, and the plot line is well developed and very well played! My only word of advice, the brief nudity of several women could easily prevent some people from viewing this picture. "},{"Title":"Not as smart or as hilarious as it wants to be but still roundly entertaining","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mortimer and Randolph Duke are multi-millionaires who have made their fortune off the stock market and are keeping it thanks to the sterling work of young protégé Louis Winthorpe III. Randolph fills his time with his obsession over the relative importance of environmental factors over those of genetic. He believes that anyone can achieve anything with the opportunity given them whereas Mortimer believes that it is solely down to genetics. Typically for them, they agree on a £1 bet to see if this is true. To achieve this they decide to put vagrant Billy Ray Valentine at the head of their company to see if he can make the most of his opportunity while also plunging Louis out of his life and onto the street in rags.An extremely unlikely and unbelievable premise this one but yet somehow it manages to work both as a story and as a comedy. Landis gets to work from a strong script but the strength in the film comes from the delivery, which is roundly entertaining throughout. Each element of the story (setup, the switch, the discovery, the conclusion) is played out without ever staying longer than it can sustain. Despite it being unlikely, the narrative did engage me and I enjoyed how it held my interest throughout. On top of this, it is actually pretty funny (not hilarious or side-splitting, but funny). Landis again is part of this as he delivers the whole film with a comic tone and sense of fun.The cast step up into this well. Murphy and Aykroyd work well off one another and as individuals, each having their own style and strength. Bellamy and Ameche are equally good value as the equivalent of the grumpy old men off the Muppet Show. Support from Curtis is bubbly but most people remember her for being topless. The rest of the cast features a surprising array of faces in cameos or before they were famous spots such as Esposito, Oz, Jones, Cobbs, Diddley, Belushi, Franken and others.Never as hilarious or as smart as it thinks it is but yet it is still engaging and entertaining with a strong story, amusing material, good performances and good all round delivery. Not a classic as some would suggest but certainly a very enjoyable comedy. "},{"Title":"A Great 1983 Movie","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Landis, the director who brought everyone The Blues Brothers, An American Werewolf in London , and Nation Lampoon's Animal House is to be commended for Trading Places. I laughed and cried so hard. Former SNL alumnus Day Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy played Louis Winthorpe III and William 'Billy Ray' Valentine, a wealthy Philadelphia commodities broker and a street con artist, who finds their own lives completely reversed over a bet by the Duke Brothers, Mortimer and Randolph. I dare all of you, the rich and the well-to-dos to go buy this VHS or DVD and you'll see what I mean. If anything, it's a must see event. Also features Jamie Lee Curtis. "},{"Title":"A film I'll keep coming back to...","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was made two years before I was born. My Dad loves it, and it was he who first introduced me to it It's still damned good! I watched this film again last night. I hadn't seen it for so long... I watched with one mate who had seen it before, and one who hadn't and they both loved it. The interplay between the Dukes, and between Valentine, Winthorpe, Coleman, and Ophelia is absolutely brilliant. It's a gentle comedy for the most part, but the scene on the train always has me in stitches. And my favourite part? The ending of course Winthorpe introducing Valentine to the commodities exchange, Valentine and Winthorpe's calmness on the trading floor as they prepare to bid, and the little thrill watching the price of Frozen Orange Juice Concentrate change. I love it! "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious! - a comedic gem","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Previously, I had only seen the edited-for-TV version, but now after seeing it in all its uncut glory I have a new appreciation for it. I thought it was a good, fun time the first time seeing it, but now I think it's excellent and one of the best comedies ever made. The story deals with a stockbroker played by Dan Aykroyd and a hustler played by Eddie Murphy whose lives are switched because of a bet between two stodgy old commodities traders (who also happen to be brothers). The way they set up the stark difference between their lives at the beginning is just phenomenal. You get a sense of who they are and what their lives are like, and Eddie Murphy's introduction was just hilarious. Pretty much every scene he appears in is comedy gold, and Dan Aykroyd plays an excellent foil. The only character I felt a little lacking in was Jamie Lee Curtis' hooker, in a somewhat shoehorned-in romantic subplot. Nevertheless she does give a good performance (and show off some of her assets...). Generally speaking, the movie does a great job dealing with the fish-out-of-water style comedy at the beginning, but the movie really comes into its own after the two leads discover they're being played and I saw a couple things I definitely didn't remember from before Dan Aykroyd in blackface and the dean from the Breakfast Club in an ape suit. I also thought the cameos by Jim Belushi and Al Franken were rather fun as well. And all of this leads to a very satisfying conclusion, making a practically perfect movie. On a side note, it's kind of interesting to look at the two old brothers/tycoons and compare them to the obscenely rich string-pullers in a more recent movie, THE CAMPAIGN, one of which was played by Dan Aykroyd coincidentally (with a similar ending as well). "},{"Title":"A modern take on an ancient tale","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It seems that John Landis is one of those directors that is the brains behind those classic 80's movies. One of them was the Blues Brothers, and now I have discovered that he is also behind this movie.Trading Places is a movie about two people trading places. One is a managing director of a commodities trading firm, the other is a bum on the street. Dan Akroyd plays the commodities trader that loses everything while Eddie Murphy is the con-artist that becomes the successful commodities trader; the reason behind this is because the owners of the firm are arguing over whether business skill is genetic or if anybody can do it if they are lucky, so they decide to swap them around and make a bet for a dollar.This movie has a sharp poke at the Ivy League culture in America. Basically all of the Harvard Scholars in this movie are put to shame by a black man who has had absolutely no training whatsoever. Not only does he run the business exceptionally well, he also is able to bring down the two owners, who really are not nice guys.We also see the shallowness of the culture. Akroyd is framed for theft and drug dealing and everybody disowns him. The only person that chooses to help him is a prostitute that was paid to drive his fiancé away. He goes to his friends to ask for help, and they basically don't want to have anything to do with him because he has been accused of dealing drugs. This is not a supporting or a trusting culture. These people grew up with him and probably should have known that he was not like that, but they do not believe him, rather they believe what everybody else says.This is the same for Murphy's character as well, except that it is opposite. He becomes rich and thus goes to his friends but realises that they are little more than freeloaders when he sees them treat his house like garbage. As such, this movie seems to have something to say about friendships that is they are developed during times of hardship rather than times of fortune. As the saying goes, a friend in need is a friend indeed. "},{"Title":"chalk one up for murphy and curtis","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In this movie, one of my favorites, the career of each Curtis and Murphy was catapulted in this production from Paramount Pictures. For all practical purposes, it has similarities to the well-known story The Prince and the Pauper, and at the same time and also for all practical purposes, the acting abilities of Jamie Lee Curtis, Eddie Murphy, and Dan Akroyd are very impressive as each assume different roles Murphy is versatile as both a sorry street bum and then a wealthy, capable stock broker, Akroyd is also capable as he himself portrays the same different-type persons as Murphy (though in reverse), and Curtis does well as both a prostitute and, later, a more respectable lady. Though he is there mainly for decorative purposes, Delholm Elliott does well in his role as the butler, though in one place the butler was very unfair. The consummate and seasoned actors Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche do quite well in playing roles of a pair of brothers easy to want to hate and kill. Kristen Holby plays well the role of Penelope, the cold, snobbish, and disgusting fiancé of Louis Winthorpe III(Akroyd). Philadelphia looks beautiful in places and disgusting in others. Both Curtis and Murphy, again, did so well, especially in light of the fact that they were in their early 20's when the movie was produced. A good story, shown acting abilities which were very professional, and very laughable comedy definitely combined well to make this a favorite movie of mine. "},{"Title":"Trading Places","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just another Eddie Murphy movie is a good way to describe Trading Places which was released in 1983. The film was directed by John Landis who also directed The Blues Brothers and Animal House as well as Coming to America which was made after Trading Places and shared a few funny connections with the older movie. The supporting cast included actors such as Dan Aykroyd, a stuck up investor prodigy, Louis Winthorpe III; Ralph Bellany and Dan Ameche who were the rich and powerful Duke brothers; Jamie Lee Curtis as a prostitute named Ophelia; and James Belushi who played a small but enjoyable role. The comedy is based on a bet between the Duke brothers who disagree as to whether the circumstances in which a person lives can shape who they are and how they act. Eddie Murphy, a broke con artist living on the streets named Billy Rae Valentine, happens to stumble across the brothers and Louis Winthorpe, who works for the Dukes. The two brothers then destroy Louis' life and give everything he owns to Billy hence the title Trading Places. Although the plot may seem somewhat dark considering a man's life is destroyed so two old men can make a bet, it is still a comedy at heart and Landis did a good job of keeping the film mostly upbeat for his audience. It still contains some sad scenes and a few racist comments, but he always picks the viewers back up shortly afterward with the help of Eddie Murphy and some other lesser characters including the old and mistreated butler, Coleman, who would love to see the men who boss him around every day out in the streets.In order to keep this upbeat attitude throughout the film however, Landis made the movie a little ridiculous at times. Especially when Billy Valentine turns out to be a wizard investor within the first day of working at the company and when Winthorpe goes a little psychotic not long after losing his job in a scene that involves a Santa costume, stolen salmon, a gun, and lots of drugs. But if you put the ridiculousness aside, which really wasn't a bad thing in the first place, you have a funny, and rather enjoyable film. Throughout the film you witness Billy and Louis' journey in different shoes and of course they eventually realize what happened to the two of them and decide that they are not the Duke brother's play things. Although it can sometimes be predictable, I doubt the movie was intended to stump its audience. It flows well and throws just enough wrenches into the plot to keep its audience interested and pleased. Of course the cast is a big factor in pleasing the audience and they do a great job of portraying the personalities of their characters in an enjoyable and sometimes surprising way (Jamie Lee Curtis nude scene). If you watch this movie expecting a moving piece about the question of nature vs. nurture and the struggles of men facing adversity in the real world, you will not be satisfied; however, if you are in the mood for a classic, good natured comedy and some old school Eddie Murphy then this is your film. I would not suggest this film for children but more for the older teens and adults. It's a movie you won't regret seeing and it's on Netflix so basically free considering just about everyone either has Netflix or has a friend that does. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is awesome.","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't really know Dan Aykroyd's work that well, but he seems to be a mix of Philip Seymour Hoffman and Matthew Broderick. The movie premise is a tad bit ludicrous with the moral being if somebody screws you over then screw them over worse. I still don't really know what 'commodities brokering' is but anything that thrives on chaos like that doesn't seem like a good career choice. Murphy and Aykroyd have their finer points in the movie (the gun scene was great, the train scene not so much). Jamie Lee Curtis was... interesting (and she got topless, so there's that).It's still a very entertaining movie, and maybe if you like Eddie Murphy you'll like this. "},{"Title":"A warm-hearted movie about vengeance","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this when it came out in 1983 and it was an absolute breath of fresh air. It has held up exceptionally well. Watched it again last night and was struck by how, well, unconstrained Eddy Murphy's language is. Black people didn't say mother****ker* in films then as a rule. I love the way when Eddy Murphy has transitioned into Duke and Duke employee and is sitting in limo and says who is that mother****er .. sorry .. gentleman. It's really well done and throughout E Murphy's manner and grace is a marvel. *excuse all these asterisks above and below - IMDb prohibited words - ironic, eh what?!Equally in movies in 83 it was unusual to see a relationship between black and white - like Valentine and Winthorpe's - portrayed as a relationship between equals. The film is amazingly up front about racism and may be one of the last in which n**ger is used with its old unreconstructed intention. From 2012 that is quite a shocker.There is something about the ethic of the film that is very modern. There is no mercy for the Dukes and and the moral victors delight in hedonism - all very post-Christian. It is a counter-culture ethic I suppose.That is borne out as well in the lovely way that the film deals with capitalism in the raw - if you can get your head round what is going on in the last half hour that is probably quite a good education on the commodities market. In a way this is the film that started the anti- globalisation movement. Every time I watch it it gets better. A triumph for John Landis to rank alongside Blues Brothers and Animal House. There is something about his direction that is very sweet and has a wonderful liberating feel.Jamie Lee Curtis and Denholm Elliott are both excellent and put in very tender performances. There are not many white English actors who would have been able to get into Elliott's role - subservient to a black man! - in that way at that time. I agree that there are one or two flat notes. What is it with gorilla suits and movies of this period? - the other is Wise Blood (1979) - they just don't age or wear well. But I find the fate of Beeks quite gratifying.Other pleasures - the satirical depiction of a stodgy American gentleman's club of which (little known fact) America has quite a few; the extreme low-tech (1983!) - no mobile phones so Beeks has to make his clandestine call from a public phone box (good comic moment there)- no personal computers - travelling on trains! Excellent soundtrack - judicious rock and roll music selection. Deadpan direction. Marvellous use of location - makes me want to go to Philadelphia. How tragic the twin towers now look! This movie is almost perfect in my eyes and getting on for its 30th anniversary I would wholeheartedly recommend it. Has been a favourite with my eldest nipper.Stunningly unmanufactured feel. I laughed throughout. "}{"Title":"Very entertaining, and one of Landis's best","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, here it is an 80s comedy gem and one of my personal favourite John Landis films along with The Blues Brothers and the underrated Oscar. It does lag slightly in the middle and the finale is rather brash and slapsticky for me, but Trading Places is still incredibly entertaining that is lifted especially by the brilliant chemistry of Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd, who both give one of their best performances of their careers here. The script is wonderful, the comic situations overall are wonderfully timed and fresh, the story is interesting and the direction is great. Aside from Murphy and Aykroyd, the other performances make an impression, Jamie Lee Curtis gives a performance that is more than her just screaming and running away from psychopaths as the kind-hearted hooker and Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy steal the acting honours as the mischievous business bigwigs. In conclusion, one of Landis's best and an entertaining film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Another 80's gem lands in my collection!","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just added this gem from the 80's into the Kyle movie collection. Great storyline combined with a stellar cast make for a hilarious flick. Eddie Murphy and Dan Ackroyd fresh from their s.n.l. runs..back when it was Saturday night live not Saturday night dead. I have owned this flick before but on VHS and now i get to see Jamie Lee Curtis's all time great cinematic scene stealer when she exposes her fantastic chest for all to bear, keeping in mind that paused movies look better on DVD. Watch out for the excellent casting decision of Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy who are superb as mortimer and randolf duke. Directed by the awesome John Landis. some trivial facts that you may not have known about this film are Richard Pryor was originally considered for the role of Billy Ray Valentine.The film was conceived as a vehicle for Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. But when Pryor dropped out and Eddie Murphy came on board, he made a motion to get Wilder replaced because he didn't want people to think he was just trying to be another Pryor. The original title Black and White. The electronic status board at Duke & Duke's (seen prominently in the Christmas scene) is the Big Money board from Family Feud (1976). And last but not least John Gielgud and Ronnie Barker were offered Coleman the butler. If you have never seen this film and are starting to watch Ediie Murphy movies when he was actually still doing good movies make sure not to miss this one! "},{"Title":"Murphy's best film","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The combined talent of Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy provide us with a terrific comedy that proves two big stars don't necessarily have to outshine each other to make the comedy work.The story is recycled from the old Three Stooges shorts from the 1930s but with a unique twist. Using their resources, the Duke Brothers switch a prissy businessman (Aykroyd) and street hustler (Murphy) to see if it's heredity or environment that shapes a person's success.The helmsman here is John Landis who had scored three years earlier with The Blues Brother also starring Dan Aykroyd and this follow-up film rivals that in terms of just how funny it really is. The cast is just fantastic (everyone from Denholm Elliot to Frank Oz to even Bo Diddly) and the production values are just exquisite. It has some raunchy humor which is a trademark of Landis's but it doesn't detract from the charm and wit this movie has.Despite lagging slightly in the middle, Trading Places is funny, charming, very well-made and strangely timeless. I advise any Murphy or Aykroyd fan to see it. "},{"Title":"A shocking tale of life in business","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd (The Blues Brothers) stars as Louis Winthorpe, a smart and rich businessman who gets his life turned around when he is kicked out of his house and is forced to live on the street, all because of 2 other businessmen who have placed a wager to see if a street thief would succeed in his place.In this ambitious and dramatic tale, viewers are invited into the hard and cruel life of the business world and what goes on behind closed doors, and though unrealistic, is a tale of cunning and loyalty in a great comedy drama.In his best ever role, Eddie Murphy (Beverly Hills Cop) stars as street urchin Billy Ray Valentine, a cheeky and egotistical man who can't believe his luck when he is invited to work for the Dukes, the two businessmen who are scamming against him. Murphy excels in his own way, with that big smile and that own sophistication that he does so well, and the reason that this is his best ever role, is because as well as the comedy, there is a strong and determined belief about his character that is admirable and watchable and through his portrayal, we can see differences in the type of culture his character takes to.Murphy is matched on every level by an excellent performance by Aykroyd whose life falls through our very eyes. The way his life can't seem to get any worse is one of the many reasons this film works so well.These performances are matched with a gripping plot that sees viewers taken into the dark side of the business life, and through two evil and manipulative money driven owners, the Dukes. And the concept of money drives the film forward and the cruelty behind their bet is unbelievable and horrible to even think about, and is shown in such a dramatic fashion.There is plenty of illegal activity, not to mention racial abuse and discrimination through the hierarchy that it is unthinkable that business was once like this.Though I was completely lost during the final couple of scenes, this is a serious ideology encoded into a fairly humorous and dramatic film about the dealings and the life in business. "},{"Title":"The Prince and the Pauper with Eddie & Dan on sparkling form.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mortimer & Randolph Duke are two repugnantly rich brothers, they make a bet that sees the role reversal of top toff yuppie , Louis Winthorpe, and wise cracking street hustler bum , Bily Ray Valentine. That's about the strength of the films plot, yet it makes for a very funny film that crackles with glee due to it's excellently written script. Watching the respective characters rise and fall respectively creates laughs aplenty whilst asking the question of how we all would cope in similar circumstances.Sure the film does beat one over the head with its social message, we are in no doubt from the off about the gap between the rich and the poor, and yes the colour of a persons skin also rears its ugly head here to make this one of the more braver comedies of the 80s. Billy Ray Valentine a brilliant dual performance from Eddie Murphy is elevated up the social ladder, he becomes a force in industry, but as the progression enthrals him it also makes him aware that the things at the top end of the ladder aren't exactly stand up doings. Winthorpe a perfectly casted Dan Ackroyd drops further down the social ladder and resorts to behaviour that nobody from the upper echelons could ever have dreamed he would be capable of, it's only an encounter with prostitute Ophelia Jamie Lee Curtis at the peak of her sexiness, and her good heart, that starts to see an upturn in his now dead bottom fortunes. The gags come thick and fast, both verbally Murphy on fire and visually, the film sees the whole cast fusing together to create a cracking comedy, and come the denouement on Wall Street we are privy to a joyous and savage turn of events that ice the clever cake we have just digested. It does have an 80s sheen about it, and viewing now in post 9/11 times it's got a tint of nostalgia value to it, but really it's all about the script, the stars and a kick in the eye for those who think nothing of treading on the people below them, enjoy. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pygmalion the way it should have been","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I hated Pygmalion, as well as almost every remake of it from MY FAIR LADY to SHE'S ALL THAT, because Eliza Doolittle and Laney Boggs sell themselves out just to have boyfriends/husbands and be part of the upper crust, and when hardcore feminists praise it, I'm always surprised. But for some reason I can actually tolerate this movie, and it's got more to do with the fact that Eddie Murphy was at the pinnacle of his career at the time.Louis Winthorpe III(Dan Aykroyd) is the privileged member of an investment group lead by Mortimer and Randolph Duke(Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy). He's a man who has his whole life ahead of him with a yuppie girlfriend(Kristin Holby) and a butler(Denholm Elliot). Billy Ray Valentine(Murphy) is a failed hustler living on the streets of Philadelphia. One day while trying to flee the cops, he runs into somebody working for the Duke's firm carrying a briefcase. Desperately seeking to return it, he's accused of stealing it. The incident gives the Dukes a sneaky idea -- they're going to take Billy Ray Valentine off the streets to show the other that the right environment will make him a law-abiding citizen. Only unlike Professor Higgins and Zach Silver, Randolph decides they're going to knock somebody else down while Mortimer suggests bringing Billy Ray up. And that somebody is Louis Winthrope III. With the help of a securities expert named Clarence Beeks(Paul Gleason), the Dukes plant stolen money, and later dope on Winthrope to get him fired from the firm. Ophelia(Jamie Lee Curtis) is a hooker paid by Beeks to further screw up Lou Winthorpe's reputation, and break him up with his girlfriend. The trouble is, when you hire a hooker with no pimp, she tends to use her own mind, and this whore uses it to invest her own money, and even takes in the man she helped the Dukes' firm victimize.Meanwhile, Billy Ray is doing wonders for the firm, but he discovers that shady little connection with Beeks while looking through the books. Then he finds out what role both he and Withrope played in this scheme. Maybe it's the fact that Billy Ray pays the Dukes back for their disdainful attitudes towards African-Americans whereas Eliza Doolittle doesn't do a damn thing to Professor Henry Higgins' attitude towards women. But even that would seem too formulaic.Then again, besides the fact that it was just funny, maybe that's why I do like it, and that's okay with me. "},{"Title":"Lovable","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie teaches a valuable lesson The Golden Rule. This movie followed both tragetic and comedic outlines. I was just recently introduced to Eddy Murphy and Dan Akyroyd, therefore this was one of those I don't really know what's coming movies. But I was happily suprised. I was laughing so hard I was nearly crying, and visa-versa. Eddie and Dan should do more movies together in the future, because they make the perfect pair. Great Work. "},{"Title":"Genetics and Genius","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an all time favorite of mine. Not perfect...what's with the ape?...but fun and funny. The premise of Nature Vs. Nurture makes for great comedy. The bad guys prove that neither is a guarantee of superiority and end up (delightfully) in the streets of Coming To America. But that's another story.Films that successfully juxtapose opposites are rare. For some reason, Trading Places succeeds. Eddie Murphy, for all his later career errors, is undisputedly a great comedian. Dan Ackroyd is perfect as straight man, but hey, these two had lots of practice. Jamie Lee Curtis is the heart-(and eventually bank account)-of gold prostitute. One of the good things about this film is the background music. Also, the Christmas setting...even Bo Diddley...somebody made good choices all the way around.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious fun!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is just ridiculously funny!  Although it has its cornball moments (they could have done without the ape scenes and a few others), this is in my opinion one of the funniest movies ever made.  All-around excellent acting talent carries the movie, even at times when the script falters a bit.  Eddie Murphy is a riot as Billy Ray Valentine, many of the lines are just unforgettable, and (perhaps most importantly) the ending truly satisfies.  Set and filmed mostly in Philadelphia, you really get a feeling for the city.  9/10. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's finest hour........","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is arguably the best comedy of the 1980's, it is very well made, and is not just a simply structured comedy. Eddie Murphy gives the performance of his career in my opinion, as down and out 'Valentine' from the minute he appears posing as a legless,blind Vietnam vet, is hilarious, two policemen who actually were in that war question him, where were you stationed his reply- I was in the green beret's we were all over, I was in Sang Bang...I was special agent orange( the name given to a nasty substance used in the war ), thats what they called me....fantastic! Dan Aykroyd is not far behind him, with his performance of Louis Windthorpe III,  a spoilt stuck up 'rich kid' who does very little for himself,  the turn of events occur when he and his opposite Valentine clash, and a bet made by the Duke bros.( Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy ) makes Windthorpe and Valentine trade places, with hilarious consequences. I don't want to give the script away to anyone who has not seen it,but has anyone not seen this film? there are other fantastic performances from great actors, notably the late Denholm Elliot and Don Ameche, plus small parts from Frank Oz, James Belushi and Paul Gleason, and how can anyone forget Jamie Lee Curtis' breasts, I love this film, as its always on UK television at christmas. I think all the central characters give superb performances which make this more than just a cheesy 80's comedy,  9/10 so underrated, but what happened to John Landis? All I can now hope for is a special edition DVD . "}{"Title":"Going Places","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A great ride, yesterday or today. We caught a glimpse of Murphy, Aykroyd, Curtis and a cameo Jim Belushi all on their way up. Murphy was already a hot property, and though it wasn't the SNL Alumni's classic that Stripes was, this is an underrated movie. Not Landis' most remembered work, but I thought his best, even over Animal House, Ghostbusters, etc... Kept me occupied every scene.Murphy's part had some great lines, and the writers gave us more insight into the emotional roller-coaster world of commodities trading than many I think realize. ...,you'll have cleaned out all the suckers by then. However, better than Boiler Room, because that movie was altogether focused on the emotional downside of investing, though it did portray somewhat accurately what it was like in some telemarketing rooms.Irony rules this movie, and it's visited through-out. A Duke's been sitting on this exchange since it was founded..., crys Ameche. New money over old, the bet reversal, lower class meets upper on more than one level. Irony? What if Winthorpe (Aykroyd)DID have one more bullet in the gun? Keeps us begging the question, Well, how are ...going to get out of this one? The answers provide a delightful romp with Curtis first showing us the sexy side we would continue to enjoy in FISH CALLED WANDA and TRUE LIES (15 years later). "},{"Title":"'Trading' Good & Bad News","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Good news and bad news about this semi-famous comedy from the 1980sBAD NEWS - Hollywood's liberal slant was all in here, in full force of its stereotypical characters it likes to present, such as (1) the hooker who is beautiful and has a kind loving heart; (2) the black guy who, despite no training, all of a sudden is smarter than all the white guys in the financial world; (3) all rich people are snooty while the lower class are nice and good-hearted and, (4) several cheap shots at Christianity.I also was sorry to hear two veteran classic film actors such as Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche spout of bunch of profanity near the end of the film. It really degraded these veteran stars.GOOD NEWS - Despite all the baloney above, this was an extremely entertaining and funny movie, start to finish, so much so that it gets away with all the above (to those like me offended by it). All the actors in here are fun to watch and there are a number of laugh-out-loud scenes. Of course, with Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd, that's not surprising. Murphy gets the bulk of the laughs. It's really his movie. For the guys, however, Jamie Lee Curtis is one to remember here. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy at his 1980's Best","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This 80's classic holds up very well. Dan Akroyd and Jamie Lee Curtis have never been better. Old pro's Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy play along very well. Denholm Elliot brings some much needed sentimentality and Paul Gleeson is at his a-hole best as Clarence Beeks. But make no mistake about it, this is 1980's Eddie Murphy at his very, very best. When my kids ask me why Eddie Murphy was such a big deal, I pull out this movie.Directed by John Landis, Trading Places moves along quite well. If I had a quibble, I'd like the opening 30 minute set-up for this movie to move along a little faster and the gratuitous topless scenes seem, well, gratiutious. But I'm quibbling on a movie that is very, very funny.8 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis) "},{"Title":"Mother always said you were greedy","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Landis has directed a brilliant original screenplay by Timothy Harris and Herschel Weingrod. Eddie Murphy is absolutely hilarious as a street hustler that was placed in the world of options trading by a couple of old farts who just like to bet with each other. Of course on the opposite side, the real options trader, Dan Aykroyd, is dumped on the street. Coming to save the day is Jamie Lee Curtis, who is funny and hot as a prostitute who feels sorry for Winthorpe (Ackroyd). Denholm Elliott is positively lovable as the butler. Don Ameche and Ralph Bellemy play the betting Duke brothers. SKIN-TASTIC Moment In front of a mirror (and Dan Aykroyd) hooker- with-a-chest-of-gold Jamie Lee doffs her top and lets loose her magnificent money-markers in one of history's all-time hottest topless scenes. "},{"Title":"Hilarious with an Inspired Comedic Cast,","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places is a brilliant movie with a very well written storyline and a fantastic comedic cast. Its absolutely hilarious, without a doubt one of my favourite comedies, a ton of scenes are unforgetful and very quotable, most of those coming from Eddie Murphy, who is without a doubt the films highlight. The only problem I had with this film is that Billy and Louis's relationship was lacking in development, the two went from rivals to friends very easily, it was somewhat questionable how they suddenly teamed up, but at the end of the day it is a comedy, too much development was not hugely necessary. Dan Aykroyd and Jamie Lee Curtis also deliver hilarious performances, sharing undeniable chemistry, Denholm Elliott also shines in the butler role. Trading Places is a very enjoyable film that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good comedy.A very wealthy man and a homeless man's places are switched around after a bet between two millionaires looking for a bit of entertainment.Best Performance Eddie Murphy "},{"Title":"Great Laughs from Start to Finish","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places (1983) *** 1/2 (out of 4) John Landis' hilarious comedy about a homeless con man (Eddie Murphy) and a rich Wall Street snob (Dan Aykroyd) who trade places due to a bet by millionaire brothers. TRADING PLACES was a major hit when it was released and it's stayed popular ever since and it's really not too hard to see why. You had two great comics at the top of their game, you had a strong supporting cast including Jamie Lee Curtis as the hooker with a heart of gold and you also had two Hollywood legends in Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche doing terrific work. Of course they're put in the crazy world of John Landis who was also at the very top of his game. The ingredients were simply flawless and when you put everything together it made for one of the best comedies of the decade. No matter how many times you watch the picture there's just no denying that it keeps getting funnier and funnier. While there are some over-the-top and rude moments, I think the reason the film works so well is that it also has a message to say and in this regard it really does seem like a homage to those pictures of Frank Capra. Landis manages to keep the comedy flowing at a very good pace but the film also manages to ask questions about place and how much power is really needed by society. Of course, the main reason the picture works so well is that we've got a terrific cast simply doing wonderful work. Both Murphy and Aykroyd are simply perfect in their parts as they both fit them so well that you really do feel as if you're watching real people. Curtis is as charming as ever and it's easy to see why this picture gave her career a big boost. Both Bellamy and Ameche, two of the most lovable actors in the history of cinema, really manage to play against that image as the evil brothers. You've also got Denholm Elliott, Jim Belushi and Paul Gleason in very good supporting parts. And let us not forget the excellent work by the gorilla in the cage. TRADING PLACES is certainly a comedy that's very confident about itself and it pays off with a great number of laughs. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Classic About Greed and Class","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The original title for the Eddie Murphy helmed comedy masterpiece Trading Places (1983) was Black and White. Those who have never seen Trading Places could get pretty good idea of what the source of conflict is; well kinda. For while Trading Places does focus a lot of time and humor on race, the large satirical jabs are focused on the subject of class. Of course in 1983 class was intrinsically tied to race where as today it's a modicum less so.Let us start at the beginning; Louis Winthorpe (Dan Aykroyd) is a pompous Wall Street commodities investor working diligently for Duke and Duke Investing Co. The Duke brothers (Ralph Bellamy & Don Ameche) are wealthy but bored, argumentative curmudgeons who decide they want to weight in on the nature versus nurture debate. They devise a plan to elevate a shifty conman Billy Ray (Eddie Murphy) to a position of power while simultaneously knocking down Winthorpe to the level of a commoner just to see how things turn out.It's a fascinating if grotesque experiment with some pretty hilarious results. The whole thing is made all the more believable by the acting chops of Eddie Murphy, Dan Aykroyd and Jamie Lee Curtis, all three of which were considered largely un-bankable. Eddie Murphy was considered too green, Curtis too scream, and Aykroyd funny, but not ready for primetime. Director John Landis however had faith in his actors who each bring something new and exciting to the table. We should all be so thankful for his uncompromising vision.The script is as sharp as it was 30 years ago, in fact much more cutting given the current revulsion towards bankers and Wall Street. After Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy explaining to Eddie Murphy the nuts and bolts of what they do, he remarks It sounds like you all are a bunch of bookies. To which one Duke looks to the other and says he's ready.The movie climaxes at the New York World Trade Center where our two heroes face off against our villains in arguably one of the most unique ways in cinematic history. While it is true that seeing people screwed over and left paupers isn't necessarily uncommon via movies, seeing it on the trading floor over the course of what seems like ten minutes is a stroke of genius. It highlights the ludicrous nature of commodities brokering and trading in general, and yet you can't help but being in awe of the chaos.It's more interesting still when you consider that despite some superficial artistic license, the whole ending is actually quite realistic. Or at least it was back in the 80's. Today commodities futures have circuit breakers which prevent brokers from selling short and selling exponentially during down markets. Additionally, as of 2010, the misappropriation of government information for financial gain has been made illegal thanks to the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act. Section 136 of said act is informally known as The Eddie Murphy Rule in reference to Trading Places.All timeliness aside, Trading Places is still a fascinating and funny film which glides across controversial issues like race and class to create something truly new and exciting. All players had something to prove with this film, and they all succeed gloriously.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Funny movie, but I find Eddie Murphy gets to much credit while Dan and Jamie don't get enough.","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film was rather funny, and is one of the first feature films of Eddie Murphy. I think this one still holds up well, because unlike in other films where he is the literally the only star in the film, in this one he has two costars that help shoulder the load. There is no multiple parts for Eddie here and that is a good thing as Dan and Jamie do a nice job as do the many others in the cast. This one's main problem is the fact it runs a bit to long, I just find a comedy does better if it ends somewhere between an hour and twenty minutes to an hour and forty minutes. When they go nearly two hours it is just hard to fill the screen with laughs for the entire time so comedies that tend to run this long end up having stretches where there is nothing funny going on and tend to lag. This one is about a poor con artist and a rich wall street type, living their lives. Well two rich types make a bet, that if the con artist was given a chance he could be just as refined and able to do the job of the wall street guy and that if the rich guy was placed in horrible circumstances he would not be able to survive and end up just like the con artist or even worse. They manipulate things and cause these two guy's lives to alter drastically. The last part of the film has the two getting revenge upon the two older men who caused such a stir in their lives. Once can sort of look upon this film as a unconventional Christmas movie as that holiday does provide a bit of backdrop for part of the film and it is a nice change of pace to have a holiday film not for the kiddies, but once again it is not a focal point of the film. Good film, nice second film for Murry, he needs to go back to surrounding himself with decent talent when making films. "},{"Title":"A Comedic Delight that would have made Frank Capra very proud ...","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places is a delightful illustration of how great a comedy can get with the right mix of elegant vulgarity and sophisticated raunchiness, it's simply irresistible. On the surface, it's a hilarious comedy of situation but that's only a disguise hiding a subtle social commentary on the contrast between two separate worlds, two classes which none of us, regular people, belongs to. John Landis' comedy is an interesting invitation to observe, with neutral eyes, the way these two realities hardly interact while the people that constitute them are relatively interchangeable.The movie depicts the two opposite worlds through an well-made opening montage conducted by Elmer Bernstein's magnificent score (and magnificent is the word) Our eyes swing between the sight of a bum lying on the ground, and a butler preparing a delicious breakfast, between the dirtiness of popular streets and the cold majesty of upper-classes residences, between fascination and revulsion. As says a French proverb I see myself and I feel bitter, I see the others and I feel better. Indeed, we may not be rich like Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd), but it can't be worst than the position Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy). The former is one of the most respected investors working for the prestigious 'Duke & Duke' firm, the latter is at the bottom of the social ladder &#x85; very low, almost literally.Now, come the Duke and Duke brothers, played by the veteran actors Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche, these men are characterized by a snobbishness that contaminates any attempt to get mixed with their entourage, an attitude only equaled by a cynical contempt toward the bottom. In one of their ordinary brotherly discussions, Mortimer and Randolph Duke wondered what the key factor to success is, heredity or environment. In other words, can Winthorpe become as useless, trashy and potentially criminal as Valentine, given a specific new background and on the other hand, can Valentine become a brilliant manager, if put in the right environment. This is a perfect excuse for a totally unethical bet that would contribute to the downfall of a model of integrity like Winthorpe and consecrate a loser like Valentine.The most interesting aspect of the film is this feeling reminding Capra. And you know how hard it became to find some reminiscences of Capra spirit in today's modern films, and that the movie is set during Christmas holidays provides the little twinkle floating in the air. Christmas movies can get particularly entertaining when they're not mixed with childish content, and Trading Places is not a child film considering the many displays of adult material the raunchiness featured every once in a while between the zaniest comedic parts. The movie takes itself seriously but never forgets to be a comedy and this is its strength. And on that department, the performance of Eddie Murphy is the pillar of the film, all the film relies on Murphy's comedic talent and needless to say that he was at the top of his game.Eddie Murphy's energetic performance is tampered by the of Delnolhm Elliot as Coleman, the 'straight man' and butler, and let's face it, there's no movie about rich people without a memorable, devoted, and scene-stealing butler. Dan Aykroyd provides the most interesting story arc, as the man who learns about the true value of life only when deprived from every single valuable thing. From riches to wags, Winthorpe will understand that sometimes, the best way to get to the top is to get back to the bottom, and sometimes the most valuable things are not made of gold, well, except for the heart of the hooker Ophelia, Jamie Lee Curtis in one of his most endearing roles. But wisely enough, the movie wisely doesn't waste time with romantic relief and gets straight to the point, gags must go on, and they do until an explosive climax, featuring a train, a carnival, an elaborated revenge scheme and an unforgettable gorilla.Trading Places is simply a great cinematic moment to spend with friends or family, an occasion to remember how the 80's used to be, with nostalgic eyes. And a great introspection into the relativity of poorness and richness, it's only a matter of luck, of position, and sometimes, a sort of providential justice is here to remind that even wealth is not to be taken for granted, and some will pay the biggest price for that lesson.One of the most gentle and re-watchable comedies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Wonderful comedy from the '80s","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Eddie Murphy, Dan Acroyd, Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche and Jamie Lee Curtis star in Trading Places, a comedy from 1983 directed by John Landis.Murphy plays a Billy Ray Valentine, a street beggar who pretends to be blind and to have both legs amputated at the knee. Ackroyd plays Louis Winthrope III, an executive at the commodities brokerage house Duke & Duke. He lives in an enormous house and has a butler (Denholm Elliott). He's also engaged to the niece of his bosses, Randolph and Mortimer Duke (Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche). Life is good. It's about to get bad.Randolph bets Mortimer $1 that he can reform the street person they have just had an entanglement with (that would be Billy Ray) and turn him into a commodities broker; and that if Winthorpe loses everything, he will turn to a life of crime. Thus, Winthorpe is accused of being a drug dealer and a thief and loses his job, his club membership, his house, and the butler pretends he doesn't know who he is. Winthorpe finds help and solace with a prostitute (Jamie Lee Curtis) as he tries to figure out how to get his life back. Billy Ray, meanwhile, is given all the things that Winthorpe had.Murphy is hilarious as Billy Ray, particularly when he's on the street -you've probably seen his classic scene with the cops even if you haven't seen the movie. Ackroyd - well, you just feel awful for him - he is just so pathetic. And those Dukes! It's so fantastic to see Bellamy and Ameche in this film. Bellamy enjoyed a 60-year career, working until he died; and Ameche had a 59-year career and also worked until he died. Both men were fabulous as the sleazy Duke brothers.Jamie Lee Curtis shows off her body and comic timing as Ophelia (right, Hamlet's girlfriend, she says to Winthorpe), and the supporting players - Elliot and Kristen Holby as Winthorpe's mannered and snobby fiancée, are great.I love '80s comedies. I don't like the comedies of today - to me, most of them aren't funny. Trading Places is a good film. If you haven't seen it, check it out. "}{"Title":"Extremely funny!?","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places is typical eighties comedy on it's best. Starring with comedic geniuses like Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy for whom it was his second lead in a feature film. Trading Places talks about trading places(It was hot theme in eighties I guess.). A prince and a beggar modernized story only one difference. Prince and a beggar don't now about the game they're part off.Eddie Murphy is brilliant in his role like always and Dan Aykroyd's panty-waist character was perfect. The two were excellent opposite to each other. Energetic small conman and spoiled Coward businessman against each other. This John Landis directed flick is good entertainment with good laughs. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Entertaining comedy about chance places with powerful comic  acting","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This amusing comedy deals an original premise when two magnate brothers( two classics actors Don Ameche,Ralph Bellamy) stake about if the environment affects on the richness and poorness . Then they scheme a personality change on a cocky broker(likable performance by Dan Aykroyd) falling in distress and a Philadelphia rogue(Eddie Murphy in his second movie ,the first one was 48 hours) turning into a finances expert.Agreeable film in which an uptight commissioner well played by Aykroyd suffers uncountable penury, being rescued by a sympathetic prostitute finely acted by Jamie Lee Curtis. Eddie Murphy steals the show as a foul-mouthed street hustler, his best moment involves him impersonating a cripple. Packs ample and good secondary cast as Paul Gleason, James Belushi with veterans as Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy ; adding cameos by Frank Oz, Bill Cobbs and unbilled by Giancarlo Exposito,Nicholas Guest,Eddie Jones among them. Film fails on silly sub-argument about a gorilla and embarrassing incidents originates. Colorful cinematography by Robert Paynter and atmospheric musical score by the classic Elmer Berstein. Brilliantly directed by John Landis in his period of maxim splendor when he directed classic comedies movies such as ¨Kentucky fried movie, Into the night,Animal house¨ and of course ¨Blues brothers¨. If you're into craziness and overacting of the great Eddie Murphy this picture is for you.This comedy is still one of the funniest films ever made. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Hilarious, Perfectly-Cast Farce Of Stockbroker And Panhandler Swapping Identities","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Powerful commodity brokers the Duke Brothers hatch an evil social experiment; they take one of their star employees, Louis Winthorpe, frame him as a petty crook and throw him out on the street, whilst simultaneously hiring a nobody, Billy Ray Valentine and turning him into a Wall Street bigshot. Will their scheme succeed, and what will happen when Louis and Billy Ray figure out what's going on ?This is a great character comedy piece, which takes an old-fashioned forties screwball-style high-society plot and contemporises it to terrific effect. The first part is down to Landis' beautiful, elegant direction; an opening montage perfectly scored to Mozart's The Marriage Of Figaro overture, classic framing and dolly shots and marvellous travelogue photography of Philadelphia. The second is down to Murphy's crackerjack performance as Valentine, arguably his best (though I prefer his subsequent one in Beverly Hills Cop). Despite his inexperience (he was twenty-two and it was his second movie) he dominates every scene he's in, nails the character perfectly, knocks off all the comedy and even brings out the pathos in his predicament. The scene on the train where he pretends to be an African exchange student (You want some beef jerky ?) is one of the funniest in any film. Aykroyd scores too as the stuck-up Louis, Curtis and Elliott are both great and Bellamy and Ameche (both of whom had been languishing in TV for years) have a whale of a time as the heartless, conniving old codgers. Brilliantly scripted by Timothy Harris and Herschel Weingrod, with great costumes by Deborah Nadoolman (Landis' wife) and wonderful editing by Malcolm Campbell - the first third of the movie in particular is a textbook case in how to cut a complicated film narrative coherently and elegantly without compromising on comic timing or artistic effect. A rewarding and memorable comedy classic. Watch out for blues legend Bo Diddley in a nice bit as a pawnbroker. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The summary says it all as far as I'm concerned, but IMDb demands more, so here goes...The movie is very funny and was a welcome relief compared to some of the terrible films Eddie Murphy made early in his career (such as BEST DEFENSE)--ditto for Dan Aykroyd (NEIGHBORS). But in my opinion, the real stars in the films aren't the comedians, but the nasty old codgers (Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy) who manipulate both Murphy and Aykroyd for their own petty amusement. They are just plain evil and awful and seeing them in action was quite a treat for these two aging actors.The film is about trading places, as rich-guy Aykroyd is forced to live on the street and homeless guy Murphy is suddenly elevated to wealth and privilege. Along the way, there are lots of laughs and the script generally is very good, though occasionally the humor becomes painfully unfunny and stupid (such as the gorilla scene near the end). But overall, the laughs greatly outweigh the lulls, so it's a wonderful film if you need a chuckle. "},{"Title":"Well Constructed Comedy With Top Cast","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, this movie has Eddie Murphy & Dan Akroyd at near the top of their careers. It has Jamie Lee Curtis, Don Ameche, & Ralph Bellamy in fine support. The cast is so good that Jim Belushi's introduction to films is almost UN-noticed though not his fault.What is so good about this one is the construction of the plot, well defined characters, & plenty of good jokes. Very little about this movie misfires. If there is any weakness it is the ending scene which while it shows the victors enjoying the spoils, it has no real punch line to leave the theater laughing on. With all the other jokes, though, some viewers might feel they need the rest.This is a comedy with a plot, & a heart of gold story for everyone. The underdog wins in this plot after being taken for all they could be taken for during the first half of the film. The film explores stereo types & then does it's best trade places with the stereo types not once but twice in the same film.Irony in a quote from Winthorp (Ackroyd) when walking in front of the World Trade Towers in this movie with Valentie (Murphy). In this game in the (commodity trading) pits it's either kill or be killed!It is fine viewing & worth the effort. "},{"Title":"The brother-movie of Coming to America","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The director is the same, the main actor is the same, and in Coming to America there are references to this one. But it's very different. This movie is more classy, since it handles higher social levels, and economical affairs and rich people turning to poor and vice-versa. But its just as funny. Here the jokes are a little more subtle, but work just the same way for everyone who gets them. The score is also finely crafted. Along with Coming to America one should make a straight movie session with the two. Great comedy.   "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Trading Places when it came out in 1983, at which time I was living in Manhattan and heavily invested in commodity options. So I knew exactly what the film was satirizing, and it does so in a beautifully crafted movie where the have-nots switch places with the haves. This, and Beverly Hills Cop, are Eddie Murphy's best roles. In fact, excellent casting is what makes the movie. I rarely think of Jamie Lee Curtis as sexy, but she pulls it (and her sweater) off here. The whole thing is a farce, so you have to take it in that vein. Be prepared for the ridiculous! "},{"Title":"Mother always said you were greedy.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Landis has directed a brilliant original screenplay by Timothy Harris and Herschel Weingrod.Eddie Murphy is absolutely hilarious as a street hustler that was placed in the world of options trading by a couple of old farts who just like to bet with each other. Of course on the opposite side, the real options trader, Dan Aykroyd, is dumped on the street.Coming to save the day is Jamie Lee Curtis, who is funny and hot as a prostitute who feels sorry for Winthorpe (Ackroyd).Denholm Elliott is positively lovable as the butler.Don Ameche and Ralph Bellemy play the betting Duke brothers. "},{"Title":"Still outstanding","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this film again for the time in a while - and enjoyed it every bit as much as previously.Although now with a bit of age, its jokes and situations have held-up well, and are still as funny. Besides, when you see a movie such as this again, several more years since its release, you get some added bonuses.You see Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd, early in their careers, and Jamie Lee Curtis of two decades ago, along with the aging Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche, who, along with the two excellent supporting actors (Denholm Elliot and Paul Gleason) are no longer with us.The comedic scenes and lines all remain thoroughly enjoyable and humorous. (Towards the end, where they all dress in elaborate costumes and assume characterizations for the train ride - this is a bit much. They only had a few hours for their travel arrangements plus arranging these outfits - and to arrange for such costuming, say, for a big party, would take a week or two alone. But it provided comic interludes, set-up turning the tables on the bad guy, and gave the leads a chance to gnaw a bit of the scenery.) Movies where characters encounter identity changes or switches, and where two opposite types are juxtaposed, are nothing unusual - but this picture captures this better than nearly all the others I've seen.And I'm certain that this film assisted Eddie Murphy in his giving the great performance of the two-persona characterization in the also outstanding Coming to America. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but.....","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a hugely entertaining movie in every respect, but when you see the network version and realize that they cut a hugely important scene out of the plot, you wonder why no director's cut was ever forthcoming with the missing scene. Ever wonder how Clarence Beeks got the Orange Juice crop report information? What the theatrical release doesn't show you is a terrific scene where Beeks sneaks by a sleeping security guard and heists the information out of some guarded files. Once you have seen this scene on a network version, you can't ever really enjoy the movie without wondering who the third grader was who decided that scene should not be an integral part of the movie! "}{"Title":"A strong take on an old classic","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A solid movie to be sure. I love the contrast between rich and poor in the opening scenes-especially with the heady classical music. 'Prince and the pauper' comparisons are inevitable here.At first I thought Philadelphia was an unlikely setting for the story, then some extended family moved to Conneticut, and the eastern-seaboard sensibility came into clearer focus. But then, I'm a snob when it suits me too.Jamie Lee was in her prime. Dan Akroyd make a terrific snoot and Eddie sang right along. Interesting to read about Don's religious convictions. After all, his mother referring to his character as 'greedy' the script records as a 'compliment'.I guess thats why they call it acting.p "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recall seeing this on cable several years ago, and one thing I recall was to watch the scene in front of the World Trade Center where Louis and Billy Ray disembark from a taxicab, which is Ground Zero today.  This may be one timeless classic where the World Trade Center plays an important role, only that the scenes are preserved on film for eons.I'd recommend this for a film collection where the Twin Towers once stood; I would like to see them rebuilt again to their former glory.  A Manhattan Island without the Twin Towers is like a Houston, TX without the Shamrock Hilton.   "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy And Dan Aykroyd Are Awesome!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Trading Places is a movie that deals with Louis Winthorpe III(Aykroyd)who is a successful New York commodity broker with a mansion in Philadelphia and Billy Ray Valentine(Murphy)who is a hustling beggar, but they traded places. Jamie Lee Curtis is good in it playing Ophelia, Paul Gleason is also good in it as an F.B.I. Agent, and Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche are good, too as those two brothers who are rich. Trading Places is a movie to be rented, bought, or seen on T.V. Go see it. You'll like it. I like it. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fortunes reversed","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If Trading Places were made today, I would like to see a contemporary slant in it.  Maybe Dan Aykroyd could play a securities analyst, the Henry Blodget type, riding up the Internet stocks, generating enormous profits for clients, raking in investment banking business.  At the peak of the market, Ralph Bellamy is the CEO of a small investment brokerage house that generates no investment banking fees, but instead earns it all on trading profits/recommendations.  He has keen investment insights, and actually issues ratings below 3 and specializes in shorting, but his firm does not have an Internet analyst.  Then he gets an idea.  He bets Don Ameche (no relation) that he can make Billy Ray Valentine, a street hustler, a multimillionaire many times over, and that Ameche will be forced to fire Aykroyd within 18 months.  (but) the bet is for millions of dollars.  Ameche laughs, gives him odds...  OK, dream on.  But anyway, Trading Places is a great comedy, one of the best ever.  Eddie Murphy is excellent as Valentine, not too full of himself (compare Beverly Hills Cop II), just right, very funny.  However, I thought that Aykroyd, as Louis Winthorpe III, was just as good, the flip side.  A black hustler reverses roles with a white silver-spoon-in-his-mouth investment professional, based on a bet by two filthy rich patrons about what will result.  Take us for a ride -- from the hot watch shop to the squash court.  The humor is class conscious, with more than a touch of racial overtones.  Actually, more like a wallop.   The Duke brothers, the betters, are played by Bellamy and Ameche.  Jamie Curtis is Ophelia, the prostitute that becomes Winthorpe's love interest.  Paul Gleason is Clarence Beeks, the Dukes' secret operative and instrument of manipulation who sets up the nasty switch and performs other less-than-admirable deeds.  All are great.From my description, I guess it can be picked up that the humor is not light.  It is biting, sarcastic, and very.  Makes Jack Nicholson look like Bob Hope.  Well, this is what it is like when you have caricatures -- more so of the whites than the blacks -- but that of Beeks is even stronger than those of the film's many money changers.  Anyway, altho we have commodity options rather than plain stocks as the center of focus, if one watches this film, and the values(?) it satirizes, one can't help but think about what has happened over the last four years, see above.  Ahead of its time, sort of.  I see Trading Places as appealing to all; as we contemplate our favorite comedies, in most cases, we can see why certain people won't like them.  Even greats (to me) like Blazing Saddles and The Great Race.  Well, there will always be some people who don't like it, whether it The Sound of Music or Pulp Fiction, or even Casablanca.  But Trading Places is just hilarious from start to finish, extremely witty, no poor taste and little obscenity, no slapstick.  It is hard to see how anyone would not enjoy it.  Thumbs up, all the way.10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Great showcase","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film might not be the greatest, but like most John Landis films, at least he has a good showcase for his stars to run rampant (Blues Brothers, Kentucky Fried Movie, Animal House), and this is no exception.  Here, he brings Dan Aykroyd as a rich snob who is all of a sudden the victim of a cruel practical joke/bet by the Duke brothers (Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche who is you have seen Coming to America you know what happens), and Eddie Murphy plays the man who gets lucky by the other guy's fall.  Often a little far-fetched (is there actually a section for frozen Orange Juice concentrate?), however Aykroyd and Murphy have a great on-screen duo with Winthorp and Valentine.  Other things to look for- Frank Oz's cameo as a cop, Al Franken in a earlier part as a train guy, and oh yeah, Jamie Lee Curtis' breasts!  A- "},{"Title":"A Rich Comedy!!","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places1983StarringEddie Murphy, Dan Akroyd,and Jamie Lee Curtis.A wealthy managing director and a poor, destitute hoodlum. Switch identities and thus lives.Adapt to them.Murphy fits in comfortably to his man endowed of pure opulence.Akroyd is very reluctant trying to adapt to his new, poor change. But when the duo discover that the devious Duke brothers. Used them for an empirical experiment. They are determined to thwart them and become even wealthier.A Great Comedy That Gets Richer Each Time You Watch It.10/10 My Rating "},{"Title":"This terrible, awful Negro...; Dan & Eddie = big laughs","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  TRADING PLACES (1983) *** Dan Aykroyd, Eddie Murphy, Jamie Lee Curtis, Don Ameche, Ralph Bellamy, Denholm Elliott, Paul Gleason, Jim Belushi, Al Franken, Tom Davis.  Frequently funny and surprisingly well directed John Landis comedy about the old Prince and the Pauper tale with snobby Yuppie Aykroyd and con man Murphy set up by millionaire businessman brothers on a bet that each will try to manipulate themselves in their new situations for better or worse.  Curtis is also very good as a hooker with a killer bod and a head for money.  MMMomma! "},{"Title":"Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy are terrific!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Trading Places is one of the best comedies I have ever seen without a doubt. The movie is about a stockbroker (Dan Aykroyd) and a lowlife (Eddie Murphy) finding their positions reversed as part of a bet by two old millionaires (Ralph Bellamy/Don Ameche). The film co-stars Denholm Elliott, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kristin Holby, Paul Gleason, Frank Oz, Bo Diddley, James Belushi, and other cast and crew. If you have not seen Trading Places, go rent it at your local video store near you or see it when it is on television. You'll like it! I like it! Excellent!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Sell! Buy! Sell!","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The plot of this comedy revolves around a wager between two very rich brothers over nature vs nurture, and specifically whether a rich, successful man and a poor man, if their fortunes were reversed (by nurture), would return to their former places because of their nature. To find out, they wreck the career and life of one of the most successful employees in their commodities trading firm (Dan Aykroyd), and take in a street hustler (Eddie Murphy) to train to take his place. (Thus the double meaning of the title.) While this obviously isn't a sociological study, some of the humor and pathos comes from pointing out ways attitudes are shaped by position, and changes in position. It's also a romance, with Jamie Lee Curtis playing the hooker with a heart of gold who falls for the fallen man. And it's a tale of sweet, poetic justice.The cast is great; the two leads make the most of their characters (both as brokers and bums) but never overstep the mark, thanks partly to the tight editing. The plot becomes a little bizarre, but by that time you're already hooked, and the ending of the film is pure joy. To my mind, no recent comedy has been this good; it mixes high and low brow jokes without resorting to toilet humor, it doesn't pull any punches (spot the social commentary), the performances are masterful and the script achieves depth without sacrificing the one-liners or slowing the pace.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Merry new year!!!!.......","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Louis Winthorpe III is a successful Philadelphia commodity broker with mansion, butler, and girlfriend to match. Billy Ray Valentine is a hustling beggar. Winthorpe's employers, the elderly Duke brothers, make a bet that by switching the lifestyle of the two, Billy Ray will make good and their man will take to a life of crime. Louis finds himself with no job, no home and only a new acquaintance, glamorous hooker Ophelia, prepared to help him.........In the eighties, when a major comedy like this was released, you'd have wonderful comedians such as the two stars, Bill Murray, Chevy Chase, and John Candy usually showing up at least twice a year to provide us with some good honest belly laughs.Flash forward thirty or so years, and we have the likes of Rogen, Franco, McBride, and Vaughn to provide us with some good old fashioned American humour. Sickening really isn't it.The film is basically a retelling of The Prince and The Pauper, Ackroyd playing it straight to the loud mouth sarcasm machine that is Murphy. And for good reason too. This is Murphy's vehicle from beginning to end, and this was the beginning of a wonderful career of being that profane, but lovable rogue who you were desperate to be friends with.It's such a simple story to tell, the rich and poor switch sides, but with the added greed of those bloodsucking stockbrokers, betting on a single dollar that they could ruin someone's life.Landis was the King of the bizarre in the eighties, and back then, he had a wonderful trick, if the film was going a little stale, or a little too repetitive, just go for broke, and go random.And this is the beginning of the train journey, which has to be the single funniest thing I've seen in a long while. But you find yourself laughing at things that would be highly offensive today, because of the sheer audacity of the brazen culturally offensive words used by the richer people, and Mr Ackroyd's disguise in the final act.But it's all in good fun, and everyone who deserves their just desserts in the end, gets them.It's true when they say they don't make them like this anymore.Just dome be surprised if there is a remake in the pipe line with Rogen and Mackie. "}{"Title":"Funny take down of the 80s wall street era","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 80s was a time that celebrated those power-suited money movers, but this movie, which came out years before Wall Street, takes a jaundiced view of the wealthy and powerful. Although when it comes right down to it, the movie takes a jaundiced view of everyone; the characters in this film are all pretty bad.That's easy to forget, because the stars are so likable. Dan Aykroyd brings a sweet vulnerability to his smug preppy, Eddie Murphy gives his sleazy con man a breezy charm, and three 40s stars supply old world elegance. Even though the only fully decent human being in the movie is prostitute Jamie Lee Curtis, the only really unlikable person is a minor bag-man character.It's also easy to ignore that no one in the movie learns anything. No one gains empathy, or shows real emotional growth. For a movie centered around the callous rich and the nurture/nature argument, this is a pretty shallow movie. But it's also a well-meaning one that suggests that, while everyone is pretty awful, we are all, black and white, young and old, awful in similar ways.The important thing is, the movie is quite funny, and manages to keep you engaged with its characters even at its silliest. It is the sort of movie only Hollywood can make; a feel-good movie about awful people conspiring to make their lives better at the cost of other people's happiness. And while I feel I could sit down and write a lengthy essay about how this movie manages to pretend to be about something while never really being about anything, I just really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Funny Eddie Murphy","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) is a well to do pompous commodity trader. He works at a trading firm owned by brothers Randolph Duke (Ralph Bellamy) and Mortimer Duke (Don Ameche). The brothers make a bet to see what would happen if they strip Louis of everything, and put street hustler Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy) in his place. Only a hooker named Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis) is left to lend Louis a hand.I don't actually like the excuse for the premise. The philosophical argument on human nature seems very thin. Both Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy do a funny job. Mostly they are separate in the movie, but they do get some time together. This movie works best when director John Landis allow the two top comedians play around like when Eddie Murphy stare into the camera as the brothers explain bacon. I do have to warn that Dan Aykroyd does get into blackface. Not to mention about the guys in gorilla suits. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is, as always, great","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was okay. Eddie Murphy is an amazing actor as he is in all his films. The two brothers kind of just read their lines.Ended predictably. Some very boring parts. I'm starting to lose faith in movies. It seems like books are a better experience.I liked in the beginning how the scenes of the poor paralled the scenes of the rich.Most of the scenes with Eddie Murphy were pretty great. I loved it when he got his new money and went into a bar and started throwing money around. Then he brought some people back to his place and it was funny when he turned the music down and told them to 'Get the f*** out.' Where he might've expressed anger at this point he made it sound sort of funny and light. He did the same when he begged for money. He said, 'thanks for nothing,' to his would-be patrons who scrooged him, but he made it sound funny as he did it. "},{"Title":"Amusing Role-Reversal Satire.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Akroyd plays businessman Louis Winthorpe, who has his life turned upside down by two wealthy and callous commodity brokers(Ralph Bellamy & Don Ameche, The Dukes) who make a bet regarding the old nature vs. nurture argument, so have Louis framed and discredited, then put street hustler Billy Ray Valentine(Eddie Murphy) in his place. The Dukes then find to their surprise that they underestimated the two unwilling test subjects, who team up to bring them down.Jamie Lee Curtis also stars as a sympathetic prostitute who helps them in this funny and fast-paced comedy directed by John Landis. Surprisingly good natured film has interesting story turns, but also some bizarre ones(a gorilla, who is fascinated by corporate fixer Paul Gleason, playing a real unpleasant character.) Goes on too long, but mostly appealing, with a satisfying end. "},{"Title":"Be careful what you bet on","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a good comedy about a poor guy and rich guy switching places unintentionally. And for the most part it's a good comedy despite few flaws. The movie centers around two characters, one is Louis Winthorpe III(Dan Aykroyd). Who starts off as a guy that that doesn't know how to wipe his butt cause he is rich to the point his workers does everything for him. In another words he is a over the top stereotypical rich guy. He is resourceful but a bit of a tool, maybe because he is always surrounded by other people that are tools. But it's Dan Aykroyd and he is still likable in this, maybe because the characters sense of righteousness. And the other character is William Raymond Billy Ray Valentine(Eddie Murphy). Who starts out as a ghetto hood rat that has street smart. But tries to lie himself through everything. Basically he is a boy who cried wolf. Until he gets a chance at living a rich lifestyle. Because two tools in the company decides to frame Winthorpe and let a ghetto hood rat into the company and see if he can be successful as well. So basically Winthorpe gets used as a experiment a guinea pig. The bad guys in this movie are corrupt but they also are two of the most stereotypical villains ever, wouldn't be surprised if they started tying a woman to a train track. Everything about this movie is far-fetched, in fact very far-fetched. It lacks logic and doesn't make any sense with the direction and all. It's a movie you just have to go with or will end up nit picking everything that doesn't make any sense or implausible. and I am not just talking about the characters. But it's a funny comedy with clever jokes, that never really rely on toilet humor. When it comes to blending the really rich and ghetto poor character elements together, it's done really well although more development would have made this movie better. The clash of two different backgrounds works. A lot of change in characters in this movie just comes off drastic though and not very believable. Especially Eddie Murphy's character and Jamie Lee Curtis who plays a prostitute in this and I didn't even recognize her until she takes offh her wig. Now I ain't a Eddie Murphy fan but he was just right for this role and likable. So yeah this movie has some very stereotypical characters, especially the rich folks that doesn't really talk about anything else besides bragging about their lifestyle and making money. Actually that maybe pretty much true in a lot of cases in real life. Overall I enjoyed this movie but a bit more realistic and developed approach might have been better.7/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie is greast in this....","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably one of the funniest films of the 1980's. It not only is a play on the classic nature vs. nurture theme, but it is also a somewhat comedic commentary on the greed is good decade of the 80's. However, it is also a nice bridging of the generations as it features two of the biggest stars to come from Saturday Night Live Eddie Murphy does a fine job as con man Billy Ray and Dan Ackroyd is great as Louis. Jamie Lee Curtis is also wonderful as Ophelia. In fact, it was good to see her do something other than the scream queen roles which she became famous for during the early part of her career. She definitely shows the comedic timing that she would display later in her career and would make her one of the finest comedic actresses in film today. However, the one that really steals it for me is Denholm Elliot as Coleman. He delivers a very low key performance that is befitting for that role. This is a real gem. "},{"Title":"Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy along with a game cast provide great fun and drama in Trading Places","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's been about 30 years since I last watched Trading Places and I don't remember laughing at it then as much as I did just now. Then, I watched it on a small screen on VHS that I don't remember hearing that well since I think the volume was a little down. Now, I've watched it on HD DVD with great stereophonic sound. So that was probably a big help. Anyway, the whole cast was great from Dan Aykroyd as Louis Winthorpe III to Eddie Murphy as Billy Ray Valentine. Both going from rags to riches, and vice versa, was mostly believable from beginning to end. I didn't think Billy Ray would be so anal about the way his guests messed up his party at his house so soon but that's a minor quibble. As the butler Coleman, Denholm Elliott provides the right gravitas in serving both characters. As the hooker Ophelia, Jamie Lee Curtis was cast at the right time saving her from any more scream queen roles she was previously known for. I especially loved her disguise as an Austrian woman who ends up using a Swedish accent! As the mysterious Clarence Beeks, Paul Gleason provides the right suspicious demeanor. And then there's the Duke brothers, Randolph and Mortimer, as portrayed by Golden Age veterans, Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche. The latter is especially hilarious when he says something profane about his brother near the end. Really, all I'll say is if you haven't seen Trading Places, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Classic fish out of water comedy.","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Ackroyd effectively lost any credibility that he had by churning out Blues Brothers 2000 &#x96; a film I've never seen and refuse to acknowledge (unless I am bagging it) &#x96; but in the 80s he was often pretty funny.Eddie Murphy on the other hand, was the king of comedy and ruled the 80s, then he was still around in the 90s, and since 2000 unless he is a talking donkey no-one wants to see his sh*tty flicks.In Trading Places &#x96; as the name suggests &#x96; two rich elderly businessmen Randolph and Mortimer Duke have a wager that when placed in the right environment the actions and behavior of the subject can change.For better or worse.So they put into action a fiendish plot to do just that. Louis Winthorpe III (Ackroyd) has everything, a huge plush office, a privileged and pretty fiancé, a fabulously appointed home replete with his own butler Coleman (an understated and classy Denholm Elliott). Louis is destined for a fall&#x85; Once Louis is penniless, jobless, newly single and with a reputation akin to swamp-rats, the Mortimers decide they must find an unfortunate man of dubious character to replace him.That man is Billy Ray Valentine (Murphy), a foul mouthed and shallow conman who is certain that this must all be a joke.So while Billy-Ray takes the chance to live the high life and starts by throwing freaky parties in his new home, Louis must start rebuilding from the ground up, along with a friendly hooker named Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis) who offers to help him out.Trading Places is an 80s film so there ain't much more to it than that, the jokes are a little dated and much of the humour comes from the sheer fact that the two are so very different and their reactions to their new digs.Eventually the pair meet and realise exactly what has occurred, and with Ophelia and butler Coleman in tow they decide to put the Mortimers back in their box.Trading Places isn't a laugh a minute but it has a few solid jokes and a memorable scene or two. While it hardly represents the best work of messrs Murphy and Ackroyd it is also nowhere near their worst, definitely better than anything they've made in well over a decade.Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. Any movie featuring a man in a monkey suit 'taking a banana' from a real gorilla in the name of comedy must be worth a look. "},{"Title":"You know, it occurs to me that the best way you hurt rich people is by turning them into poor people.","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Whatever happened to John Landis, the man who is responsible for such gems as Animal House (1978), The Blues Brothers (1980), An American Werewolf in London (1981), Thriller (1983), Coming to America (1988)? He is desperately needed now when the situation with the comedies in Hollywood could be described as tragically horrible or horrifyingly tragic. Now when I think of it, even his less successful Spies Like Us (1985) and Three Amigos! (1986) were very funny and enjoyable. Landis has also directed nine episodes of the cult TV show, the first Sex and City, Dream On, and believe me, Dream On was fabulous. Of all mentioned films, Trading Places is one of the best, at least for me. I can't count how many times I've seen this funny and clever comedy. Trading Places tells the story of two men who were far from each other in any possible way as yes and no - one Harvard graduate, a successful snobbish commodity broker, the financial wizard with bright future in front of him, and great present that included a stunning fiancée, membership in a prestigious exclusive club, and even a butler, a true English gentleman. The other - a black street hustler, a small time drug dealer from the wrong site of the town. What could possibly bring them together and even make them partners out for revenge? You may say the fate or you may say, boredom and intrigues of two very rich, very arrogant, very shameless men - Brothers Randolph and Mortimer Duke (Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche), the founders and owners of Philadelphia commodity stock Exchange who liked to make bets to prove their points about nature versus nurture theory and enjoyed watching how other people's reputations, happiness and even lives crumbles in front of them. The brothers were curious to find out what is primary, the environment or heredity in forming a human? What would happen if take a successful, well off man, ruin his reputation and throw him on the street and substitute him with a streetwise petty criminal? How would they adjust and what would they do to survive such unexpected turn of fortune? Well, it sounds rather dramatic but the movie is a masterpiece of comedy. It is not just good; it is timeless comedy that does not show a trace of growing outdated. It is based not only on the comic situations but on the changing characters, their communication, getting together and creating the team that would make revenge sweet, smart, and totally satisfying. The acting of two major players, Dan Aycroyd and Eddie Murphy is marvelous. Santa episode is among the funniest yet poignant I've seen. Just to think of Aycroyd, hiding behind a dirty Santa beard and growling like an angry animal over the smoked salmon that he stole from the Christmas party at his former company and hid on his chest made me laugh hysterically. There is also Jamie Lee Curtis with the legs growing from her ears, beautiful smile, and heart of gold. And she is topless in one of the scenes, too, which only adds to the movie's pleasures. There is the craziest New Year Party on the train that involves drunken James Belucci, a melancholic lovelorn gorilla, the coldblooded villain Clarence Beeks (Paul Gleason) who would become the object of unbearable desire of above mentioned gorilla, and two baggage handlers, marveling over how human the gorilla appears, and sending two gorillas to Africa in one cell. And there is incredible Denholm Elliott, the loyal butler Coleman to both Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) and Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy). To top it all, there is the greatest (I am sure of it) scene of betting on future trading on the commodities trading floor that involves short-selling orange juice futures and turning an enormous profit for some characters and equally enormous loss for the others. For the life of mine, I can't get the idea but I enjoy the scene tremendously every time I watch this classic. Highly recommended. 9-9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Stuff","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some may say that Eddie Murphy didn't start to become funny until he did movies like Beverly Hills Cop, but I beg to differ. Murphy really hit his peak in movies after appearing in Trading Places appearing alongside Saturday Night Live's Dan Akroyd. These two both were in their prime here. Some of the most funniest lines and scenes are in this movie as well. Now you may know Akroyd for doing more family oriented movies nowadays, but he really can be funny, and proves it in this movie. This is most likely one of the funniest movies of the 1980's. Must see.10/10 "}{"Title":"A perfect film - career bests for Landis, Ackroyd and Murphy","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was my favourite film when I was a kid, when John Landis really was it. Here, his use of the actors and the setting of the city of Philadelphia is wonderful. He has a way of using cut-aways to still objects that heighten the comedy, and in this film, his talent was I think at its peak, as is that of Eddie Murphy, before the mega-stardom that ruined him. The script is fantastic, not a line is wasted or cheap and the delivery of each line right down to the cameos (from the likes of Jim Belushi, Bo Diddley and Frank Oz) is spot-on. The script is so choc-full of laughs the whole cast gets to add their own touch of humour, so that twenty-five years on, discussions still go on about your favourite bit (mine is Eddie Murphy's face at the BLT line). Even the music is perfect - the use of 'serious' classical music in a comedy was of course a Landis/Bernstein innovation also previously used in Animal House, but its even better in Trading Places. A rare thing - an intelligent farce. Timeless. "},{"Title":"Best film of the Eighties","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It doesn't get much better than this. Trading Places is one of those films where everything clicks into place so beautifully as to make it near perfect.Landis, Murphy and Aykroyd were at the peak of their powers. Add to that the rest of the cast, the distinctly eighties subject matter (still relevant now), the poignant montage at the front of the film, the excellent score and you have entertainment that delivers on all levels.And Jamie Lee Curtis gets her knockers out. Perfect. Deserves a higher rating on IMDb! "},{"Title":"Totally dated but hilarious Pygmalion reworking","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Eddie Murphy's purple patch in the early 80s owes much to the mini-genre he found himself in having fun with posh, rich, white (old) America. Loosely predicated on the story that's best known as My Fair Lady, Trading Places is a farce that marries Reagan's economic Big Bang with Murphy and his Saturday Night Live colleague Dan Ackroyd.Ackroyd's arguably a better actor but Murphy owns this movie, even if I find he looks a little wooden when asked to be earnest. Jamie Lee Curtis' tart-with-a-heart is comically reliable and camera-friendly; Denholm Elliot represents the classless control-Mensch with grace. Super 7/10 "},{"Title":"A movie for everyone!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie for everyone. If you're into extraordinarily funny movies this is for you; If you're into two old guys discussing business this is for you; And if you're into seeing a horny gorilla go nuts this is for you too. I doubt anyone would be into these three things at the same time. Funny performances from Aykroyd, Murphy and Jamie Lee Curtis. I didn't really understand why she had to be nude, but hey why complain! I mean I'm a mortal man! You also could get some funny stuff out of the stiff characters. All around funny. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A Good Laugh is Guaranteed!","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Trading Places' is instantly likable & enjoyable. This is a true comedy from the 1980's, that hasn't lost its charm even after so many years.'Trading Places' Synopsis A snobbish investor and a wily street con artist find their positions reversed as part of a bet by two callous millionaires.Laughter is the best medicine & 'Trading Places' offers a good dose of it. Its a nicely shaped story about two underdogs, who are forced to switch lives, only to lead to more hilarity. Timothy Harris & Herschel Weingrod's Screenplay merits praise. Also, a special mention for the delicious dialogue. John Landis's Direction has no flaws. Cinematography is rich. Editing is just as good. Performance-Wise Dan Aykroyd & Eddie Murphy are at their funniest best. Dan is extremely convincing, while Murphy is super-energetic. Together, they make a great on-screen duo! But its Jamie Lee Curtis who owns 'Trading Places'. She enacts the prostitute with a large heart, with sheer brilliance. Late/Great Actors Denholm Elliott, Ralph Bellamy & Don Ameche provide very good support.On the whole, 'Trading Places' is some really good fun. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Comedy with Commentary on the Haves, the Have Nots, and Futures Trading","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Few comedies today actually comment on social issues, and even fewer do it without it getting preachy. And almost none give a lesson in high stakes commodities futures trading. And yet somehow, Trading Places manages to incorporate all these aspects onto the same film reel while splashing unexpected comedy that keeps the entertainment level constantly high. In short, the filmmakers respected their audience enough to inadvertently tell us something about the American social strata, and do it without a documentary.Even the opening credits hint at the coming confrontation. Scenes of a-day-in-the-life of the moneyed elite inter-spliced with the mundane labor of the working class to the overture of the Marriage of Figaro by Mozart/Da Ponte based on the novel by Beaumarchais. Beaumarchais was a French 18th-century novelist who brought the clashes of the classes to the forefront through his fictions, and this is the essence of Trading Places.Dan Ackroyd is the young, ambitious, if somewhat naive, Louis Winthorpe III who is a member of the Philadelphia upper crust. He works in the finance department of a commodities brokerage firm run by two Scrooges that would give King Midas a run for his money, Mortimer Duke and Randolph Duke, played with subtle irreverence by two veterans of Hollywood's by-gone era, Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy. When Winthorpe isn't making money through commodities trading, he's smoking pipes with his former Harvard classmates at a gentleman's club reminiscent of the Bohemian Club. You know the kind where the hired help is dressed as if they are going to the opera opening night.On the other side of the railroad tracks is Billy Ray Valentine, Capricorn (Eddie Murphy in one of his all-time best performances), who is a con-artist posing as a crippled Vietnam Veteran. The two literally collide, like the aristocracy and the peasantry in the French revolution, although Valentine is immediately apprehended. The upper class is safe--for the moment.However, as Valentine is being hauled off to the slammer, Randolph Duke speculates that the African-American Valentine may actually have more smarts than he is given credit. Mortimer Duke, the more bigoted of the two, brushes it off. But Randolph bets that Valentine, given the right environment, could run their company as well as Winthorpe. Simultaneously, Randolph proposes that if Winthorpe were to lose his home, lose his friends, lose his reputation, and lose his freedom, he might resort to criminal behavior. Mortimer Duke doesn't agree that Valentine could run their company and that Winthorpe would become a criminal, so he takes the bet--the usual amount.Through their influence, the Dukes change the places of Valentine and Winthorpe to see how their lives would turn out. Some of the best scenes are with Murphy trying to understand how he went from being in jail (about to be beat up by other inmates) to residing in a multi-million-dollar home, being employed with a huge salary, and given a butler, played with exaggerated disingenuous humility by the great Denholm Eliot. Valentine can only speculate that the Dukes are gay, and Eliot is his slave. Simultaneously, Winthorpe is accused of criminal behavior, and loses not just his home but his status among his friends from the club. The only person willing to be his friend now that he has lost everything is a prostitute, Ophelia (Jamie Lee Curtis), who has a heart of gold, but just don't mention that her name is the same as one of the characters in Shakespeare's Hamlet.A kind of modern-day Prince and the Pauper,with a few contrived moments, and a train sequence that kind of gets off track, but quickly recovers for the climax that involves commodities trading on Wall Street. Outstanding performances by all, outstanding directing and writing. And a few goofy characters that make brief appearances, including Jim Belushi as literally a party animal(following in the footsteps of his late brother John), and Al Franken as a baggage handler that wants to drive the cart. A movie that shows both sides of the railroad tracks. Maybe the best comedy of the 1980's and one of the best of all-time. "},{"Title":"High on the list","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places is very much a fish out of water comedy, and it's as straight down the line as they come. Two elderly, filthy rich bachelors conduct a cruel experiment on two completely opposite (and completely oblivious) young men to prove that they could quite easily and successfully trade places.Dan Aykroyd is highly successful business executive Lewis Winthorpe III, a wealthy snob who works for the callous Duke brothers, and Eddie Murphy is the man who takes his place, a street hoodlum by the name of Billy Ray Valentine. Needless to say there is scope aplenty here for a real treat in movie mayhem and hilarity, and fortunately director John Landis is able to milk Timothy Harris' and Herschel Weingrod's very funny story for every drop on offer.Supporting Mr. Landis in this cause is a most enjoyable cast who are all spot on in their respective roles. Dan Aykroyd portrays snobbery, desperation and drunkenness with aplomb, while Eddie Murphy is just perfect for the part of a wise mouth amateur con-artist. Denholm Elliot is the ideal butler, Jamie Lee Curtis a great friend in the right place at the right (or maybe wrong) time, and both Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche are close to perfection as the aging, moody owners of Duke and Duke.A film of considerable enjoyment that should be high on the list for all comedy fans. You're sure to have a ball Trading Places.Sunday, July 31, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"Slick comedy","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Influenced by the 'Prince and the Pauper'- this film by John Landis is a very slick and cruel comedy.Stunning cast with Eddie Murphy as Billy Ray having his life turned around by the Dukes(Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy finding that age is not a hindrance to great comic acting!)Dan Ayckroyd as Louis being stripped of everything by the Dukes.He gains Jamie Lee Curtis as Ophelia who gets him back on his feet.There are many laugh out loud moments - my favourite being where Billy Ray follows Father Christmas(Louis) out of the Christmas party and calls after him and Father Christmas lets out an lion's roar! Denholm Elliot gives an excellently poised performance as Coleman the butler -- he conveys his 'loyalty' dilemma without words-- just by the odd facial expression.One of the most shockingly funny performances I have ever seen has to go to Paul Gleason as Clarence Beeks -- It is of the 'did I actually hear him say that' variety -- hysterical! "},{"Title":"Funniest comedy of the 1980s, well-written, superb","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd is so falling-on-the floor hysterical, I just laugh thinking of some of his scenes. Some of my favorites when he shows up at the country club in those ridiculous 2nd-hand clothes and all his supposed friends snub him -- it is tragic and funny at the same time. His arguments that he is innocent at the police station are all to no avail and the other people hanging at the police station are such a hoot. He does not fit into the social mores of a police station, and he portrays this brilliantly. The set decorators go out of their way to portray Philadelphia as a slimy, dirty city. In 1982, it probably was every bit as scummy as they portray it. Jamie Lee Curtis comes to the rescue and she is delightful.I still laugh when Aykroyd's character gets into the Santa suit, gets drunk, gets urinated on by the dog, gets on the bus, and proceeds to eat his supper, consisting of stolen items from the Christmas party; the people on the bus are so horrified because as he takes a bite, he bites into his (very filthy by this time) Santa's beard. That is the funniest sequence in any movie I have ever seen!! Eddie Murphy is funny at the beginning when the police come after him for panhandling and because he pretends he cannot walk; then he gets up and runs away from them. He is OK in the rest of the movie, but Aykroyd really is the star. "},{"Title":"How did Loius and Billy Ray make money at the end?","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is about 20 movies that have ever been made that i can watch over and over again, and this is definitely one of them. I have seen it at least 50 time, but there is one question that plagues me every time i watch it. How did they make their money at the end. At the end of the movie when they did their insider trading deal with the crop report, how did they make their money and how much would be an educated guess on how much they make? Every time i watch this movie i try and figure out exactly how and when they sold their shares and how much they made. If anyone out there could please enlighten me in regard to this, it would be greatly appreciated. "}{"Title":"Looking good Billy Ray ,Feeling good Louis !!!!!","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A timeless comedy, one that has been rarely equaled in my opinion, the script is witty and brilliant. There is a lot to be learned about society and class from this movie. The end of the movie is a joy to watch unfold and the last lines say it all. Great performances and classic lines make Trading places a great film. The butler is played perfectly and murphy gives his breakthrough performance. Don't forget about Jamie Lee Curtis, she adds some greatness to the film. The characters are all on the mark, the bosses of the company are so greedy, ruthless and portray a certain image that I rarely see in comedies these days. Two high powered businessmen bet $1 a bum off the streets(murphy) could take the place of their wealthy apprentice(Aykroyd), scheming ways for them to switch positions. One of the businessmen believes murphy would do just as good as Aykoyd if put in his environment, leaving Aykroyd out to dry. The best part is they bet the usual amount $1. "},{"Title":"Funny and well thought out, but very cheesy.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Directed by John Lanids. Stars Dan Aykroyd, Eddie Murphy, Denholm Elliot, Jamie Lee Curtis, Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche, Kristin Holby, Al Franken, Tom Davis, Paul Gleeson, Frank Oz, Bo Diddley, Richard Hunt and James Belushi.Yet another SNL buddy comedy about two mean old rich men taking everything from Dan Aykroyd and giving it to poor man Eddie Murphy. Eddie Murphy really shows off his comedic abilities, and Aykroyd does a nice job. Also notable is a break through role for Jamie Lee Curtis as a friendly prostitute. I enjoyed this movie thoroughly, but the ending was really cheesy and lame and it often had annoyingly stupid moments, but is mostly quite funny.My rating *** out of ****. rated R for nudity and some language. 117 mins, "},{"Title":"A classic...Aykroyd and Murphy at their best","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Landis directed a real winner here, the story of a young, arrogant banker and a street con-man who are manipulated into trading places. Everything about this film is good. All the characters are interesting and well-acted and the cast is filled with notables. Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy do their best work and Jamie Lee Curtis is sexy as hell. Veteran actors Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche, and the great British actor Denholm Elliott are top notch. Look for bit parts from musician Bo Diddley, the Muppet's Frank Oz, James Belushi and Al Franken before he turned to political satire. This film has every type of comedy from satire to slapstick. Aykroyd and Murphy's impersonation of two African exchange students is absolutely hysterical. "},{"Title":"The Haves and The Have Nots.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have watched TRADING PLACES more times than I can count. That's mainly because I have the video tape and DVD of this movie. I must say that as many times as I have seen this movie, it is still good. One of the things that I like about this movie is that even though it is a comedy, it shows people on all sides of the spectrum. I.E. the haves and the have-not. Just in the opening sequence alone, we go back and forth between between the lives of the well-to-do in their luxurious homes and the poor who are often living on the streets. Also, this movie shows in a comedic way what can happen when someone who is used to having everything is stripped away from it and when someone who is used to not having anything suddenly accumulates wealth.I will give a brief synopsis of the film and then I want to comment about the film in general. Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy play two elderly brothers in Philadelphia who have a commodities business. One day, they make a bet that they could strip their star employee, played by Dan Aykroyd, from everything he has been accustomed to and at the same time, take a street-bum, played by Eddie Murphy, and turn into a successful executive. The brothers arrange for that to happen and as a result, there are a number of misunderstandings as both Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy try to sort out what has been done to them. Once they finally meet up and compare notes on what has been done to them, they come up with some revenge plans of their own.One of the things I like about TRADING PLACES is the acting. Both Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy were excellent as the two Duke brothers. It should be noted that TRADING PLACES helped rejuvenate Don Ameche's film career. Denholm Elliot was good as the butler who worked for the brothers. His character is interesting because at first, he co-operated with the brothers' plan but then after a while, he kind of turned to Dan Aykroyd's side when he saw how cruel the bet was. Jamie Lee Curtis was good as Dan Aykroyd's love interest in the film. I have heard some people refer to her character as having a heart of gold. Both Dan Aykroyd's character and Eddie Murphy's character are interesting because they change a great deal throughout the film due to the circumstances they find themselves in.There are so many scenes that I love in this film that I can't possibly mention all of them. However, I will mention a few that stand out in my mind. For one, I love how Dan Aykroyd is ready to strangle Eddie Murphy thinking he was the one who ruined him and Eddie Murphy says It was the Dukes! It was the Dukes! I like the bit when Eddie Murphy is going to the office on his first day of work and says to the the butler What if I can't do it (the work)? Denholm Elliot says in his British accent, Just be yourself Sir. Whatever happens, they CAN'T take that away from you. In fact, that is a scene I think of whenever I have to do something that seems a bit uncomfortable. I also want to point out the scene where Don Ameche shouts to a bunch of men F**k Him! when he realizes that he and Ralph Bellamy have lost all their savings. What is kind of strange is that I am not used to seeing an elderly person curse in public. Anyway, I would say that the whole revenge scene is a riot. Lastly, I want to say that TRADING PLACES is the kind of film that I notice things in it after a couple of viewings that I did not the first time around. Case in point, there is a scene where Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche are sitting at their desks. If you look closely, Ralph Bellamy has a picture of Ronald Reagan at his desk and Don Ameche has a picture of Richard Nixon at his desk. I point this out because while it is subtle, it shows that these men are your typical conservative business person who supports the policies of leaders like Nixon and Reagan. Also, I want to point out some motiffs in the movie. In the beginning of the film, one of the characters says to Dan Aykroyd Looking good there Louis! and he responds with Feeling good Todd. At the end of the film, Dan Aykroyd says Looking good there Billy Ray! to Eddie Murphy and he (Murphy) replies with Feeling good Louis! Also, near the beginning of the film when Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy make a wager for the bet that reversed the lives of both Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd's characters, it is for $1. Later on, when Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd turn around make themselves a bet, it is for $1. I find these to be a few of the many subtle but interesting observations found in TRADING PLACES. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Eddie Murphy At His Very Best","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From the start this films is going places, the film as its title states is about the well off switching with the down & out, which happens to me Murphy. The story is great and the acting is Great throughout the cast which includes Dan Aykroyd & Jamie Lee Curtis. The film does take a slight downward spiral around three quarters of the way through, about the time the cast board the train, my opinion here is the Director was somehow run over by the train and had be replaced, this led to the film taking that unforgiving turn.Towards the end however the film does picks up and finishes off in Great style. "},{"Title":"How funny is this movie","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had watched once when I was little but what a joy to see it again. The cast is brilliant and carry this film so well. It is silly at times but the fun they had making it shows. What I find amazing is how bizarre some of the scenes are, there is a corporate Christmas party, gorilla rape, eddy swallowing a joint... It is full of stereotypes (the butler with the heart of gold, the evil brothers...) but again it works and is fun to watch and please lets not forget Jamie Lee Curtis getting naked. Twice (!).  I have to get on DVD that is for sure.   "},{"Title":"Great story of rags to riches....","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great story. The Duke brothers make their traditional bet $1.00 to see how a homeless man (played by Eddie Murphy) can take a high profile commodities broker position and be sucessful at it while they take the position away from Louis Winthorpe III (played by Dan Aykroyd) and make his life a complete disaster. Jamie Lee Curtis also stars in this all-star lineup. I would recommend getting this movie, Beverly Hills Cop and 48HRS which are Eddie Murphy's 3 best movies of his career. - Chad Castorina "},{"Title":"One of the best ever ... but one major flaw.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is absolutely one of my all-time favorite movies.  The direction is superb, the acting, absolutely perfect.  It rides the edge by tugging on social issues.  I see this movie every time it comes on (and it comes on often), and even rent it on occasion with friends who have not yet seen it. But there is one huge flaw with the movie.... the guy grabbing a jacket after Billy Ray's party, doesn't know what to do with it - it's obviously either a woman's jacket, or Don Kings - and just submits to keeping it.  But there's one fundamental issue that bothers me each time I watch this.  Anyone care to guess what I think it is?  Other than this one issue, Trading Places is a superb movie.   "},{"Title":"Now this is comedy!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining. I would say that it would get 6 out of 10 if it                               wasn't because of the super-funny scene in the train. ''I AM FROM                               KAMERUN! AAAAAA WAIOAAAAH'' I couldn't stop laugh. I burst just                               thinking about it. Without a doubt one of the funniest scenes in hollywood-history.                              Akroyd and Curtis are good but Murphy saves every scene he is in. Watch out                               for Yoda, or should I say Frank Oz, as a mean, corrupt cop. Well, well, well.                               Watch this movie. The train-scene makes this movie a very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Dukes steal the show but its the one liners that stay with you","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cracking movie. Some of the best one liners you'll ever hear. Murphy is amazing as is Ackroyd but the show is stolen by Ameche and Bellamy as the twisted Duke brothers who make the bet for a dollar to switch them. Fair enough, its a play on the old prince and the pauper theme, but it works and is amusingly done. Best scene the ridiculous characters on the train with Ackroyd made up as an African. Best line (Ackroyd after a night in the cells), I smell. Penelope, do you realise where I've been. They beat me up, and stole my clothes. THOSE MEN WANTED TO HAVE SEX WITH ME!!! "}{"Title":"This film's fantastic!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Trading Places joins The Blues Brothers, A Fish Called Wanda, and Back to the Future as the top comedies that came out of the 80's. No review needed, just a VCR, a TV, and about 2 hours to fully enjoy this classic film. "},{"Title":"The entire movie is a complete riot!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Two wealthy men Randolph Duke Ralph Bellamy (Pretty Woman, Oh, God!) and Mortimer Duke Don Ameche(Cocoon, Gidget Gets Married)  bet one dollar in a scientific experiment. The experiment  to turn a begger  Billy Ray Valentine, Eddie Murphy (48 Hours,The Nutty Professor),  into a successful  and  wealthy person. They turn a rich person, Louis Winthorpe III Dan Aykroyd  (Driving Miss Daisy,My Fellow Americans), into a homeless, jobless, pennyless, friendless, foodless, hopeless, girlfriend -less, credit card- less, fashionable-less, club-less, perfume-less, and many other lesses you can come up with person. He became the type of person who has to hang out with low lives and a prostitute,Ophelia played by Jamie Lee Curtis  (A Fish Called Wanda, Nicholas' Gift).  The premise of the movie is a Harvard educated man will commit a crime without his friends and his safe environment.  Louis Winthorpe III, became full of anger, rage, and could not comprehend what had he done wrong. In the mean time Billy Ray is suspicious, and even broke a beautiful vase that cost thirty-five thousand dollars,  just to see if it really belonged to him.  After that he began treasuring his possessions, and showed much intelligence. Well,  he was a smart beggar, who also pretended to be crippled who got healed and started praising the Lord, soon after cops made him walk!  What a funny scene!  The entire movie is a complete riot!  It is full of laughter, has a lot of funny lines, and is a totally satisfying experience. I love the movie. As those SNL guys always stick together in real life, they did in the movie also,  Billy Ray and Louis Winthorpe, what a pompous name, ganged up to destroy the two old snobs and they did so very successfully!  The music in this movie gives an atmosphere of wealth. The butler Coleman Denholm Elliott (September, A Room with a View) adds a regal touch to the movie. My favorite scenes  Billy Ray Valentine getting healed.  The Jacuzzi scene. I think that this one of my favorite characters that Eddie Murphy played outside of his Saturday Night Live characters. He is talented. It seems that all that Billy Ray Valentine does makes me laugh, starting out with his name.  Sounds like the name of a liquor!  My Favorite Quotes Coleman It's a whirlpool bath, Sir. I think you'll enjoy it. Billy Ray Hey! This is all right! When I was a kid, we wanted bubbles, we had....!  You will have to finish reading this sentence,  under quotes. Just click QUOTES on your left. It is there! I promise! I watched this movie when it came out the Jacuzzi scene and the quote I never forgot. The movie was nominated for Oscars, Golden Globe,  British Academy Awards, and also won several awards, which were all well deserved. I definitely recommend it!                            "},{"Title":"Now this is comedy!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining. I would say that it would get 3 out of 5 if it wasn't because of the super-funny scene in the train. ''I AM FROM KAMERUN! AAAAAA WAIOAAAAH'' I couldn't stop laugh. I burst just thinking about it. Without a doubt one of the funniest scenes in hollywood-history.Akroyd and Curtis are good but Murphy saves every scene he is in. Watch out for Yoda, or should I say Frank Oz, as a mean, corrupt cop. Well, well, well. Watch this movie. The train-scene makes this movie a very funny movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far, one of the best and funniest films you will ever see. It takes you back to the days when Eddie Murphy was by far a class act. I definitely recommend this film to anyone that has a quiet afternoon free and could do with a good laugh, you'll love it.  "},{"Title":"Murphy at his best","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies ever. Eddy Murphy has never been funnier, he is at his highest level reaching some performances on the Saturday night live show. I think it's the first time I thought of the stockmarket as a funny business. The Duke and Duke do a nice comeback in Coming to America (also Eddy Murphy). "},{"Title":"hilarious, well-acted, brilliant!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I could watch this movie over and over again.Dan Akroyd is wonderful!  Louis Winthorpe is the only Akroyd role on celluloid other than his Ghostbusters in which he seems less Dan Akroyd and more a character.  Eddie Murphy's performance is also excellent--what one would expect from a truly talented comedian.My favorite character--the reason to see this movie--Denholm Elliot's Coleman. "},{"Title":"There's a lot of slow and straining filler here, leading to some hilarious final acts","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places (1983)A great idea that takes way too long to get going and finally has some hilarious scenes by the last third of the movie. Eddie Murphy's craziness is kind of codified now, less surprising but no less fun than when he first started making movies. Hard to believe this movie is 30 years old.The situation is classic (and is based on Mark Twain stories)--a rich person and a poor person are made to trade places. They not only learn from being in the other person's shoes, they change to fit the role they now occupy. So Murphy is lifted from the streets and becomes a successful businessman, and his counter part Dan Aykroyd is made to fall from his cushy privilege to a life of minor crime.Of course this only happens with the dishonest help of two aging businessmen who make money manipulating commodities markets. They get their comeuppance and by the end everyone is sort of where they deserve to be.And in the end you may have forgotten how really slow the beginning is, and how some of the moments are campy and a little clunky. It's another case where you need to watch for the best of the movie, not the totality. Murphy is very funny--though we're so used to his brand of humor it might seem like you've been there often before. Aykroyd wears thinner every time I see him in a movie, so that might just be my taste. The old men, including a perfectly cast Ralph Bellamy, are good enough as caricatures. The butler is his own kind of sublime reserve the way movie butlers are. And the one woman, who is fun but a bit of a farce, too, is Jamie Lee Curtis, not quite over the top enough to fit the movie.I think if you are already a fan this will remain a hoot. If you not, you might not quite be laughing to tears in much of this. The Prince and the Pauper by Twain might be the best place to start. That, for sure, is amazing stuff. "},{"Title":"You see?  Capitalism can be funny!","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There exist so many movies about white yuppies teaming up with black ghetto guys, that the genre seems obscured. But Trading Places is the movie that started it all. When commodities brokers Mortimer (Ralph Bellamy) and Randolph Duke (Don Ameche) decide to test the old nature-vs-nurture debate, they switch the places of rising employee Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) and homeless Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy). Needless to say, some great scenes ensue! My favorite line was Eddie Murphy's tirade about the GI Joe with kung fu grip (mind you, he was talking about pork bellies). Also, the scene where kindly English butler Denholm Elliott is driving Eddie Murphy around and Eddie Murphy spots Dan Aykroyd...well, let's just say that there's a stark contrast between their accents! Oh, and if you've seen Scream then you probably heard about one of Jamie Lee Curtis' scenes. Also appearing is Al Franken as a gorilla handler, and Loco-Motion used to great effect. It's good to see that Dan Aykroyd was able to continue, even without John Belushi. A truly classic comedy. "},{"Title":"Stock comedy about stock markets","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the early 80s Hollywood was obsessed with the uber-rich and so produced a large array of films both serious and comical on the subject. Trading Places has a good premise, a sort of updated version of the bet had in Pygmalion, only with darker undertones. Unfortunately the film does not live up to this interesting premise due to poor writing, stock characters and predictable plot developments, which can best be described as sit-com level. There are a few decent gags IE the Jacuzzi, or the moment when Aykroyd's girlfriend surreptitiously sprays the man next to her (which I think is the funniest moment in the film) but not that many, certainly not enough to compensate for the one-dimensional writing. Eddie Murphy puts on a blazer and almost immediately becomes house proud and a financial wizard. It's ludicrous but not in a funny way. Aykroyd, who unlike Murphy, at least has a back story, lucks into a tart with a heart. Then there's a stock English butler, some stock elite club snobs and a couple of stock villains.The finale is a complete mess actually the mood of the film suddenly in attempt to produce a Pink Panther-like farce sequence complete with comedy gorilla and hilarious ethnics. "},{"Title":"Honourable","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" PLOTTwo bored, ageing millionaires conduct a sadistic social experiment whereby they orchestrate the defrauding and humiliation of one of their company's top executives and replace him with a homeless man. The experiment backfires as their subjects eventually undertake significant personal growth, befriend each other, and exact a fitting, calculated revenge. REVIEWAside perhaps from the 1982 live recording of Eddie Murphy's incredible stand-up routine Delerious, Trading Places is the premier comedy of the 1980s. It's a cut above other perennial favourites such as 48 Hours (1982), Ghostbusters (1984), Fletch (1985), Down and Out in Beverly Hills (1987) and Uncle Buck (1989).While there is much to commend, the key to the film's success is the cast of seasoned character actors, including Denholm Elliot, Ralph Bellamy, Don Ameche, Paul Gleason and Frank Oz. With the help of these veterans, the young leads (Dan Aykroyd, Eddie Murphy and Jamie Lee Curtis) are able to develop an already brilliant premise into a wealth of hilarious sequences.ELEPHANT STAMPSJon Landis for DirectingDan Aykroyd for ActingDenholm Elliot for Acting "}{"Title":"Play the game, make it rich!","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Play the stock market? This movie's for you. Wanna live the life of the other? This movie's for you. Louis Winthorpe III(Dan Ackroyd) is a upper-class broker who's got it all Home, money, fiancée, the high life. Then there's Billy Ray Valentine(Eddie Murphy), a con artist, trouble-maker, homeless, got his wits to survive. Then you got the Dukes Mortimer(Don Ameche, Cocoon) and brother Randolph(Ralph Bellamy). What do they do? Switch their lives. Billy Ray is now living the good life, and Louis is living in the dumps. When Billy Ray invited the big crowd to the house, they make a mess out of it, and he throws them all out, for free-loading. Louis on the other hand is trying to get back to the life he was living, with the help of a prostitute with a heart named Ophelia(Jamie Lee Curtis). When Billy Ray finds out, he lets Louis on the scheme when he recovered from a near fatal overdose. Louis wants revenge on the Dukes more than Billy Ray. However, Billy Ray devises a simple scheme that makes everyone rich The Butler Coleman(Delholm Elliot), Ophelia, Louis, and Billy Ray. At least Louis gives him pointers at the stock market, to him it makes the street life look like child's play. Getting the piece of the pie couldn't taste any better. Great movie, great cast. This movie is one in a million! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Raucus Switcheroo Tale.","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's not like we haven't been here before -- a story about a poor guy who makes good at the top. Yes, we've been here. We're still Being There. To the story of the street-wise scam artist (Eddie Murphy) who is elevated to the top of a firm of commodity brokers in Philadelphia, there is added the story of Winthrop Lewis III (Dan Ayckroyd) who is dispossessed and ruined. The whole scheme is the result of a bet between the two Duke Brothers, Mortimer and Randolph (Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy, in parts for which they are eminently suitable).The Duke brothers have a one-dollar bet between them. Ameche believes that the human life course is determined by genetics. Randolph believes that environment determines character. It follows that the two powerful men must cause their most devoted workhorse, Ayckroyd, to be framed for theft and drugs, jailed, locked out of his home, deprived of his girl friend, forced to live in a prostitute's apartment (Jamie Lee Curtis), hock his last possession (a $6,500 watch) for fifty bucks, and be otherwise humiliated. He's reduced to donning an absolutely filthy Santa Claus suit to infiltrate the Dukes' Christmas Eve party. He stuff his pockets with food from the buffet and gets staggering drunk. On the bus home, while other passengers stare in disgust, he wrestles an entire slab of lox from inside his jacket and begins to gnaw on it through his shabby gray Santa Claus beard, eating the fake hair along with the fish. It may be the second most revolting scene put on film, next to the zombies chewing on human long bones in Night of the Living Dead. Eddie Murphy, as the low-tier swindler, proves to be a quick learner. The Dukes don't reveal their bet to him, but they more or less adopt him, give him Ayckroyd's apartment, and make him manager of the firm. What kind of firm is it? They are commodities brokers, as they patiently explain to Murphy. They have a table set with saucers containing commodities they trade. Now, this is wheat, such as you might find in bread. This is gold, and you know what gold is. Pork bellies are commodities that are turned into bacon, and you might have bacon in your bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich. (Murphy breaks the fourth wall and stares wordlessly at the camera for a moment.) He develops the kind of gut feelings about trading that lead to success -- in the movies, not in life. My gut feelings about the stock market might as well be generated by a Magic 8 Ball.Murphy accidentally learns about the bet, which explains why he's managing the company and Ayckroyd is down on his heels. They finally meet and plot their revenge, which takes place apace and ruins the Dukes in a confusing final scene. I've watched it a couple of times and still don't quite get it because of the poor editing. Somewhere along the line, it would have helped if one of the characters had pointed out to us dummies in the audience that when the orange crop is abundant, the price of oranges (and orange juice) goes down, not the other way around. When goods are all over the place, they're worthless. That's why it doesn't cost you anything to breathe air. It's only when they become scarce that they are valuable. Take gold, for example. What's gold good for? Nothing but filling teeth and making jewelry. Yet, you see, there is this thing called a value-added theory that posits -- well, never mind. I don't have to draw you a picture. Your portfolio is probably in much better shape than mine. I don't mind that -- but I don't see why you have to BRAG about it! This isn't an Eddie Murphy movie, although he's the star. Ayckroyd gets equal screen time, and there's plenty of room for the Dukes, Jamie Lee Curtis (who is not only funny when she first meets Ayckroyd and tries to hustle him, but she's sexy too). Kristin Holby as Ayckroyd's preppy girl friend, Penelope Witherspoon, also referred to as poopsie and other subculture-bound nicknames, has the role down pat. At one point, when Murphy is first adopted, he is urged to take a bath in a large marble tub. Jacuzzi, sir? asks the butler, Denholm Elliott. JACUZZI! I don't want no Jacuzzi. I knew you guys were faggots all the time. It's sadly ironic because poor Elliott died of AIDS a few years later.A few more points. Murphy invites all his friends from the bar into his new apartment for drinks, and then must undergo an epiphany when he watches them playing loud music, vomiting on his floor, drinking his champagne, and stubbing out their cigarettes on his Persian rug. He throws them all out, calling them freeloaders. His conversion takes about 15 seconds. And Jamie Lee Curtis is cursed with the role of the whore with a heart of gold, with which any actress, no matter how talented, can only do so much. The two heroes -- Murphy and Ayckroyd -- break the Dukes' backs, but they do it illegally and deserve to spend years in the slams, however much we might be happy about their success.I applaud the way Philadelphia is evoked. It's intimate, quiet, and old, not given to self display like Boston. Philadelphia was founded by Quakers who did not hold with pride, flamboyance, and arrogance. Massachussetts, founded by hard-headed Puritans, is known as the mother of presidents. Philadelphia has only given us one president (James Buchanan). You can see the differences in the style of their paintings. Copley's subjects are stern and confident. Eakins' are plain and homely. Anyway, read E. Digby Baltzell's Puritan Boston and Quaker Philadelphia. The movie is very funny at times -- and sometimes very sad. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A good comedy with stellar cast","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ** HERE MIGHT BE SPOILERS ** Recap Louis Winthorpe III (Aykroyd) is on the top of the world. He is working, managing a big respectable firm, owned by brothers Mortimer Duke (Ameche) and Randolph Duke (Bellamy). Winthopre's salary is good, he has a great home, including personal butler Coleman (Elliott), he is member of a prestigious club and he is about to marry. Life couldn't be better. On the other side of the community is Billy Ray Valentine (Murphy). He is making his living as a fake Vietnam veteran begging for money and frequently has trouble with the police. The Dukes, beside their greatest interest, making money, is interested in science and social studies. They argue if environment or heritage determines an individual's outcome in life. When Valentine one day is arrested for assault, after accidentally bumping in to Winthorpe, the Dukes decide to make an experiment. They make bail for Valentine, give him a good home and clothes (Winthorpe's home and clothes) and put him in charge of their firm. On the other hand they frame Winthorpe, having him arrested as a thief and drug dealer. They kick him out of his job and home, have his assets frozen and destroys his marriage by hiring a hooker (Lee Curtis) that the claims to be Winthorpe's girlfriend in front of his fiancé. Now the Dukes want to see if Valentine can thrive and if Winthorpe will resort to violence and crime.Comments This is somewhat of a classic movie with a stellar cast. The story is well thought through, there are no obvious plot holes. And it is funny and entertaining, even if both Aykroyd and Murphy have been better, they are somewhat restrained by the story. However there are some glances of their comic greatness, and as mentioned, the story is not bad at all. Other cast is good as well even their roles are only supporting the two main characters. But I did like Elliott as the butler Coleman, managing being both butlerish graceful and funny at the same time. Also James Belushi has a small but funny part. There is also a small social comment in this movie if one wants to look at it that way. It does not interfere with the comedy though, in fact it is in part the basis of it, and if you want to, you could possibly ignore it and just sit back and enjoy (and think about it some other time).7/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining introduction of Eddie Murphy to the movie world!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A little dated in its humour, Trading Places is still a fun film to watch. There have been so many with a similar story which have been no where near as good such as a film that starred Mel Brooks and Leslie Ann Warren but I can't remember it at the moment. Basically two brothers wealthy old brothers, who run a business in the stock market, make a bet that they can take a guy off the street, give him a large house, large wage packet and he'll be able to do a job just as well as any of there current employees, while at the same time dumping their top employee, played by Dan Ackroyd, on the street and having him turn to crime. Their bet, which involves ruining one guys life and making another guys life great, only to take it away after the bet is finshed, is actually only a wager of 1 dollar. Anyway the films plot is predictable but it ain't half funny along the way. Eddie Murphy is as you would expect, very funny especially when he is dressed up as a guy from Cameroon, Dan Ackroyd has rarely been better and Jamie Lee Curtis has rarely looked better, she is funny in this and looks stunning. She incidently also reveals her ample breasts on two occasions to keep the guys happy (I know it kept me happy tee hee) Anyhoo this film will make you laugh. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Great Switcheroo","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie once more after a long time and I laughed right out loud.  Eddie Murphy is funny - not too over the top and profanity kept to a minimum.  I love Dan Ackroyd and he is great in this flick as well.  And catch Jamie Lee Curtis in a great comic turn pre True Lies!  The movie DOES fall short in the last 30 minutes - I mean the whole train scene is kind of ridiculous.  But the puppets revenge on the puppeteers is terrific!!7 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Trading Places","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From director John Landis (The Blues Brothers, An American Werewolf in London), and back when a certain African American actor was being rude, there was this pretty good comedy. A successful Philadelphia commodity broker (buying and selling physical commodities, e.g. coffee, sugar and orange juice, and dealing with their futures), Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) has everything he needs, a mansion, a girlfriend, and manservant Coleman (BAFTA winning Denholm Elliott), and Billy Ray Valentine (Golden Globe nominated Eddie Murphy) is a hustling beggar with hardly any knowledge of the business world. Winthorpe's employees, the elderly Duke brothers, Randolph (Ralph Bellamy) and Mortimer (Don Ameche) have a bet that by swapping these two guys lifestyle, Billy will make good, while Louis will resort to crime to get by. Billy is bailed from jail, and almost automatically brought into this business world will all the stuff Louis had, while Louis is broke with no access to his fortune or property. The only help he gets is from prostitute Ophelia (BAFTA winning Jamie Lee Curtis) prepared to help him get back to his old life. Soon enough though, it is not just Louis that has issues with Billy, but Billy himself is suspicious of what the Duke brothers are up to, and why they have given this fortune to him. Louis at one point gets drunken and has a gun, but Billy discovers the Duke brothers bet, and in the end they get their own back at the commodities place lowering their intakes (or something like that). Also starring Die Hard's Paul Gleason as Clarence Beeks, James Belushi as Harvey/King Kong, Alfred Drake as Whittington President of Exchange and The Muppets' Frank Oz as Corrupt Cop. I can agree the ending is slightly brash, but this is still an entertaining film with great performances by Murphy, Aykroyd and Curtis (you even get to see her breasts). It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Elmer Bernstein, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Eddie Murphy was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Jamie Lee Curtis was number 52 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and the film was number 35 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest in history!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was sooooooo funny. I don't think I stopped laughing once. And Jamie Lee Curtis is hot (I bet you can guess my fav part hehe). See this one if u wanna laugh. 9 out of 10. Rated R for language and nudity. "},{"Title":"Unfunny and unpleasant","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Trading Places may well be one of the most overrated comedy films of all time. The film is really not the least bit funny. Not being funny would be enough to sink the film. But, populated as it is with totally detestable characters, Trading Places manages to be thoroughly unpleasant as well as desperately unfunny. Really the only person who comes away from this film with any credit at all is Jamie Lee Curtis who plays that classic movie cliché, the hooker with a heart of gold. Curtis's character, Ophelia, manages to have some charm to her and even a little bit of wit in what is otherwise a monumentally witless production. You don't get any laughs in this film but you do get casual and overt racism, characters in blackface and entirely uncomfortable scenes involving an amorous gorilla. And the one character you're meant to sympathize with is a pretentious, arrogant snot who is not the least bit sympathetic at all. This movie is a total misfire.The story involves a pair of miserable old jerks, the Duke brothers, who like to play God in their spare time. For their own amusement these racist lowlifes decide to conduct a little social experiment. They arrange for their brokerage's managing director, Louis, to swap lives with street hustler Billy Ray. They frame Louis for some piddling little crime and strip him of everything. He loses his job, his home, his car, his money, his fiancée and his butler. He's penniless, out on the street. Poor guy, right? But Louis is such an unlikeable chap you don't even feel bad for the guy. Meanwhile Billy Ray gets the life Louis had...job, home, car, butler, the whole shebang. Well not the whole shebang, he doesn't get the fiancée because we can't have a black man involved with the precious white woman. No, the Dukes would certainly not allow that. Anyhow, Billy Ray takes to his new life rather well. Louis gets some help from the aforementioned hooker. It all leads up to...a bewildering frozen orange juice transaction? Thrilling stuff, right? There really is very little to recommend this film. The story is boring, the jokes fall flat, important characters are repulsive. The overly long film just goes on and on with nothing funny or interesting happening. There are more offensive moments than funny ones in this film. The film's final act is absolutely excruciating, by that point you want to cover your eyes. Curtis does a good job with her part and Eddie Murphy injects a little life as Billy Ray. But Dan Aykroyd is an unfunny disaster playing Louis. And while Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche are notably fine actors the roles of the Dukes do the performers no favors. The Dukes are such scum that it's impossible to appreciate anything the actors playing them do. It's pretty much impossible to appreciate anything regarding this film. It's a film which has somehow achieved a sterling reputation but which in truth is a massive disappointment. "},{"Title":"Solid Comedy That Challenges Convention, But Shies From Answers","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy embark on a buddy film that's not really a buddy film, crossing paths only fleetingly before swapping lifestyles and trying the theory of nature vs. nurture amidst the hustle and bustle of Wall Street. Like the Richard Pryor comedy The Toy, there's a puzzling vein of not-so-subtle racism running through the core of this seemingly straight family comedy, particularly when Aykroyd dons black face in the third act, which is only partially settled at the conclusion. Maybe that's a product of the era in which it was made, though, and it seems somewhat validated, if not approved, by Murphy's close presence in every remotely thorny scene. Otherwise, this is a lightly funny, straight-ahead retread with a few good laughs but no rapid-fire side splitters. Murphy and Aykroyd are both solid as obnoxious stereotypes of the worst their culture has to offer, while Jamie Lee Curtis's turn as the hooker with a head for business challenges convention in different ways. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the all time funniest films. Eddie Murphy is great and keeps you laughing till it hurts. Dan is also a laugh and a half as the rich guy turned poor. Even if you don't like these two guys I still recommend you get this movies because you get to see Jamie Lee Curtis'  ***s TWICE!All in all its a really top comedy. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dan Akroyd is only a good actor when he has the right actors with him, and in this case he had Eddie Murphy and the whole transition that takes place in this movie is hillarious. Eddie Murphy discovered early on that you cannot act without a good storyline and he's been lucky to find many of them (Well the Eddie movies I have not seen are Metro, the beverly HIlls cop and 48 hours movies I'm not sure about those. This movie is great I don't want to explain the plot too much cause you'll feel like you've seen the whole movie. Motivation to see this movie Jaimie Lee Curtis' Breasts "},{"Title":"One of Eddie Murphy's finer movies","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I think of Eddie Murphy I always have a double feeling. His earlier work is good, but in my opinion all he has produced in more recent years (except for Shrek of course) shouldn't be shown to the public. This movie was already made in 1983, so one of his earlier movies, and is still good thanks to the more universal subject.Louis Winthorpe III has everything a man can dream of. He's rich, he has a gigantic house, he has a great job, he has a butler and a beautiful fiancé,... in short everything everyone would like. Winthorpe's bosses, the Duke brothers, only think about making profit, but one of the brothers is convinced that Winthorpe isn't such an exceptional talent as the other brother actually thinks. On one fine day Winthorpe bumps into Billy Ray Valentine in front of his office. Valentine is a little criminal, who regularly has some problems with the law. And again he gets into trouble, because Winthorpe is convinced that Valentine tries to rob him. Valentine flees into the office building and gets arrested and thrown into jail, but the Duke brothers have seen him and decide to bet on the fact if Valentine could be at least as successful as Winthorpe. They pay his bail and take him with them. They offer him Winthorpe's job, his money, his house..., while they give Winthorpe the life of Valentine.The story is nice and Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd were very well casted. They both did a good job in this movie. Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche are also nice to watch as the Duke brothers, the bosses of the company, but the other actors' performances weren't always very remarkable. All in all this comedy is certainly worth a watch (especially because it is one of Murphy's finer ones), but it just isn't as good as I hoped it would be. I give it a 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with this comedy but no classic either really...","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very well executed comedy but it just ain't no classic in my book.The story is well executed but it's just a little bit too flat and standard in my opinion. The style is typical eighties like, meaning the visual style is practically zero. I don't what it is with me and eighties style movies, I just don't like it. Seventies movies had style, nineties movies had style, current movies are having an own unique style, eighties movies just didn't, although there are exceptions of course.Eddie Murphy was surprising good in his role, he shows that he is a real comedy expert. The rest of the cast consists out of actors such as Dan Akroyd, Jamie Lee Curtis, Denholm Elliott (I was very excited to see Elliot in this role, I had only seen him in his Indiana Jones roles) and some small parts played by James Belushi and Frank Oz (great to see him without a puppet attached to him).The movie has some funny moments variation from hilarious to just funny. The whole bit in the train cabin was priceless, when Eddie Murphy pretended to be a Cameroonian student, I couldn't stop laughing.Good comedy but it's getting a bit outdated and standard.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"first half good, falls on its face","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What was John Landis thinking? What kind of movie did he want to make? Trading Places starts out good enough, with street tough Eddie Murphy and rich snob Dan Aykroyd trading roles due to a series of hilarious circumstances. This premise works well, and had this theme been continued and developed throughout the length of the movie, it would have been a great comedy of manners--and uproariously funny. Unfortunately, around the time Jamie Lee Curtis shows up (wasted in this role), the movie degenerates into a moronic kiddie show complete with silly costumes and a horny gorilla and a jewel heist. What does all this have to do with Murphy and Aykroyd trading places? Who cares? A witty and fresh farce that winds up insulting your intelligence--and your wallet. And all the more unforgivable because of its promising beginning. First half 9 Second half 2 Overall 4-5  Very disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Not half as good as its reputation and tacitly racist","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a disappointment, and that's putting it mildly without resorting to any of the four-letter words that are frowned upon by IMDb. 'A comedy classic', they tell you, 'Dan Akroyd and Eddie Murphy at the top of their game' someone has written here, 'not to be missed', 'timeless' to which I should like to add 'witless'. At my most charitable, I could say 'well, this was made in 1983 and we have moved on since then', but the trouble with that excuse is that 'classics' don't date. It's what makes them classics. It's what makes Bringing Up Baby a classic, it what make all those Bogart film noir classics. OK, I'll try to be charitable again and concede that, at least, this is not out and out bad. But my problem is that, sorry, I do think it is rather bad. I can't think of a good thing about it. At best every single character is two-dimensional, the situations are hackneyed, the 'message' is sub-adolescent, the humour is first-grade and the direction is unimaginative. And there is also one hell of a problem with this film's purported attack on racism yes, there are those pretty hackneyed moments where 'black character rolls his eyes at rich whitey character's crass behaviour (the $10 annual tip) to show we - the producers and us the viewers - have a liberal sensibility, but those hackneyed moments have 'liberal white sensibility' written all over them. They are the white man allowing the black man out of his box for a moment's freedom. The giveaway is the portrayal of other black character's, for example at Eddie Murphy's new home they are druggies, drunkards and amoral - and crucially - not too black, not as black as the blacks I know in London and Birmigham, in fact a sanitised, white version of black so as not to frighten the horses. Too black, you feel, blacks really speaking their mind might upset a white audience, so let's play it safe, the producers will have told themselves, and give our audience a white version of black. Then there is the film's schizophrenic - and I would claim - the U.S.'s schizophrenic attitude to wealth and 'class'. Hollywood likes to come on like the little man's champion but simply cannot conceal its awe and respect for wealth and the trappings of wealth. So finally the pinnacle of 'street con artist' Eddie Murphy's ambition is to live it up like the abhorrent Duke brothers because, it would seem Hollywood would have us believe, that is the highest goal of everyman. No, it's not, not by a long chalk. Considering Trading Places as a film, it is pretty lazy, not so say slapdash in other respects there is no character development of any kind. This is cartoon story-telling. Valentine can be transformed from a not-so-clever lying street con artist into an intelligent commodities broker with a feeling for justice in a matter of days just by dressing him in a jacket? Yes, in a cartoon, but not in a 'comedy classic'. Winthorpe can see the light and be transformed from an unpleasant snob into a proper human being after just a few days 'on the streets' and - cliché alert - the 'love of a good woman'? And no street whore she, no, sir, she is saving up to make something of herself in that way the American system rather likes and expects. Give me a break. Where's the wit, where's the intelligence. This is filmmaking by numbers. And another example of how this film is off-kilter. What was the point of all that horsing around on the train, with Murphy as a cartoon Cameroonian student, Denholm Elliot as a stage oirish whisky priest, Jamie Lee Curtis as a pantomime Nordic maiden and - most off-kilter of all - Akroyd blacked up to play the laid-back West Indian? Everything about that segment of the film is redundant and complete rubbish, from the John Belushi gorilla (Lord, did I laugh), to the two porters and the whole conception of the scene. Why is it there? Well, to get laughs I suppose, but - well, it didn't. It was awful. Trading Places is for those who think a McDonald's is the pinnacle of cooking and who like their truths candy-wrapped for safety's sake. It was most certainly not for me.PS In making a few corrections, I have just been looking at other recent reviews of. Did they see the same film as me? Apparently not. I'll repeat witless, unfunny, clichéd and borderline racist. "},{"Title":"The Comedian Eddie Murphy","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In 'Trading Places', Eddie Murphy appears as a non-threatening bum that is down on his luck, who , for a price of a dollar, is the butt of a joke played by Ralph Bellamy and Don Ameche who use Murphy to trade places with Dan Akroyd. Here, we not only see the comedian Eddie Murphy, we also see the yardstick for 1980's Hollywood humour. Murphy sets the trend for what would epitomise 80's Hollywood humour films, and becomes an overnight success at the age of 22. Eddie Murphy is the black man in 1980's Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Trading Places","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny concept with old pros Bellamy and Ameche scamming snotty business mogul Aykroyd by trading his place with a lowlife played by Murphy. John Landis adds his usual touch, but it is the performances that add the flavor. Elliott is especially outstanding as the butler, Coleman and Curtis is sexier than ever in her hooker with a heart of gold role. Aykroyd and Murphy are great together and their penchant for great timing shows throughout the entire piece.    "},{"Title":"Overrated 1980s Comedy, Though Better On Second View","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Duke brothers Randolph (Ralph Bellamy) and Mortimer (Don Ameche) own a successful commodities brokerage in Philadelphia. Holding opposing views on the issue of nature versus nurture, they make a wager of the usual amount and agree to conduct an experiment switching the lives of two people at opposite sides of the social hierarchy and observing the results. The storyline is often called a modern take on Mark Twain's classic 19th century novel The Prince and the Pauper.Many people love this film and the cable networks play it all the time, because everyone loves it... it gets probably as much play as any John Hughes film. But, on the first viewing, it is just not that great. Strangely, though, o nthe second viewing, it gets far more amusing.John Landis is great. The premise of heredity versus education (nature versus nurture) is great. Dan Ackroyd is usually good, and Al Franken always is. Eddie Murphy has more flops than successes (though the 80s were good to him), and Jamie Lee Curtis is a butterface. Murphy is funny in about half of this movie, but annoying in the other half. He is an acquired taste.The film's biggest problem is that Wall Street and commodities trading plays a large part in the plot. For most of it, this is not really important, but it becomes quite a big deal as the film progresses. Without understanding how buying and selling commodities works, the plot is really hard to fully grasp.There is an interesting commentary here on race, but it never fully takes off and what can be made of it (if anything) is up to the viewer. "},{"Title":"not funny","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Too long, not enough laughs, Dan Aykroyd cant act... I was 19 when this movie came out and even then I was not convinced by the hype it got and rightly so... it was unfunny and boring then and after just re-watching it with my now bored to death teenage kids I realise it was even worse than I thought. The plot is OK to begin with but then drifts into tedious share trading nonsense with a story akin to a scooby doo episode. Anyhow, anyone that reckons this is the best comedy they have seen etc etc is a moron and is probably the sort of person that tells boring long jokes that no one laughs at and lives with a bed ridden fat person. It's a bit like a cross between a bad Disney movie and a maths lesson you once fell asleep in. "},{"Title":"Of its time.","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I now know why all the guys in junior high school were raving about this movie when it came out. Gratuitous boobies! I guess I should have seen it in the 80's. Seeing it recently brought how how dated it was.It had an interesting premise. Two indecently rich brothers decide to play a social experiment for a bet - supposedly to settle a bet about the influence of Nature/Nurture. It had potential and some parts of it worked. (the 'payoff' scene where you realize what it was all about-was hilarious). There were a few good jabs at racial & class issues. (their assumptions that the con man was from a singemother,broken home,life of crime..etc.) However, it's just a little too hard to swallow the whole premise and how coincidentally it all works out. And I know it's just a comedy, but the characters were rather painfully 1 dimensional (hooker w/ a heart of gold (yawn!); shallow/vapid fiancée who dumps him at the first sign of trouble & runs back to Muffy+Buffy; racist, selfish, corrupt old guys, etc. A little more character development might've helped. We're to believe that he fell in love with Jaime Lee Curtis that quickly for being nice to him?I could have lived with those minor points, but there just kept being a few scenes that threw off the film for me.What was the point of showing Eddie Murphy's uncultured African-American friends? The women felt compelled to dance topless at a party, the rest of the partygoers ruin your expensive furniture & carpets? So he's forced to reject all his former friends? Why? And, why is rape funny - in any context? I really didn't get why the gorilla scene was supposed to be funny or why it went on way too long.Blackface? Seriously? wow.Anyway, it had enough laughs that it was worth watching, but you definitely need to remember that it's from the 80's and very solidly rooted there. "}{"Title":"OK but too long and not as consistently funny as it probably should be...","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just saw Trading Places in its true entirety for the first time in many years. I have often caught various scenes on TV but never sat down and watched it since first viewing long ago. My opinion remains the same. I'm a big fan of Eddie Murphy, a pretty big fan of Dan Aykroyd, and in general '80s comedies and SNL -- but this one is a bit too long (over 120 mins, uncut and unedited w/ commercials on television) -- it does have some very funny sequences and in particular the beginning is great but after that it sort of goes downhill. I thought the plot was incredibly weak and a bit too contrived -- Aykroyd's sudden complete loss of...everything was wholly unbelievable. I suppose it could be somewhat believable if not for the fact that Eddie Murphy suddenly replaces him and no one else seems to notice, or care. No business colleagues notice what is going on, etc. Then there's the scene where Aykroyd is walking by the restaurant and sees them all inside. He HAD to know what was going on when he saw Don Ameche with Eddie Murphy. He had to know they had set him up. Why didn't he just go into the restaurant and confront them?Yeah, it's just a comedy or just a movie but there's a difference between suspension of disbelief (which I don't mind at all -- I own Commando!) and being downright stupid. It's the little stuff like this I don't like. It starts out as a fairly realistic comedy but is waaay too silly and over-the-top at times. (E.g. the guy getting put in with a gorilla - funny for a slapstick like Naked Gun, perhaps, but not for an otherwise realistic comedy.) It would at least be fun if it weren't so long! There are long gaps were nothing really happens. Many punchlines are clearly supposed to be funny, but aren't. There's an entire scene where Murphy is being given instructions about how Wall Street works and it goes on for about two minutes, before he says You two sound like a coupl'a bookies to me. It's supposed to be the punchline to the scene, but it takes so long getting to it, and frankly, it just isn't very funny. Eddie Murphy is usually good at creating likable characters, or at least funny ones, but his character here seemed to just disappear and reappear so often I never really felt as if I was getting to know him -- he seemed more like a co-star. Dan Aykroyd gives a much better performance in general (or at least he has better material to work with in regards to his character).I prefer Beverly Hills Cop (my favorite Eddie performance), The Blues Brothers, Coming to America (with a clever reference to Trading Places) and even the mediocre (but entirely watchable and enjoyable) Great Outdoors to this. Trading Places is OK but certainly not the classic many seem to think it is. It's too long with too many unfunny scenes, the plot is a bit too unbelievable to take seriously, the characters are all over the place and this all creates a cold distance -- it's hard for me to warm up to the movie, I guess. "},{"Title":"Jamie-Lee Curtis's breasts are the most impressive part of this film...","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Coming from two comic stars, Dan Akroyd and Eddie Murphy, you would think any film boasting these names would be enough to bring tears of merriment to the sourest of complexions.Yet this flaccid and paceless comedy (about how, surprisingly enough, people actually don't like losing everything they own) brought a couple of chuckles, it wasn't consistently funny or even interesting enough (throw in some half-assed info about share trading to bulk out the plot? Why?) to rate above an average rating in my opinionated book.There was nothing atrocious about this film, but nothing remotely inspiring either.5/10Oh, but did I mention Jamie-Lee Curtis?... "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The moral of the story is&#133; A poor man, a man who's poverty stricken, homeless and in need of food, will more than likely turn to crime in order to survive. However&#133;if this man is given the right education, the right opportunities and guidance in life, he can change into a well respected, law abiding citizen.A Wealthy man on the other-hand, a man with a grade-A education, a mans who's opportunities and good living has come from, money, money which has ultimately led to him to success. If you strip this man of his money, take away his wealth and happiness, eventually this man will crumble and will ultimately turn to crime.I, however find this to be, 'UTTER SHASH' some people are just BAD APPLES!!!!The film itself is not much better, the jokes haven't aged well at all and the script is very thin. It becomes tiresome almost to the point of suicide. It has the rare moment of class, but they're 'very few' and not 'very far' between. The idea is good but the delivery is just short of, abysmal.Overall&#133; For a first time viewer, he may become delusional and led to believe this is a good film, but don't be fooled folks&#133; watch it again and it will soon become clear. You'll be picking so many bad bones out of it; you'll be choking on them for a month. "},{"Title":"Why is this so popular?","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd heard many times that this was a great comedy, so I checked it out.It was shockingly unamusing. I laughed for the first time about an hour into the film. I can't remember the joke, and I don't know if I laughed again. The whole thing became irritatingly predictable and facile. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A total waste!  Can't believe some people even think this formula movie is funny! -- Stereotypes; the whole story is revealed in the first few minutes and we then just sit and watch the mill grind out the scenes in predictable order.  Not sure I really laughed once during the whole exercise! "},{"Title":"John Landis is a lousy director","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've seen enough movies of Landis to be able to make the following statement usually when a person doesn't have much material to start off with but succeeds in getting good results we say that he got the most from the least. With John Landis I would take that quote and flip it around John Landis gets the least from the most if we consider the high quality of the actors he worked with or the very interesting stories he dealt with (often written by himself).John Landis is the director that almost ruined THE BLUES BROTHERS, a film that I do not consider a masterpiece but certainly would have been so in the hands of another director.TRADING PLACES is a movie destroyed by Mr. Landis. I have never seen a movie with absolutely no rhythm at all, with never a wriggle, with the actors moving slow-motion. This movie is an airplane that fails take-off and crashes not having picked up any speed. What a pity to see Eddie Murphy almost plastered, unable to move as he would like to. What a pity to see an interesting story flattened that way.Mr Landis, stick to what you do best writing movies. Stay away from direction. "}]