[{"Title":"Sense of place, sense of menace","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"100 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I am a little amazed that, so far, only 40 comments have been entered. Fortunately most are of high quality, and all the important points related to the film are clearly highlighted. So, I will not repeat what has been well said by others. I want to explain one additional point, it has to do with my personal experience but might be interesting to mention.I'm a professional expatriate, living overseas for 25 years. I'm not talking about an American in Paris or an Englishman in New York, I mean African steppes, tropical jungles, Indian slums. Living in a totally foreign country, in a totally strange culture, imperfectly understanding the local language, bewildered by alien logic, you experience a permanent sense of unease. You adapt, you learn to cope, you make what you hope are friends. But you never forget that you are a stranger in unknown territory, and that you are vulnerable.You may peacefully walk on the street one minute, the next minute bullets are flying all around you. In the evening you have a pleasant drink with your neighbour, in the morning you are arrested, accused of being a foreign mercenary. When you travel inland you come at a road block, not knowing if they'll let you pass, or harass you for a couple of hours, or confiscate your car. As a foreigner in developing countries, you are constantly confronted with uncertainty, an intangible menace lurking around the corner.I find that TYOLD transmits this sense of menace very poignantly. Many people have commented on its brilliant sense of place, the accurate depiction of Indonesia and the events that took place at the time. Others mention that you get a very real feeling of the tension and uncertainty journalists in times of upheaval are subjected to. But I would like to extend it beyond journalists. The sense of menace in TYOLD is eminently recognizable by all who have lived in countries where the police is not there to protect you, the laws are not there to make society more civilized, the hospitals are not there to cure you. In TYOLD, the menace is made visible because of the troubles that erupt, but usually you do not have to live through civil war when overseas. Still, the menace is not less real, and the sense of foreboding haunting every expatriate was very convincingly conveyed in the film. "},{"Title":"Pretty much a flawless movie","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"59 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I watched TYLD after a prof recommended it in grad school. I had to rent it from an obscure-movies rental place in Alexandria, Virginia and I now own the picture.There are three elements, mixed together, that make TYLD superb, rich cinema. First, it captures the feel of westerners living abroad, the cluster of expat personalities that you find were you to live or work abroad.Second, it is one of the best love stories ever crafted, with a fleeting end of summer feel between Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver. They are both young; Weaver is stunningly gorgeous. Their romance ends almost as abruptly as it begins. We've all been there.The movie also captures an awesome historical moment and is fascinating Cold War history. The movie is flawless. "},{"Title":"A brilliant exposition of Indonesia circa the 1965 revolution","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  15 years after its release, I finally get to see what to my knowledge is the only english-speaking film that tells the story of Indonesia circa the 1965 revolution.A very young Gibson is convincing as the inexperienced but ambitious reported determined to make his mark in telling the story of Sukarno's last moments in power. Equally brilliant is Sigourney Weaver, and yet one feels that this film did not give her the opportunity to show her true calibre.The one who ultimately steals the show, then, is Linda Hunt, playing the enigmatic and passionate Billy, who understands the true psyche of Indonesia better than any of the other foreign characters in this story.When Billy solemnly expresses his disappointment to Guy, proclaiming, I created you, it evoked images of Weir's latest masterpiece, The Truman Show, where Christof has fashioned the persona of Truman Burbank for his TV spectacle. Perhaps a running theme in Peter Weir's work? Must check out...I marvelled at the authenticity of the setting. It certainly looked like Jakarta. The faces, the atmosphere, the buildings, and yet, those scenes were shot in the Philippines, with mainly Filipino actors! Just goes to show the similarity among Indonesia and the Philippines.I see now why this film was never made available in Indonesia (to my knowledge). The last few moments of the film show the stark reality of communist executions by Soeharto's new military regime, horrifying pictures of mere pawns being slaughtered... and the parting message from a self-confessed PKI memberAm I stupid for wanting to change my country's condition? is one of the best lines in this film. "},{"Title":"A Truly Beautiful Film See It If You Get The Chance!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The film is wonderfully sensate, alive and filled with exotic beauty and deep passions.The colors, textures and sound have a dimensionality that draws the viewer right into the scene, the place the time... when it rains, the viewer can feel the rain, when the hero, Guy is being drowned in a dream, the viewer senses the suffocation... The chemistry between Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver, as young lovers in exciting times, is breath-taking!But Linda Hunt is the biggest gem in the movie, playing a little man named Billy Kwan. She is incredibly credible in this role. Few female actresses can believably pull-off playing a male character, but Hunt did it so well that, at first, the viewer feels a familiarity with the person playing Billy without realizing he is being played by a woman. When I realized it, I was totally amazed. Hunt is a great actress well-deserving of the Oscar she won for the portrayal.The film is evocative and enthralling. And so alive, so utterly alive!_The Year of Living Dangerously_ has and is everything a film should be.  "},{"Title":"Politics, Mysticism and Romance","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  In The Year of Living Dangerously director Peter Weir attempts much and accomplishes most of his goals.  It's a socio-political essay on the dangers of Western meddling in Third World countries.  It's a fascinating view into the challenges of journalism in a volatile foreign country.  It's a steamy romance involving two beautiful, intelligent characters.  It's a distinctly Far Eastern morality play that seems to delight in yin/yang paradoxes.  Plus it's one of the best films at evoking the mood, texture, and sensuality of life in Southeast Asia.  Don't be too harsh on Weir for the lapses in historic accuracy and plotting, because it's a complicated, busy landscape he is painting here.  The best things about the film are-Linda Hunt's amazing performance.  Unlike other gender-bending performances (Julie Andrews in Victor/Victoria, Dustin Hoffman in Tootsie) you never once give any thought to the fact that this is a woman playing a man.  It's a seamless transition and a performance of immense heart and honesty.  The image of a distraught Billy pounding at his typewriter, pleading What then must we do? while an aria swells around him and the eyes of Jakarta's poor stare at him from his own photographs, is an incredibly moving scene.-The atmosphere created by the combination of Russell Boyd's  cinematography and Maurice Jarre's score.  Take a look at the scene with Weaver walking through the streets of Jakarta in a tropical downpour.  The effect is breathtaking.-The chemistry between Gibson and Weaver.  You can feel the heat between them.  Unlike other posters here, I believe their romance is one of the film's strong points.I agree that the ending is a bit of a letdown, but it doesn't diminish Weir's accomplishments.  The Year of Living Dangerously is a startling unique film, and certainly one his best. "},{"Title":"Despite some weaknesses, a strong movie","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Peter Weir's movie, set in Sukarno's Indonesia in 1965, can be seen as four films in one. The first is socio-political, focusing on the plight of the impoverished Indonesian people, the impending insurrection by the communist movement, and the bloody, chaotic aftermath of the coup. The second, coloured in Graham Greene-ish tones, has a cast of western journalists and diplomats failing to make sense of what's happening around them, and falling back on sex, drink and cynicism. The third - and most important in commercial-cinema terms - is a convincingly acted romance between rookie foreign correspondent Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) and British diplomat Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver), culminating in an unlikely and sentimental ending to the film.But it is the fourth of these sub-movies which is the most intriguing; this concerns the diminutive and enigmatic Australian/Chinese photographer Billy Kwan, an astonishing - and Oscar winning - portrayal by actress Linda Hunt. Billy sees himself as a puppet-master, pulling the strings of friends and colleagues, particularly of Jill and Guy, whom he throws together. But his need to take control also motivates him to help local people, not through indirect and political means, but directly like an early Christian, and this apparently benign course leads to tragedy. Billy is the true heart and conscience of this film.  Weir is not entirely successful in weaving these strands together, and leaves a few gaps in both plot and characterisation. He is also occasionally guilty of melodrama (a fault which, in the movie, Jill warns Guy about), especially in the film's closing scenes - though certainly not where he shows communist sympathisers being shot, which is factual. On the whole, however, the movie works on both commercial and artistic levels, and should be seen.  "},{"Title":"riveting, and this film is not aging","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I just caught TYOLD again on PBS, not having seen it for perhaps ten years.  Wonder of wonders, compared to many other films of the early '80s, this one is just as riveting as it was when I first saw it and doesn't look like it has aged a minute.  In addition I am picking up many nuances of the film that I had never seen before.What I know, and knew, about the tribulations of Indonesia in the 1960's is contained in the reels of this film.  The subject matter is so far outside of the typical Western/American perspective that it is amazing that the film got made.  Gibson is very good as Guy Hamilton, and his performance is much more lean and energetic than what he has done since - he hadn't had years of Hollywood gloss and Lethal Weapon familiarity to file down his performances into the predictable boxes they have become.  Sigourney Weaver is elegant, although her English accent is never really convincing and sometimes disappears altogether.  Linda Hunt's portrayal of Billy Kwan is astonishing and won her a well-deserved Oscar in an incredible gender-switching performance that was inspired casting.One thing I never noticed before was how Billy placed each of the three main characters in their perspective as the Indonesian puppets he explains to Guy.  Arjuna, the hero who can be fickle and selfish (Guy).  The princess he will fall in love with (Weaver's character).  And the dwarf, who carries the wisdom for Arjuna (Billy Kwan).  I haven't much more to say about this film aside from how much I admire it and recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it.  Beautifully shot, well paced, with good performances and about an interesting and important subject matter, it is well worth your time. "},{"Title":"One of the best of all times","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  How anyone could have seen this movie and not recognized the depth of its social commentary and personal integrity is beyond me. This movie is written with power and intelligence, is performed impeccably and directed with cinematic genius. If you have not seen this movie, take time out to be touched in your head and heart. "},{"Title":"Riveting  and emotive political-drama set  in Indonesia during Sukarno's fall","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This excellent movie is set in 1965 Indonesia, when an Australian reporter named Gay Hamilton is assigned on his first work as a foreign journalist. His apparently simple mission to Yakarta soon turns hot when he interviews a rebel leader , while President Sukarno was toppling by pressure left from communists and right from military. Guy soon is the hottest reporter with the help of his photographer, a native, half- Chinese midget named Kwan . Eventually Hamilton must confront moral conflicts and the relationship between Billy and him reaches some problems connected with a British diplomatic attaché , at the same time the political upheaval takes place in coup détat.Mel Gibson is good as correspondent covering a conflict and finding himself becoming personally involved when he befriends a free-lance photographer named Billy Kwan and falling for a beautiful Embassy assistant, a mesmerizing Sigourney Weaver .The movie has its touching moments found primarily in the superb supporting performances as Michael Murphy as lively journalist , Bill Kerr as veteran Colonel and of course diminutive Linda Hunt who steals the show as sensible photographer in her Academy Award-winning character, a woman acting a man, and well deservedly prized. Moving and intimate musical score though composed by synthesizer by Maurice Jarre. Atmospheric cinematography that adequate as a mood-piece by Russell Boyd. The motion picture is stunningly directed by Australian director Peter Weir who achieved several hits (Witness, Gallipoli, The last wave) and some flop (Mosquito coast, The plumber). The movie belongs to sub-genre that abounded in the 80s about reporters around the world covering dangerous political conflicts , such as Nicaragua in ¨Under fire¨ by Robert Spottswoode with Nick Nolte , Gene Hackman and Joanna Cassidy, Salvador in ¨Salvador¨ by Oliver Stone with James Woods and James Belushi, and Libano in ¨Deadline¨ by Nathaliel Gutman with Christopher Walken and Hywel Bennett. These movies are very much in the vein of ¨The year of living dangerously ¨. "},{"Title":"Haunting, Sensual and Unforgettable...","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Banned in Indonesia for nearly 20 years after its release, Peter Weir's 1983 political melodrama THE YEAR OF LIVING DANGEROUSLY (TYLD) remains the only film in existence set during the failed Communist revolution of 1965 which swept corrupt dictator Sukarno out of office only to replace him with the equally corrupt Suharto. The plot revolves around the coming-of-age of neophyte journalist Guy Hamilton (played by Mel Gibson before Hollywood stardom ruined his looks and bloated his ego to titanic proportions), recently arrived in Djakarta from Australia and looking to break big stories and make a name for himself - fast. Guy is befriended by ace photographer Billy Kwan (more on him later), a half-Chinese, half-Indonesian dwarf who has connections in very high places and believes in President Sukarno's benevolence. The political situation in the country is tense - mass protests block traffic in the streets while a Communist revolution brews behind the scenes and Sukarno's position grows more anxious by the day. Naive and self-centered, Guy sees his new world entirely through selfish eyes - as though all Indonesia existed only for his personal entertainment and enrichment. Guy is far from alone in this regard, as the racist and sexually-exploitative behavior of his fellow-journalists demonstrates (a scene in which one of Guy's colleagues takes his pick from literally a score of desperate girls all too eager to sell themselves for a few dollars is horrific). Despite the post-WW II setting, European colonialism in Asia seems alive and well, with Western diplomats and expatriates living lives of material abundance far removed from the miserable reality of Asia's slums. Thanks to Billy Kwan's connections and friendship, Guy not only gains access to leading political players - making his name via an exclusive interview with the head of the Indonesian Communist Party - but meets the beautiful Jill Bryant (played nicely by Sigourney Weaver, whose acting is better than her accent). Jill is an assistant at the British Embassy and as such, is privy to a great deal of classified information. The pair seem to be wildly in love, but is Jill more important to Guy than his career? Before the story ends, Guy Hamilton will see blood spilled, lose his best friend, learn that Asian politics isn't a spectator sport, and that his white skin is no guarantee of safety and security. Truthfully, TYLD is something of a misfire as a political thriller - somehow, the plot doesn't quite cohere, the period setting is less than convincing, and indeed, the political aspects of the piece ultimately take a backseat to what starts to become the real story of the film - Guy's loss of arrogance and innocence, the development of his relationship with Jill, and the self-destruction of Billy Kwan. Taken as a romance and as a character study, TYLD succeeds beyond its wildest expectations. Weir - always a master of that intangible yet essential quality called atmosphere - creates here what has to be one of the most sensuous films of all time. The heat of the equatorial air is palpable, the crowded slums visceral. As many other reviewers have noted, the chemistry between Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver in this film is breathtaking - the sequence where they get caught in a sudden downpour, take shelter in a car, and ALMOST kiss is to this reviewer one of the most erotic scenes in all cinema - and perhaps rarely have two attractive humans been photographed so superbly as they are here - so much so that one can overlook Miss Weaver's tenuous English accent, which comes and goes at intervals before finally vanishing altogether. Linda Hunt's Oscar-winning gender-crossing portrayal of the brilliant but doomed Billy Kwan is superlative - what, indeed, is to be done about such mass poverty and suffering? The Vangelis soundtrack is also brilliant - lush waves of synthesized chords wash over the viewer, making the perfect aural counterpart to the film's rich photography. The ending - in which Guy has to make a choice between his ego and his lover - is gripping and suspenseful. The film's slow, even languid, pace only adds to the hothouse and strangely self-contained atmosphere. This movie isn't just something you watch - it is a remarkable sensual experience all by itself and a reminder of the power and beauty that the screen can bring to the human face. This reviewer has loved this great film ever since watching it repeatedly on cable TV as a child in the 80s - there is nothing quite like this movie's atmosphere anywhere else. Don't miss this sexy and though-provoking work of art! "}{"Title":"One of the Great Atmosphere Films","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Ever since I first saw this film, it has been one of my favorite. The performances are not perfect, but the chemistry between the main characters is electric. The semi-fictitious plot (it is said to be somewhat based on a period of the life of reporter Peter Arnet) melds so nicely with the historical events of 1960's Indonesia. Linda Hunt well deserved the Academy Award, but I felt that it should have also been nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay, Director, Film, and Cinematography. The story follows the novel of which it was based better than 95% of the time. The Atmosphere of the film always leaves me awe-struck. By the end I feel like I have lived Guy's life. It is a romantic film with a small dose of action that both men and women should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Luke 310","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Having just watched this movie again after seeing it in its original theatrical run back in the early 80's, I can truly say I was more impressed by it the second time around. Several comments here have pointed out the nuances in the film. Let me point to one more. Rarely has a movie used a passage of scripture so effectively. Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt) mentions to Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) at the film's beginning Luke 310. His simple rephrasing of it is, What must we do? It's a question that haunts the character throughout life. I went back and reread it after the movie. John the Baptist has just called the Pharisees a brood of vipers for not practicing their religion with any measure of compassion. In answer to their question what must we do?, he instructs them to share their excess of clothing and food with those less fortunate. Billy dies tragically in the film while hanging a banner which reads Sukarno, Feed Your People. It is the poverty and oppression of the people which drives Billy throughout his brief life, even as he recognizes the futility of his own efforts.  "},{"Title":"One of Weir's best","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Saw this excellent film at a small town cinema in 1983. There weren't more than a dozen people in the audience --just more evidence (as if we needed it) that quality doesn't guarantee popularity. It stars Mel Gibson as Guy Hamilton, a journalist in Sukarno's Indonesia who is so naive that he is tempted to break the cardinal rule of reporting and get involved. Linda Hunt is Billy Kwan, Guy's photographer and cultural interpreter, who finds inspiration in the Gospel of Luke for an ultimately tragic attempt to change the poverty and hopelessness around him. Sigourney Weaver is Jill, who may or may not be a British spy. On another level, the main characters in the film (hero, heroine, servant) parallel one of the seminal tales of Indonesian folklore. Having grown up in the tropics myself, I found the atmosphere of the film consistently authentic. It oozes heat and sweat, along with the uncertainty and quiet menace that's always just beneath the surface when one is a privileged foreigner in a poor country. Don't take it personally, Billy says to Guy as they walk through a slum, the focus of everyone's abuse. You're just a symbol of the West to them. I feel more like a bloody spittoon, Guy replies. Jill doesn't share Guy's budding sense of compassion (Watch out for the melodrama, she tells him) but she cares about Guy. The flip side of Guy's character is Pete Curtis (Michael Murphy), a grinning, amoral journalist who gets his comeuppance, though he doesn't yet know it, when he announces triumphantly near the end of the film I got Saigon!. This is not an action thriller or escapist romance, but something better a journey to a place where flawed characters face hard choices --stand by and observe, or get involved -- that are no different from what the rest of us have to make. "},{"Title":"Elemental cinema","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I had forgotten what it is to inhabit the frame, that is to be immersed not only in the world these characters experience but in the sensations made available in it. To feel a draught of air or the scorching heat.Peter Weir here in his best period reminds me again. His fascination in this period with the otherworldly is firstly Australian, that of a man awed by the mysteries of an alien, ancient landscape that trumps comprehension, outlasts our follies and dreams, then foremostly mystical, implying a communion with worlds beyond. In this world answers are denied us, and we can only hear vague echoes of the questions we have asked. This is Picnic at Hanging Rock as well as The Last Wave and The Year of Living Dangerously, the tingle of excitement and fear before this enormous complexity to which we are only small and transient. The Hanging Rock here becomes Jakarta.These visions of Jakarta, a veritable jungle of humanity teeming with passions and cruelties, he presents from a point of view that communicates alienation and fear. When our white characters venture out into the crowded slums, human misery reaches out at them with filthy gaunt arms. All this he doesn't merely document for the sake of political discourse, he stylizes as an experience meant to stir things in the soul. This also outlines Weir's limitations; that these visions are perhaps too tawdry, the savages noble and the gnomes magical.All this in mind, the film is best experienced for me as a spiritual journey. But towards what? A dwarf is our guide through this, an ominpresent being that seems to create the story we are watching, an avatar of the filmmaker's consciousness. He narrates our hero's arrival, then makes him see his limits by offering him his folly, the desire for an exclusive story. In a poignant scene early in the film, holding shadow puppets before a canvas screen, he reveals to him a fundamental tenet of Buddhist thought. How desire clouds the soul so that reality itself becomes concave.This is not always perfect of course, Peter Weir is no Antonioni after all. Our hero eventually gives up the big scoop to pursue love, but this is accomplished through violence perpetrated to him rather than a personal realization that comes from having experienced the folly of the mind (which Antonioni brilliantly dismantles for us in Blowup). Lying halfdead on a filthy bed somewhere in Jakarta, he remembers the wise words of how desire blinds the soul, but is none the wiser.He doesn't willingly give up anything, which is to say even if his precious tape recorder (the tool by which he records the world, seeking truth) is snatched from him in the airport at the last moment, he has essentially lost nothing that he doesn't carry inside of him.Perhaps this is the film's apogee then, that faced with a chaos and violence which outlasts them and reveals them to be small and diminutive, mere specs of sand in the cosmic beach, the characters of the film stubbornly remain the same, having brushed off that encounter only as an exciting, dangerous escapade into the dark side. The weather reflects that chaos in Weir's films, acting as an agent of transience whereby the world is shown to be in constant flux and motion. But the characters are phazed little by this, anxious to pursue their desires and enact their little charades of meaning. When a tropic downpour suddenly rains down on them, they laugh and play in it.But if Weir's fascination with the mystical is entirely white Australian, his cinema is elemental, Aboriginal. Here is the communion made possible.The fact that he unerringly insists to submerge his characters in these impenetrable worlds that defy understanding, where the sole reward is a moment's glimpse of the soul in spiritual hazard, means that the glimpse is reward enough because for that moment the apparent reality is peeled back to afford us a gaze into a yawning universe beyond. This yearning for the mechanisms of the universe to be made apparent is in itself the primal, ultimate urge of these films. The Last Wave takes us on the brink and gives us a vision of apocalypse (a revelation), this one stops just short of that. "},{"Title":"Favorite film of all time; seen it five times","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Year of Living Dangerously, how do I love thee? Let me count the ways . . . you're the complete package, looks, smarts and sass. Favorite scene is with the Indonesian shadow puppets, when All is clouded by desire. Second favorite scene, if it's possible or fair to have to pick them from one's favorite film, would probably be when Billy and Guy are walking around the village at night and Billy tells Guy to Add your light to the sum of light (which I interpret as the remedy for all being clouded by desire). The film sends little offshoots of brilliant wisdom without being preachy. Who could not be riveted by Linda Hunt's performance as Billy? Who could not be charmed and chided by Sigourney Weaver's sexy-yet-pragmatic character Jill? And who better than a devilishly handsome rogue like Mel Gibson to portray Guy, a self-centered journalist whose nearly loses an eye because he can't really see the way Billy tries to get him to. What is it about this guy that, in every film he transforms beautifully? (Which leads me to my fourth favorite scene, which I can't mention because it might spoil it for you.) If only real-life men did that. Sigh! Love the haunting musical score, esp. when Jill wanders around in the rain, coming to realize she's hook, line and sinker for Guy. "},{"Title":"this is a gem in so many ways","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Let me dispense of babble up front before the meat and potatoes. Nick Nolte did Guy Hamilton better in Under Fire. Nonetheless. If you are a Weir fan, you are a Weir fan. Except for the nauseating Witness, I am. How many Spottiswoode fans are there? Don't want to rehash---there are a thousand AWESOME reviews at this site. Michael Murphy will never get his due. I want to hone in on the neglect ( a couple posters got it) of the Gibson-Weaver sizzle. Having Sigourney laugh her ass off during most of the courtship was starling and brilliant. Reminded me of what real people do...Guy Hamilton chain-smoking during opera music thinking of her was priceless...their blue-drink afternoon, mesmerizing; him cornering her her at an embassy party then crashing curfew to that unforgettable score unforgettable. A poster, quite a few entries below, mentioned what you remember in Wier's films long after it's over is the romance. Somewhat true. How do you explain Gallilopi? Regardless, this is a dangerous film with unforgettable cinematography and acting. And the romance rules! Politics outside your own realm of personal understanding are as dangerous as romance, but this film artfully understands this. In fact, that's probably the point. I love to see this once a year to remind me how good movies can be. "},{"Title":"Political Intrigue and Fiery Romance a great mix","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Peter Weir's Year of Living Dangerously is one of the best 80s foreign dramas available. It stars an up and coming Mel Gibson in the middle of a politically volatile setting in 1960s Indonesia. Mel Gibson acts young, alive, and foolish as an Australian journalist Guy Hamilton in a country impoverished with a power struggle about to erupt between a communist type faction and the local in-power dictatorship. As a well done secondary plot, I found Gibsons's romance with Sigourney Weaver particularly enthralling about the middle 30 min of the movie, especially 2 scenes where career and relationship runs head-on at odds - and leading up to that with Weaver walking in the tropical rain amid squalor while contemplating that communicates atmosphere and feeling to perfection together. As a third supporting character, Linda Hunt's Billy does well as sort of a dismayed but hopeful dwarf journalist, and an on-looking supporter of the impoverished. The movie captures political tension very well as it does the setting - a hot, humid southeastern Asia(filmed in Phillipines and Australia) marred by inhumane living conditions and famine. Towards the end, one of the local characters remarks Westerners don't have answers anymore....almost 25 yrs after this movie, this still rings true. Excellent settings, characters, and intrigue along with mostly good music. "},{"Title":"Will you do what is right?","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The music, the atmosphere, the acting...it all works in this memorable film about a simple question when it comes your time to do what is right, will you? Mel Gibson, Sigourney Weaver and Linda Hunt all deal with the question through their characters in an interesting sort of love triangle. The film is practically flawless with Peter Weir at the helm. Hunt's Oscar was well-deserved. Her Billy is one of the most fully-realized characters in 80's cinema clear, valiant, and in the end much too optimistic to be effective in his changing world. The score stays with you long after you've watched. "},{"Title":"A film which deals with the issue of foreigners adrift among poverty and corruption","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a film I really love. There are many strands in it - love story; evocation of a particular moment in history; the shadow puppets theme of how, Arjuna-like, good and evil can come together in one (Sukarno had started with good aims but had become a corrupt dictator); the shadow puppets theme of Billy benignly pulling the strings in people's lives; the question of how ethical it is for journalists just to report and not become involved in issues, etc.One strand I can relate to is the theme of what should we do then? in the direct face of developing world corruption and poverty. It is not a simplistic question but a very real issue for someone from the developed world who has landed into such squalor. They may very well take Guy Hamilton's approach - it is just too much for one alien to do anything about. And so the thing to do is to concentrate on one's own survival and remain detached from the human misery, in his case making his job(journalism) his main motivation. But the film constantly makes the point that the misery one detaches oneself from involves real human beings - the Indonesian Kumar is just as intelligent and real a human being as the wealthy expatriates. It draws our attention to the benign Billy who cares for human beings the privileged Guy Hamilton and Jill Bryant as well as the woman whose water supply is foul and the mass of Indonesians who have no food. It shows him living out the answer to his question by acting to deal with what misery he can.There is just so much to commend this film - good acting, wonderful use of music, a real sense of identification with and interest in characters, appeal to the senses. And it also deals with issues and history. But most importantly for me it tackles compassionately what is a very real and not easy issue for the westerner in the midst of Asian, African or Latin American squalor, What then must we do? And the answers it gives are not patronising, but respectful of all human worth. "},{"Title":"An exotic, romantic eye-opener","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  High school social studies never made me care about Indonesia the way this film did.  It examines the sweeping forces of change and clashes of cultures that have struck so many parts of the world since the second world war.Most moviegoers will be drawn to this film by the presence of Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver, who do an outstanding job as Guy and Jill.  Guy is a cocky, pragmatic news reporter, who is mentored by a fellow Australian, the half-Chinese Billy Kwan (in an awe-inspiring performance by Linda Hunt).  Billy has seen Indonesia through his camera lens; he knows first-hand the daily trauma and heartbreak under which Indonesia's poorest citizens live.  He adopts those he cares about, and follows their progress obsessively, assembling dossiers and secretly photographing them.  Billy is an idealist who believes that Sukarno holds out the greatest hope for the Indonesian people.Another of Billy's obsessions is Jill Bryant, a gentle Englishwoman who works for the embassy.  Billy orchestrates a meeting between Guy and Jill, who, in the movie's most moving scene, break curfew and flee to Guy's cabin in a hail of bullets.  Billy lurks outside, clearly satisfied that the puppets are filling the roles he has written for them in his private shadow play.Betrayal is a huge ongoing theme in this movie.  Billy, the idealist, always expects more from those around him than they deliver.  He befriends the assortment of foreign journalists who pass through his world, only to be shocked at their exploitative behavior with the natives.  Sukarno says one thing on TV but demonstrates very different motives as his reign continues.  Billy despairs that he will not be able to change the way things are.  Finally, Guy's relationship to Jill represents yet another betrayal -- he takes advantage of classified information that Jill passes to him out of concern for his safety.  I found the ending (no spoilers) to be the most disappointing thing in this movie -- it seemed somehow anticlimactic, and I would have liked to see something more, but cannot think of what.  The ingredient that makes this film what it is is Maurice Jarre's wonderful, haunting score.  The pacing of this picture is slow by today's standards, but did not seem so in 1982. /r "}{"Title":"Interesting but uneven, with lack of co-lead chemistry","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I was intrigued by the title of this movie, with all the possibilities it carried, but it didn't live up to that atmosphere. I think the concept could have been pulled off with a lot more intensity and mystery.I am confounded as to how some viewers could never see L.H. as other than male, with her old-lady voice, face and ambiguous form. When the name Billy first registered, I did a double-take. I had assumed she/he was a stunted woman from the start.She's a good actress, but I don't find S.W. all that attractive (something about her jawline and build), so I didn't see the powerful draw she had. A more alluring woman would have made the film stronger for me.A number of action scenes seemed reckless and unrealistic, like when they took the dangerous mob scene as a half-joke, and later smashed through the curfew barrier and got shot at, but nobody gave chase. Because of such casual attitudes, I didn't get the sense of menace described by other people. The swimming pool scene & dream was the sort of tension I'd expected throughout, but it seemed randomly placed.The pending revolution was minimally explained, as if we were already supposed to know the full setting. That accounted in large part for the lack of menace I felt, but many films fail to give details that books cover.Not a bad movie, but just not that memorable. I think some of the highest praisers had previous knowledge of Indonesia and were basking in the whole concept, not so much the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Perfect - Slice of Life","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  One of the most perfect movies ever made. A true slice of life - what art is supposed to be all about. The music is extraordinary - note how Jarre uses it (and I will say no more for fear of spoiling the effect). No, this wasn't filmed on location, but I don't think that should matter, as the ability of the film to evoke a place and a period is remarkable. I first saw this movie by chance; I have owned it ever since. It's one of these rare movies that are made as an artist is climbing upwards in career but not yet devoured by the commercial interests who will notice and try to effect a lucrative transformation. "},{"Title":"Another breathtaking achievement from Weir.","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" After taking on the themes of innocence and camaraderie in war in Gallipoli, Peter Weir and Mel Gibson teamed up once again to tell the story of a young Australian reporter who travels to the conflicted Indonesia in 1965 in The Year of Living Dangerously. As with their previous collaboration, this film concerns itself with major universal themes seen through the eyes of a time of great political turmoil, all done within the midst of a searing character study. Gibson's Guy Hamilton is another classic character type, the hotshot reporter whose arrogance can sometimes make him a little too naive and die hard, getting him into dangerous situations but he's got the charm to come out on top.Of course this does eventually get him into some hot water, as the films focuses on his relationships with two people, the British diplomat Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver) and his helpful photographer Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt, playing a man in an Oscar-winning performance). Like the majority of Weir's films, The Year of Living Dangerously is first and foremost a character study, focused on Hamilton and pulling him apart through the midst of this country in revolt. He comes in as the charismatic and cocksure reporter and the events of the film put him through the ringer, leaving him broken and beleaguered by the end. He's a journalist who will do anything for his story, but the tragedy of the people he comes across lead him to learn that there are things much more important.It's a classic story, complete with betrayals and romance, but Weir's clarity and Gibson's endlessly compelling screen presence make it feel as though you're seeing it all for the first time. As always, Weir is a master at staging each scene, with more than a few sequences that are stunningly conceived and leave a lasting impression on the viewer. What stands out even more though are the performances. Gibson shines in a role he was born to play, but it's Linda Hunt who steals the movie out from under him.She gives a performance that could have easily been entirely about the physicality of it (a woman actually playing a man straight-up with no gender confusion or anything of the sort), but Hunt manages to breathe such life and depth to the whole thing. She doesn't approach it as a woman playing a man, but instead it's just a man, simple as that. Slightly distracting at first but after a few scenes you don't even register it anymore and completely accept the character for what he is, which is when her work really starts to shine. A man whose conviction stands much taller than his stature, Hunt creates in Billy Kwan a vulnerable, caring individual in a world where the morally upright are often conquered by the morally corrupt.Her, I created you, scene is the culmination of everything that Hunt is able to build with that character, where Billy's flaws comes straight to the surface and there's a true malice in him that is hidden beneath the surface for the majority of the film. A fleshed out, living performance that would have been impressive even if it had been done by a man--it's just more impressive since it wasn't. It's a stunning character portrayed in an even more stunning performance, which is just one of many reasons this film shines bright. "},{"Title":"Weir's ear for music underlined","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Peter Weir is Australia's greatest gift to cinema. His film Picnic at Hanging Rock might not have been as evocative without Pan's Song recorded by Bruce Smeaton. In 'The Year of Living Dangerously', Weir again chooses his fascinating music. I am not sure if I should be complimenting Maurice Jarre at all because I found out after some research that Weir's film really uses the work of Vangelis' Opera Sauvage as soon as the relationship between Gibson and Weaver develops and continues with it to the end. Weir, who should be knowing his sources, got the wrong work of Richard Strauss credited in the film. Yet the Weir's choice of music is impeccable and his source of strength. I will always remember Weir's films for their fine music.The film's subject is the work of novelist C J Koch while the public has praised Weir for the fine story and the justifiable references to Luke 310 while referring to the then existing scenario in Indonesia. Instead I applaud Weir for his contribution to pick the fine cast of  Australian Gibson, American Weaver who plays a credible Brit, and the wonderful Linda Hunt to play a male character. I also commend the Russell Boyd's cinematography whose collaboration with Weir has resulted in interesting cinematic work.  Weir, the director, has a penchant for picking up good material to film, but I am convinced that his films made in Australia and this one rank above those he made in the US. This is true for both Weir and Bruce Beresford. In comparison, Beresford was artistically more successful in the US with less publicized work Tender mercies and King David than Weir with a poor Truman show and an average Witness In my view, Weir's early work was more earthy and philosophical, while his later work is more abstract and commercial. Yet, I patiently wait for a return of the early Peter Weir that provided us a heady cocktail of realism, philosophy, music and fascinating subject matter.    "},{"Title":"Top rate drama with distinct thriller element","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If you measure success commercially or by international acclaim, then Peter Weir would have to be Australia's definitive flag bearer. Certainly one shouldn't overlook the likes of Fred Schepisi, Bruce Beresford or Gillian Armstrong, yet none of these directors have quite parallelled Weir's career.His recent films have boosted his reputation all the more, but I for one believe he lost his way after Witness(1985). The Mosquito Coast (86) was a complete miscalculation and Dead Poets Society (89) a shameful waste that self-destructed at the last. And Green Card I have not even bothered with. Go back before '85 however and his films get better and better. Picnic at Hanging Rock (75) and Gallipoli (81) both demonstrated Weir's ability to totally involve an audience with the simplest of themes and the most 'human' of characters. The Year of Living Dangerously was yet another credit to this insightful director, a top rate drama with a distinct thriller element.Mel Gibson plays Australian Broadcasting Service reporter Guy Hamilton, an ambitious young Aussie who has landed the arguably enviable position of Jakarta correspondent. What with the rebel communists planning a military coup, Indonesia in 1965 was not the safest place to be.Chinese-Australian photographer Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt) takes a shining to Guy and so goes out of his way to help the enthusiastic journo make a name for himself, and a few friends as well. One of those friends is English diplomat Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver), and before long romance begins to complicate matters.Our Mr. Weir blends the human drama with the political turmoil in seamless fashion, whilst importantly focusing on the people whose lives these events affect. His screenplay (co-scripted with David Williamson and C.J. Koch - on whose novel the film is based) helps in this regard immensely, as does the cast that bring the fascinating central characters to life. Gibson's Hamilton is always believable and we are readily able to understand his position. As Bryant, Sigourney Weaver delivers a strong dramatic performance as a woman who has carefully wrapped herself in a protective cocoon, but who yearns desperately for love and passion to come crashing in.The show stealing turn most assuredly goes to Linda Hunt, as she plays the part with amazing skill. Her portrayal of the dwarfed, idealistic Kwan, who wants nothing other than to add his light to the sum of light, is a wonderful achievement and a most moving triumph. Billy's secret personal files that he keeps on close associates makes Guy suspicious, yet they serve as a very interesting character study within the film.Add to this Russell Boyd's captivating and compelling cinematography and Maurice Jarre's very effective thematic score and you have a drama/thriller that works from beginning to end. Brilliant Art Direction, Sets and Editing help proceedings become all the more convincing.Wednesday, January 11, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Oscar-winning and lyrical account of Indonesia's 1968 governmental overthrow","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is probably the best movie Mel Gibson has made--he's only 28 here, pre-worldwide fame and sex symbol status and he does some real acting. The chemistry between him and Sigourney Weaver is also believable.  Their performances, coupled with Peter Weir's direction (he made the great Witness a few years later, and Dead Poets' Society after that), this film is extremely powerful and poetic, with a very moving portrait of what life must have been like in Jakarta at this time for many Indonesians and foreign journalists who weren't guaranteed protection from the warring political forces.  The cinematography is stunning, as is composer Maurice Jarre's soundtrack; he apparently used several instruments indigenous to Indonesia when he composed the score.  "},{"Title":"The Unconscious Imperialist","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I like Peter Weir. I've liked him from the first I've seen of him, Picnic at Hanging Rock. Original and haunting.What he did there, he has done less powerfully and more conventionally, but it comes from a religion that I respect.You see, you have choices about how you believe the world works. It doesn't even have to be the real world, because the worlds of narrative can be bigger, with cleaner more explicit dynamics. Weir's world is one in which the world drives the narrative and people just exist in it, more or less successfully. This is not a common world in film, what with the Italian character-centric, the Spanish fold-centric, and the overwhelming noir-centric models out there.He's done some crap, some commercial crap, but he's largely stuck to his notion of the world that grinds on independent of will. This is, after Picnic his most atmospheric, and surely the one with the most exotic world movement. So its admirable on those scores, that it represents a rare cinematic religion, and that it does so with effective exotic authenticity.But there is something creepy about this. Its by an Australian company. Aussies are an interesting people, largely European in origin but deliberately fresh in perspective. There's much made here about Gibson's character being fundamentally different (he thinks) from the stodgy imperial British military guy. Gibson quite literally steals the girl from this guy because of his Australianness. The girl here represents so much more than a single person coupling, and expansion that Weir's world allows. It isn't sex, but the seduction for control over the story.(He, incidentally is a story-writer.)But what's smarmy about this are the limits of Weir's own imperialism. True, he reports on the grinding conditions. True, he has a main character preachify about the nobility of helping in the small. But at the end, an unintendedly horrible, unsettling end, all the white folks simply leave safely. That by itself is okay, but the way it is celebrated as a victory, the victory of the couple, subordinates the chaos of the world to backdrop.Now, if this were a more intelligent filmmaker, I would say that this was intended. A clever artist would use this device to trick us into being the imperialists and releasing it too late. But I think the truth here is more unsettling he didn't see it at all.I write this a few days after Australia threw out its thuggish administration, George Bush types who similarly couldn't see. I'll bet now, in Australia, the new, cleaner Australia, that ending would unsettle. Especially now that we know Gibson's mind.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"A great story on several levels","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Exotic, mysterious, informative, touching, suspenseful, The Year of Living Dangerously had a powerful influence on me. When I decided to see TYOLD one weekday afternoon in 1983, I didn't expect a comedy and knew nothing more about the film than that Australians had written and directed it, so as I drove alone to the theater I only hoped that I had chosen a thought-provoking story that might offset the uneventful life I was living at the time.The Year of Living Dangerously did much more than provide me with a pleasant 2-hour escape from my dull routine. When the credits began to scroll by, I not only knew that I had just seen a very special movie, I also felt that I had had a peak experience. I returned home moved and inspired. I imagined myself attending school or teaching in Perú, helping rebuild the homes of victims of an earthquake in El Salvador, or donating money each month to clothe and feed indigent children in Uganda. I raved about the movie and recommended it the next time I spoke with friends.The film affected me as much emotionally as it did intellectually. While holding my interest with a compelling story about a passionate little photographer and an inexperienced journalist on a dangerous assignment, TYOLD clarified for me significant differences between Southeast Asian and Western cultures and enlightened me about Indonesian history (During the 1960's people talked about the possibility of a communist revolution in Viet Nam, not in Indonesia.). In a review I once read of TYOLD, a professional critic mocked Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver by asserting, Bogart and Hepburn they're not. Though I didn't leave the movie theater wishing that other actors had played their parts, I did see the relationship between Guy Hamilton, the journalist, and Jill Bryant, an assistant to an attaché of the British embassy, as the film's one weakness.That he pursued her and she ultimately accepted after much reluctance came across as believable enough, but since their relationship developed so little -- few meaningful conversations, not much exclusive time, her sudden transformation into lustful from discreet and aloof -- the apparent message that by story's end the two had bonded didn't feel convincing. Hamilton and photographer Billy Kwan, on the other hand, exchange opinions about the state of Indonesian politics, support each other's work, and learn from each other's point of view. They had the more complex relationship and, therefore, the more valid one, and it stood out as the strength of the movie. "},{"Title":"Great job in depicting the background in overall","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The movie feels like a great job in overall. The story fits nicely in showing a reporter's story, both the drama, and adventures sides, with a hint of mystery and thriller sides. The characters are also designed quite authentically, having their interactions being natural enough on screen. But the main jewel is the background depiction. As an Indonesian I really appreciate this due to the movie did a great job in creating the locations that really look like Jakarta in those days. This happens on both ends at the high office buildings as well as the riverside slums. the extras and supporting characters were cast very meticulously, showing authentic Indonesian faces, whereas they're actually Filipino. Any Indonesian like me would quickly spot the weirdness of the natives speaking perfect English without the accent, which you can rarely find with natives even nowadays. The acting in overall feels also nice. Mel Gibson did enough to portray the drive of a young reporter to find his break, and Sigourney Weaver did enough also in portraying the undecided lover. But Linda Hunt really did steal the show as her character gets very much mysterious that incited the audience's curiosity. "},{"Title":"A love story presented as political intrigue","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A love story presented as political intrigue.The Year of Living Dangerously had heaps of potential. It is laced with heaps of political intrigue and touches on themes of government transparency, freedom of the press, fascism and third world problems. Yet, unfortunately, it is mostly just a love story.The intrigue is there from the start, leaving you thinking this is going to end as some espionage-type thriller, or freedom of the press and expression argument. There's a Killing Fields / Apocalypse Now / Heart of Darkness vibe about the movie which keeps it going.Yet, all these go nowhere. The climax is relatively anti-climactic, and disappointing. This said, the journey was reasonably interesting, even if the destination was so-so.Performances vary. Mel Gibson is solid in the lead role. Signourney Weaver gives a decent performance but I found it difficult to think of her as English. Linda Hunt got an Oscar for her performance because the Academy thought it would be quirky and historical to give the Best Actress award to a Caucasian woman playing an Asian man. Her performance was okay, but not THAT good. From the start you think Isn't she a woman?, and that doesn't help the credibility and purpose of the character. Kept making me think we were about to have a (reverse) Crying Game-like moment... "}{"Title":"What Then Are We To Do ?","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Guy Hamilton is a foreign correspondent for the Australian wire service in Jakarta in 1965, who is befriended by Billy Kwan a local photographer and Jill Bryant, a British cultural attaché. Guy finds himself falling for Jill, but what will happen to Java if the communist rebels try to overthrow the increasingly corrupt President Sukarno ?This is a very handsome old-style drama / romance set against the backdrop of war, and was the first of several high quality movies around this period about obsessive photo-journalists in war zones (see also Under Fire, The Killing Fields and Salvador). Gibson and Weaver are both extremely young, beautiful and expressive in it, but the real star is Hunt, who won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her extraordinary turn as Kwan. Only rarely are actors capable of playing another gender/ethnicity without it being either comical or disastrous, but Hunt is sublime here as the puppet-master of the film whose carefully orchestrated plans never quite work out and whose empathy with the suffering of his people is both profound and tragic. The setting is vibrant and unique - Indonesia in the sixties, having not long thrown off Dutch colonialism, and the power politics of the ruling National Party, the military and the communist PKI rebels. Whilst the film was shot in Australia and the Philippines (it was banned in Indonesia until 2000), it recreates the period in stunning detail - slums, sweaty cramped offices, seedy bars, plush hotels, poverty rubbing shoulders with elegance, Russell Boyd's terrific camera-work documents a country full of contradictions and possibilities. Equally good is the use of music, with Maurice Jarre's evocative ethnic percussion score, Kwan's love of Kiri Te Kanawa and a haunting sequence where a besotted Guy and Jill race home from a party to the strains of the Vangelis piece L'Infant, from his Opera Sauvage album. The film is something of an acquired taste I think - as a straight thriller it's not that exciting and it doesn't really have any big impressive set pieces. Where it scores for me is in atmosphere and mood; trying to recreate a place and a time and populate it with iconic characters - the idealistic writer, the glamorous woman, the enigmatic stranger. It may not be entirely successful but it's a unique and intriguing movie. Written by Christoper Koch, David Williamson and Weir, based on Koch's book. "},{"Title":"Proof that a movie can be too much and too little at the same time","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" As I put the movie into the DVD player, I was expecting a dramatic romance cast over a dramatic war story. The premise seems to think it as that, and it's clearly what director Peter Weir was trying to do. But that's not what we get.Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) is a reporter for Australian Broadcasting Radio covering the political situation in Jakarta. His new partner, Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt), is getting him contacts that he could only dream of. But along the way, he meets a diplomat's assistant, Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver), and is instantly smitten. Meanwhile, Jakarta is becoming increasingly unstable, and Guy's next story could be his last.The Year of Living Dangerously has all the requisite elements to be an epic for the ages. Ultimately that is it's undoing; there's enough here for two movies, and director Peter Weir isn't able to find the correct balance. It tries to be two different movies at once, and each one hurts the other.The acting is good, but it's let down by the poorly focused direction. Mel Gibson is solid as the charming, if very naiive reporter. It's a role that doesn't stretch the actor's range very much, in fact, it's a role meant for a movie star. That's okay because Gibson usually rides on star power anyway. Sigourney Weaver is also good as Jill, keeping a credible English accent throughout. The film is most famous for the role of Billy Kwan, a male who was played by Linda Hunt. Hunt is great as the idealistic dwarf. The makeup is not as convincing as her performance. Knowing that the role is played by a woman makes her seem androgynous, but never mind.Not quite a waste of time, but it's a definite disappointment. "},{"Title":"Good Film - Wrong Music Credit","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" One of the most deeply moving scenes to be found in any film happens in Peter Weir's epic, The Year of Living Dangerously. It takes place twice when the lead character, Billy Kwan, is alone and lonely in his little hut, amongst the haunting images of a photographic tapestry reflecting his personal history&#x97;events and faces of those throughout his past. Rather than postpone his melancholy, Billy plays a recording of Classical music so sweet and longing, sung by Kiri Te Kanawa, as the nameless faces gaze helplessly outward. The use of this music is most certainly a key element in the storyline.Unfortunately, Mr. Weir has never corrected the end credits of his film, falsely assigning September as the movement used from Richard Strauss' Four Last Songs when in reality it is,Beim Schlafengehen (Going to Sleep) that is heard in the film during these poignant scenes of Billy in his solitude.Still, one of my favorite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Powerful images","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's Indonesia at the time of the 1965 revolution, and a young, ambitious reporter, played by Mel Gibson, is in Jakata to cover it in The Year of Living Dangerously, a 1982 film that also stars Sigourney Weaver and Linda Hunt.Peter Weir does an incredible job at evoking the atmosphere of poverty, homelessness, crowds, oppression, danger, and ugly Americans in this film, and also what it feels like to be a foreigner.Guy Hamilton, the Australian reporter, is determined that this assignment will pay off for him, and it is his good luck that a tiny photographer, Billy Kwan (Hunt) offers to help him make connections. He likes Guy, he believes that Guy is a good man and will help to get the true story of what is happening in Indonesia out to the rest of the world. What he doesn't count on is Guy's ambition and his journalistic commitment. Neither does the woman he loves, Jill (Weaver), who works for a military attaché. Because of this, she makes a costly mistake.Sukarno, says Billy, is thought of as a puppetmaster; Billy sees himself as one, but for orchestrating gentler things, like love, helping the poor, and getting out the story of Indonesia's people. In the end, Guy sees himself as a puppetmaster too, with his hands on the story of the year. But as Sukarno becomes a puppet, so does Billy, although willingly, and Guy becomes one himself, not able to do what he originally intended.Mel Gibson has become such a controversial figure today, with his The Passion of the Christ, his arrest, and his racial remarks. There was a time when he was one of the biggest stars in the world, and it's easy to see why here. Handsome, confident, and passionate, he is an effective Guy. The beautiful Sigourney Weaver, who not long before this movie had voice lessons in New York right after mine, does a wonderful job here. Of course, the role doesn't begin to tap her talent. I remember her in person as very tall, very slender, and very sweet; her beauty and presence radiate from the screen.The star of the film is in reality Linda Hamilton, whose portrayal of Billy Kwan not only won her an Oscar, but gave her a unique place in film history. She totally inhabits Billy. An amazing character, fully fleshed out by her brilliant acting.The last scenes in this film are sobering and scary, and the audience really feels the sense of urgency and danger.Fantastic movie. Even if it were horrible, Linda Hunt's performance has to be seen. "},{"Title":"Good movie - GREAT TITLE","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There's not a lot to be said about this move, except that its great. Any attempt at a full review would be a huge spoilers risk, as the plot begins unfolding from the first frame, and everything is important after that. It is worth noting that this isn't a sweeping love story like the DVD cover suggests a love caught in the fire of revolution. Really its a story about a time and place and a Journalist whose love affair with a British agent causes some serious moral dilemmas. THis movie is more about personality and moral dilemmas than it is about love.The acting is spectacular (though its a shame Sigourney Weaver is really underused), and most people are aware of Linda Hunt's achievement in this film, though just in case you're not, I won't tell you. Her performance is so good, that once people realize how good it is they can't get over it and it diminishes the drama a little bit.Overall, this picture is intelligent, exciting, and very sexy when it has the chance. "},{"Title":"Waiting for a remake of TYOLD","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie in betamax during Suharto's era (in 84 or 85). It was forbidden at that time. The story itself is very good, and tries to portray the reality in 1966 before and during the Suharto's coup (or should I say, communist coup). Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver played very good. As a native Indonesian who have lived through those dangerous years, I was 7 years old (1st grade elementary school) at that time, I believe there should be a remake of this movie because it lacks the techniques of nowadays movie. For example the statue of Selamat Datang which is located in front of Hotel Indonesia, the very popular landmark of Jakarta, doesn't looked like the original one. (in the movie too small). Seems unimportant, but I believe it should resemble the real one, so that people (like me, Indonesian) really get the impression and feel of being there back in 66. It (the remake) should definitely be made in Indonesia, not Philippines, not Singapore, not Malaysia. Perhaps in Jakarta. With Indonesian actors, with a lot of Indonesian language spoken. This is a very important movie to us Indonesians, with a lot of historical value in it, and history in Indonesia is sometimes deviated (read corrupted) to accommodate the interest of those in power. It's not only about Indonesia, but also about alleged involvement of US Government (CIA) in overthrowing Sukarno. "},{"Title":"Brave journalists living history","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This thought provoking film perfectly portrays the political and social climate of Jakarta at that time.  This is one of Mel Gibson's best films in my opinion.  It displays the depth of his acting talents.  Sigourney Weaver is good, but I don't think her performance is as memorable.  I thought Linda Hunt's character in the film was excellent.  I wasn't bothered my her stature or looks.  The film gives viewers an excellent idea of what journalists endure to report living history.  I know I have a greater appreciation of being an American (same goes for the film The Killing Fields). "},{"Title":"1965, Jakarta, Indonesia","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The year 1965 is running not very smoothly in Jakarta, Indonesia. Against the background of tension and struggle for power between the two powerful forces of communist PKI and the islamic generals, a story of love, intrigue, treason and loyalty takes place. Billy the Dwarf, little body but great soul, personifies the last one, finishing by refusing the world of disloyalty in which he's forced to live. Sukarno the then Indonesian president, champion of non-alignment, tries to achieve the impossible to combine fire and water, Islam and communism. The former, backed by CIA finishes to win over the latter backed by China and a mass slaughter of communists takes place then. The Australian male journalist and the British (secret agent too?) diplomat woman live an agitated romance against the above mentioned background in which they also participate. The movie is only slightly focused on the appalling state of misery endured by Indonesian people in the middle of this struggle for power. Too much slightly perhaps and this is its weakest point. Anyway the story achieves its aim and is strong enough to secure the spectator's attention till the end. One last word for Sigourney Weaver's performance as a beautiful, sensual, intelligent and self-confident woman as always. "},{"Title":"A film about personal & political betrayal","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I came to this film without any prior knowledge of the situation in mid 60s Indonesia. Initially confusing, the film soon settles into a depiction of betrayal - both at a personal & political level.Linda Hunt is outstanding as Billy Kwan, whom we initially find a comic grotesque, but becomes the conscience of this film, a soulful character full of compassion, desperate to make a difference, no matter how small (the ref. to Tolstoy), against social injustice. He believes he finds a fellow soul in Guy, a cynical young journalist, (Gibson) but Guy's ambitions soon leave him disillusioned.It is not Kwan's dwarfish nature that is made to look grotesque, but the corrupt political systems that cause poverty & suffering.An interesting film which I feel is undeserving of some of the harsher reviews posted here. It is by no means perfect - I agree with the reviewer who found the end unsatisfying with Jill (Weaver) gladly embracing her lover - after he betrayed her.  "},{"Title":"The movie is so accurate","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Believe it or not, nowadays Indonesia still like what the movie describe. Overall this is a very realistic movie, although they made it at Philippines the cast is playing a nice and accurate roll as an Indonesian. There's only a few flaw in the native language.I recommend everybody who lives is the third world country to see this movie, compare it to the situation in your country.The condition about Jakarta is so accurate to the reality at that time and it's really a typical situation in the third world community.There is nothing special about the romantic relationship between Mel and Sigourney but Linda Hunt personality and the poverty condition of Jakarta make it to be an interesting movie.    "}{"Title":"The Best Weir Film","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I just saw the film again yesterday, and feel inclined to report that I still believe it to be Weir's best film, and Weir, to my mind, is one of our most sensitive and ingenious directors. Moreover, it's the best I've seen of any of the brilliant actors Weaver, Gibson and Hunt, the last of whom has been both misused and seen far seldom too recently, especially in view of her promising debut in this film. "},{"Title":"Not the Highlight of the Weir Career","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A young Australian reporter (Mel Gibson) tries to navigate the political turmoil of Indonesia during the rule of President Sukarno with the help of a diminutive photographer (Linda Hunt).Of course, a film about Indonesia needed to be made. And the right people to do it (besides the Indonesians) are the Australians. And the greatest Australian director is Peter Weir. The biggest Australian star (despite being born an American) is Mel Gibson... so this all shapes up to be the right sort of ingredients for this.And yet, it never seems to reach the levels that Weir is capable of. Some say this film has great atmosphere, and that much is true. But something is off. And it is also very uncomfortable watching Linda Hunt... not quite clear what they were going for with that. "},{"Title":"great exotic atmosphere","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It's 1965 Jakarta in Indonesia under the brutal rule of President Sukarno. Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) is on his first foreign assignment for the Australian Broadcasting Service. He is befriended by photographer half-Chinese dwarf Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt). There is an air of anti-western feeling. Guy is lost without connections until Billy starts helping him out. He has an affair with British diplomat Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver). It's a world of murky Cold War politics, secrets and trying morality.This has a great exotic atmosphere. The movie has a sense of impending doom. Mel Gibson is terrific and shows his superior star power. Linda Hunt creates such a compelling character. It does need to heighten the tension a little. The plot meanders in this murky world. It needs a direction. Nevertheless I just love the dark exotic mood. "},{"Title":"I can be your eyes","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" There are few modern directors I admire as much as Peter Weir. His movies have a lean, elegant quality; he knows restraint and the power of understatement. His use of music is masterful. He is a fantastic actors' director, getting from people like Harrison Ford and Jim Carrey the best performances of their careers - here it's Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver. Even potential miscalculations - like giving the part of an Indonesian man to an American actress, as it happens with Linda Hunt in this film - strike gold Hunt won a deserved Academy Award for the role.Even a minor Weir, like The Year of Living Dangerously, captures the sense of alienation - and exhilaration - of outsiders lost in mysterious places, a recurrent theme in the director's opus (Picnic at Hanging Rock, Witness, The Mosquito Coast, Master and Commander). Here it's Indonesia during the Sixties, as Gibson's foreign correspondent follows the attempted coup to overthrow President Sukarno.Worth watching, like every movie in Weir's filmography.7/10 "},{"Title":"It should be Billy's story!","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It is all opposite intensities uttered by Linda Hunt's Oscar-winning gender-switching role Billy Kwan in this romanticised screen adaption of C.J. Koch's eponymous novel, THE YEAR OF LIVING DANGEROUSLY is a stereotypical westernised POV (intrigued but distanced from all recherché curiosity) of the far east poverty and political uprising, set in Indonesia during the notorious 30 September Movement in 1965, a coup attempts to overthrow President Sukarno, but the bloodbath is tacitly eschewed in this picture. At the helm of Australian auteur Peter Weir (PICNIC AT THE HANGING ROCK 1975, 9/10; DEAD POETS SOCIETY 1989, 7/10), Mel Gibson plays Guy Hamilton, a rookie Australian journalist is sent for his first oversea assignment in Jakarta and ditched by his predecessor for any informative briefing. But unlike his fellow foreign correspondents, who are exploitive of the convenience of sex service and feeling apathetic about the country except when their own interest is concerned, Guy bears a compassion for the tribulation of the impoverished and he is a dashing go-getter, which is why, Billy Kwan, the local photographer of Chinese and Australian descent, gets close to him and offers him rare opportunities to interview political big shots in PKI (Partai Komunis Indonesia, the communist party of Indonesia), he finds a kindred spirit in him and the pair has fashioned many front-page articles from then on.Billy introduces Guy her friend Jill (Weaver), a British Embassy officer, who will depart in three weeks, things go deadly romantic in any case, they mutually fall for each other, meanwhile the political situation slips and Billy is devastated when a boy he adopted dies, he becomes irate towards Sukarno's govern, and meets his demise heroically. Linda Hunt, the diminutive character actress, seizes her once-in-a-lifetime chance to render Billy a full blossom (a ultra-meaty role indeed), a supporting actress win is a cinch for her, actually one big blemish of the film is that it would be much more daring and fascinating if Billy is the lead in the storyline, there are so many unspecified back stories of her which would be far more arresting than the corny love affair between Guy and Jill. However, it is not to say, Gibson and Weaver are mis-cast here, on the contrary, Gibson exudes his mega-star quality in a very earlier stage, his risk-addicted, devilishly handsome charisma overlaps Guy's defects in character; Weaver, first time embodies herself as a sex symbol in a foreign land of a paucity of Anglo-Saxon femininity, it is Ripley meets Mad Max, and they are in love! Funny thing is Jill flirts with Guy about it is often too melodramatic in his articles, and in the same way it can be referred to the film itself, the death of Billy (always the most sympathetic one should be immolated for the sake of empathy-evocation), the lingering shots of Indonesia's destitution, children especially, on a cinematic level, it is too perfunctorily and conveniently designed, and considerably it is just not Weir's best offer. "},{"Title":"« to live and let die » (tv)","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If this movie hadn't be so humanist, i think my vote would have been « 4 » instead of « 7 » as it's however plagued. You are thrown in Indonesia but without any information of the date (i deduce it was around 1963 because i read it on a phone-book) or briefing about the political situation  You understand that it involves communists but it's only after one hour that their opposition is said to be Muslim ! Next, the movie begins as news investigation, but suddenly turns into a blinding passion thats leads to a final mixing (and choosing) between this two paths. Another dubious choice was to put an unannounced romantic, dreamy Vangelis song in an action scene ! I won't speak about choosing an actress to play Mel's buddy as i discovered the fact by reading the credits (Billy Kwan &#x85; Linda Hunt !). However, the movie has really a generous consideration and it's a change of nowadays propaganda  the fate of the Indonesian people is the main subject and their poverty, their hunger and bad health are exposed. In opposition, the luxurious and privileged lives of the westerners that gather into the modern hotel or the diplomatic mansions are also depicted. So, the political labels aren't really important and the killings of communist partisans is shocking as they are above all just poor peasants wanting a decent life. At last, Mel is a convincing newcomer and Sigourney is able to soften her stature to be charming. "},{"Title":"1965","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Peter Weir directed this account of the Indonesian revolution of 1965, which sees inexperienced Australian foreign correspondent Guy Hamilton(played by Mel Gibson) covering this story, with the help of a dwarf photographer(played by Linda Hunt, who won a best supporting actress Academy Award playing a man!) who has come to care deeply about the country, though will feel betrayed by its outcome. Sigourney Weaver plays an embassy aide who becomes romantically involved with Guy, who also helps him with the story, though events will spiral out-of-control, endangering all their lives... Moderately interesting film has solid performances, though the story is unfocused, and only sporadically powerful. Still, mostly worthwhile. "},{"Title":"One of the Alltime Best Movies","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Sadly, the author of the book only wrote two novels and this one thankfully was made into this great film. The dialog of Linda Hunty's character is so intelligent you might want to keep a Thesaurus handy. Alos Michael Murphy, so underrated is perfect. Of course looking at the very young Sigourney and Mel is very pleasant. The plot is exciting and really proves something. That these Dictators, in this case Sukarno come and go and come and go. The photography and scenes are stunning. I don't care to see two people actually 'doing it' on the screen. If you like that sort of thing watch a porno! The scene between Gibson and Weaver when they run to the car to get out of the rain and just look at each other........wow, you can really feel the Heat big time. You can really learn things about the World from this film.I hate remakes but this one if done right could be great. "},{"Title":"Theatrical but atmospheric","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The cast credits for Peter Weir's political thriller lists the players, and the film indeed has something of the characteristics of a play it's talky, and sets up certain well-defined conflicts between characters who represent something, but who don't feel completely natural creations. It's still good, with an interesting character, an Indoensian oddball who conducts an ambiguous intelligence operations, at its heart. The counter focus comes from Mel Gibson's Australian journalist Gibson is actually quite good in the role, the he's not as intriguing as his foil, and when he becomes the sole focus of the film's final section, the movie becomes less interesting as a result (westerner tries to escape exotic east is a duller theme than that which preceded it). I still liked the movie it's not as self-consciously arty as some of Weir's other movies, but its atmospheric, even if it falls short of the best treatment of similar material, Graham Greene's masterful novel, 'The Quiet American'. "},{"Title":"See it if you like political thrillers - and even if you don't!","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Political thrillers are not my cup of tea. World history does not fascinate me. I'm a simple guy who likes his stories - whether on the written page or the silver screen - simple. I prefer fiction to fact.Which is why, perhaps, I am not in a position to comment on the qualities of 'The Year of Living Dangerously' as a political film, dealing with the troubled times in Indonesia at the time of the overthrow of President Sukarno in the 1960's. About how faithful it remains to the ground facts and realities of the situation as it then existed, I know nothing.And therein lies the strength of this film. Peter Weir has, in 'The Year of Living Dangerously', crafted a piece of cinema which, to say the least, is strikingly atmospheric. The viewer is plunged headlong into life in Jakarta as it was then, to a point where, at times, the experience becomes frankly cathartic. The scenes are authentically shot, obviously with care to be correct to the last detail, and at times it becomes difficult to analyze how Weir managed it all. And to do him credit, Mel Gibson, in one of his earlier appearances, manages a remarkably credible performance as the enterprising, if somewhat maverick, journalist Guy Hamilton, and is convincingly supported by Sigourney Weaver, who, despite being essentially his love interest and nothing more, is dependable as always.Where, perhaps, the film does falter, at times, is in putting the pieces together, so that it transcends the docudrama genre and becomes epic. A bit more continuity, here and there, might have gained the movie a few more brownie points.And then, of course, there's Billy Kwan. An astonishing portrayal, of one of the most intense characters I have seen in cinema. 'The Year of Living Dangerously' is worth watching even for the sheer experience of absorbing Linda Hunt's enactment of the mercurial character, for, believe me, it's a tour de force if there ever was one - a portrayal which permeates into you at so many levels, it's difficult to make out where Hunt ends and Kwan begins. That it is a male character essayed by a female artist is of course creditable; it is, however, another triumph for Hunt that she never lets us become aware of this. In the hands of a lesser performer it may have been reduced to a casting gimmick; in Linda Hunt's hands, it becomes one of the greatest performances ever seen on screen.I certainly feel kindlier towards political thrillers after watching this one. Perhaps you will, too. "}{"Title":"Yeah, Linda Hunt","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Apparently this was released in its native country of Australia in December of 1982, but not until January in the U.S. Too bad, because I think it's the kind of movie the Academy would have eaten up if it had been released during Oscar season. Not that I particularly think it would deserve a Best Picture nomination or anything, but I think the Academy might have. Still, an entire year after it first played in American theaters, Linda Hunt was so memorable in her role that she won the Best Supporting Actress award. She plays a very small Asian man. It's stunt casting, pure and simple, but, man, if it doesn't work. I knew about her work going in (and she is why I was interested in the film in the first place), so she couldn't quite disappear into the role for me, but she is quite convincing. A lot of the reason it works is because the role is so well written. In fact, Billy Kwan is the character with whom the audience most identifies, despite being kind of on the edge of the main action. It is his story you walk away remembering. Not to say that the rest of the film isn't good because it is. Mel Gibson plays an Australian reporter who hopes to get his big break during a revolutionary period in Indonesia. As the title implies, it is very dangerous there, even before President Sukarno is overthrown. Gibson is fine, if far from great. Sigourney Weaver plays his British love interest. She's fine, but doesn't have a lot to do. My second favorite performance in the film comes from Altman veteran Michael Murphy as an obnoxious American reporter who likes to go whoring. The story is good and very gripping. I think The Killing Fields told a very similar story even better a couple of years later (for which an actual Asian man won an Academy Award, though I don't say that to diminish Hunt's work here). "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the 80s","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie has been a favorite of mine for years. I JUST finished watching it again this afternoon and found it to be as good since the last time I saw it.It's a rare & unique piece of film making that rises above the subject matter it covers and becomes its own piece of cinematic art.The movie tells the tale of a new, young reporter arriving in Jakarta on the brink of civil war. This is played by 20something Mel Gibson turning in a wonderful performance as a naive reporter learning the ways of politics in a foreign culture.He is selected as a protégé by Billy Kwan, a photographer played by Linda Hunt. (Yes she plays a man's character in the movie and quite convincingly).While there, Mel Gibson meets Sigourny Weaver who has been working there for about 5 years and is set to leave in a matter of weeks.The movie shows how the Billy Kwan character picks Mel's character as a protégé if you will, because he sees something within Mel that he believes has a greater depth than the rest of the typical press corp.Billy's character also comments on the fact that both he & Mel are born of parents of two different countries and perhaps that is why they don't 'fit' in with the typical mentality of your everyday press corp.Peter Weir creates a wonderful, mystical atmosphere in this movie that touches on several themes of brotherhood, loyalty and empathy of foreign cultures to name a few.The music is reminiscent of Chariots of Fire and works well to heighten the tension.Ms. Weaver is restrained and effective in her handling of her role of a woman of well heeled background who has perhaps become hardened to the strife around her yet carries within her a true loyalty and passion for the good cause.Mel Gibson must navigate himself through the intrigues surrounding him and learn what's important in his quest to get the big story.I think Weir has created a cinematically compelling tale that concerns itself with more than the superficial as most stories covering this ground would do.The movie delivers on many levels and really deserves a higher place in the pantheon of movies than it currently enjoys.If you enjoy movies with plenty of tropical atmosphere, good performances, and the unexpected movie 'moment', than you can't go wrong by choosing this flick.I think it's a great film. PSIf you know the old Bette Davis classic, THE LETTER, than you'll get an idea of the sense of the tropics the movie conveys. "},{"Title":"The time of preparation to crash Socarno","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It is good idea to talk about Socarno one of liberty icons beside Nasser , Nukoruma , Degaulle , Ghandi , Lumombo.under the narration of Australian journalist we are here under the accidents of Indonisia under Socarno as a president of Indonisia after his Courage by making liberty for his country from Dutch and Japanese occupations in 1945 but he did not be care from American traps to crash him from his presidency then America made their traps by spreading harvest , food turmoil for Indonisian people which made a great cause and reason to leave his position and resigned from Indonisain Presidency in 1966. "},{"Title":"Flawed, miscast, unconvincing","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Writing a two star review for a film that has an IMDb rating of 7.1 must look like spite, but let me make my case. Firstly, the plot line is confusing, quickly ticking off events from the book, without the viewer getting to understand their full significance. So we do not get to understand Billy's love of the Sigourney Weaver character, his bitterness as someone who has not had love reciprocated and thus his spiral out of control. We do not really get to understand, Mel Gibson's motivation as a journalist either, only his romance with Sigourney Weaver. So, we do not really understand why he deliberately loses the swimming race with the British military attaché - (this was done to befriend him and get more scoops). This messes with the dramatic impact, meaning that we not only do not get to know the characters, nor the complexity of the political backdrop of Indonesia having a dictator, communist revolutionaries and Muslim generals. My second problem is with the casting. Mel Gibson and Siguourney Weaver are the fabulous looking Hollywood stars brought into attract an audience, but Gibson is wooden and wholly unbelievable as a foreign journalist. He overuses a cigarette as a prop as if that is the main characteristic of a journalist. He only comes alive when offended and given a chance for violence, (which explains his future casting in Braveheart/Lethal Weapon). Weaver gives a reasonable English accent, but the role calls for someone with a cut glass voice to emphasise how foreign her posting in Jakarta is. Similarly Linda Hunt does well as Billy Kwan, but why bother? With a billion Chinese on this earth why opt for a white female to play a male half-Chinese man? "},{"Title":"Peter Weir gets it!","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Although I've only spent a few days in Indonesia, I loved in Thailand for a while, and have traveled extensively in Singapore and Malaysia. Despite that the film was supposed to be taking place in 1965, I saw a lot of similarities with what I experienced in Thailand from visiting and then living there, from the mid-1980s to 2000. I have walked through slums no different than what you see in this film. And the reason I left Thailand in 200 was due to the riots where the Red Shirts burned over 30 significant buildings and literally shut Bangkok down. In some ways, it's the same story -- one gang of thugs plots to take over a country. Sadly, they may not have started out as thugs, they may have had fine principles of wanting to improve their country, but in the end, they just become the new thugs.This was the first film I ever saw Mel Gibson in, and only his 7th credited role. And he sizzles here. For me, the only film in which I felt his performance was stronger was The Patriot. It is sad that he melted down in recent years, because there were few actors as talented as he.Of course, much has been made of Linda Hunt's performance as the male dwarf Billy Kwan, who is the real focus of the film, around whom all the rest of the action takes place. The praise she garnered is deserving, and not just because it was a woman convincingly playing a man. She received the Oscar for her performance.Sigourney Weaver also deserves praise here, for playing her part as the female love interest just right. It's difficult to fault her performance. This was only her 5th film credit, and not long after her superb performance in Alien.None of the other supporting actors stands out, yet each plays his or her role just right. Perhaps Bembol Roco, a noted Filipino actor, deserves a mention. There were so many scenes he was in where he nailed his role so perfectly...and I mean as a Southeast Asian...but of course, he really is Southeast Asian! I debated giving this film an 8, which is a very high rating for me, but the one place it falls down is detailing the political betrayal of the Mel Gibson character. It's there, but it seems as if he just stumbles into the top secret information. This one aspect of the film could have been strengthened. "},{"Title":"horrible movie but it is the best for me","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw the movie first when i was in the history exhibition of Indonesia at University of Indonesia in 2005. It is too horrifying for me at a glance, but when i looked at the story and felt it, i feel that it is one of the best film in the world. The acting was so exciting especially the Billy Kwan played by Linda Hunt. I never thought that Billy Kwan was a woman before. She portrayed that character like a real man. Although the plot is very good, there are too many errors in the background of the movie. The conversations in Filipino in this movie is very disturbing for me because you know that Filipino is very different with Bahasa Indonesia and this language is very strange for Indonesian. The car have so many errors too because indonesian car is on the left side of the road and Kemayoran Airport is very different from the real Kemayoran Airport of jakarta. But I must praised the capability of Filipino actors to portrayed Indonesian people. I think that they are all Indonesian if i just look at their face and their acts. How could the director of this film make the situation resembles jakarta so much? You know, the road, the poverty, the bridge. That's Jakarta at that time. It was so similar even modern Jakarta is like that too. Above all, the movie is one of the beat movie for me "},{"Title":"Early Mel was the best","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Hello all--for what it's worth, I'm in a doctoral program on Indonesian politics and returned this semester after about a year's fieldwork, most of it in Jakarta.I'm a big movie fan generally, so I went out as often as I could, and bought tons of local VCDs while I was there. This film is one of the things that got me interested in Indonesia to begin with. I saw it at an art house when I was in high school and it had a huge impact.As far as I know, to this day it's never been released in Indonesia, even though the politics in the story are hardly radical. Maybe now that Indonesia has just elected a new, possibly more liberal president, the DVD will show up.The young Mel Gibson is great to watch, as is Sigourney Weaver. The pace is sometimes a little slow, but then things take-off again. Overall 10 "},{"Title":"What an actress!!!","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie showed the capability of Linda Hunt. So i must say, what an actress she is! and i should say that this movie was forbidden to be played in Indonesia until year 2000. because of the political issue in this movie. and i was surprise how the film maker can bring up the real situation into this movie. But one thing that i feel sorry about is some dialogue in the background not in indonesian language... and i'm indonesian and i feel strange about it, but than i know that this film was made in Phillipine.. but above all that things... i am proud that one of our history and country was taken as the background one of greatest movie that someone ever made. thank you to the producer, all the actress and actor... specially for you Mrs. Linda Hunt and Mr. Mel Gibson. I hope the history in this movie would not be happen again here in Indonesia. Thank you all.  "},{"Title":"TARRY","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver, and Mel Gibson starring in a young wooing ends of romance, politics, and tragedy. Sigourney Weaver as Jill Byrant takes a non-naive walk upon European waters, and government bureacracy far away in a Indonesian country where both the upper class, and the poverish clash with government courruption. For a one way tictet upon the Royal Neatherlands with Jill Byrant this movie is well better deserveing an excellent score of ten if not could be done better. Yours truely, Jerry Williams "},{"Title":"Westernized Romantics at play","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Peter Weir's, The Year Of Living Dangerously is sexy.  It's hot, sweaty, and has attractive lovers to gaze upon as they co exist with a failing regime in Jakarta, Java during the Sukarno reign of the 1960's.  Linda Hunt most deserving of her oscar has the best time in the film playing a male dwarf photo journalist using the people in his world as shadow puppets dictating their future and changing their being. The music score is finely chosen and possesses the eccentricity of the events and people it vibrates around. Mel Gibson and Siqourney Weaver make an attractive pair. The chemistry works well.  In fact, Siqourney said of Mel Gibson after making the film; He is the sexiest man alive  Weir chooses moments of closeups of the couple and we can see and feel the desire pouring out and the game of romantics taking place.  The film is mellow on action but there is a tension and intrigue that subtly keeps our attention.  Filled with philosophical and romantic lines such as Linda HUnt's  Jillian is like a wavering flame that needs care to burn high. Without such care she could lapse in to the promiscuity and bitterness of the failed romantic. The only outcome of a romantic is to fail.  that is what makes them romantics.Beautiful and entertAINING. "}{"Title":"The time of political uncertainty","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I like this movie when i saw it for the first time. Well written plot and background. The story of Guy Hamilton, a foreign journalist who was sent to the trouble Indonesia in the 60s. From there he is involved with lots of people who make his life more challenging while he was there covering the story. It might be better if the story can be lengthen and story can be focused more on the local rather than Guy Hamilton, who might not the only journalist there at the time. Anyway, it is a well written and interesting movie. "},{"Title":"A Thoughtful and Very Entertaining Film but...","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This powerful 1983 film, starring Mel Gibson, Sigourney Weaver, and Linda Hunt takes place in 1965 Indonesia where the forces of the left (PKI) and the right-wing military are threatening to overthrow the regime of Sukarno.The movie is filmed in the Phillipines and has the authentic look and feel of a third world country in Asia suffering from poverty and social deprivation. The film attempts to analyze with some depth the causes that led to the overthrow of Sukarno and is, by and large, successful. This is one of the few American films that showed that social unrest and poverty could lead to the spread of Communism, not only the global ambitions of a Russia or a China.Gibson plays an American journalist, Guy Hamilton, sent to cover the events. Hamilton is surrounded by cynical journalist types who would do anything for a story. Billy Kwan, a Eurasian cameraman, played brilliantly by Linda Hunt (Best Supporting Actress), however, makes Hamilton look at the social conditions of the people and to report on it with honesty. Kwan is a wonderful, soulful character who was, for me, far and away the best thing in this film.Kwan is betrayed, however, by Hamilton who prints a story about the shipment of arms from China even though he knows it could jeopardize the lives of Kwan and some of his closest associates. Kwan also feels betrayed by Sukarno who he once looked to for leadership. The romantic subplot features Hamilton and Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver), a diplomatic attache, trying to make sense of everything happening around them.I feel that the subplot does not add anything to our understanding of the events and the ending is rather implausible. Weaver's character is seriously underdeveloped and not worthy of her considerable acting talents. Gibson's character is so wishy-washy that, although I would like to think that he develops a conscience at the end, my gut feeling is otherwise.I also felt that some of the political demonstrations did not look spontaneous and I never thought that any of the lead characters were in any real physical danger. Also, although there are some anti-American banners shown in the demonstrations, there is no hint of American complicity in supporting the right-wing military. Nor is the fact that thousands of Indonesians, Communists and otherwise, were brutally slaughtered by Suharto once he seized power (though the gunning down of some at the airport led to this film being banned in Indonesia). All in all, in spite of its flaws, I found The Year of Living Dangerously to be a thoughtful and also a very entertaining film; but not the great film it could have been.  "},{"Title":"Journalist Mel Gibson pursues Sigourney Weaver in dangerous Indonesia","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Year of Living Dangerously (1982) had a chance to come up to the high standard set by Saint Jack (1979), or perhaps to generate the threatening atmosphere of a Costa-Gavras film. It failed to do so across the board. From that angle, this is a disappointing and quite boring movie. As a film, it is about average, rather slow, rather ponderous, rather slack and rather boring.There is very little story here. Very little actually happens. One has to wait an inordinate length of time for the danger to appear, and then it doesn't especially come across.The characters are not especially well-developed and they tend to veer off into cliché with the big exception of Linda Hunt's character. Her Billy is the center of the movie. But that character is more of a voice preaching about Indonesian poverty, privation, hunger and disease than anything else. Preaching makes for ineffective art. Repeating a message of asking what is to be done in the face of privation doesn't really work in the film. She goes from a Christian kind of response, never fully identified, to a futile gesture of unfurling a banner.I felt that all the characters were clumsily developed and sticks or representatives of certain statements and positions and attitudes and classes rather than real people.For the life of me, I do not understand making Billy a male character when she (the actress) is so obviously female. The story would have worked every bit as well and better if she had simply been female, as the actress is. The character would have been a strong woman with her own point of view and capacities. As it stands, I winced every time she was referred to as he.Signourney Weaver's romance with Mel Gibson didn't convince me, maybe because for me Ms. Weaver has zero sex appeal in the movie. She's a likable woman, a reliable presence, a strong woman, one you'd perhaps like as a friend, but her sexual appeal on the movie screen is not apparent to me. For one thing, she is simply too big and/or hasn't found a way to move such a large body in a smooth way. She's 5' 11'' and rather klutzy in her movements. Why Gibson is attracted to her is beyond me, and I don't think he was able to convey such an attraction. In this movie, he hasn't yet developed the mature acting skills to fill out his character. The part as written constrains him and he looks as if he's straining at the bit, wanting to do more with the character but being held back by the script's inadequacies and by the director.The film has a Hollywood gloss to it that's positively harmful. The movie almost becomes something of a throwback. However, one cannot in 1982 replicate the movie magic of older films set in exotic locales like The Rains of Ranchipur (1955) and Elephant Walk (1954). Too much is missing, such as the depth of story, the star power, and even the cinematography. Neither am I taken by Peter Weir's stodgy direction.The film was quite well-received, even among most critics. I am in the minority who sees it as a failure, or just an average film. "},{"Title":"Political Turmoil is Tedious Boredom-Year Dangerously **1/2","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" You can't turn your back in Indonesia. You don't know who is a Communist and is ready to do you in.This is what journalist Mel Gibson finds when he comes to Indonesia to face this turmoil. There he meets up with photographer Billy Kwan, played very well by Oscar deserving actress Linda Hunt. She is the first person to win the Oscar for playing another sex. Unknown to our hero Gibson, Kwan keeps a list of just about everyone. She narrates the story as well. At first, I thought that this wasn't exactly The List of Adrian Messenger.From afar we see Sigourney Weaver, who turns out to be the assistant to the attaché. She informs Gibson of impending bedlam with arms being smuggled into the country from China to start a civil war.Everyone then tries to flee and Gibson loses an eye in the process.The story just shows you that when it's time to get out, you forsake all your stories. Run for your life. In fact, do exactly that with this film. "},{"Title":"Linda Hunt as an Asian man...","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I personally admire Peter Weir, the director of this film who also created such atmospheric masterpieces as Picnic at Hanging Rock and The Last Wave. However, his decision to use an unattractive white woman to play a Chinese (Asian) man in The Year&#x85; is not only politically incorrect in the extreme, but even, bizarre and grotesque. It is, in fact, a blatant mockery of, and an affront to, all Asian men.Every person (and I presume that s/he has been White) who has made a comment here about Linda Hunt's selection to portray the Chinese photographer, Billy, raves about how well she portrayed him and can't understand why Asian American males, like myself, get upset with her having been cast in the role. Well, even though I agree that she did a first-rate job and deserved the Oscar for her portrayal, I'm still very unhappy that she was selected for the role in the first place. Let me try to explain.Firstly, can you imagine if Peter Weir had slapped 'blackface' on Ms. Hunt and had her portray such an unattractive and misshapen Black man &#x96; why, most likely, he'd have been lynched both figuratively AND literally... As much as I really do go along with the sentiment but, why should any role belong to any race? expressed by other reviewers here, the simple fact of the matter is that there are precious few &#x96; if any &#x96; positive roles for Asian men in any big box office Hollywood movies to date. I'm actually not against using stereotypes in movies &#x96; I love comedy and think that stereotypes can be very funny &#x96; even Mickey Rooney in Breakfast at Tiffany's. As a multi-ethnic society, we can all stand a little ribbing every now and then to provide a little entertainment to all of ourselves as a people. But there is a condition here &#x96; if you portray any one particular ethnic group in a disparagingly buffoonish, abnormal (Billy was a delusional and paranoid neurotic as well as a misshapen dwarf), or otherwise negative way, then, you should make up for it by portraying that same ethnic group in some positive and ennobling way as well, i.e., provide some balance. Now, Hollywood has bent over backwards to do this for African Americans, Irish, Italians, Poles, Jews, gays, the physically challenged, women &#x96; every minority or disadvantaged group you can think of &#x96; except Asian men.The simple fact of the matter is that there aren't enough positive portrayals of Asians, especially males, so, yes, we Asian American men do get a bit riled by such negative portrayals &#x96; time and again in movie after movie... Now, if the producers and directors in Hollywood ever get around to giving us Asian males equal time as leading attractive masculine men and not keep portraying us as effeminate even sinister me no speekee engrish clowns and miscreants in films, then, I'd be only too happy to laugh or cheer along with all of you nice White folks at a performance like Ms. Hunt's &#x96; or even Mr. Rooney's... "},{"Title":"Just get this movie","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is my 10th or 11th Mel Gibson movie in the last 3 weeks...yikes!  Well, I'm happy to get to this one because it might be Mel's best movie.  (And I'm a big fan of the Lethal Weapon franchise.)  I liked this movie when it first came out, and I like it even better now.  You do get to catch some lines and nuances on repeated viewing.  Mel and Sigourney, wow, are they hot...that scene at the party...!  Mel admitted recently in a TV interview that he had had an on-set affair early in his career (but not since).  You gotta wonder if it was with Sig...I would believe it.  The real standout in the movie though is indeed the great Linda Hunt, well-deserving of her Academy Award.  Where is Linda?  We haven't seen her lately.  Let me also mention Maurice Jarre's compelling musical score.  He wrote several scores for Peter Weir...check them (and the films) out.  Anyway, if you've never seen this movie, don't just sit there.  Go get it...and get it in DVD so you won't have to deal with the awful pan-and-scan video. "},{"Title":"As a journalist...","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Year of Living Dangerously As a journalist, I thought this movie was voyeuristic, vicarious, and visceral. This movie is believable&#151;and what happened in the movie could happen to me or anyone else&#151;so that's why it grabs me. And some lines really grabbed me. Guy, you are finally a journalist and Journalists work for themselves, not for others. Something like that...I believe that journalists should fight for justice, but most journalists, including myself, work for their company and their families and for themselves. Journalists covering countries under political leaders like Sukarno should have a moral and professional obligation to challenge them. In the film, however, they are just looking for exclusive news. In the midst of chaos, they just fly out of the country. For them, the stories of the lost aren't redemptive. "},{"Title":"Enthusiastic and unapologetic admirer Y.O.L.D. tells why","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The disorientation and confusion of the new reporter on the beat (there's a gang of international press in Jakarta as Indonesia is lurching toward what we now call a 'regime change') is palpable. Mel Gibson's character, from Australia, hooks up with a local cameraman who offers to open doors and give him insights into 'what's really going on below the surface'. He also falls for a lovely woman from the embassy (Sigourney Weaver)in what looks and feels like a sort of innocent fling. As the story progresses, the plots and sub-plots multiply, and we begin to feel less and less sure of who is loyal to whom. Indiginous puppetry, with shadow figures projected from candle flames, becomes the apt metaphor for the pervasive ambiguity surrounding all the story lines in the film. And the translated story of the puppet show, provides the key to the film. If the sound of the creaking bamboo outside the house doesn't make the hair on your arms stand up, check your pulse. Weir's story telling sucks us into the excitement of the flirtation between the two western leads and, once hooked, we get pulled down and down into this spiraling tale of love and betrayal. Some of the images Weir serves up from the shots on location and the landscape are very, very powerful. I saw this film when it was first released and its power and beauty still have grip on me. This is much more than a romance or a melodrama; it has been amusing to see how various video stores try to pigeonhole it.  "},{"Title":"must communicate events to the world","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A frequent theme in Australian movie is communication issues. Here, one might say that because Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) is a reporter, it's his job to communicate to the world the events going on in Indonesia. As for Pete Curtis' (Michael Murphy) racist comments towards Guy's half-Chinese dwarf cameraman Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt), racism is an essential part of colonialism.Linda Hunt's role was of course really impressive because she played a man - and won Best Supporting Actress for it. The other star is Sigourney Weaver as British attache Jill Bryant. But of course the most important thing in the movie is the events going on in Indonesia, namely the CIA coup to install Gen. Suharto (who went on to murder almost 1 million people during his thirty-two years in power, one of the most massive genocides in history). A really good movie, as Peter Weir always makes. "},{"Title":"re great Weir","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  As a young journalist who was fascinated with all things Asian, I was floored by this movie when it came out 20 years ago. I still find it one of the truly incredible films of the past several decades. From it's highly unusual setting -- how many films are set in Indonesia? -- to tremendous performances -- I'm not a huge Mel Gibson fan, but he's great in this, as is just about everybody -- I can't say enough about this film. It's still one of my Top 20 of all time ... and I'm looking forward to Peter Weir's latest film (Master and Commander) because I have a feeling it might just capture the same sort of magic this one did.  "}]