[{"Title":"See This!-Tons of Suspense, action, FUN. Don't be a grinch!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"29 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favs from the 80's.  There are certain pictures that grown-ups look to bring them back to the action/suspense/scare/titillation they felt as teen-agers.  This fits the bill perfectly.  I saw this as original release in the movies in my 30's, allowed myself to let the teenager within to take over, and have seen it at least 3-4 more times on TV.  Just love it.  Quaid is perfect as the charming/bumbling psychic recruited to (presumably) help people with dream problems. OK, so Kate Capshaw isn't a great actress, but she was quite good enough in the sexy-hot, yet resistant, scientist role she was meant to play. Max Von Sydow was perfect here as the main scientist.  At first I was disappointed in Plummer's underplayed role, but I'm more forgiving in the subsequent viewings.  The dream sequences were quite entertaining, some fun and some scares, and David Patrick Kelly (as Tommy Ray Glatman) did a FIRST CLASS job as a despicable psychopathic creep.  And the ending was top-notch (on several levels, no spoilers).  Despite comments that this seemed to copy others, I actually found this to be quite original.  It had a plotline, continuity, and finale, and viewers didn't have to scratch their heads trying to figure out what happened or what would happen.  I actually appreciate movies which don't rely on TONS of new wave computerized special effects, just enough from the 80's to set the scenery.  I always recommend it highly to those who haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"A great low-budget genre-melder","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"29 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Years after studying Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) for his psychic abilities, Dr. Paul Novotny (Max von Sydow) tracks him down to talk him into experimenting with psychic dream research. However, higher ups in the dream research program may have ulterior, nefarious motives.Dreamscape may be a good candidate for most misleading poster art. The theatrical poster, which is also the DVD cover, suggests a kid-oriented, slightly hokey adventure film--perhaps a combination of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984), The Neverending Story (1984) and The Hardy Boys Mysteries (1977). Not that the combination sounds like a bad idea to me, but this film is much more adult, much more sci-fi, and more of a thriller. It's not really an adventure, although some of the dream material could be seen that way. The tone, if not content, is closer to something like Coma (1978), and later films like Flatliners (1990) and The Cell (2000), the latter being obviously influenced by Dreamscape. It also has a bit of the bizarre surrealist tone of late-1970s fare such as Phantasm (1979) (and this aspect also influenced films like The Cell).Part of the reason the films works as well as it does is the cast. Dennis Quaid carries the film, frequently injecting enjoyable comic relief. Max von Sydow is always excellent. Kate Capshaw, as Jane DeVries, is also good as the research assistant and Alex' love interest. Although they're underused, Christopher Plummer, Eddie Albert, George Wendt and David Patrick Kelly all turn in superb performances as well.Director Joseph Ruben frequently treats us to great dream sequences, with often-subtle touches. Note, for example, the different colors upon entering different persons' dreams. For the relatively benign construction worker, the entry is blue. For the child troubled with nightmares, there is a complex of colors. For Jane, who is giving Alex the cold shoulder, the color is an icy silver-white. Although the film was relatively low budget, and effects relatively primitive at the time, I thought all of the effects worked well. I even loved the part stop-motion, part guy-in-a-costume snake-man. At times the stop motion work briefly resembled Harryhausen. I especially loved the more surreal and more horrific aspects of the dreamworlds, such as we see from Eddie Albert's character, the expressionistic sets for the child's dream, the zombies, and so on.Surprisingly, perhaps, Dreamscape is also much more effective on the suspense/thriller end than I expected it to be. There are a few great chase scenes, and one brutal (though not graphic) murder on-screen, one off-screen. It was also steamier than I expected in one section. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi for Its Time","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For 1984, this is a good sci-fi movie.  I remember watching its as a kid.  I was scared for days of the Snake Man in the movie.  Having watched it recently, I noticed that it had naturally lost the terror that it instilled when I was a child.  Despite this, it brought back foggy memories and allowed me to analyze and enjoy the film on an adult level.The story concerns a project that allows telepaths to enter into the dreams of others.  Inside these dreams they are able to help/harm the individuals from/with their nightmares.  Dennis Quaid plays a young Alex Gardner who possesses the gift of telepathy.  Under the study of Max Von Sydow and Kate Capshaw (forgot how attractive she was), Alex enter patient's dreams and tries to help them.  But with this ability, there are others that would use it as a weapon.  When the President (Eddie Albert) begins having haunting nightmares, can someone help him escape his dreams before its too late?Dreamscape delivers some of the eighties creativity and originality that we can only hope for in today's movies.  Take out the gore and grotesqueness of The Cell and you could say this movie was its inspiration.  "},{"Title":"Uneven but enjoyable psychic thriller","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Dreamscape on television. Despite some flaws, it's not a bad movie at all. It's very well-acted (though George Wendt is wasted in a thankless plot-device role) and features some very impressive, CONVINCING effects. If you want gratuitous computer-cartoon crap, look elsewhere. The snake man is impressive, and the actual dreamscapes themselves feature some inventively bizarre set design.Of course, I must mention the flaws. Though Dennis Quaid and Kate Capshaw have appeal, their characters are only partially developed, and the romantic angle of their relationship is quite standard and seems a bit forced. The motivations of several characters seem muddled, and the film tries to be too many things (horror, political conspiracy drama, Raiders of the Lost Ark-inspired adventure) for too many audiences. Also, despite creepy bits, it does seem to pull some punches. It's too explicit to be purely psychological, yet it stops just short of being a visual nightmare. Basically it lacks a hard edge...of course, as I said, I saw it cut for TV.Still, despite the problems, it's worth watching if you run across it. It's well-made and effective, with engaging performances and some sufficiently eerie passages. "},{"Title":"Fantasy/horror that spotlights the subconscious, good early F/X!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent cast heading up this Fantasy/Horror film with excellent early F/X (seems amateurish to today's standards). The reason I love this film so much is that it spotlights the subconscious and its hidden agendas.  It's a classic war between good and evil.  The plot is solid, and it's a real headgame when you think about the dream world as another realm completely. Great chemistry between Quaid and Capshaw, and Sydow delivers his usual solid performance.  Excellent conclusion! "},{"Title":"Could have been a contender","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The idea is fantastic. Can you imagine being able to get into other people's dreams, watch them, interact with them. The problem is, the plot is inconclusive and becomes kind of a TV movie along the way. It would make a fantastic remake with a stronger cast and director. However, movies about dreaming are always scary because they touch on something so close and yet inexplicable to all of us. I saw recently a short movie from Italy entitled Xchange which is the closest to this one in terms of innovation insofar as the subject is concerned. Not an easy area to tell a long story about. Dreams are often used as omens or hints of psychological discomfort in movies. Instead, it would be great if they could be regarded as something different a world of their own, a parallel state of mind no less real than real life itself. Someone should redo Dreamscape! "},{"Title":"Generally enjoyable film.","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dreamscape does require a little more suspension of disbelief that most entries in the sci-fi genre, but adds up to well-paced, generally enjoyable, occasionally exciting film. Effects are somewhat dated today, but Quaid's charming, confident performance makes up for that. Definitely a minor picture, but still unjustly neglected. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining genre crossing production.","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There's a fair amount of 80s style imagination and panache to be found in this nifty combination of sci-fi, thriller, and political intrigue. It's got a hell of a good cast and a more than capable director, Joseph Ruben, who'd started out in exploitation films and later turned out the solid sleeper The Stepfather as well as mainstream fare such as Sleeping with the Enemy. Its premise may be too close to A Nightmare on Elm Street in some ways, but at least the political element helps it to stand apart.Dennis Quaid, at the peak of his charisma, plays Alex Gardner, a psychically gifted young man who would rather use his gifts for self- gain but reluctantly agrees to help old pal Paul Novotny (ever delightful Max von Sydow) who's developed a revolutionary dream therapy program. It seems that now people like Alex can be inserted into the nightmares of others, and help them to deal with them. However, there's a smooth but cold government man (a chilling Christopher Plummer) who has sinister motives for supporting this program.Wonderful visual design is just one of the hooks of this story; the nightmares each get their own dream tunnel, for one thing, and for another, the bleak post-apocalyptic landscape of which the President (Eddie Albert) dreams and the skewed images experienced by young Buddy (Cory Bumper Yothers) are very well realized. The special effects are eye popping, and things do get pretty grim and gory (a heart is ripped out of a chest). One of the highlights of the movie is the nefarious Snakeman, a monster brought to life through a combination of stop motion and an actor (Larry Cedar) in a costume. The music is cheesy electronic stuff, which is kind of surprising considering that the composer is the great Maurice Jarre. There's some witty dialogue, and a steamy subplot involving Alex and the young Dr. Jane DeVries (Kate Capshaw, who's lovely but sporting some real 80s hair here).The cast couldn't be better; also appearing are the eternally amusing David Patrick Kelly as weaselly little psychopath Tommy Ray, George Wendt as a horror novelist who snoops around, and character actors such as Redmond Gleeson, Peter Jason, Chris Mulkey, Madison Mason, and Brian Libby. Also, Ruben keeps the pacing consistent and the big showdown between Alex and Tommy Ray is a set piece worth waiting for.With all of this going for it, Dreamscape is a totally engrossing diversion that may be very much of its time but still does a good job of entertaining the viewer.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dream a little dream of me.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid), a smart-ass sax-playing psychic, is press-ganged into taking part in a top secret dream-experiment, whereby he is able to enter the subconscious minds of people suffering from nightmares.When the President of the USA (Eddie Albert) is brought to the high-tech dream facility (in an attempt to help rid him of his recurring visions of a nuclear apocalypse), Alex discovers that an assassination attempt is about to take place evil G-man Bob Blair (Christopher Plummer) has recruited Alex's nasty psychic counterpart Tommy Ray (David Patrick Kelly) to try and snuff out the Prez by entering his mind while he sleeps and killing him. Only Alex, with some help from sexy scientist Jane DeVries (Kate Capshaw), can thwart the plan, by also slipping into the top man's 'dreamscape' and confronting bad-guy Tommy before he can carry out his dastardly deed.Made in 1984, the same year as A Nightmare on Elm Street, Dreamscape is suspiciously similar, thematically, to Wes Craven's famous horror flick. Since Craven's film had been in development for some time before Dreamscape, one can only assume that the people behind this thriller had caught wind of Wes's project, and decided to borrow certain elements for their own dream-based adventure. It doesn't really matter, however, because the film ends up taking its own path where Wes's film was purely an out and out horror, Dreamscape is part action, part sci-fi, part horror, and part comedy, and the result is a terrific slab of cheesy 80s fun.Quaid makes a likable protagonist, and he is ably supported by an impressive cast, which also includes the excellent Max Von Sydow as Alex's mentor, and George Wendt (from Cheers) as a novelist who first alerts our hero to the more sinister side of meddling with dreams. The action aspect of the film is its weakest point (mostly consisting of some fairly unexceptional chase scenes), but the fantasy angle more than makes up for things. When Alex masters the art of entering the dream realm, the fun really begins.After testing his psychic abilities on a few easy cases, Alex meets his first real challenge when he volunteers to help a boy who is suffering from recurring nightmares about a snake-man. This sequence, which takes place in a wonderfully realised expressionist set, is great fun and features some less-than-perfect stop motion animation and creature effects which only add to the film's charm.Alex successfully helps the boy confront his fears and defeat the snake-man, but in doing so, he makes an enemy of Tommy Ray, who is jealous of his new rival. Inevitably, the two psychics eventually meet in the atomic wasteland of the President's subconscious, and Tommy is not only determined to 'off' the country's leader, but also to get even with Alex. In this great finalé, which is surprisingly scary and occasionally gruesome (at one point, Tommy Ray pulls a still beating heart from one character's chest),the bad guy uses every trick available to him in the dream realm, turning his fingers into blades (Freddy Krueger, anyone?), doing a martial arts routine with glowing nunchakus, summoning the help of radioactive zombies, and transforming himself into Alex's secret fear&#151;the snake-man. "},{"Title":"Good of its type","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Psychic Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) is recruited for a government-funded institute. In it psychics are able to get into peoples' dreams and interact with them. However one subject dies while in this state and Alex realizes something is wrong. And the President (Eddie Albert) is going to visit the institute for some nightmares he is having...I enjoyed watching this but realized, after it was over, that it didn't make a whole lot of sense and there were plot holes left and right. Still, it moves quickly and the dream sequences themselves were lots of fun. This was also the second PG-13 rating ever released. It was cut to get that (a sex scene between Quaid and Kate Capshaw was almost completely dropped) but there were some complaints about the amount of violence (none of which was cut) that was allowed in. By today's standards though it's not that bad.Quaid is good--he's young, handsome and not taking any of this seriously. Max von Sydow is very good as the head doctor of the research. Kate Capshaw is pretty terrible as his assistant. Christopher Plummer seems to be proving he can say his lines without moving a muscle in his face. Albert is lots of fun as the President and David Patrick Kelly almost runs away with the movie as Tommy Ray Glatin.So a quick, fun little movie. Just don't think about it too much. "}{"Title":"lightweight fun!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with most of the posters here. This is lightweight entertainment but it's great fun, especially if you like your SF. Performances are reasonable - there's some action, a love interest and some nice effects. There's also some pretty bad effects - I'm talking about the snake man which was like a rubbish version of Ray Harryhausen (of whom I'm a fan, but this just sucked.)A special mention goes to the music which will not be on your list of top sound tracks.Don't expect anything much - just sit back and enjoy this slice of 80's pulp SF.  "},{"Title":"Dreamscape","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've always been fond of movies whose topic is about dreams because it provides room for filmmakers to be unpredictable, imaginative, and inventive, both visually and thematically. While Joseph Ruben's Dreamscape carries the oft-used plot of a shadowy government conspiracy regarding a dangerous bureaucrat with powerful ties whose plan is to kill the President of the United States because of fears that he'll weaken our country due to his desires to start nuclear disarmament talks, I thought the movie's bread and butter is the many dream sequences where we go inside the night terrors which plague certain human subjects.Achieving the power to enter the dreams of troubled people who have become so deeply affected they aren't able to function normally in society or in life in general, Dr. Paul Novotny(Max Von Sydow)recruits powerful telepaths to work in his dream chamber in an attempt to help those in need of rescue. Alex Gardner(Dennis Quaid) is such a telepath, incredibly gifted and intelligent, but lacks the motivation or care to use them towards the greater good. Reluctantly committing to Novotny's experiments, Gardner finds that helping others recover from the nightmares that haunt them is an exciting, wonderful ability which he gradually embraces and finds rewarding. Meanwhile Bob Blair(Christopher Plummer), responsible for funding Novotny's project, prepares to murder the President(Eddie Albert), believing he's weakening our country due to how he's allowed his nightmares to affect his conduct as the nation's leader. Blair intends to use a psychopathic telepath, Tommy Ray Glatman(David Patrick Kelly in one of his customary smarmy creep roles)to kill the President inside his dream. It'll be up to Alex, and Jane(Kate Capshaw), Novotny's assistant, to stop Blair or else risk equipping a tool of destruction into the hands of dangerous people willing to exploit it's power. A horror novelist, Charlie(George Wendt)risks his life getting vital information to Alex, motivating his cause to upend Blair and his nefarious schemes.I personally found the whole political intrigue rather ho-hum, really enjoying the angle of the ability to enter the dreams to help those in need instead. Alex uses the term cerebral voyeurs as their title which I thought was an apt description of us, the viewers, as well. I particularly found the journeys into the nightmares of a little boy tormented by a killer snake man, and the President's nuclear holocaust where the world represents destruction and ruin(..with diseased and dead asking why they were victimized)rather harrowing and thrilling. This, I felt, was where the movie really hums. The sub-plot, however, allows the horrifying idea of how such abilities can be used negatively in the wrong hands, where, initially, the project was for the betterment of the human race. Plummer is the perfect choice to portray a governmental sociopath in a suit and tie, more than willing to kill whoever in order to see that America remains the way he thinks it ought to be. Eddie Albert, albeit a small role, has a pivotal part as the President, particularly when he and Alex are protecting themselves against Tommy, who has become a major threat since being given a place to practice his homicidal tendencies. Quaid is a young hunk, with a charming smile, and has a likable air about him, despite his cocky reckless behavior, with the on-going crisis asking him to grow up and get serious about the developing situation. Capshaw, in a rather thankless role, has the part of attractive love-interest who helps Alex in their mission to stop Blair(..her train car fantasy with Quaid gets quite steamy, interrupted before they get busy). Max von Sydow is the disappointed scientist who thought his work offered the world a benefit, saddened that Blair had other plans for the dream project, with designs on using it to kill instead of heal.When Alex enters the dreams of subjects, we witness a path through a type of multi-colored wormhole. Most of the dreams are shot using soft focus light, with Ruben often incorporating odd angles, creating a disorienting atmosphere that projects a unique universe for which Alex operates within the subjects he wishes to help. The conclusion is nice and tidy, rather predictable, those with malevolent intentions getting their just desserts.You can really see why Quaid became a star, with his looks and talent on display. "},{"Title":"Inventive science fiction film which runs short of imagination by the end, but is thought-provoking most of the way.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" On the level of interesting concepts, there can't be many films more promising than Dreamscape. The finished product might not be particularly great, but the central idea upon which the entire story is built is very impressive indeed. Dreams are such a weird and personal phenomena. They throw up so many fascinating possibilities and questions. And most importantly of all, EVERYONE has dreams, which means that Dreamscape is a film that people can identify with universally.Psychic Alex Gardner (Dennid Quaid) joins a dream research project run by ambitious scientist Dr Paul Novotny (Max Von Sydow). Dr Novotny has devised a sophisticated laboratory where he can carry out these studies of dreams. More innovatively, the doctor has also made a breakthrough in the idea of dream-linking, a process by which one person can enter another's dreams and have a direct influence over the events taking place. Gardner becomes a dream linker and learns how to enter the dreams of other people. During his dream linking he has various outlandish experiences, including helping an insecure man to catch his wife having sex with his brother, and helping a young nightmare-plagued boy to defeat a snake-man who haunts his dreams. Gardner also dream links with one of Dr Novotny's pretty assistants, Dr Jane Devries (Kate Capshaw), and together they share an erotic fantasy. The research takes a turn for the sinister when the President of the USA (Eddie Albert) comes forth admitting that he has been experiencing recurring nightmares about a nuclear holocaust. Gardner has begun to suspect that dream linkers may have the power to murder people in their dreams, thereby causing them to die in real life. He figures out that government conspirator Bob Blair (Christopher Plummer) has pumped funding into the dream research project, but all along has harboured the ulterior motive of sending in an assassin to kill the President in his dreams. Gardner is the only person who knows of the assassination plot, so he enters the President's dreams to protect him from the dream-linking assassin, Tommy Ray Glatman (David Patrick Kelly).Dreamscape is imaginative and rather philosophical stuff, with enjoyable dream sequences. The special effects are a little dated, especially during the snake man sequence, but for the time are just about acceptable. Quaid gives a likable performance as the reluctant hero, with Von Sydow in his usual commanding form as the innovative scientist in charge of the research. Kate Capshaw is attractive and intelligent as the love interest (it's a shame she never got stronger roles after this), while Plummer does another of his shadowy villain roles with customary silky menace. The film eventually settles down to become a political-assassination thriller, and at this point the fantastical, limitless possibilities inherent in the story suddenly become all too conventional. But, for the majority of the way, Dreamscape is an enjoyable and thought-provoking film. "},{"Title":"80's sci-fi at a low budget proves to be above average","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SLIGHT SPOILERMuch like the special effects used in Altered State, Dreamscape invites its audience to imagine psychics going into people's minds to destroy their worst nightmares. Dennis Quaid plays the lead (quite well, actually) who is a psychic since birth who is asked/black-mailed by a local college to star in this experiment. But things aren't as easy as they seem for Quaid when he finds that someone else is putting the nightmares to use against people.You get a shot at Dennis Quaid, George Wendt (from Cheers fame as Norm), and, a personal favorite, from the Crow, we get to see T-Bird (David Patrick Kelly) is an early role as an evil psychic who has seen Enter The Dragon over 6 times and likes to fend himself with glow stick-looking nunchucks. Pretty original material spanned the entire film.The special effects were on par with the growing sci-fi films around the time...almost like Tron and the aforementioned Altered State. The dream sequences almost remind me of the Cell with Jennifer Lopez. The music was interesting and matched the experimentation of the scenes (although a little overdone with the annoying Casio keyboard).It was a little weird and drawn-out when they bring in the love interest and try to overdo the scenes. The special effects of the snake man were cheap-looking but unique for their time. It makes this movie looks very dated, though. And in the commentary for the updated DVD, the special effects director admits that they stole the tunnel-effects for entering the mind from an independent filmmaker instead of making their own. Huh...well, it still gets a 6/10 from me for it's slightly above average script and effects. Just remember it was really new for it's time in 1984.  "},{"Title":"Although too ambitious for its budget, a relatively agreeable dream-linking adventure...","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dennis Quaid, self-confidently impudent and smirking, plays a young psychic who is enlisted by scientists to telepathically link his mind with a series of patients who are suffering troubled dream states, sending him down the very same wormhole as the dreamer; this is merely training, however, as a very important subject--no less than the President of the United States himself!--is in need of some dream therapy, though there may be a saboteur or two in the mix. Predictably written and directed fantasy, with several cardboard supporting characters adding little to the mix and a production which fails to live up to expectations. The villains are exposed too early on, and there's no mystery or wonder in the dream sequences. Still, Quaid is a surprise; moving easily through this unconvincing scenario (which should be over-the-top but never gets up enough energy to bring itself there), the actor slips around corners and into forbidden rooms like a teen detective from a comic book. Quaid holds his own with acting stalwarts such as Max Von Sydow and Christopher Plummer, and emerges as a happily-horny hero who's not above a little dirty pool. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Dennis Quaid leaps in and out of dreams in this interesting science fiction/horror outing released in the same year as a certain similarly themed Wes Craven outing.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't aware of this film's existence until I picked up the region 4 DVD recently on the cheap from a video store sale. The movie deals with most of the same dream related themes and jargon as for Nightmare on Elm Street. All this stuff seems like a bit of a buzz in 84'. Both film were probably in production at the same time, but some of the scenes are strikingly similar. I won't go into detail though. Quaid gives a likable performance as always, and has a reasonably decent foe in David Patrick Kelley, giving his usual smarmy mean guy performance. George Wendt is in the cast here as a novelist, and later plays a neighbour to a novelist in the 86' horror movie House. The special effects are competent, with a lot of blue-screen stuff that strangely sports old film artifacts, but it doesn't look like old file-footage. It mixes a lot of surreal backdrops with on location live-action stuff during dream sequences that doesn't always blend together well. There is some decent stop-motion animation with snake creatures, sort of like the old Ray Harryhausen outings, Jason and the Argonauts etc. Unfortunately, there isn't a lot of variety, as it seems the film maker's have a bit of a pre-occupation with snakes, that's the only sort of creature you get through the whole movie. The makeup here is sort of similar to in the 80's TV series V. It's not a bad movie, but it's a bit murky, with a bit to much mean spirited stuff. Worth a watch if your interested. Average. "},{"Title":"Eighties Sci-Fi. Thriller doesn't hold up...at all!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this during the eighties when it originally came out and thought it was terrific and scary. However, this movie does not hold up at all. It's not just the technological advancements in special effects that makes this movie so dated, after all movies like The Thing and The Exorcist came out before this. A scary movie is scary no matter when it came out.This movie is just silly. The president's fear of nuclear war is treated so brazenly that it doesn't hold up now that the Day After decade is over. The story is so brisk in the extreme nothing is giving time to develop. Only the ideas are presented and not explored. Quaid and Sydow are good but even they can't save this movie. The dialog is very stilted at parts. Christopher Plummer is just silly, not menacing. Tommy Ray isn't scary any more. The snake man looks so rubbery and stupid that I can't believe I was ever scared of it in the first place. They did a terrible job with it. The transformation effects are now laughable. They didn't have to be.  Kate Capshaw is awful (she always was; maybe that's one of the reasons you don't see her in much anymore now that she is married to Spielberg).This is just not that strong a movie and time has not been kind to it. I thought it was great when I was 10 but it just isn't scary or fun. Awful music by Maurice Jarre. Not because it is an electronic eighties keyboard soundtrack like Jerry Goldsmith's Runaway. No this is just bad and it sounds bad on this DVD. No themes develop and even the chase music is boring. Very weak. Similar genre movies from the eighties that hold up and you might want to check out instead Twilight Zone the Movie,  Gremlins, Poltergeist, Brainstorm, Fright Night.DVD-This DVD is also not very good either. The picture quality is very crisp most of the time. There is some wavering in some scenes. The special effects unfortunately don't benefit from all that detail in picture quality. The worst part is the sound. It comes in DTS and Dolby Digital. It is hardly 5.1 like the box advertises. Occasionally you get some weak directional effects. But for I would say 80% of the movie everything is in the center speaker.The best thing about this DVD is the menus. They were a pleasant surprise. The movie and this DVD were not. "},{"Title":"Wicked fun fantasy sci fi","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dreamscape is a killer fun, colourful, streamlined little fantasy sci-fi from back in the 80's that still holds its own amongst anything that today has to offer. It's a glowing testament to the shelf life of practical effects, showing that no matter how jerky, obvious or in your face an effect is, it's always going to look more dazzling to the human eye than CGI. This one is a neat kaleidoscope of animatronics, trick photography, pretty colour filters and general whackadoodle atmosphere of strangeness, and when you look at the subject matter, it becomes clear why. It's about a secret government program which employs gifted psychics to enter people's dreams, retrieving valuable information and discerning motives that could prevent tragedy. One such individual is Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) recruited by Dr. Paul Novotny (Max Von Sydow) to assist him in vague research which requires his cerebral talents. Quaid suits the role perfectly, considering Alex is a roguish, irresponsible dude content with using his clairvoyance to score at the racetrack, slumming way below his potential and smiling about it no end. He's tasked with figuring why the U.S. President (always nice to see Eddie Albert) is having harrowing nightmares of an America left in ruins by some catastrophic disaster. Lurking in the shadows is secretary of defence Bob Blair (a slimy Christopher Plummer) whose trigger happy agenda raises some red flags. Gardner is facing quite the conundrum, as he finds himself watched by Blair's goons, and racing to prevent the unthinkable, with only a beautiful colleague (Kate Capshaw) to help him. The effects inside the dreams are wicked, including a skin crawling human cobra hybrid, a Seuss-esque stairway into oblivion, a hazy skyscraper accident, a haunting vision of earth post-nuclear attack complete with clawing mutants (a genuinely scary moment) and more. For its time, it outdoes itself in the visual department. The supporting cast is nice as well, with appearances from Chris Mulkey, Peter Jason, George Wendt and David Patrick Kelly. One of my treasured fantasy flicks from the 80's and just a bundle of metaphysical, trippy fun. "},{"Title":"Have a heart, Alex...!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ah, the memories. I saw this one a long time ago and was much impressed with the scary nightmare scenes and the sensuality of Kate Capshaws dream scene. I'll admit it wasn't that impressive when I saw it again a couple of years ago, but it's still a pretty enjoyable film.It's not very complicated, but it has tempo, the aforementioned Capshaw is still a sight for sore eyes, and Randy Quaid - flanked by the two acting giants Max Von Sydow and Christopher Plummer as rivals - is still an okay maverick of his time. And then there was this other, nasty, 'dreamlinker', played by David Patrick Kelly, who did a similar thing in 'The warriors' (1979)... He did this to you! He did this to you!And finally, the dreamscapes. They rather vary, but only the one with the construction worker was truly disappointing. The ones with The President were numerous and pretty cool; the post-apocalyptic red, some zombies or a mushroom cloud or some fine stop-motion stuff - yay! There was too little of it, unfortunately. All in all it was more like a sci-fi TV-movie with a whole lot of unnecessary dialogue.Out of sentimental consideration 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another TV-grade major motion picture.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After reading all of the positive reviews, I was a little bit disappointed by this movie, since it played like a very good made- for-TV movie, instead of a major motion picture. Still, on the whole it was a pleasant blast-from-the-past, and I don't regret watching it. The special effects, especially at the ending were pretty interesting, but the acting was strictly mediocre TV grade, and I could not make an real emotional connection to anybody in this movie because of that. I often like to watch older, less polished movies from the past like this one, because, while so many modern films are super slick, they are also often plot-lite and utterly soulless--this film is like Shakespeare compared to any from the Transformers franchise. The big logical problem I had with this film is that I kept wondering why somebody with very strong psychic abilities kept winding up in life threatening situations . It seems like you should see these problems coming. I mean, really, you can pick winning horses at the track, but thugs trying to kill you take you by surprise? "}{"Title":"An Enjoyable Sci-Fi Film","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) is a gifted young man who has the ability to do things of a psychic nature that normal people cannot. As a result his talent is in great demand from several sources. Gamblers at the race track want him for his amazing ability to pick winners. A scientist by the name of Dr. Paul Novotny (Max von Sydow) wants him to explore dream research at a nearby university. Yet another person named Bob Blair (Christopher Plummer) works for the government and has more sinister plans for him. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was an enjoyable sci-fi film in spite of the mediocre special effects found in some of the dream sequences. I especially liked the performance of David Patrick Kelly who played the mentally disturbed psychic named Tommy Rae Glatman. Likewise, Kate Capshaw (as Jane DeVries) certainly didn't hurt the scenery in any way. In any case, while it isn't a great movie by any means it manages to entertain and I rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"interesting concept needs better dreams","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) has psychic abilities which he uses to win horse races. Bad guys are after him and he's had it with doctors prodding him. He left doctor Paul Novotny (Max von Sydow) years ago. Along with Dr. Jane DeVries (Kate Capshaw), they are researching entering other people's dreams. Brash Tommy Ray Glatman (David Patrick Kelly) is another psychic in the program. Bob Blair (Christopher Plummer) runs the program. The president (Eddie Albert) is having nightmares and he asks for Bob's help. Charlie Prince (George Wendt) is a horror writer, who is looking to write a book, tells him that Bob is the most powerful man in the US government.The part that is holding this movie back are the dreams. It has to be considered that this is before CG. I really like the kid's nightmare. It has a Twilight Zone and horror feel. The president's nightmare isn't quite as good. The battle could be more inventive. It is constrained by technology more than the imagination. Dennis Quaid has the cockiness and he's good as the lead. "},{"Title":"Dream Waaaarriors... Come out to plaay-eeh-aayyyy!","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Apologies for the header, but like most people, and whether he likes it or not, every time I see David Patrick Kelly playing his usual psychotic role in a film, I just can't help myself from blurting out the expected. The guy is a legendary typecast toolbox for the delivery of that one line alone, but I bet he's the salt of the earth in person, as most on-screen psychotics are.Anyhoo, as for this flick, I was in my early teens when I first saw it, and thought it was a cracker of a film, right up until the mid '90's, at least when I felt I'd moved on, but as time continued forthrightwardness, I still think it's a bloody cracker of a film, despite what any fickle folks say about any ageing or crappy effects. You just can't deny it's a fundamental premise for the likes of Inception, and even when it comes to measuring it alongside the first of the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise movies which was released in the same year, (but only three months later), it still seems that this movie was ahead of the concept of dream intervention and nut-job infiltration. (No spoiler intended, but watch out for Tommy Ray and his five sharp fingernails.) You see now what I did there now with the header? ...Oh well, never mind...Thirty years on this year anyway, and I still find this movie thoroughly enjoyable as a decent and compelling sci-fi-ish thriller, and believe you me, that's not just nostalgia orientated, because I could say otherwise about David Lynch's Dune, but that's just another epic story altogether.Yes, the effects are dodgy in this day and age, just like ED-209 trying to walk down a flight of stairs, which we've all come to accept and admire for what was and will never be again, but both the story and concept are still fully valid, and very well portrayed without resorting to any tea-kettle-boiling-techno-mumbo-jumbo-filler-crap. It's compact, gets straight to the point very quickly, no lagging moments, and the momentum keeps going throughout at a steady pace all the way to the end credits, with some brief moments of armchair gripping excitement. (I'd beg to differ with anyone that say they don't flinch when the snake-man receives his 'pipe dream'.)Not a fantastic film, but a cracker nonetheless that stands the test of time in my books, and after yet another recent viewing, it's gonna stay that way until that snake-man finally gets me in my sleep. Current IMDb rating is 6.3, and I would totally agree with that, but there's no half-measures here, so I'll give it a 7/10, coz 6/10 is just too mean and disrespectful for such a bloody good flick. "},{"Title":"Did you ever see a dream walking?","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After films like 'Star Wars' and 'Raiders of the Lost Ark,' movies had a sense of wonder audiences had never seen before. Amazing things could be done with special effects, making it possible to take viewers to new and exciting worlds. Dreams can be a wonderful device in films if used well. Since anything is possible in them, filmmakers can bend the rules and make all sorts of things happen. Take the 'Nightmare on Elm Street' series for instance. As the series progressed, the dreams and deaths of the characters became more bizarre and horrific. Released a few months before the first 'Nightmare' was a film that took a more scientific approach to dreams. Aside from a few flaws, it's a really fun and fantastical ride.Pros Well acted. Decent score. Good sense of humor. Some suspense. Nicely done production design. Great practical effects that have aged well. A few scares. Perfectly paced.Cons The score is overdramatic at times. Some weak dialogue. Dated blue screen effects.Final thoughts Movies dealing with dreams don't always do it so well. It opens up so many possibilities, but one must use their imagination to reach the potential. The makers of most of the 'Elm Street' films have done a great job at this. 'Dreamscape' doesn't do so bad in this department either. Sure it's a bit dated, but it's also good old fashioned, edge of your seat entertainment.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Entertaining  Psychic Sci-Fi Tale.","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dennis Quaid plays Alex Gardner, a young man with psychic abilities who is on the run from gangsters who want him to work for them.(He can pick the winners from horse races). Alex is saved by the timely intervention by his former teacher(Max Von Sydow) who wants his help with the secret government project he had once been involved with, in order to help both a young boy traumatized by nightmares, and also the U.S. president(played by Eddie Albert) who is having horrible nightmares about WWIII, and so wants a treaty with the Russians, which forces in the government(led by Christopher Plummer) want to prevent...Exciting and highly entertaining film is well acted by its stars, and has imaginative and scary visuals(including the Snake man) that work quite well. Villains may be one-dimensional, but film still works, and has a good score and satisfying ending. "},{"Title":"clever science/conspiracy fiction despite it's age and dated SFX","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this soon after release on TV having not been able to sleep. Probably not a good film choice, but I vaguely remember realising that I shouldn't really be watching it and was scared by it, my heart beating hard the whole time. It had quite a profound effect on me. Watching it again, whilst not horror as I'd previously thought, it does have enough to make it gripping and I jumped once or twice, despite it being quite obviously dated. The premise is very clever and good science-fiction and possibly the idea behind films like Inception. Whilst I don't like reboots as a general rule, I would be interested to see how this was tackled with today's CGI and technology. The stop-start model animation sequences let the film down in what is otherwise a not-bad watching for a nearly 30yo film.The plot is not as basic as it first appears, and unfolds in conspiracy-esque fashion and Dennis Quaid is perfect in the role; both funny and cheeky, flirty and sexy but also physical enough to handle some action and stunts believably. Christopher Plummer plays villainous research facility mastermind superbly well with his quiet calm and authoritative manner, perfect foil for Quaid's animation and brash style. There are shades of InnerSpace (insertion into a biological function inner world) but with more sinister and dark method, and with greater ramifications. Kate Capshaw as researcher Jane DeVries and David Patrick Kelly as obvious twisted bad-guy Tommy Ray are stereotype made-to-measure but suited and add to the film's plausibility.I'm not going to say it's a brilliant film but for it's time, the psychological potential of it and the fact that it's great science fiction and despite it's age is still gripping, I'm giving it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Into the Dreamzone.","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dreams have always fascinated me because their always carry such a mystery, to how surreal they are as well as what content they hold; sometimes they mean something and sometimes nothing. This film is an under the radar 80's gem that I really enjoyed, because you never quite seen a film like it there really aren't that many that tackle the subject matter on dreams let alone really that many psychic suspense thrillers; this film was one of the first and one of the best examples in my book anyway. The plot is solid if not entirely unique, it's the typical conspiracy against the president plot that I've seen in dozens of suspense thrillers, but here their using the dream realm which I felt was a different spin on this plot and helps make it slightly interesting. The music in the film is good there are a few memorable tracks. The characters are solid, I like the protagonist Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) he's an expert psychic but a rookie in entering dreams. He's slightly arrogant but in a good way, has a little charisma, he's a bit sympathetic because he feels responsible for not saving his father despite the fact he only got the vision when he was a child, but he's willing to take the psychic hero gig whether he wants to or not because there's no one else. Kate Capshaw was good as Jane DeVries she was a good number two for Alex, whom is smart, slightly useful, can hold her own against danger. Both have decent chemistry together both platonic and romantic wise.And the antagonists I thought were good opponents. Christopher Plumber was decent, I don't have much to say for him since he's kinda a typical two dimensional head villain. But it's really David Patrick Kelly that stands out for the main villain, he has played villains before I thought was once again a good villain. He's basically an butt head psycho psychic for hire whom surprising turns out to be intimidating due to how well he utilizes the dream world, let alone a more experienced psychic which unfortunately gives him a slight advantage over Alex. He's also kinda funny from some of the charisma he delivers.But really were in this film for the Dreamscape sequences which are the highlight of the film and they don't disappoint, there something you just have to see to believe. It's true that there have been some TV episodes and movies that have utilizes dream sequences, but these dream sequences in this film still stand out because of how unique they are and how elaborate in detail and atmosphere.I really like how it's shot and certain effects and set pieces which successfully created a surreal landscape, and it felt accurate because that's basically what most of our dreams are they never really look or behave like our contemporary reality because anything could happen and does. Alex's reactions to them help because were in the same boat as him in the sequences, the Dreamscape is trippy, fascinating and even a little scary. One of the things that stand out no doubt is the Snake Man, I still think is a memorable monster. I really like the design of it, it sort of looks like Cobra Ka from He-Man. The way it just behaves and looks is creepy, and personally I find snakes at times creepy anyway.My favorite Dreamscape was in the final conflict, I just really like the post apocalyptic setting, but also just the back and forth in the physical (or psychic) confrontation between Alex and Tommy. I just like how Tommy is just throwing different things against Alex, like having a ninja uniform and using nunchkus; as well as other things I don't want to give away.It's true this films journey isn't without it's bumps. Certain scenes where Alex isn't in the Dreamscape weren't that interesting and useless, like the gambling scene. One dream scape journey to a divorced couple was out of place and look like something out of a bad soap. And certain effects don't quite hold up.But there are all minor problems due to the just the pacing of the film and the pulp fun tone to it, so I can get past these things.Overall it's a solid film that deserves a look. In the world of dreams anything can happen.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really wish that I had seen this film, before I saw Inception. Of course you can't compare the graphics or special effects, in fact, the effects in Dreamscape are laughable by today's standards, but this was really the first movie to explore entering someones dreams. The story is wonderfully creative with unlimited possibilities, but at the time it was made, you couldn't rely on the special effects to make the movie, the way some films today do. What Dreamscape really needed was a young charismatic star to put the film over the top, and they found him in Dennis Quaid. The difference in his personality and the types of roles he chooses to take have done a complete turnaround over the last thirty years. The Dennis Quaid of today is a strong, emotionless character, who is determined to do whatever he sets his mind to. In Dreamscape he's funny, ambitious, and absolutely adds character to a story that could have gone either way. What the film loses in predictability and the sometimes slow pace, is more than made up for with Quaid's standout performance. I'd always heard good things about Dreamscape and how it was the inspiration for Inception, but it's a thirty year old film with outdated effects and some really cheesy stuff, I really didn't expect it to be as good it as it was. "},{"Title":"1980s Inception","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The whole concept of this movie was pretty interesting. The ability to go into someones dream and help them face their nightmares. But the only people who can do it are psychics. At first you are hook to a machine, but if you are strong enough, you can do it without the machine. The cast was pretty good. Dennis Quaid did a decent job. I guess you could say he had an enemy and it was David Patrick Kelly. He was pretty good too. More creepy than anything. The one thing this film lacked was story. It jumped around way too much. Plus it rushed a lot. The whole time you want to see Dennis Quaid in a dream, but when he finally gets into one, the scene doesn't last that long. That is the whole point to the movie; the dreams. The last dream he enters is longer, but still rushed. Maybe they were just afraid to extend the movie, I am not sure. But if done right, it could of been fantastic. "},{"Title":"Because of its dream-entering plot line, this will surely be watched in conjunction with Christopher Nolan's Inception","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A sci-fi thriller that is a major forbearer of Christopher Nolan's Inception. It also deals with people who can enter the dreams of other people. Dennis Quaid is a man with psychic abilities. Max von Sydow is a scientist who studied Quaid when he was in college. Now he recruits Quaid to work with him in his dream studies. Kate Capshaw plays von Sydow's sexy assistant (and, no, she's actually pretty tolerable, despite having annoyed us all as Indiana Jones' love interest the same year). Christopher Plummer plays a government agent who wants to use these dream experiments to help the President (Eddie Albert) overcome his nightmare problems, and David Patrick Kelly (the guy who spoke the infamous line Warriors, come out to play-ay!) is another psychic working on the project. There really aren't many sequences that take place in the dreams, but the few that do are pretty excellent. Most of the film has Quaid discovering the devious reasons Plummer has in bringing the President into these experiments. Not a great film, by any means, but an entertaining one. "}{"Title":"Inception lovers, consider this one","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this as a teenager in the theater. This movie was one of the few movies in my life that I continually reflected upon.Do dreams really matter, how important are they, and can you truly control dreams as though you lived in the Matrix? I loved this movie then, and after watching Inception, i wanted to go back and rent this movie again. Will watch it in the coming week.Nothing is more exciting than to think that every night we enter our own alien world where we have more control and more power than we have ever realized.We don't have enough dream research going on. "},{"Title":"dream scenes","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't remember seeing this in the 80's, but watched it on AMC recently. The dream scenes may have been cheesy as some put it, but they worked. Better than having them all shiny and computerized. The style looked a lot like the Twilight Zone movie....all crooked doors, funky angles etc. It might be cool to see it redone, maybe not TOO computerized though. More psychological than visual. Some seriously big names in this movie though. Was fun seeing Dennis Quaid all perky and cocky, like he was in Breaking Away. Have fun...there is nothing better than a good sci-fi or any sci-fi for that matter!!! "},{"Title":"Definitely cut out the boobies on the DVD","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" the scene where the husband walks into the red lensed bedroom and finds his wife horse riding his bro got massacred for the DVD, unfortunately. i remember this scene explicitly. you can't mess with a 10 year old's sexual fantasy or recollection.the DVD , for whatever technical or political reason, does not bare the original beta and VHS American versions released in the eighties clear vision of a totally pg-13 movie.the F word, boobies and heart ripping out of chest and severed snake heads and nuclear holocaust. man, today pg-13 is so mild, it's ridiculous.two words kelly le friggin' brock in woman in red.genital nudity. never seen again by these eyes in a pg-13.crazy eighties. what brass one's they had! "},{"Title":"Scape of Dreams","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Engaging low budget sci-fi entry about psychic Quaid who abuses his gift to win at sporting events before being recruited for a government experiment regarding other psychics being sent into the dreams of ordinary people, which includes entering the dream of a little boy who's haunted by the nightmare of a giant snake and then getting embroiled in a plot to assassinate the President of the USA, with David Patrick Kelly as the little sadist whom Quaid must fight.Off beat and mind bending with Quaid as the affable hero at the center piece of it all. Kate Capshaw, AKA Mrs. Spielberg #2, co-stars, actually giving a good performance, along with Max Von Sydow and Christopher Plummer. "},{"Title":"Holds up PRETTY well","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw Dreamscape not once, but TWICE when it came out in the theatres. A fun film, especially when you're twelve. Psychic Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) is recruited by Max von Sydow to do some dream-linking whereby one person enters and becomes an active participant in another person's dream. Neat! So we get lots of trippy dream sequences (some are trippy. Some look shoddy now - 20 years later. Go figure) along with a little clandestine sneaking around stuff when it turns out the government and the president are involved.Re-watching Dreamscape tonight, after about ten years, I was pleased by how well it holds up. Some of it looks rough, like the cheesy Snakeman, who I never found scary. Not even when I was twelve. The nuclear angle is obviously not AS topical now, but it definitely was then. The nuclear holocaust dream sequences are still the most frightening thing in the film IMO. They were terrifying then. When the lady is running away from the nuclear blast calling out her husband's name and she is slowly engulfed by the blast. Or when the camera slowly prowls through the burning post-nuclear neighborhood and we hear children's voices saying what did we do??? and It huuuuurts Man, that stuff is creepy! The performances range from What the hell is that person doing in this movie??? (George Wendt) to good (Dennis Quaid and Kate Capshaw) to REALLY good (Christoper Plummer). Plummer, in particular, I think is outstanding. I like how he says everything in an understated way. At the same time, he states all his opinions as if they are undeniable facts.I MUST say, the film has the single funniest (unintentional, unfortunately) line I have ever heard in my life. It actually wasn't funny to me when I saw the film ten years ago but when I re-watched it tonight I laughed until I was choking.A character says they're going to kill someone in their dream (thereby killing them in real life, too) and says, with all the stress he's been going through lately, no one will suspect a thing. Jesus, I could just see someone turning up stiff and cold some morning and the reaction is Well, he WAS stressed out. Yeah. Sure. "},{"Title":"Tons of fun!","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mild spoilers in plot description; be warned. A government funded project looks into using psychics to enter people's dreams, with some mechanical help. When a subject dies in his sleep from a heart attack Alex Gardner becomes suspicious that another of the psychics is killing people in the dreams somehow and that is causing them to die in real life. He must find a way to stop the abuse of the power to enter dreams. An excellent cast and an interesting premise to back it up. A little bit dated here and there (Horrendous 80's score, bad blue-screen work among other things.) but there is a little suspense and some nice special effects (The snake man was great, either in stop-motion or man-in-suit form) and a fun climactic battle make this film an enjoyable, exciting low-budget effort. 8/10ABOUT THE DVD great DVD treatment courtesy of Image entertainment. The film is presented in 1.781 animorphic widescreen which is generally a impressive transfer for the films age, despite a few grainy scenes but generally the blacks are solid and skin tones fine. Audio is fine too, with a reasonably stimulating sound that packs at least a little Umph. We get a nice amount of extras, including a special effects test reel, a photo gallery, and a commentary by the writer, producer, and effects artist. Despite the age of the people on this commentary, it's a surprisingly energetic commentary and these people have a lot to say. My rating for the DVD 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Interesting and exciting movie!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Philosophically or intellectually the idea of entering another's mind or dreams is farfetched but that however does not take away the fact that this film will capture your attention and make you forget everything else momentarily. It has enough suspense and action to keep you on the edge of your seat without overdoing the special effects that has unfortunately been the ruin of many a potentially great film. The character played by Dennis Quaid is indeed a memorable one and certainly not that of a typical psychic genius,but rather more like a third rate hustler going nowhere in his life. That's the impression I got from watching this film. Kate Capshaw is forgettable,she doesn't stand out in anyway and one seriously wonders how anyone could fall head over heels in regard to her. Unless of course someone was desperate. The background scenery in some of the dreamscenes were excellently surrealistic as one should expect in dreams. I appreciate also the fact that there was no real scenes of sleaze or sexual content which would make this ideal for family viewing.  "},{"Title":"An original story with lots of ironic twists","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Reminds me of the old Outer Limits and it's ironic twists. I thought the movie had a good story, with good actors. The movie setting was not like you expect in a big epic movie but the story is good and well worth checking out. I recommend it to anyone over 13 due to a few scary parts. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic for the eighties.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 85 in South Africa in my teens.when I saw it again a few years ago it made me feel very nostalgic for the eighties!Sure the FX are not up to CGI standards,but they have their own sort of charm,there is also a young Dennis Quaid and a sultry Kate Capshaw,plus a host of familiar TV faces.Veterans Plummer, Von Sydow and Albert compliment the (then) newcomers Quaid and Capshaw nicely.Jarre's synthesiser score, is both jazzy and eerie and suits the film perfectly. "},{"Title":"Beware the sight of the Snakeman!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an extremely entertaining eighties movie. Right up there with another nightmarish-possible-end-of-the-world-like flick such as Cronenbergs The Dead Zone. The actors are great, the story is imaginative and sort of mystery-driven, and the special effects look so good. (As opposed to the CGI- crap they would insert had this movie been made in 2001.) The post- apocalyptic city and the stop motion Snakeman are possibly the most memorable parts of the film.  "}{"Title":"Imaginative Thriller","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies from the early 80's. The casting was exellent, especially the character played by Christopher Plummer. A fun and intense movie with good special effects, if you haven't seen it, rent it. If you have seen it, rent it again!  "},{"Title":"A fun film with excellent FX and a fascinating plot","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dreamscape is an action-packed and very imaginative movie, and has one of my favorite actors, Max Von Sydow. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Another Slice Of Cheesy Eighties Goodness...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Less an outright horror film than a sci-fi/fantasy actioner, DREAMSCAPE gets the score it does from me for reasons of fondly-remembered nostalgia, and because of its strategy of making up for the super low-budget special effects by front-loading the movie with some of the best actors ever assembled for an indie project like this. Dr. Paul Novotny (FLASH GORDON'S Ming, Max Von Sydow) has developed an extraordinary system that allows psychically-gifted subjects to enter the subconscious minds of other subjects and actually affect the shape and the outcome of their dreams, (hence the title.) His most gifted subject, Alex Gardner (Dennis Quaid) is the one he wants to work with the most. But it seems Alex abandoned Novotny's experiments some years ago, in favor of using his gifts to play the ponies AND the honeys.With a little friendly persuasion from the project facilitator, the sinister Fed Bob Blair (Christopher Plummer, still shaking off his SOUND OF MUSIC image), Alex comes reluctantly 'back into the fold', where Paul Novotny's associate, the curvaceous Dr. Jane DeVries (Kate Capshaw, the future Mrs. Spielberg) makes the prospect of participation a lot easier for Alex.Once on board, Alex immediately butts heads with the only other psychic who has successfully navigated the dreamscape, the sociopathic Tommy Ray Glatman (David Patrick Kelly from 48 HRS. and THE WARRIORS), a very disturbed - and disturbing - individual who would seem a very unlikely candidate to be allowed to go stomping through somebody's head. Things become a lot more clear and sinister when Alex has a chance encounter with horror author and conspiracy theorist Charlie Prince, (George Wendt in a very different role from 'Norm' on CHEERS.) I guess when Stephen King saw this movie, he must have taken this character as a sign that he had truly 'made it to the big time.'Charlie explains the situation to an already suspicious Alex it seems that the President (Eddie Albert) has been having some vivid and horrifying nightmares about a nuclear holocaust, and his dreams have influenced his decision about what action to take at an important upcoming summit with the Russian government (yeah, THAT is how old this flick is, folks.) So, do the math. It isn't very hard to figure out what Blair and Glatman's connection is with Dr. Novotny's experiments, or that it's really important that Our Hero Alex steps up his game to stop them.So, yes, DREAMSCAPE obviously cribs from A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET and even some parts of THE TERMINATOR. And the special effects, considered state-of-the-art in '84 are more than state-of-the-hokey now. (With all the newly advanced CGI technology, maybe it's time to dust this one off for a remake.)But the casting definitely works as everyone (particularly Kelly) deliver some strong, believable performances, and there are cameos by some familiar genre favorites, (Chris Mulkey, Kelly's co-star as part of the TWIN PEAKS ensemble, and John Carpenter favorite Peter Jason just to name two). And there you have it. For what it's worth to those who saw it decades ago (like Yours Truly), DREAMSCAPE still holds some entertainment value. For those who have never seen it, it's an interesting example of '80's indie film-making, and a chronicle of how far effects and makeup work have come since. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the best films in terms of dream/reality sequences. Very well written and produced. The acting is not great but good. But what makes this film great is the story. A ground solid story that leaves no questions open to where we can go in dreams and how deep our rabbit holes are, that we can dig ourselves into. But it leaves the imagination open to what might be and that makes the film scary. A race between tow guys trying to kill/save the president but then having to deal with the nightmares themselves they are in. So the whole scenario becomes multidimensioned. What's striking is the possibility of this being true. That would mean that some one could enter your dreams and paly with you. And kill you for that matter, that is a very scary perspective. "},{"Title":"R.E.M. (All I have to do is dream,courtesy of the Everly bros)","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An absorbing subject.Entering someone's mind and sharing his dreams ,maybe curing him and killing his demons.How tempting! Although by no means completely uninteresting -it's thoroughly entertaining- Dreamscape does not rise to the occasion.To be really successful ,it would have needed a strong central character,an ambiguous one-I'm obviously speaking of the character,not the actor- ,it would have needed an elaborate screenplay .Instead of it ,all we get is dime store psychoanalysis, simplistic dreamlike sequences,childish politics...The dreams are particularly poor.If you want to see great dreams (or nightmares) just pick up Bergman's Wild strawberries  ,Hitchcock's Spellbound ,Polanski's Rosemary's baby or the entire Bunuel canon -Bunuel is second to none when it comes to direct dreams- Two sequences are particularly pathetic the little child's story could have been spellbinding,had it been given an adequate treatment;the father's character -who utters one short sentence in the dream- should have been more developed .And there's the obligatory sex dream which Capshaw and Quaid share!The president's dream is the best of all these not-so- golden slumbers but even here the script is pretty low.The final twist is a good idea,but do not expect much. "},{"Title":"love scene music is the ultimate anti-aphrodisiac","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  my best friend has mentioned this movie to me several times in the past 15 years, but i just barely caught it on amc. i can see how the snakeman scared him as a little kid. it's quite fantastic and i think the concept of dreams has a lot more of an effect when we're kids.so this flick has what i think is a pretty cool concept joining people in their dreams. it sort of reminded me of flatliners what with all the unreal imagery and the possibility of dying for good under the gas if you're not too careful.anyway, i'm actually really glad they didn't attempt to make the special effects too non-cheesy looking (maybe they did, i dunno). the dreamscape sequences themselves look a little cartoony which i think enhanced the idea that we were in someone's dream. i think it would be easy to laugh at 'em, but i found the effects quite effective (except for one-on-one with the snakeman).but the music! the music! eeegah! it sounded like an 8-year-old practicing minor scales on that hockey keyboard from 'strange brew' (incidently why didn't max von sydow simply crush the heads of those pansy government agents?).all in all the crazy visuals carried the fun concept (7/10). "},{"Title":"very creative, great special effects and good cast, but..........","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was pretty good. Craig Reardon's special effects were great, and the cast was also very good. But the musical score for this film was awful, almost as bad as the music in PLANET OF DINOSAURS. And it was also way to slow at times, witch prevented me from giving it a 4 star out of 5 rating. But it was still good and a must-see for sci-fi buffs. "},{"Title":"Where science meets fiction","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is excellently done, especially for it's time. But appart from being a science fiction kind of movie (because infiltrating dreams to kill people is not possible in the real life) it is very informative it does show very well how dreams can be controlled and on that point it is scientifically correct.I can tell you out of personal experience that controlling your dreams is a great thing to do in the real life I recommend the book Lucid Dreaming by steven LaBerge, which teaches you how!!!.I used this movie, dreamscape, for a schoolproject about lucid dreaming.Taking into account that a certain level of telepathy might be possible if one believes in the paranormal, the only real impossible thing in the movie is the killing part. The rest reflects reality and this is really cool for the people interested in lucid dreaming.Enjoy this movie first and then go learn how to control your dreams grab a copy of Laberge's Lucid Dreaming and prepare yourself to meet Pam Anderson for ... well, some physical excercises on the beach (or Decaprio for the female readers among us), explore the universe as a member of the USS Enterprise, become a skilled ninja, or see your hair and claws grow as a werewolf...Whatever you wish to DREAM, when YOU WANT IT!!!!! "},{"Title":"What an 80' s Sci Fi flick should be","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a great 80's Sci Fi flick. Poor editing, hella-funny stunts, and GREAT writing. Quaid plays the perfect jerk and Kate Capshaw is the perfect doctor-in-waiting role. Good plot, and don't forget the famed telephone booth scene, as well as the snake! FULL RECOMMENDATION "},{"Title":"Aged better than I expected! Truly scary.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't seen Dreamscape for something like 15 years, but remembered it fondly. It's on my list of DVDs to buy, but I did suspect that it would turn out like a lot of other 80's genre films; better in memory than reality.But I caught it on TV a few days ago, and I was *very* pleasantly surprised. The non-dream sections are pretty good, since Max Von Sydow and Christopher Plummer are always fun to watch. But the dream sections were outstanding! The essence of nightmares was captured particularly well, particularly in the way that authority figures who were supposed to represent security turned out to be completely useless. The special effects actually stood up much *better* than I remembered - compared to modern super-slick digital effects, they're much more dream-like. The train ride through the post-holocaust nightmare landscape kicked ass!All around, they did an excellent job of capturing the feel of dreams and nightmares. It's a pity there aren't more movies like this...People who like this one might also enjoy Altered States, Brainwave, and perhaps the Nightmare On Elm Street movies... "}{"Title":"Enjoyable fantasy.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Entertaining tale where Quaid plays a man able to enter other peoples dreams via cutting edge technology but soon ends up in hot water in a political conspiracy to kill the president.Shares a lot in common with similar films released around the same time (Brainstorm, The Dead Zone) but manages to hold it's own with familiar faces and a fair paced script despite it's more lightweight tone.  "},{"Title":"Great special effects and a neat plot!!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie features Dennis Quaid as man who can enter people dreams. The dream are neat to watch. Even though the special effects are cheesy compared to today's movies. The plot is that Quaid must help people overcome their fears in their dreams. Eventually the real plot is shown. But I am not going to ruin it. It is a fast paced movie with some of today's hottest stars. It also has the actor who played the father in the musical the sound of music. you can see Eddie Albert(escape from witch mountain) as the President of the U.S.A.!!Overall it is favorite of mone from the era when I was teenager the 1980's. It is one of mine favorites along with back to the future . But that is another review for some other time!! "},{"Title":"Not your worst nightmare.","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dreamscape.A generation before Inception there was Dreamscape. Quaid and other psychics are investigated by a secretive laboratory run by Novotny. The young Quaid has been involved with Novotny before and is wary of becoming a lab rat again, but because of his nefarious activities he is all too easily cajoled into joining the program. Through a computer link up in a controlled environment he is able with his special powers to get inside the mind of another person and influence their dreams. The program is not without risks however, and previous failures have had disastrous consequences, he is however able to save one particularly troubled boy from a terrible, recurring nightmare. Also involved in the program is the menacing Glatman, another psychic and from his demeanor, it is obvious that they will square off before the story is finished. Lurking in the shadows is a smarmy Bob Blair, played by the impeccably dressed Christopher Plummer, who runs the secretive yet powerful government agency that finances the program. This agency is so covert that even the CIA gives it a wide berth. His motives are sinister ones, he wants to develop the psychics into the ultimate weapon for the military, one that can assassinate enemies in their sleep, and leave no trace. He gets his chance to put his theory into practice when the president, racked by feelings of guilt over the atomic weapons threat, seeks help to overcome his nightmares. The basic premise of the story is a good one, but the script needed more much development, and some of the special dream effects look pretty cheap, quite amateurish even for when they were made, even without the use of CGI. Quaid plays Quaid, as cheeky and irreverent as ever. To keep under the radar of Novotny he has been misusing his psychic powers, becoming a hustler and gambler who has really only ever used his gift to stay one step ahead of the people he owes money to. He is not helped by having him parade around in some terrible 1980s fashions complete with Shaun Cassidy hair style. Max Von Sydow, is the serious scientist and humanitarian who runs the program investigating the mind powers, who wants all of those who are troubled in their sleep to benefit. While a young Kate Kapshaw ( looking very much like Julie Christie ), is largely wasted as the token female research assistant and all too obvious romantic interest. Plummer takes the acting honors here, as the immaculately groomed Blair, a shadowy and ruthless figure with his own agenda, who will let nothing stand in his way. Less impressive is David Kelly as the psychotic psychic Glatman, a character it is difficult to take seriously at any stage. Also obvious is the timing of this release on DVD. l admit l had never heard of this movie before, but you don't need to be a psychic to understand why it is being released now, to cash in on the interest generated by Inception. Unfortunately, even for the time it was made, it looks cheap and dated, even though it was a highly probable idea. It has also not aged very well, this is no classic, it looks very much a product of its time, although the president's nightmare scene, where Eddie Albert and Quaid ride a trolley car through the ruins of Hiroshima under a red filter is well done. This is the sort of film that makes you wonder what Hitchcock or the Wachowski brothers could have done with it even though this film is from the wrong era for either director. "},{"Title":"Movie about penetrating dreams","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The poster for this one made it look like Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.  The only thing those two movies had in common though was Kate Capshaw.  Why they did it though was to probably get more people in the theater.  Although, I thought this movie was pretty good and didn't need to attach itself to basically an unrelated flick.  This one has people at a sleep research facility recruiting Quiad who has psychic powers.  They have the ability to connect a person to someone else's dreams and the person who connects can observe and interact in the dream.  There is something sinister at hand though as the President of the United States who has been plagued by nightmares comes to the facility for treatment.  There is also the other person with the ability to go into dreams who is kind of a mystery.  Though the more you find out about him the more you learn the truth.  Though the best segments of this movie are the boy's snake dream and the President's dream.  Good movie to watch...pretty enjoyable. "},{"Title":"  Attention  Ms Capshaw/ Spielberg","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dreamscape is highly overlooked, and certainly ripe for a sequal.  The premise of dream reasearchers entering dreams may have raised the stakes as high as they go for the apocalypticly deep nightmare climax of this film - where the president of the united stares could be a potential patient. But there is still room to explore.  Kate Capshaw and Dennis Quade star.  If there was enough promotion, and if there is any cachet to the original, Ms Capshaw-Spielberg might do well to produce a follow-up.  I'd see it. "},{"Title":"Because it can be done.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film a few years ago--and recently purchased it. One of the things that lends credence to the premise is that this sort of thing is as do-able as remote viewing, which has been lab proved for some time. One may feel or postulate that it is trying to be too many things as a film. I don't think so. As Dylan (the Bob one) says in the Wonderboys soundtrack...Things have changed. We are all doing a great deal of things we didn't used to do--our movies should mirror this. Particularly the astutely visionary ones. Dennis Quaid is younger here--and yet he resonates with the plot--as does Kate Kapshaw-- they both gave an ethereal performance.Henry Raymond AUTHOR The Third Kind of Midnight. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Like Phantasm, this movie doesn't fit into any one category. It is at times a sci-fi thriller, at others a horror movie, an action-adventure and ultimately a fantasy. Also like Phantasm the plot of Dreamscape is almost too fantastical and far-fetched to hold on to...but, (yes, again, like Phantasm!) this movie still works on the strength of its originality and visual effects alone.The movie hasn't aged well. It's very 80s, complete with poodle hair and bad Casio keyboard music, both of which will make you giggle, but if you can sit through the first half hour without too much discomfort, this movie is a lot of fun. Dennis Quaid is the smarmy (but ultimately likable) hero, Alex, who uses his psychic gifts to win big at the racetrack, until father figure Max Von Sydow brings him to a dream research clinic. Kate Capshaw is the reluctant heroine and eventual love interest, though what she sees in the arrogant Alex is beyond me. But, I digress. The dream clinic specializes in sleep disorders, particularly night terrors. Kate and Max are in the process of training psychics to enter into the nightmares of clinic patients and assist the patients in destroying their dream demons, thus earning a decent nights sleep for a change. (How this works is beyond me, but try not to think about it too much - just go along with it and have fun.) However, when the President of the United States (Mr. GREEEEEEEEEN Acres! himself, Eddie Albert) is admitted to the clinic, suffering from horrible post-apocalyptic nightmares, a sinister government agent (the superbly icky Christopher Plummer) enlists the aid of a crooked psychic (the wickedly child-like David Patrick Kelly as the disgustingly likable Tommy who, at one point, gets to sport Freddy Krueger fingernails!) to invade the Presidents dreams and kill him in his sleep before he can sign a ban on nuclear arms! Wow, intrigue at its most weird!The relationship between Quaid and Capshaw seems stiff and forced, and the ending of the film is much too rushed, but overall, the film is great fun with scary snake monsters and increasingly disturbing images of a nuclear blasted world. David Patrick Kelly steals the film as the psycho, Bruce Lee obsessed Tommy Ray.8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Did not age very well","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie with my mom. We're both Dennis Quaid fans, and I have enjoyed his other forays into the scifi realm (Enemy Mine and Innerspace being a couple of them). However, this movie was completely uninteresting. All of the actors in the film seemed bored with their lines and characters. Quaid's Alex Gardner is rather bland. They try to play up his bad boy persona in the beginning, but he comes off as a self-righteous bum. Later attempts to make him appear good and selfless in the eyes of the audience come off as shallow. There was nothing there for me to believe that he would have any genuine interest in Kate Capshaw's character. Christopher Plummer plays a terrifically not-menacing Big Bad. The only character that stands out is David Patrick Kelly's psychopathic Tommy, though there was not much subtlety in the presentation of his character.Though it had a great idea, the script does nothing interesting. It becomes predictable midway through the film. The final showdown is staged awkwardly. The special effects appeared to be incredibly cheap, even for the time (this was after Blade Runner and Alien...the Snakeman character here does not have anything on the lava monsters in The Journey to the Center of the Earth). Overall, the most striking aspect of this film is the by-the-numbers approach it took to making a scifi film. One gets the sense watching this film that it was trying to do something interesting with as little effort as possible. "},{"Title":"Dull dream drama","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a total wipeout not one minute amount, not a smattering, of anything worth seeing. I usually like Quaid but he had nothing to work with on this flopperoo. The cycle scene was particularly annoying; the guy could barely ride it off at first, then he is makes a spectacular jump successfully shortly thereafter. Who was the dude who looked like Russell Crowe? Had me going for a bit. "},{"Title":"probably good for its time.today...not so much","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i think this movie was probably pretty good for it's time,maybe even cutting edge.but today,most of the special effects are pretty cheesy.the acting is good though.this movie was released about 3 months before A Nightmare on Street and there is a scene in here which may have inspired Nightmare.anyway,i remember watching this movie as a kid and thinking it was the cat's pajamas.but then,i also thought the TV show Dukes of Hazzard was a good show when i was a kid.now it's crap.this movie is also very slow at times,and at time i wanted to turn it off,but i persevered to the end.why?i'm not sure.i found the ending dumb and illogical,to say the least.i read in another comment that the DVD was butchered,with a lot that was in the VHS and beta movies missing.well,that kinda sucks.i really wish the the studios would just leave things alone instead of meddling.if you have a lot of patience,and you can get past the cheesy effects,you might like this movie.otherwise,i'd stay away. "}{"Title":"A generation almost before THE CELL, there was DREAMSCAPE","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Beloved by most who have seen it (Hell that places you more than likely at 40 plus to start with) DREAMSCAPE, besides being a clever and meaningful title, presents a thought provoking concept - the ability to enter another's dreams and influence the outcome of real-time. In THIS  case to commit presidential assassination. Makes DREW BARRYMORE'S talents in FIRESTARTER positively out-dated!A young Quaid is Alex Gardner, whose mentor Dr Novotny (Von Sydow) has supported his work in dream-time research.  Alex is real hot stuff at his craft and has helped devised apparatus that can project one's dream-state into the mind of another. Some of the early dreamscape sequences are really quite well done which reflect positively on the director and production team. Not easy after all to bequeath credibility to what is after all, a preposterous concept.Christopher Plummer does his usual, though limited (screen-time wise)impression of Christopher Plummer having a bad day. Quaid's nemesis is a remarkably evil little man - Tommy Ray Glatman, who regrettably shares Quaid's abilities to infiltrate dreams. Tommy Ray, played by slimy David (why wasn't I a jockey?) Patrick Kelly, was last seen playing exactly the same character, while being hung unceremoniously upside-down over a cliff by Big Arnie in COMMANDO.Eddie Albert who unfortunately will ALWAYS look like he's wandered off the set of GREEN ACRES plays the President, haunted by decidedly worrying dreams.  The denouement is well done and most satisfying.  Miss Capshaw, in the days before she decided to be Mrs Spielberg is suitable fluffy at Quaid's romantic interest.All up though, one to catch! "},{"Title":"Dennis Quaid and Kate Capshaw, two native Texans, are fun to watch in this Sci-Fi thriller.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The evil doctor wants to kill the president, on the theory that if you die in your dreams, you die also in real life. He recruits a couple of mind-control guys, Quaid being the good guy. Mrs Spielberg, Kate Capshaw, is the good, if nieve, scientist. Quaid and Capshaw were both about 30 when this was filmed. Sort of like in the Matrix, they find out that during dreams you can learn to make them do anything your mind is strong enough to conceive. During the thrilling finale', Quaid has to join the bad guy in the president's dream to save him, and in the process they dispose of the bad guy.Pretty good science fiction, and a sappy love story thrown in for good measure. Good, light entertainment. "}]