[{"Title":"Obscure classic from the eighties","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was too young in 1985 to appreciate a movie like this, but I watched it recently and thought it was quite an achievement. Everything about it hit the mark, without anything cheap or exploitive. The Snowman was a hilarious character for all his contradictions and brassiness. The movie nicely recalls the cold war, when the Soviets were busy beavers trying to infiltrate governments and media institutions. The Falcon is shocked to learn the United States is using the CIA to block the Communist threat, and decides to become a traitor to his own country.In too many films today, the writer loves one side and hates the other, so you get a dishonest film. In this film, the writer doesn't portray any of the characters as anything other than humans with their own beliefs, goals and foibles. That I find truly refreshing.The movie is mostly accurate, from what I have read of the real event. There are a few notable exceptions where truth diverges from the movie, however. After quitting TRW, Christopher Boyce (AKA the Falcon) planned to learn Russian and earning a political major, and then returning to espionage for the Russians (the movie says the opposite). It makes you wonder how far he would have gotten, and how many other Christopher Boyce's there were during the cold war. In real life, Boyce and his lawyer tried to blame *everything* on the Andrew Lee (the Snowman), even saying Lee forced him into it. The Falcon escaped prison for an 18 month period before being recaptured. He was released from prison in 2003. Andrew Lee was paroled in 1998. "},{"Title":"Dark, disturbing, and outstanding","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the 1980s, this is a very dark movie. At this point, filmmakers were beginning to operate under the assumption that all films require smarmy comic relief (which, of course, is taken to the extreme today), flashy action scenes (even more overdone today), or steamy sex scenes.Hutton and Penn are stupendous in their roles as childhood friends turned Soviet spies. Penn in particular is brilliant as hapless drug dealer Daulton Lee.What you have here is a true thriller/drama. There is no eye candy to speak of, but the story is so compelling and the acting so superb that (hopefully) most people wouldn't miss it. There are a couple amusing scenes, in particular the one where Penn tries to get his Soviet benefactors involved in a major drugrunning deal.Well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Tale of Disillusionment and Betrayal","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is something about true stories that makes them so much more interesting than fiction. I guess it is the fact that truth has always been stranger than fiction. The Falcon and the Snowman tells the true story about Christopher Boyce and his buddy Daulton Lee. Boyce (Hutton) is a former alter boy and intellectual, trying to find an occupation that can support and entertain him. His FBI father is able to pull some strings and get his idealist son a job working in the defense department. Boyce has few responsibilities and seems to be complacent drinking and goofing around with his co-workers. However, as time goes on, Boyce starts to learn top secret information that causes him to doubt the morality of his government. The idealist Boyce soon sees the illegal operations that the CIA is carrying out in above all places, Australia. Boyce eventually decides that he will leak some of the top secret info he is privy to, to the KGB. Of course, Boyce's mistake is the assumption that because the USA is doing bad things, the USSR is the good guy. Over time, Boyce and his drug-dealing buddy Lee (Penn), start to sell their top secret information to the KGB. What was once idealism, turns into capitalism and espionage. The strength of this movie is the incredible performances by Hutton and Penn. Although one of them starts off with the best intentions, they will both soon find themselves in an unending downward spiral. Great direction, music, everything. Not only a great film, but one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Drugs and politics make poor bedfellows","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent drama about 2 alienated, spoiled punks who go afoul of the federal government, each for his own reasons. One, a druggie, just wants to score some bucks for his next fix, but the other has a far more sinister agenda fueled in part by a resentment of his father. Good performances and a hot script makes this a winner. "},{"Title":"The secret lives of the former altar boys","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Schelesinger's career as a film director was extraordinary. We had watched this film when it first came out, but wanted to see it again when it showed on cable recently. The film has a faded look, as one watches it today, but still, it is interesting because of the intense performances of the two principals.If you haven't seen it, please don't read any further.Chris and Daulton were two childhood friends that came from upper middle class backgrounds. Chris went to enter a seminary to be a priest, but gives up. Daulton became a small time drug user and trafficker. The two lives seem to run parallel as the pair become involved in an illegal activity that will prove their short sightedness. In fact, it shows how both young men miscalculate in their attempt to fool the CIA and the Soviet Union. These two, in a way, were so naive in thinking they could pull something that bigger, and better equipped people couldn't even imagine could be done.Chris' motivation is legitimate, as he feels outraged in discovering the underhanded role of the agency for which he works in dealing with other nations, in this case Australia, something he finds by sheer coincidence. When he involves Daulton, we know the whole thing is doomed because no one into drugs, as he is, will ever amount to anything. In fact, Chris and Daulton had no conception of the scope of what they are trying to do, or its consequences.Timothy Hutton was at this period of his career, an actor that was going places. He had proved he had talent with his work in other films, so it was a natural choice for Mr. Schlesinger to select him, a choice that pays off well. Sean Penn, also was a young actor who showed an intensity, like one hadn't seen before. In fact, at times, Mr. Penn, reminded us of a young Robert Mitchum in the making. Both actors' contribution to the film is incredible. One can't think who could have played this duo but them.The Falcon and the Snowman, while not up to the par with other great John Schlesinger's movies, is an interesting look to our not too distant past. "},{"Title":"Rare political gem from Hollywood.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think some critic somewhere said this film fell short of being a great film, but was a very good one. That's accurate, you are left wanting to know more. The best performance comes from David Suchet as a sardonic and frequently supercilious Russian. The film commendably avoids trying to make us empaphise with traitors and even manages some humour in all the madness. In one blink or you'll miss it scene, Daulton infiltrates an embassy function where he speaks to a foreign diplomat. Is this the usual garb of your countrymen? He asks. Yes, it's garbage the man replies.The film appears open minded about whether Boyce is an idealist or an opportunist who fails to realise the significance of his actions. His confession of having received payment from the Soviets and his cynical dismissing of money as 'never being very important to me' suggests a more amoral stance, but his other remarks perhaps reveal a more complex and sincere character. Boyce seems to be suggesting that any leap forward in technology must also go hand in hand with an equal quantitative one in morality. But I think it was Einstien who said that the bomb has changed everything except the way man thinks. This suggests that Boyce's weary indifference while being interviewed was due to his realisation that this moral leap was beyond man and therefore there was no hope, we are doomed to extinction. All political and religious life had been rendered meaningless to him due to the impermanence of man in the face of super-technology. This may account for his reluctance to recite the 'valley of death' speech to his father, as he knew full well that it's message was also meaningless in the context of modern warfare. No-one, not even the generals would be left standing. Boyce then, was possibly suffering a certain existential despair, as he stated America was the first country to use nuclear weapons. His concern that his betrayal meant little because we are already in jeopardy is even more pertinent today, with more and more countries either acquiring or seeking to acquire nuclear technology. It's rather like a group of toddlers playing with a grenade, passing it around. Say you were to add more grenades, would you then  increase the likelihood of an accident such as the pulling out of a pin?This rare political film asks a more broad and philosophical question, perhaps. If Boyce says he knows something about predatory behaviour (and the film is full of big fish eating little fish motifs) and left the church because he has decided that man is not divine and just another animal, where does that leave man if he cannot ultimately change his nature? The film does not leave you with an answer, merely the fear on the faces of uncomprehending parents and the unseen spectre of a mushroom cloud.  "},{"Title":"Gripping, realistic account","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie does an excellent job of taking us all the way through the dark tunnel of espionage, from the inception through the ultimate reckoning. The movie's impact is made even deeper with the realization that it is based on a  true story. Timothy Hutton provides us with a quality, understated performance and Sean Penn demonstrates why he is one of America's finest living actors. As with Midnight Express, this movie should make us all think twice about doing something we shouldn't be doing in a foreign country. "},{"Title":"Traitor is such a harsh word.","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Set in the 1970s Los Angeles, Christopher Boyce has just dropped out of seminary school and returned back home were his father gets him a job where he monitors intelligence documents. His old friend Daulton Lee is a ratty cock drug-dealer, and gets caught in a set-up and must choose between becoming a narc or facing a long stint in prison. When up on bail, he jumps and heads to Mexico City. Chris offers Lee in a partnership to be his messenger to sell secret papers to the Soviet Union embassy in Mexico City, because of the disgrace he feels about the US Government's control over weaker countries to their own gain. But over time the two begin to clash with their motivations and find themselves in something bigger then they had originally intended.Director John Schlesinger has spun out such films like the respectable Midnight Cowboy, Marathon Man, Sunday Bloody Sunday and Day of The Locust. While The Falcon and the Snowman might not be held up that high, there's no question that this sombre espionage drama (inspired by a true incident) is an unjustly overlooked character portrait. Everything about it, is quite a subdued affair with no real grandeur qualities hitting a massive mark. The driving factor of the film has got to be the admirably versatile lead performances of Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn as the two ambitious young lads Chris and Daulton. Penn is especially good with his uneasy intensity, which works well off Hutton's superbly cool-and-collected turn. What starts off as easy, we watch the situation gradually crumble, as the two amateurs find themselves really out of their league. The strongly detailed and symbolic (predatory behaviour) plot mainly centres on the pair's relationship and that of their reasoning's for their actions, which eventually shows us the knotty developments that led to their downfall. The plan opens up like a wound to never properly heal, due to Daulton's drug addiction, which really makes him go off the rails and leaves Chris to pick up all the slack. The searing political aspect is there, but it focus on the themes of idealism (Boyce) and greed (Lee) to get its point across. Both don't mix and results show. Suspense is justified through its stimulating pot-boiling script and character interactions then that of any visual gimmicks. Action is very little, but still there's a pressure induced style to Schlesinger's assured and realistically dark 'n' gritty direction. Pacing is mostly well handled, although some sequences do seem to wallow on for too long, but however it grips you as it plays on its authentically paranoid tone to slowly build up to an exploding tight latter end. Adeptly fleshed into the technical production is an airily harrowing music score and professionally poignant cinematography. The supporting cast are exceptionally fine with Pat Hingle, Lori Singer, David Suchet, Boris Leskin, Jerry Hardin and Joyce Van Patten. Also look out for Michael Ironside in a tiny part as a FBI agent.A mostly outstanding spy-film that benefits largely from talented lead performances and by not playing the usual stakes. It's more an emotional ride, then a complex one of twists. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Stylish and certainly worth seeing.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're interested in learning about the 'real' side of spying, this movie is for you.  Unlike 007 movies, this shows how things really go down in the world of espionage.  Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn both give outstanding performances in this not-so-well-known film.  Certainly worth watching. "},{"Title":"Understated, but Affective","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Falcon and the Snowman is the true story of two college-age rich kids from L.A. who become spies for the Soviet Union. One, played by Penn, is already a drug smuggler up to his eyeballs in trouble. The other, played by Hutton, lands a position at an aerospace firm where his job is to man a top-secret cable facility. There he learns of some of the dirty tricks employed by the CIA on foreigners that America doesn't like. Don't forget that the movie is set the early 70s, the time of Vietnam and Watergate. Appalled at what he's learned, the Hutton character decides to betray his country and convinces his buddy to join him. Neither of them is long on brains, it is not long before they're way in over their heads with no way out.This is not a thriller, and is rather slowly paced. If this is not a problem for you, then it is well worth the rental.  "}{"Title":"If He Had Only Taken The Ellsberg Way","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Set in the years of the Nixon/Ford administration, The Falcon And The Snowman is the story of a young man who wildly went off the track in his idealism and winds up a traitor. The idealist is the falcon part of the title and the young man who works for the Central Intelligence Agency and discovers that were doing some dirty tricks in the countries that are supposed to be allies is played by Timothy Hutton.Hutton is as shocked as Claude Rains was to discover that gambling was going on at Rick's. After all it was father Pat Hingle who got him the job at CIA through his connections with the FBI. That he had no inkling that anything like this was going on is a bit much. But Hutton is actually shown the proper path. Do a Daniel Ellsberg and get it to the media. Instead he turns traitor and decides to sell secrets to the Soviet Union.But this genius decides to go into partnership with an old childhood friend who's become a drug dealer to support his high living lifestyle, no pun intended. That's the snowman of the title and when he's on the screen, Sean Penn dominates the film. Hutton needs someone who knows the criminal ways, tutoring in those ways, and subterfuge if needed. Of course Penn knows that, but anyone with a brain has to realize that Penn's cocaine habit would sink them. The ironic thing is that this is a true story otherwise no one would believe it. And then Hutton goes through another Rains like moment when he discovers the Russians can be as dirty as us, dirtier. The second best performance in the film is the BBC's Hercule Poirot, David Suchet. In playing Poirot for the BBC series, Suchet has reached the culmination of a career like J. Carrol Naish back in the days of the studio system playing an incredible variety of ethnic types. He even more reminds of another man who did the same, Herbert Lom. Had this been made 20 years earlier, I could have seen Lom very easily in the role of the exasperated Russian agent who is really losing his patience dealing with fools.The Falcon And The Snowman boasts some really good performances, but in the end the general unlikeability of the leads makes you really want to hit these two upside the head with two by four. "},{"Title":"This is not America and those people aren't really heroes","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" If I didn't knew that this movie is based on real story I wouldn't probably believe in it. I would say that this is some barely believable fiction. Ironically this is a true story. Of course since this is a movie some things were probably changed for the dramatic purposes , yet the main core of the story is true.The main problem is with the unlikable heroes. I'm sorry , but Hutton's decision seems to be made from stupidity. Was he really that naive ? Didn't he understood that politics is a dirty game where everyone is spying and manipulating the others ? Never was and never will be fair game ? That not only USA , but other countries aren't saints in any way ? That he was betraying his own country ? If he wanted to make change he should go to press. His intentions maybe were good , but in the end he only endangered his own country. And asking for help someone as irresponsible as a drug addict&#x85; He should know that this would end really bad.The movie sticks to the vision of Hutton's character being a really idealistic crusader and Penn being an sympathetic moron. I did care about them when things started to go really bad for them &#x96; the paranoia attacks , the fear , the sense of hopeless , the danger of losing your life. Schlesinger does show a great directing skills from time to time. The scene where gun appears on the table and the doors are locked , searching for the bugs inside the bird , the brutal interrogation in Mexico , the sad end for both of our heroes. There are also some funny scenes here , mostly involving Penn's character . The scene when he proposes a drug deal to Russians really tells you how f***ed up he is.The music by Pat Metheny is good , even if it's mostly one and the same theme appearing through the whole movie. The song This is not America by David Bowie and Pat Metheny is great and was quite a hit back in the 80's.Sean Penn is great as the drug addict . He really acts like drugs are the only thing he thinks about. His whiny voice , loose attitude and big mouth make him a memorable character. The Oscar nominee would do him justice. He dominates the screen.Timothy Hutton is great too , giving a depth to his character. He's lost , noble and honest character who lost his way. When he tells near the end of the movie why he did it I really believed him. Disliked him, but still believed him. He was able to make an cliché character real.There is a solid support by veteran actor Pat Hingle (Batman) as Hutton's father , Lori Singer (Footloose) as Hutton's girlfriend and especially from David Suchet (TV series Poirot) as the Russian spy.The Falcon and snowman is long (2 hours) , yet never boring movie . It's an interesting document about real life story with some nice moments in it. It's not a great movie by any way , because it's too shallow and one sided drama , yet it's entertaining enough to give it a chance. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"I was there.  (TRW)","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the movie, The Falcon and the Snowman, when they were showing Christopher Boyce around the complex, the satellite in the background was the actual Ryholite satellite that is now in space. TRW allowed interior shots. TRW also allowed both interior and exterior shots for one of the original Star Trek TV series. (The episode is the one where Spock goes blind when a string of satellite lights are activated to kill the aliens). Christopher escaped jail (Lompock) and was featured on America's Most Wanted. He was drinking in a bar when the show aired. He said, Hey, that's me. Needless to say, he was captured and transfered to a maximum security jail. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great film in its genre, the direction, acting, most especially the casting of the film makes it even more powerful. A must see.  "},{"Title":"An brilliant overlooked film from the 1980s","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE FALCON AND THE SNOWMAN is a superb example of an anti-80s film. While many other films of the decade in general lacked substance, this film is pure substance. There's nothing stylish or fake or superfluous about it. It boasts two superb performances Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn as lifelong friends Christopher Boyce and Daulton Lee, respectively. Hutton, Penn, and Tom Cruise were a triumvirate of early 80s actors who all looked headed to much bigger and better things (all 3 starred in TAPS). While Penn and Cruise's popularity soared, Hutton has been largely forgotten about, and that's a shame. Actually, Hutton is the first of the 3 to win an Oscar for supporting role in ORDINARY PEOPLE in 1980, but I think his performance in this movie is even more outstanding.Hutton really captures the post-Vietnam war rebelliousness in his character Chris Boyce. A failed seminary school student, Chris has a love-hate relationship with his father, well played by the great character actor Pat Hingle. The scene where Chris quotes the poem his father thought he'd long forgotten is a particularly powerful one.Chris gets job at Dept. of Defense and uses his hatred of U.S. gov't and its foreign policy to sell seemingly useless plans of old projects to the Soviets. He gets his buddy Daulton, a hyper drug-dealing self-server, in on it to be the courier of the project plans on microfilm. While Chris is doing it based on his beliefs, Daulton is doing it strictly for the money. The Soviet liaison is excellently played by David Suchet. Penn and Suchet have a real quirky chemistry and it's a kind of funny set of exchanges between them. But, make no mistake, this film is anything but that. It is a serious character study about pessimism, malaise, paranoia and mistrust.Again, the leads make this film. Hutton delivers a brilliantly understated performance as Chris, a rather smart young man who had so much potential. Penn, as usual, does a tremendous characterization as Daulton, a pathetic loser who acts before he thinks, and most of the time doesn't think at all. The ending of this fact-based film is very saddening on several levels. A truly powerful character study. "},{"Title":"Christopher Boyce Criminal or Man of Conscience?","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is based on the true story of Christopher Boyce and his friend Daunton Lee. This fascinating story takes place around the time of the Whitlam Dismissal, in which during his time as a clerk for TRW, Christopher was privy to classified correspondence which admitted the CIA's involvement in Australian political and union circles. The movie shows several scenes involving Gough Whitlam (transmitted over US TV), where events take place which confirm the classified documents that Christopher had read previously. The removal of Gough Whitlam was an organized CIA coup. Elsewhere in the film, it was mentioned that most people have no idea about the level of deception that goes on, ultimately to ensure that the US is used as a vehicle to promote certain policies at the behest of everyone else. In the current age, nothing has changed.Christopher's life was profoundly affected, read shocked, by his knowledge of what and how the CIA shapes foreign democracies, including the democracies of allied nations to the United States. Christopher reacted, probably not in the best way at the time, by selling top secret information to the Soviet Union with Daunton Lee acting as his exchange. Eventually Christopher and Daunton were captured and convicted of treason.On 23rd May 1982, whilst serving time in US prison, Christopher Boyce agreed to a one and only interview with Ray Martin of 60 Minutes Australia because it was the Australian connection that profoundly affected him. It caused a furore in the Australian media for about a week, then it went hushed.I liked the movie's symbolism of the falcon, and in it Chris was called the Falcon, and Daunton the Snowman (drug connection), but in reality the title Falcon was not something that was used by Chris.Christopher Boyce Criminal or Man of Conscience? You decide.Resources http//www.playitforwardoz.com/boyce.html "},{"Title":"TOUR DE FORCE ACTING FROM SEAN PENN AND TIMOTHY HUTTON","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Falcon & the Snowman offers some of the best acting from its two leads.  Hutton, in a brilliantly understated role, calmly portrays the confusion and angst of a man who seemingly turns traitor for no other reason than as rebellion against his father.  Penn, as the co-conspirator basically just along for the ride and drug-money, explosively turns in one of the strongest performances of his multi-talented career.   "},{"Title":"See this movie! (Minor spoilers)","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on the true story about Christopher Boyce (Hutton) and Daulton Lee (Penn), and their involvement in selling American secret Government documents to the Soviets during the 1970s. Boyce works for the Government, and his job is to guard these particular documents, which ultimately disillusions him about his Country's affairs and practices. He then enlists his drug-dealer friend, Daulton Lee, who has become a wanted man, to be the courier for these sensitive documents. Lee infiltrates the Russian Embassy in Mexico, and makes contact with Alex (Suchet), and they both begin to play the espionage game.Lee's interest is purely about money whilst Boyce is acting out of anger towards the system he is involved in. Alex believes Lee to be the inside man in the American government. Things start to become array when Lee's drug addiction and reckless behaviour in handling the courier position offsets both Alex and Boyce. Lee becomes more paranoid, and the initial espionage game becomes more deadly and consequential for everyone involved.This is a true spy thriller without the cheesy action. The character motives and analysis of real-life subjects is sympathetic but very well written, and the film cleverly interweaves the real-life events with underlying political themes about human predatory behaviour. Where a bigger nation uses their political power to control the smaller nations. Well directed, and intense in parts, especially where the protagonists become immensely in over their heads in the spy game. Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn give amazingly riveting performances in a film that questions authority and yet there is no simple answer to the political message or the complexity of that system. The plight of the protagonists becomes the underlying message within 'The Falcon and the Snowman', and makes it a clever political thriller with a poignant element about society, human relationships, and the American system. Great film!****1/2 out of *****! "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorites. I think that Sean Penn did a great job acting. It is one of the few true stories that made it to film that I really like. It is in my top 10 films of all-time. I watch it over and over and never get tired of it. Great movie! "},{"Title":"A Frosty Snowman","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the true story of two young Americans who sold national secrets to the Soviet Union in the height of the Cold War, Falcon And The Snowman wants to be both suspenseful and philosophical, and winds up falling short in both departments. It's less le Carré than who cares.Timothy Hutton stars as Christopher Boyce, a former seminarian who, disgusted by Watergate and the middle-class values around him, is probably the wrong guy to be hired by a company running spy satellites for the CIA. Sean Penn plays his drug-dealing pal, Daulton Lee, who makes himself Boyce's courier, delivering secret files to the Soviet embassy in Mexico City. An offbeat synth-jazz score, lack of sympathy or emotional attachment for anyone, and lots of scenes of guys getting angry in rooms all combine to deaden what could have a decent moral-dilemma thriller.It's really Penn's movie despite the second billing; his character gets to talk turkey with the Russians while Hutton plays with his pet falcon. Hutton looks like they woke him up five minutes before they called action. With Penn, it's a crapshoot whether you get a brilliant performance or an over-the-top one. Here, it's a bit of both, but more the latter, especially in the second half when Lee switches from coke to heroin. He screeches. He snorts. He crashes Russian embassy parties. He gets pummeled with telephone books. He spits at himself in a mirror, a big goober he must have been saving for a paparazzi. I don't know who my friends are anymore! he cries out. It's exhausting to just watch him.Penn seems to have modeled Lee somewhat on Dustin Hoffman's Ratso Rizzo from Midnight Cowboy, complete with overly nasal line readings and constant eye shifting. John Schlesinger directed this film as well as Midnight Cowboy, but he seems to have had another Hoffman film in mind, The Graduate, throwing up scene after scene of Boyce and Lee poolside, trying to decide how to live their lives in their gilded cage. Too bad no one suggested plastics.From the opening shots, news footage of American decline juxtaposed with Boyce and his bird, Falcon makes clear it is a message movie, though the message itself is far from clear, probably because the characters never come into focus. Is Boyce supposed to be an idealist? Or is he just a mercenary? Hutton and Schlesinger don't seem to know, which makes it harder for us. Meanwhile, opportunities to establish some suspense, like Boyce stealing documents from the top secret Black Vault where he works or Lee playing games with the Russians, are interrupted by jump cuts to scenes of the pair with their families and friends. It's the normalcy of the story that Schlesinger finds interesting, but it's the least interesting aspect for us.Good stuff It's interesting to see a film that works the 1970s vibe so early as this one, referencing Maria Muldaur and Tang. Dorian Harewood, memorable in Full Metal Jacket, has a nice turn as Boyce's paranoid colleague Gene, who shows Boyce how to make margaritas with a shredder but has some serious 'Nam issues beneath his partying exterior. Macon McCalman is also fine in a totally different way as the no-nonsense boss who gives Boyce his high-security job. David Suchet as the Russian embassy official who deals with Lee makes for a fascinating blend of menace and amiability.But Falcon And The Snowman stands or falls on the the question of the two title characters, and neither the actors nor Schlesinger are able to mine much in the way of answers. Worse, after more than two hours in their alternately feral and catatonic company, you don't really want answers. You just want those credits to roll. "}{"Title":"Based on a true story Penn and Hutton are very good.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Can't believe I only now saw this fine movie. Unfortunately I missed the first half-hour on AMC, maybe I'll catch it later. Anyway, Falcon (Hutton) and Snowman (Penn) were alter boys and best friends from childhood. Snowman is a petty drug dealer, half wacky, Falcon is a Falconeer and employed in a job where he has access to classified USA information. Together they become spys, selling info to the Russians via their embassy in Mexico.  Snowman wants to do it for the drug money. Falcon simply because he can subvert the weak security of the company he works for, and we find out near the end, because he is unhappy with the power his government uses against weaker countries. Lori Singer is good as Hutton's love interest. "},{"Title":"Fun Spy Story","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The true story of a disillusioned military contractor employee (Timothy Hutton) and his drug pusher childhood friend (Sean Penn with amazing hair) who became walk-in spies for the Soviet Union.Roger Ebert gave it a perfect four-star rating, citing one of the many strengths as that it succeeds, in an admirably matter-of-fact way, in showing us exactly how these two young men got in way over their heads. This is a movie about spies, but it is not a thriller in any routine sense of the word. It's just the meticulously observant record of how naiveté, inexperience, misplaced idealism and greed led to one of the most peculiar cases of treason in American history. I give this film a solid rating because of Sean Penn's hair. This was before he had really broken out into a highly-respected actor. (Now that I think about it, where did he go?) He makes the story fun with his character, and whether or not his portrayal is accurate matters very little because it is still fun no matter what. "},{"Title":"Altar boys gone (unconvincingly) bad","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn (reunited from 1981's Taps) give mismatched performances in this factual account of two privileged young men in the 1970s who sold classified government information to the Soviet Union. Director John Schlesinger doesn't seem to know what to do with icy, immobile Hutton, whose Christopher Boyce never develops quirks or an edge we can respond to. Boyce, working as a civilian defense contractor, is supposed to be disillusioned with the United States government, but we don't understand his turn to duplicity, and Hutton isn't able to communicate the character's frustration. Penn, on the other hand, emotes all over the place as Daulton Lee, a druggie who becomes Boyce's contact with the KGB strictly on mercenary terms. These two should be quite a pair, but there's no acting spark between the stars--they could be performing in two different movies. Screenwriter Steven Zaillian, adapting Robert Lindsey's book, keeps Penn's character prattling on and on, breaking down at one point in dry-eyed torment, and yet the devils haunting these men are not made vivid enough or scary to us. As a result, there's a great deal of arduous acting in The Falcon and the Snowman that amounts to little more than annoying static--a poor substitute for suspense or substantial character portraits. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Brilliant film","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The young man exits the Catholic school he attended for many years, writes a farewell letter saying he doesn't belong there anymore, he's lacking in faith or something else. Outside the building, he set a falcon free. Like the falcon, he's now free and with a wide world in front of him. Unlike the bird, caught by a raptor in plein air, the idealist young man finds a way to land some place and make a new life for himself. And that's when he's idealistic flight will find a frightening detour. Christopher Boyce (played by Timothy Hutton) is the man in question who gets the chance to work to a civilian defense contractor, dealing with many U.S. classified operations. Everything's fine, until the day some CIA cables start to come his way, accidentally, revealing important informations on how the U.S. government interferes with a constitutional crisis happening in Australia. His next course of action? With Cold War still going strong, he joins his crazed/delusional drug dealer friend Andrew Daulton Lee (Sean Penn), who'll help him spreading information to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, (country in which Lee comes and goes with no difficulty) in exchange of money. And that's when everything gets complicated.Hutton personifies the combative ideal and also the doubt. He doesn't feel as if betraying his country, he still considers himself as a patriot. However, the doubt is the one that kills us. Is he selling the secrets, satellite images and projects because of the money?; or it's simply because of the thrill of it all, the excitement is seeing if he can commit dangerous acts without getting caught? Or even maybe because he truly believes that his government and its agencies deserve some punishment for messing up with democracies around the world? While Boyce enjoys his activities, Lee is the one who makes things more complicated each scene goes by. Followed by the justice department after a drug bust, his only salvation is this espionage enterprise where he personally sells the secrets to the Soviets, represented by Alex (David Suchet), a member of the Embassy, who buys all the info that doesn't seem so important as they think. That's where we ask ourselves is it worth all the risk? The information sent to them was helpful in what way? The true story about Boyce and Lee, both convicted in acts of espionage and selling secrets to the Soviets is a treaty on how idealism can be a pointless yet dangerous thing when a person follows such ideal without having a clue on how to do it right. What's clearly evidenced here is that Boyce has some valid points on why sharing secret informations with the URSS is important and must be done; the way to achieve was plain idiotic. The movie brings Boyce as having a conscience crisis while getting the CIA cables about their intrusion in Australia, at the same time Nixon administration was being investigated with the Watergate scandal (to me, the movie falters a bit because we see Boyce supporting Nixon then it jumps to his decision to become a spy. We never get that moment when he says he felt betrayed by his Commander in Chief). All he had to do was to be a whistle blower, go to the media and spread the word. He had the great idea but failed to use it properly. In the times of Snowden, The Falcon... definitely deserves a good revisit so audiences can make comparisons about both cases, where lies the difference between risking everything while following a good ideal to a greater good or exceeding on an ideal that goes nowhere.The Falcon and the Snowman is carefully directed by John Schlesinger, a versatile director who managed to shift between genres and themes in such an easy way that sometimes you never notice he's the man behind the film. And it's so strange that all I could think, as I was re-watching this film, was of his greatest hit Midnight Cowboy. Again, a story about friendship between two polar opposites trying to survive a predatory world (something on Penn's affectuous and mannerisms clearly reminds us of Dustin Hoffman's Rizzo). Schlesinger is helped by the effective cinematography of Allen Daviau (my favorite shot is a conversation between Boyce and Alex at the Embassy, with the Russian man telling the American that their partnership is just beginning when Boyce wanted to get out. The camera goes right behind Suchet's head, eclipsing Hutton. A strange shot but very symbolic). And this marks as Steven Zaillian's first screenplay, and what a work! It's an intelligent script that allows the audience to think about it, even when all of the intricate plot seem to jump facts. The NSA inspection scene has to be one of the most tense sequences ever brought to the screen - along with all the scenes involving Sean Penn's descent to hell. Penn, in so many ways, steals the movie from Hutton (he was huge back then, bear in mind). It marks as Penn's first great serious effort (besides the prison movie), and the worst his character goes through, the more interesting he gets - only delivering one or two false acting notes. A near perfect screenplay (I'd cut the romance between Boyce and Lori Singer character). And there's David Bowie & Pat Metheny closing song! This Is Not America echoes in several directions. When Penn's character is detained, this is the exact quote a Mexican cop says to him. But it can also be interpreted as Boyce's way of thinking this is not the country he lived and at once admired. What went wrong with those two altar boys? 10/10 "},{"Title":"I remember it well, and stills today it haunts a lot...","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Looking back 30 years, when I watched this movie with the ever talented Sean Penn (which at the time was involved with... ahem... Madonna...), I noticed how can you manipulate the secret information of those who manipulates you in secret in the real life ?Yes, the Falcon (Hutton) saw something worth to denounce, but the Snowman (Penn) threw it to the enemy (the USSR) and gets at the end not only in trouble with the Mexicans (the Snowman's drug dealings blew it away), but also the CIA which discovered the scheme, and shut them up with incarceration. (and then they are free again as told...)Only the David Bowie/Pat Metheny song makes me remember this movie, which tells the truth how superpowers can be hypocrites (hey, even the Russians abandoned their informants before their big arrest...) and how they can be protective of their secrets, even if they are frightening.Great acting by two Academy Award winners.Not to miss if you enjoy spy stories and inner denunciation of a strange secret system... "},{"Title":"Sean Penn does good sleaze","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story, Christopher Boyce (Timothy Hutton) quits the seminary, and fall into a menial job at a military contractor. He has father issues and angry at US foreign policies. He, along with his drug dealing criminal friend Daulton Lee (Sean Penn), sold secret communications to the Soviet Union.Sean Penn is great at playing low life sleazebag. He is at his jittery best here. His is the juicier part. Timothy Hutton does a good all America guy. I wish he had more depth and something more sinister to his character. He doesn't have enough to explain his motive. There has to be a more compelling character in there. But in the movie, Sean Penn is overshadowing Timothy Hutton. I don't think Hutton got enough of the character. "},{"Title":"Why Did They Do It?","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fascinating true-life tale stars Timothy Hutton as Christopher Boyce, a government employee in charge of guarding sensitive documents, who becomes disillusioned and decides to sell those documents to the Soviets. He enlists the help of his drug pusher/user friend Daulton Lee(Sean Penn) to be the go-between. Things go well at first, but of course they are eventually discovered, which leads to devastating consequences for them and their families.Well directed by John Schlesinger, and solid acting from the two leads, film is a quite interesting and compelling look at the foolish choices these two men make(and why), which makes them traitors. Future Poirot star David Suchet is excellent as their Soviet contact. "},{"Title":"Predators or Patriots","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This cold war character study is dependent on the two lead performances and both are up to the task. The middle-class buddies go from suburbia to spying in a heartbeat and neither have the intellect to see their consequences or for that matter care too much about such things.Even when events go terribly wrong the web is too strong and resistance is futile. They are caught up in an espionage game that is over their heads and they are drowning in denial, ignorance, and the inevitable. It is a movie that has one character (Sean Penn) who is completely delusional and drug dependent and the other (Timothy Hutton) who is noble, and is naive and frustrated at abuse of power and tries, though unadvisedly, to use his low level CIA access to get back at the patriotic fascists who, among other non-National Security issue dealings, use the Government to topple left-wing elected officials in third world countries.This is all done in a matter of fact Directorial style that relies on behavior more than motivation. Both are not loyal, even to their families who seem to care about them. The film comes off a bit vague, on the surface, and very shallow, but the best part is the volatile interaction between the professional Soviet Spies and the buffoonish drug addled courier. "},{"Title":"Sean Penn and Timothy Hutton dispense secrets to the Soviets","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story, the movie follows it faithfully it appears. It's very well done in all departments. Being true to life, it tends to become episodic but yet the lives of the men are progressing toward their eventual imprisonment. The movie has an inherent suspense because of this.The motivation of Hutton is spelled out both at the start and after his eventual arrest. He sees that the CIA has become a dark and secret force, going way beyond any rule of law. It takes more than that alone for him to start passing on secrets he gets at his security-sensitive job. It is usually a concatenation of unusual circumstances that leads to unusual results. In this case, his boyhood friend (Penn) to whom he is loyal is a drug dealer and goes to Mexico. This affords Hutton the opportunity to pass on secrets to the Soviets via their embassy. It is not clear that these secrets are or are not all that important, but the suggestion is they were not. Penn is in it for the money and to support his drug habit and make money easily, to which he is accustomed. He also has an outstanding arrest warrant and this is a way to survive that pressure.Hutton and Penn carry the movie with some very able support from Pat Hingle and some feminine support from Lori Singer, whom I mistook for Darryl Hannah. Dorian Harewood also scores as a co-worker of Hutton. Penn, to me, is always a consistently interesting actor who fills out his roles, creating persona of interest, rather extroverted and with wild and/or weak streaks, sometimes with violence ready to surface. Hutton is more subdued and intense, more internal, and under good direction extremely capable. I like both on the screen. Hingle is a terrific character actor.The story has a neo-noir shading throughout in that we feel that their activities are protests in some sense against a larger series of dark governmental forces that they cannot conquer. We feel that in the end they will be crushed.In real life, both served lengthy sentences. They are now free and have gotten on with their lives. "},{"Title":"based on a true story","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn are The Falcon and the Snowman in this 1985 film also starring Pat Hingle, Joyce Van Pattan, Lori Singer, Dorian Harewood, Richard Dysart, Priscilla Pointer, and David Suchet.Hutton and Penn play Christopher Boyce and Daulton Lee, friends from very good families. Lee is a drug dealer and drug taker. Boyce's father is ex-FBI and puts in a good word for him at a defense contractor for the government called TRW which handled sensitive documents. When some cables are misrouted to the office from Australia, Boyce realizes that the United States is using the CIA to block the Communist threat there. Disillusioned, he decides to sell the information to the Russians and enlists the unstable Lee to act as courier. There is money to be made but Boyce believes he is doing something for his country. Lee wants the money. The espionage snowballs and goes out of control.Excellent performances by the understated Hutton and by Penn, who has been playing men on the edge since he was fourteen, nearly 40 years ago now, and doing them extremely well.The film, directed by John Schlesinger, moves a little slowly but is very suspenseful and filled with atmosphere - the dank office, Mexico City, the Russian consulate, and the expensive family homes, As a piece of trivia, Daulton Lee, who is played by Penn, was released from prison in 1988 and was hired by Sean Penn as his personal assistant. Both Boyce and Lee have been out of prison for twenty-plus years now. "}{"Title":"Soundtrack by Pat Metheny","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Excellent soundtrack by Pat Metheny, especially the song, Chris. Haunting background music. Per WikiEncyclopedia, The Falcon and the Snowman is an album of original music for the soundtrack of the Orion Pictures feature length film with the same title, composed and co- produced by both Pat Metheny and Lyle Mays. Generally, the album is consistent with the composers' prior collaborations of the early 1980s, at times seeming derivative of these. Conceived as a score unlike previous albums, most tracks incorporate variations on one or more of a few major themes with unique 'stand-alone' tracks in the minority. The music is performed by the Pat Metheny Group with occasional orchestrations for strings. The exceptions are a male chorus featuring a young alto which bookends the album and one track which features a collaboration with David Bowie, credited as producer and co- composer, who performs lyrics for an art-rock arrangement of the theme heard in the track Chris.Track listingAll tracks composed by Pat Metheny & Lyle Mays (except track no. 5, as indicated)Psalm 121/Flight of the Falcon &#x96; 409 Daulton Lee &#x96; 559 Chris &#x96; 321 The Falcon &#x96; 502 This Is Not America (D. Bowie, P. Metheny, L. Mays) &#x96; 355 Extent of the Lie &#x96; 418 The Level of Deception &#x96; 549 Capture - 403 Epilogue (Psalm 121) - 216 "},{"Title":"Marathon Man","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a brief review of Marathon Man and The Falcon and the Snowman, two thrillers by director John Schlesinger. The more famous of the two, Marathon Man's about a grad student (Dustin Hoffman) who becomes embroiled in his big brother's business (Roy Scheider), which unfortunately has to do with spies, guns, double agents, diamonds and evil Nazi dentists. Scheider is suave, Hoffman is excellent and Schlesinger hits us with some neat visuals (the reveal of the Eiffel tower is stunning), but what's most interesting about the film is the way that its various plot lines don't intersect until the 1 hour mark. Even then, it takes a further half hour for things to start making sense. Unfortunately, the film ends with a clichéd showdown between the villain and the good guy, everything neatly resolved and explained. The Falcon and the Snowman is a bit more ambitious. Sean Penn and Timothy Hutton play two friends who sell government secrets to the Soviet Union. Hutton works as a civil defence contractor and smuggles information out of his office and into the hands of Penn, a small time drug dealer who has no qualms selling to the KGB. Penn does this strictly for the money, whilst Hutton is disillusioned with the American government (particularly its attempt to depose the leader of Australia) and so sells the secrets strictly because he hates how his country commits crimes and conducts games of espionage. In a sense, the film is about a conspiracy undertaken as a response to conspiracies.Incidentally, the secrets being sold in the film are loosely based on historical facts. The CIA and MI5 really did overthrow the Australian government via a clandestine coup in 1975. This - an attempt to remove a left leaning Labour cabinet - echoes similar CIA plots in over 80 countries over the past century. In the name of Western capitalist and Imperialist interests, countless egalitarian political movements have been murderously eradicated.Marathon Man &#x96; 7.9/10 The Falcon and the Snowman &#x96; 8/10 Aside from an oddly slapstick car crash and its clichéd ending, Marathon Man is an effective thriller, with several neat scenes. Snowman is even better, Penn turning in a memorable performance. "},{"Title":"Professional Espionage Thriller","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director John Schlesinger's tense and frantic film tells the true story of Christopher Boyce and Andrew Daulton Lee, two young men who sold United States government secrets to the Soviet Union in the early 1970's.Timothy Hutton plays Christopher Boyce very competently. He is a young man very disillusioned by the CIA's underhanded activities in allied Australia. Sean Penn, as the doped-up, drug running Andrew Daulton Lee, is outstanding.The competent and professional direction of Schlesinger, along with some very good acting, make The Falcon and the Snowman an espionage thriller not to be missed.Tuesday, February 4, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Alter Boys to Hoods","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disillusioned with Nixon, Vietnam, Watergate, and Australia (huh?), alter boys Timothy Hutton (as Christopher Boyce) and Sean Penn (as Andrew Daulton Lee) become professional criminals, after growing up wealthy in sunny southern California. Pet Falcon owner Mr. Hutton abandons plans to become a priest, and the Snowman Mr. Penn switches from snorting cocaine to heroin; together, they sell CIA secrets to the KGB. Alas, the lads learn spying is a very dangerous business&#x85; Despite being based on a true story, and featuring admirable performances, The Falcon and the Snowman doesn't get very high. Hutton and Penn do not really seem to be close friends, although we are told so; and their relationships with others - like both sets of family, and Lori Singer (as Lana) - ring strangely untrue. Only Russian contact David Suchet (as Alex) seems truly genuine. Simply, the script is too mysterious with motivation, and opportunities to blend characterizations are missed.****** The Falcon and the Snowman (1/25/85) John Schlesinger ~ Timothy Hutton, Sean Penn, David Suchet, Lori Singer "},{"Title":"Penn was perfectly cast","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am not a fan of Sean Penn, but in contrast to my German colleague whose review appears here, I think he was perfectly cast as the neurotic, druggy character in this film. He has every nuance perfected and reminded me of several acquaintances who had similar tastes in recreational chemistry. I saw this film but once, 10-15 years ago and this is the only part of the film that was etched indelibly on my mind. I don't say it very often, but in this case I will Bravo, Sean Penn! As for the story line, well, it's based on fact, and as such, it is a tragedy that people would sell their country's secrets to the then enemy. Again, Penn has shown what you can do if you disagree with the administration. Use the freedoms you have, paid for in blood; don't break the law. "},{"Title":"Entertaining melodrama","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Outstanding performances by Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn fail to rescue this overwrought melodrama. Based on an actual incident, Christopher Boyce (Timothy Hutton), leaves the Seminary to take a high security clearance office job with the CIA, then hooks up with his drug-addled buddy Daulton (Sean Penn) to pass on spy satellite information to KGB officials in Mexico City.Schlesinger makes Boyce into a fairly likable individual whose motivation seems to be dislike of CIA covert operations around the world and hatred of his father. He is much more likely to arouse audience sympathy than Daulton who is shown as not too bright and spends much of the movie going deeper and deeper into a drug-induced hallucinatory state. We know the pair will eventually get caught but we don't know how. There is a fair amount of suspense, but somehow Schlesinger turns the film into standard Hollywood CIA-spy fare. What was Boyce really like and what really induced him to throw his life away and put his country in jeopardy? Was he politically motivated or just an immature sociopath? Schlesinger doesn't deal with the psychological complexities but prefers to present the story as straightforward narrative with a few not too convincing political speeches by Boyce thrown in at the end. I do like Timothy Hutton and found the movie to be entertaining, but his character never came alive for me. The fact that Boyce subsequently escaped from prison for two years and was recaptured after robbing banks fails to clarify what he was really about. "},{"Title":"Fine acting makes for an enjoyable movie","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Both Penn and Hutton do a fine job of portraying two boyhood friends who decide to sell national security secrets to the Soviet Union.  Penn has more to work with as his character is a drug dealing, drug taking loser out to score more money and more drugs.  Hutton's character has less immediate motivations and fewer indicitive mannerisms to work with, but he holds his own with Penn when they share a scene.  Although the acting is very good the script is not.  We never find out why Hutton's character decides to sell the secrets to the Russians.  There is an attempt to identify CIA interference with the politics of other countries as a motivating factor but it comes across weakly as the character doesn't seem all that upset about it.  Developing the motivation would have added much to the dramatic tension of the film.  Also it is never explained how or why Hutton's character is a falconeer and nobody seems to find it odd that he carries the bird around with him.(!)  In addition, almost all the scenes set inside the security company and with the security company personnel come off flat and unbelievable.   "},{"Title":"absorbing","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this moving was intriguing and absorbing; however, the story was a little choppy and hard to follow at times.   Although the two principal actors did a great job, just seeing Senn Penn acting with every fiber of his being and stealing every frame made this a very memorable movie.  Later movies have revealed him to be a not just one-role actor  he also showed comedic flair in Sweet and Lowdown.   Surprisingly talented and not the light-weight I used to think he was./  "},{"Title":"Benedict Arnold and his buddy Mata Hari--for the 70's!","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" True stories make the best stories don't they? There's always something enjoyable about a story, be it novel or movie or whatever, simply by the fact that it's real makes the story all the more fascinating. This movie is based on a true story of two young American men, one a government employee and falcon enthusiast&#151;Chris Boyce (Timothy Hutton)&#151;and the other&#151;Andrew Daulton Lee (Sean Penn)&#151;is a drug dealer. These two begin selling government, mostly CIA, secrets in 1975 to the Soviet Union.The film focuses on the human aspect of the two men, as well as their growing personal problems (especially Penn's character with ever-worsening drug addictions), rather than glorifying their status as traitors to America, which would, no doubt, hurt the film's credibility in the US. Boyce gradually becomes more cautious and eventually frustrated and paranoid as their dealings drag on and they dig ever deeper into treacherous territory. Daulton becomes more dependent and addicted to cocaine and heroin as he becomes more frightened, and more desperate to maintain control over a situation he has no control over&#151;on top of which, he already has problems with the law. The torment of Boyce and Daulton's families because of the way they lead their lives is also well portrayed and adds well to the idea that espionage against one's country, even if thought to be done justly, leads only to major problems and the ruination of lives&#151;including the degradation of the friendship and trust between the two main characters.Here's the breakdownThe Good--Hutton and Penn each did extensive research on the characters to capture their individual look and feel, so they're portrayed with extensive depth and realism.--The acting is excellent.--The atmosphere of paranoia builds quite well.--The story is fascinating, and of course, as one based on actual events, it has some added kick.--Nice sets.--The Soviets working with the Boyce and Daulton are portrayed very well, and not stereotyped or given evil consciences just for the sake of making them look bad.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--The music is alright, nothing perfect though.--Sound effects are occasionally a little iffy&#151;such was the case with a lot of films from the seventies through the eighties.The Bad--Chris Boyce (Timothy Hutton) has a relationship with a woman that we hardly know. Because of Boyce's trouble brewing with the US and Soviet Governments, her life can be put in jeopardy&#151;but this isn't as expanded upon as it feels it should've been. Minor problem, though.The Ugly--The apparent simplicity required to sell government secrets is a little unnerving. Nothing like a constant state of unreadiness to keep the masses feeling as unsafe as possible.Memorable Scene--Seeing the first CIA report accidentally sent to the wrong place with the reason being, rough night.This was another film that suffered massive delays due to the controversial content of the story. Studios and producers didn't see how a movie about two American traitors could ever be accepted by American audiences. Luckily, it's filmed and portrayed with a high degree of class and quality. Of course, it helps that the traitorous anti-heroes aren't portrayed heroically&#151;more like a couple young men who've made gross errors in judgment in their lives. As such, it becomes a very human drama, and one portrayed very well and very believably.Acting 9/10 Story 10/10 Atmosphere 8/10 Cinematography 8/10 Character Development 9/10 Special Effects/Make-up 8/10 (little quantity, high quality) Nudity/Sexuality 2/10 (one scene in a strip club) Violence/Gore 7/10 (no gore, just some violence) Music 7/10 Direction 9/10Cheesiness 0/10 Crappiness 0/10Overall 8/10If you like films about espionage and spies, then you can't go wrong here. If you like dramatic films with a strong focus on the humanity of the characters, then this may also work for you. Highly recommended.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"The Widening Gyre","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS.Two upper-middle-class pals (Hutton and Penn) become spies and sell secrets to the Russians.  They become increasingly reckless and stupid and they are thrown out by the Russians and caught by United States authorities.On the surface it looks like an ordinary spy story, and it is, but it's more than that.  It's also a story of middle-class American boredom and anomi, not unlike The Graduate, River's Edge, and a dozen other movies, including documentaries like PBS's Family.  If you grow up being used to get pretty much everything you want, what is there left to live for?  When you don't NEED anything you haven't already got, what MOTIVATES you?  If you have no aspirations, if you give no thought to the future, what makes you get out of bed in the morning or, in this case, sometimes in the afternoon? The movie paints in some higher calling in one of the kids but it's not completely convincing.The two friends seem to have been adrift for most of their lives.  They don't seem to read anything.  One claims to be a Democrat and the other a Republican but they don't seem interested in politics.  Hutton has attended a seminary (a particular point is made of the fact) but has dropped out for reasons not made clear.  Then Hutton is given a job in a secret organization processing mostly routine messages.  He gets the job through the influence of his father, an ex-FBI man.  He accidentally receives a few secret messages by error that indicate CIA interferences in Australia's internal affairs and the penny tumbles.  That period in the seminary must have left him pretty otherworldly -- probably the Franciscans ran the place -- because this is an epiphany.  Gee, the CIA are meddling in other countries. Hutton decides the Russians would be an improvement over the CIA and enlists Penn's help in selling the intel to which he is privy to the Russians through their embassy in Mexico City.Now Sean Penn doesn't give two rectal zephyrs about the Russians or the CIA's machinations or anything else except more money for drugs and for his drug-dealing business.  (He's motivated okay -- he's already a fugitive from justice.)  A moment's hesitation and he's aboard the trolley, sneaking into the Russian Embassy one way or another and convincing the Russkis that he's got secret info worth tens of thousands of dollars.  He deals with the suave, businesslike, serious and not entirely unsympathetic David Suchet, in an excellent performance.Then things begin to first get complicated, and things begin to fall apart, evoking Yeats' imagery about the widening gyre, the spiral that history forms like a great triton's shell  like the falcon wheeling about the falconer.  Hutton is by far the more sympathetic of the two pals.  He seems motivated by principle, having become cynical about US methods.  He's thoughtful, precise, careful, conceals his identity from the Russians because he knows that once they find out who he is they will have no further need of Penn the middleman.  He's handsome in an innocent way too, whereas Penn has a pale face, a cap of long hair, squinty eyes, and a mouth about three millimeters in width, looking as if designed expressly for the insertion of a bong stem.And, man, is he dumb.  The Russians give him one of those spy cameras like a cigarette lighter and he goes around at one of his wild parties telling people precisely what it is and where he got it from and asking them to take his picture with it.  (Hutton is aghast.)  He gets even dumber if that's possible.  Forbidden to approach the Russian Embassy openly he climbs a fence and joins a cocktail party without invitation, chatting casually with the guests.  Is that your traditional garb? he asks a potentate from some African country.  Yes, says the diplomat, It is garbage.Hutton is tearing his hair out by now and begins to send the Russians pictures of projects that never got off the ground, worthless information, throwing in a couple of Playboy nudes.  The Russians first throw Penn out of a moving car to get rid of him for good.  When Penn stands outside the Embassy banging on the door he is nailed by the Mexican police who strip him and start playing ping pong with his head, using a telephone book for a paddle.  The policia give Penn a choice deportation to the USSR or the USA. He chooses the latter and walks into the arms of the authorities waiting for him at the border, then presumably squeals on Hutton.The photography is professional in caliber, the script decent, although it leaves some of the events unexplained (why does Hutton send the Russians nude pics?), the score memorable, and the acting quite good on everyone's part.  Penn has the juciest role.  All actors want a chance to go berserk on screen.The movie is a complicated exploration of some important issues and comes close to being gripping.  Why DO we put one foot in front of the other when we walk?  Is it simply to keep from falling on our faces? "}{"Title":"Strong drama is worth seeing for the fine performances of the two leads.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Christopher Boyce (Oscar-WinnerTimothy Hutton) gives up on being a priest and he's returning home for an uncertain future. When his best friend Daulton Lee (Oscar-WinnerSean Penn) is a drug dealer, who's always gets in trouble and enjoys taking drugs a bit too much. When Christopher gets a job by working in a top secret government place titled RTX. Boyce and Lee both have wealthy families, which they hoped to make it out of their own. When Boyce decides to take secret documents out of curiosity, which these documents are supposed to be destroyed. He decides to sell these secret documents for a cheap price for the Soviet Union with the help of his best friend. But both of them never knew how far they will go for sealing documents for a living and since they are both amateurs. Both of them have betrayed their country for top secret information.Directed by the late Oscar-WinnerJohn Schlesinger (The Believers, Eye for an Eye, Midnight Cowboy) made an interesting character drama about two young men taking the wrong path in life. Oscar-WinnersHutton and Penn are both extraordinary good in the film. The movie is even occasionally funny and quite disturbing at times. David Suchet nearly steals the show as the man, who works for the Soviet Union. This picture has a familiar cast in the supporting roles. It was quite underrated, when it was first released. Despite some great reviews by some of the top film critics. This picture is actually based on a true story. There's some flaws in the storytelling, like these two leads characters but overall, it's a movie worth seeing. Based on a novel by Robert Lindsey. Screenplay by Oscar-WinnerSteven Zaillian (American Gangster, Hannibal, Schindler's List). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Quenches your thirst for outcome!!!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" My father has worked with top secret information in the DIA before and he is the one who mentioned this movie to me. When I was a kid I would always ask him what would happen if he gave away secrets and he recommended this movie.In the movie it really puts 2, almost completely different FRIENDS! in a tangle they never really knew what the outcome would really be. The snowman, Daulton really cracked me up because the movie portrayed him as just some drug pusher that did not know what he was arguing about, and in the movie it seemed like he got the worst of everything. The falcon, Chris is just a guy that wanted to express his feelings on U.S government in a very radical view.For movie lovers this is a must see!!! "},{"Title":"Good movie in general","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very good in term of acting and plot. The events and the setting (i.e. how Chris gets the job, Chris's work environment, the face-to-face between the two sides, etc) thereof, on the other hand, are found to be less than realistic. "},{"Title":"How to betray your country","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Falcon and the Snowman is the story of two young men, a CIA employee and a drug dealer, who become disenchanted with United States foreign policy and sell state secrets to the Soviet Union. The events of the film are based on a true story.Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn are convincing in the lead parts and develop interesting characterizations. The supporting cast also performs well, notably with a performance from David Suchet of Hercule Poirot fame as a seasoned Soviet agent.The film is generally effective at setting out its premise and developing it and giving a sense of two boys caught in something they did not properly understand going in. However, it does seem overlong and cumbersome at points in the middle. The ending, however, is tense, stunning and effective. There are some catchy rock songs included in the soundtrack, but also unfortunately a repeated mellow synthesizer track that doesn't fit with a spy story. There are other spy films more worth seeking out than The Falcon and the Snowman, but it is a decent film none the less. "},{"Title":"Based on a true story","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Falcon and the Snowman is based on a true story. Christopher Boyce, and Andrew Daulton Lee, (the titular traitors,) played by Timothy Hutton and Sean Penn, received their code- names from the KGB. Why? Boyce was an avid falconer and Lee was a coke head. The movie is based on a true story. It's based on the book of the same name. Another reviewer asked what was their motivation? Disillusionment it ain't. Ideology it ain't. (Pardon my bad grammar,) but I'm making a point here. What was it if it wasn't disillusionment or ideology? In a word, greed. By the time of the Boyce-Lee case, money became the great motivator and not ideology. Don't believe me? Then look at the Walker Family Spy Ring which was broken in the late '80s. Three spies did the worst damage to our national security in the '70s and '80s. John Walker, who began his career as a spy in the '60s, Christopher Boyce, and Andrew Daulton Lee. All three sold out this country for thirty pieces of silver. If you aren't familiar with that phrase, I suggest you read the Bible. "},{"Title":"Abbott and Costello in over their heads.","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This belabored and sloppy spy melodrama featuring two buffoonish (one idealistic, one drug addled) California kids dealing secrets to the KGB never seems to get enough steam up to sustain any tension and suspense before it dies a very slow death over two hours later. John Schlesinger's finished product gives the impression that he was asleep in his director's chair most of the time as the film lags and the actors sleep walk, save for the highly annoying over the top performance of Sean Penn. Childhood altar boys and friends Chris (Tim Hutton) and Daulton (Penn) devise a plan to sell secrets to the KGB when Chris lands a job that allows him access to top secret government materials. Disillusioned by what he sees as US meddling in foreign affairs the idealistic Chris and the drug hungry Daulton make contact with the Russians and begin to funnel them classified materials. When Chris decides he wants out things begin to unravel at a lackadaisical pace. The eighties were not kind to distinguished director John Schlesinger. In the 60s and 70s he had a series of critically acclaimed films in both England and America but then came Honky Tonk Freeway in 1981 and it marked the beginning of the end. The Falcon and the Snowman more or less put a lid on it. Lacking the suspense of Marathon Man and the quality performances (Hoffman Voight, Christie, Jackson, Finch, Olivier) he had coaxed from leads in the past Falcon goes in circles most of the way. Sean Penn chews scenery from start to finish in such an obnoxious fashion you find yourself encouraging his torturers to do more to him. Tim Hutton is governed by his limited acting chops and most of his scenes show a need for more rehearsal time. Lori Singer as Hutton's girlfriend plays it mute most of the way with Schlesinger content to film her vapid expressions. When she does emote you understand why. Only David Suchet as the KGB handler with a piercing eyed introspective presence and restraint acquits himself well. "},{"Title":"real life 007","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The world of espionage, contrary to what the James Bond films would have you believe is frought with danger. Timothy Hutton stars as Christopher Boyce and Sean Pain...I mean Penn co-stars as Daulton Lee. Boyce is a sterotypical All American kid from a large Catholic family. Lee is a drug addled spoiled brat. Someone called this film The Hardy Boys Turn Traitor. What would drive this seemingly fine young man to betray his country, disgrace his family and ruin his own life? Was Boyce driven by ideological disillusionment, was he trying to get back at his father, or was he just a greedy fool like John Walker? This film really doesn't make it clear. Hutton gives a wonderfully understated performance, but Sean Penn is just obnoxious a terrible actor to boot. His character is so annoying I kept hoping the Russians would shoot him. A good spy thriller. I think Christopher Boyce found out far too late that once you get sucked into this world of betrayal and treason you are past the point of no return. "},{"Title":"Fatal Combination Idealism and Inbreeding","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Take a young liberal idealist Christopher Boyce (Timothy Hutton) put in a top secret classification in a government front company because of his father's position team him up with a no'count drug dealer Daulton Lee (Sean Penn) who is wanted by the police and needs a new source of income and you have a recipe for espionage. Sean Penn played the part of the punk drug dealer with a certain sang froid probably out of particular verisimilitude with such raunchy types. The gall Penn carries with him in every situation is unique; he even suggests the Soviets run drugs for him.I've seen the movie over and over again and each time I see something new. It seems to me that a major problem with US spy organizations is its inbreeding which leads to the hiring of an obviously unsuitable candidate by reason of temperament and inclination for a government front company.I do recall when the Falconeer escaped from prison and led the authorities on a wild goose chase. I see that despite the escape he is now released. A pity the Soviets are no longer around to accept the wretch! A Cheery Cherio! "},{"Title":"Spys from the Suburbs....","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Engrossing drama made all the more interesting because it's a true story. Although difficult to follow at times because of the choppy storyline and the ambiguous motivations of Hutton's character Boyce.  (What ever happened to Hutton's career anyway)?  I as well was left wanting to know more about Christopher Boyce.  Why did he plan to charge 50 grand for his last trade if he was as disinterested in money as he stated to investigators during his interrogation at the end?I also agree with the viewer who wrote that Penn's character Daulton was so annoying that I too kept hoping the Russians would shoot him.  And how is it exactly that in the beginning Daulton declares emphatically to Chris that selling secrets to the Russians was just plain wrong, and when he gets busted for selling drugs he tells his defense lawyer that snitching was against his principals?  Then suddenly selling his own country out seems suddenly like a good idea?  The way the writers play around with the main characters motivations makes it impossible to get a grasp on why anyone is doing what they are doing.Also, Lori Singer's character as Chris's girlfriend seems to have virtually no purpose at all because she ends up in about only 3 scenes.This film could have gone from being a good movie, to a great movie if they would have added approximately 20 to 30 additional minutes to clear up some of the inconsistencies. "},{"Title":"Why is Hollywood so immature?","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This move came out when I was 8 years old so it wasn't something I was really interested in. By the time I could understand this movie, it was not on cable or considered a classic that I had to see. It did however come on cable this Saturday morning and I thought I would give it a shot. It was an OK movie, kinda dull but worth watching. What I am baffled about is how stupid Hollywood thought we were and how un-American they are. Hollywood probably would have made a sympathetic movie about Julius and Ethel Rosenberg is they thought they could make a buck. Seems like most of their anti-American movies were made when Ronald Reagan was in the White House. Guess they considered him a turn-coat for not being socialist/communist like them. Sorry to seem so angry but when anti-American movies like Avitar (rip-off of John Carter) are considered great make me think that there is little hope for the greatest country ever. If your into the anti-American and conspiracy stuff you will probably like this movie. If however, you understand that fighting an enemy sometimes means fighting fire with fire, you probably wont make it through the whole thing. "}{"Title":"This is not America...","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... sings David Bovie in this movie. BUT IT IS!!! It's ALL about America, so don't be ashamed to watch it. Just think, if you can, to prevent more damage... You know, you're just the same regular guy next door, so, be careful! One of the best critics of common mind and friendship. Still don't care? Go for it for the music - it's worth a try, just close your eyes and Pat Metheny and David Bowie will touch you so deep you'll start to scream! And while watching, if you'll dare to open your eyes, please don't do the popcorn&stuff, you're gonna miss quite a lot. You may think that it's not worth, but, think twice - and don't look at your neighbours lawn - you never know what to find there... Is It worth? Try it! Just don't die or gloat over it... "},{"Title":"This Is Not America; NO","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE FALCON AND THE SNOWMAN (1985) *** Tim Hutton, Sean Penn, Lori Singer, Pat Hingle, Richard Dysart, David Suchet,Chris Makepeace, Jennifer Runyon. Fact based account of boyhood chums Christopher Boyce and Daulton Lee (Hutton and a disconcertingly De Niro-esque Penn) who team up to sell top secret information to the Soviets in 1977 and their ultimate downfall. Absorbing and first rate thanks to director John Schlesinger.  "}]