[{"Title":"Camped out...","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first Meatballs had Bill Murray, Chris Makepeace, a lot of laughs and no alien subplot.Meatballs II has Richard Mulligan, Paul (Pee-Wee Herman) Ruebens, Hamilton Camp, Archie Hahn, John Larroquette, a few laughs and an alien subplot.By the time Meatballs II came out, there had already been so many ripoffs of Meatballs that this just paled liberally by comparison (TIDBIT - this in fact was a Meatballs ripoff originally, until the rights were grabbed up and it was released instead as Meatballs II.  Who says there aren't any new ideas in Hollywood?).In spite of the mountain of talent in Meatballs II, there is little in the way of actual humor.  Instead, you have a hyperventilating Richard Mulligan, an off-center Paul Reubens playing in Pee-Wee mode, a screaming Hamilton Camp, a horny Archie Hahn, a lisping John Laroquette, and your usual plethora of horny teens, junior class military cadets, brain-dead boxers, and pot-smoking aliens who ask why camp counselors are such dorks.There's the major laughs; do with them what you will.  And whatever you do with these laughs, it's more than what Meatballs II could ever do with them.Two and a half stars.  Maybe there's just something about Pee-Wee Herman. Or John Larroquette.  Or Richard Mulligan.... "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the Meatballs name","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was working at an actual summer camp the Summer this piece of crap was released. It was my sixth year at camp, as camper and counselor, and a big bunch of us (counselors) went on a day off to see it, with huge expectations. Needless to say, this 'film' has absolutely nothing to do with the mighty original. Rent the DVD of the original and watch the 'making of' part. It's a third as long and a hundred times better than this sequel. I give it 2/10 only because there might be enough weed on Earth to make this vaguely amusing. Assuming you're watching it on a TV with only one channel.IMDb demands ten lines of text to post a comment, so I guess they are intimately involved with the cretins that thought this was a viable movie. Actually, I'm sure they made money on it due to a budget of twelve dollars. The film was shot with a MONO soundtrack? Yeah, that's the way to save a couple grand! If only it had gone straight to VHS - I'd have saved my $3.75 back in 1984. "},{"Title":"Not really bad, just sort of pointless","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To call this movie a sequel to MEATBALLS is stretching the word sequel to a ridiculous degree. Other than the fact that both movies take place at summer camps (not even the same one), there is no connection between the two. It's the usual 80's cable TV time filler, with a dumb script, mechanical direction and mostly one-note performances.The only laughs are supplied by such great comic actors as Richard Mulligan, Paul Reubens (aka Pee-Wee Herman), John Larroquette and Hamilton Camp. A subplot which parodies E.T. also managed to make me chuckle a few times.The only other point of interest is seeing a twenty-year old Kim Richards in the lead female role. The little tomboy from ESCAPE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN and NO DEPOSIT, NO RETURN had grown into quite a hottie by 1984. Unfortunately, she leaves her clothes on.If this comes on TV, it's not worth switching the channel. You'll probably laugh a few times, plus you can get up and go to the bathroom and not miss anything. At any rate, it's better than MEATBALLS PART III or (gag) IV. "},{"Title":"Sex comedy with no sex","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, so this movie isn't great but its a good way to waste a rainy summer day. That's how I ended up seeing it. To be truthful, I thought there would be a lot more nudity and sex. The box for the movie shows a shower scene that isn't in the movie. The box also features a picture of the busty Fanny, played by Misty Rowe. That was the most interesting story line Two horny Councelors trying to get it on. It was only later on that I found out that Misty Rowe isn't nearly as top heavy as Fanny. Well, I'll always have Meatballs Part II to keep the dream alive. There was a lot of potential, but instead we had aliens and a stupid boxing match. Good lines, and okay women. It's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel!","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs Part II (1984) is a major step down from the first film. Once again, whenever a film is a major (or a minor) success they always made a sequel during the eighties. This one is a mediocre effort, not only from the director but the entire cast. Not an unwatchable film but if you're expecting something like the first film you'll be mightily disappointed. If you like weak teenage sex comedies this might tide you over.The film concerns the camp site from the first film. Their very existent is being threatened by a local junior boot camp. The two camps have an annual boxing match to settle their differences and in the spirit of competition. But this time the stakes are high, the commander of the camp has made a deal with the rightful owners of the land. This time the boxing match means much more than simple bragging rights. The usual suspects can be found in this film. Such eighties stars such as Kim Richards, Richard Mulligan, Paul Reubens, Jason Hervey and John Larroqutte. Be on the look out for a Jewish space alien!I wouldn't recommend this movie unless you're a huge fan of the Meatball film series. "},{"Title":"Its bad that even as a kid this one made me groan.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have an idea someone said, lets make a sequel to Meatballs and have it be completely moronic and groan inducing!. After the movie was made and released the person said dude, I was making a joke. And so Meatballs 2 was made and while it is in fact about a summer camp and more of a sequel to the original than the third one is, I still think this one is the worst of the bunch. Granted a few jokes make me chuckle which is why I nicely gave this movie a three rather than a one or two. The plot? Why bother, it involves some dude who does not want to be a counselor, an alien, and a brawl for it all boxing match between two summer camps, one regular and a military type one. That is the gist of it, and if you are wondering, yes the alien is friendly and probably inserted thanks to the success of E.T. two years prior. Bill Murray is not in this movie and can you blame him, while they made this movie he was making Ghostbusters. Instead they got Richard Mulligan, who I like in some roles, not this one. They also begin easing this series of movies into more of a teen sex series, but only lightly in this one. "},{"Title":"This is the one with the alien and the boxing match","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Screeching noises! Did you know that the purpose of movies is solely to make money. Its sad. This movie was made for money's sake, how much money could that possibly be? I mean think about it, Meatballs 2, how can that be of value? Did people die to make this movie? If somebody did die making this movie, because it's this movie, doesn't that mean they died in vain? They made two other Meatballs movies after this one, what the hell!? Who are you that you even legitimately enjoy Summer Camp themed movies? How? If you want to see nudity they make porn, if you want to see a comedy they make actual comedies, you don't have to settle for this movie. I just thought someone should tell you. "},{"Title":"Am I really reviewing this?","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is one I fondly remember viewing at a birthday party soon after it came out on VHS.I'm not going to call it good, because I know it wasn't.I do however remember a good racing scene between a bunch of teenagers in a trailer and a kid in a motorized (new at the time) wheelchair.I also seem to remember an alien being in this film, kind of like the alien in the TV show 'American Dad', but alas I can't remember quite what it looked like.I don't remember this film wining any awards, and I can't recall anyone in the cast. I can't recall the scene on the cover occurring in the film either, but I would be proud to hang a framed copy of that movie poster on my living room wall next to my collection of taxidermy. "},{"Title":"if you're into silliness...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you laugh at this flick will all depend on how silly you're willing to let a film stretch.  There are several practical jokes, mishaps in the woods and kids who operate like they're in their mid 20's (like Hervey's candy bar dealer).  The cast is huge, but as one IMDBer said, Kim Richards is a big standout because shes absolutely GORGEOUS!  But everyone else does a nice job, too.  Mulligan is friendly enough, Mengatti's a good badass, Nepote a great dope boxer and I loved the alien.  His voice was cute and his antics interesting enough.  The most versatile part went to Paul Pee-Wee Herman Ruebens who serves four different capacities in the film as a bus driver, a disc jockey, some sort of Hare Krishna and in the end a referee.  I actually enjoyed this more than the first film, simply because this one had more going on in its ninety minutes.  And when each summer rolls around I cant help but do the lyrics to the great theme song of the film.  But just like in the first movie, it all comes down to if you think over the top silly is funny enough for you.   "},{"Title":"Average if pointless sequel","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1980s were crammed with pointless forgettable adolescent comedies and sequels of which this entry is a prime example. Contrary to popular thought, the original Meatballs was really no classic but merely a mildly amusing rude comedy which served as a launching point for Bill Murray's acting career. This in-name-only sequel has no returning cast members and only shares the summer camp setting, but manages some uniqueness for one weakness and one fascinating turn. The main plot centers on a rivalry between congenial Richard Mulligan's camp of likable losers and shrill Hamilton Camp's military camp, which builds to a climactic slapstick boxing match with representatives of each respective camp deciding the futures of the camps. Unfortunately, given that Mulligan is not much of a presence and Camp is such a buffoonish cartoon villain, it is impossible to have much rooting interest. Subplots galore come fast and furious. The unique weakness is that the film cannot decide whether it wishes to be a rude adolescent comedy directed to pre-teens or a smarmy sex comedy directed to older teens and thus fails at both. A wretched subplot with a forgettable cast of youngsters sheltering a cheap Yiddish-accented E.T. is included for the tots, but is so bad it would only antagonize them. Then we get numerous scenes where 30-ish horny camp counselor Archie Hahn and his buxom co-counselor Misty Rowe are constantly interrupted in their quest for sex by various chaos. The less said about John Larroquette's mincing gay caricature, the better. Kim Richards and John Mengatti are on hand as a virginal camp newbie and a reluctant reform school guy named Flash forced into being a counselor who naturally start a flirtation. The acting by both suggests that they are better than the material handed them. An interesting turnabout is that the more experienced female counselors decide to band together and help the sheltered Richards see her first naked man before the end of the summer. This is interesting as this is normally a subplot reserved for male characters and this is one of the few teenage movies of this decade that actually had the refreshing insight that female teens may be just as sexually curious as males. What a novelty! It is also the funniest subplot in that the girls various attempts naturally result in confusion, chaos and disaster. Unfortunately, the PG rating restricts any nudity from showing up, so guys looking for any skin from the busty Rowe will not get any and the big climactic scene where the hunky dreamboat Mengatti winds up stark naked in public is filmed with such ridiculous modesty that it ranks more as an anti-climax. For all that, the sequel is largely inoffensive and certainly is better than the dismal two follow-ups (one featuring a young and super-nerdy Patrick Dempsey). "}{"Title":"Could be worse","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While the original Meatballs was about kids dealing with everyday problems and talking to Bill Murray a lot, this in-name-only sequel takes a turn for the bizarre and brings in an alien. This might hurt the realism of the movie, but I just really don't care. The complete randomness of this silly plot line is actually one of the few things that keep this show on the road, because for the most part this is just as standard as they come. You get the same characters from every other summer camp movie, the same jokes, even the same look, things get pretty boring that way. Then they throw an alien with a funny voice in the mix and they manage to recapture my attention. This movie often runs low on ideas, but it's pretty fun to watch anyway. "},{"Title":"sci-fi film being shown..??","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i'm hoping anyone who has seen meatballs 2 can remember a scene where the kids are watching a movie on a projector...i can't remember the blooming name of it...its got guys in black jumpsuits wearing black goggles walking zombie-like thru a swamp...if anyone can help me out it would be much appreciatedand what about Kevin Arnold's's brother from the wonder years about 4 years before the wonder years started.anyway...as kid camp movies go... meatballs 2 ain't bad...shame they pulled the sex scenes tho...!!!anyone with any links to them either...??? "},{"Title":"The best of the series.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To be honest that's not really saying much, since this series really wasn't all that good to begin with & the fact that each film is an in name only sequel to the original BILL MURRY movie. This time, the producers either couldn't afford Murry, he didn't want to come back or they never asked him to come back to star in this one & judging by the films alternate title, it was probably released under the MEATBALLS name to catch hold of fans of the first movie & wasn't intended as a sequel at all. If any thing (& this is just my opinion) MEATBALLS 2, is a much better movie than the first & definitely not for kids, with the amount of language that takes place in the movie. Nonetheless the movie is quiet humorous, as we watch the usual summer camp hijinks occur between two rival summer camps who are at each others throats while a Jewish alien roams among them unnoticed as he tags along with a group of little kids (I'm not joking!) finally it's decided by both camps that a boxing match is to take place at the films climax to settle their differences, because that's how problems are solved in films like this. Nonetheless fans of this disconnected series should find plenty to like here, there's plenty of comedy & always something going on, plus the direction/acting & writing are better than usual. The sequels went down hill from here, becoming badly written, B movie sex comedies that just got worse & worse with each passing sequel. Followed by MEATBALLS 3.*** stars "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel (minor spoilers)","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Possibly the only movie in history to feature an alien that goes to camp, MEATBALLS PART 2 once again proves that sequels are almost never as good as the original. That's not to say that MEATBALLS PART 2 isn't absolutely hilarious, it's just not as funny as the first one. The movie begins with a great scene featuring Paul Reubens (also known as Pee Wee Herman) as the bus driver unlucky enough to drive the misfit teenage campers to Camp Sasquatch. After that highly amusing opening sequence, the movie slows down for a while and the laugh quotient lowers until the arrival of the alien. The pace then picks up and the laugh quotient begins to rise again. Other than that slow pacing towards the beginning of the movie mentioned above, the only other notable flaw is how horribly cliched the story is. Granted basically all 80s comedies are as cliched as can be, but I was expecting a bit more originality. **1/2 "},{"Title":"watch it with a 1984 outlook...","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Remember when we used to be satisfied to go the movies and watch bad actors from sitcoms strut around cheap sets and make dumb jokes?  Well, if you were born anytime after 1980, you probably don't remember seeing any cheesy 80s flicks in their original context.  Meatballs II doesn't claim to be anything other than one of these campy movies, so view it with a good attitude and watch to see what actors you recognize.  I recently watched this movie for the first time in the 21st century (probably skipping all of the 90s) and, being a good ten years older and wiser, saw it as the bunch of foolishness it really is.  However, it's an essential 80s flick full of outdated costumes and corny exercise music.  I still have yet to hear anyone use the expression pinky in this context.  The opening scene still has me rolling on the floor. "},{"Title":"1980s Summer Camp Fodder","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meatballs 2 has nothing to do with the first Meatballs and does not have a strong lead like Bill Murray. Actually it doesn't seem to have any lead actor which to me is the film's main flaw. As other IMDb critics have noted, the opening scene was funny with Paul Reubens as the bus driver. He is very talented and one of the best reasons to rent the film. Kim Richards is also very good and does a great job with her part. The aerobics outfit she wears looks like a bathing suit so I can see why men everywhere go gaga over that scene. The film is basically about how a junior boot camp across the river tries to eliminate the kiddie camp run by Coach Giddy (Richard Mulligan). Mulligan is good but his script is very weak. He doesn't even touch the surface of the hilarity Bill Murray brought to the first Meatballs. The part of Flash by John Mengatti could also have been improved with a better script. Flash isn't nice to the kids and I never warmed up to him. Overall, the film has some funny scenes and the 1980s clothes and music provide some entertainment on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"A sequel that equals a learning lesson.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I admit I have a biased feeling towards this movie. At the time I saw  I was infatuated by Kim Richards. In this movie she is the one that makes the bet that she will see male nudity before the end of summer camp. And she is the one that goes after the rebel boy. One of the few movies that shows that women can be the leaders in romance. The alien subplot was weak, and filled mostly fart jokes, and special effects. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie isn't as good as part 1 and 3,but still pretty good. it's also a bit better than part 4. i think the  reason why this movie wasn't as good as the first one is because they had no one to take control of the movie. the  one-liners are not as good as the ones in the first one. but this movie is still all in all not bad. i give  meatballs part II **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Well it was from the 80's after all","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kim Richards is HOT! so I mean its worth getting out if your a guy just for her. The Alien is cute and you get a few laughs. The two heads of camp are very annoying and everything goes quite slow. Go rent it out if your bored theres worse movies out there.  "}]