[{"Title":"Stands the Test of Time","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so great when it came out and is still great. I just watched it again 20 years later! Wow, has it been that long???? Charming story of a very bright young man Jeffrey Willis who has a bright future as an engineer. His father, a plumber wants to see his son become a success and wants him to stay on this path, but the summer before Jeffrey is to go off to college rather than working in an office he gets a job as first a parking lot attendant, and then quickly promoted to cabana boy at a fancy long island beach club. He is so enamoured with the lifestyle of these rich folks and especially impressed by Phil Brody, who made his fortune in luxury cars and feels he's found a new mentor.Despite the fact that he is merely the cabana boy he really feels this is the life he wants to live. He looks at his Brooklyn roots and feels somewhat ashamed, and wants this life of luxury to start right now. Mr. Brody is also impressed by Jeffrey who is very smart, and a go getter. He shows Jeffrey the ropes and a new way of life. He even offers him a job as a salesman at one of his shops. Jeffrey is all ready to say F college! He now wants to be like his hero, Phil Brody, who also is the reigning king of the gin games at the club.The movie is so old, but I won't spoil for you how it ends except to say that his illusions are pretty much shattered.Great film. Great performance by a very young, very cute Matt Dillon. "},{"Title":"The Flamingo Kid","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Charming comedy from Garry Marshall starring Dillon as a Brooklyn teenager taken aback by the smooth lifestyles at a posh beach club. At the club he meets swift characters like car dealer Richard Crenna, in a wonderful role and the lovely Janet Jones, before the Gretzky. Hector Elizondo is also stand out as Dillon's father. Marshall also wrote the script for the film and it flows with heart and humor all the way through.  "},{"Title":"THIS KID'S A WINNER...","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderfully entertaining story chock full of lessons in life.  The lessons, are pretty universal and most have to be learned the hard way.  The kid, played by Matt Dillon, enters the world of the well-to-do, more well to do than him anyway.  He is from a blue-collar neighborhood in 1963 Brooklyn.  His entry??? Employment at the El Flamingo, an upper-middle class beach club.  Richard Crenna, wonderful as the slick, gin rummy playing member, befriends the kid.  The lessons of the world revolve around the big gin rummy game.  Lots of laughs, lots of fun, and Janet Jones make this movie a must see.  I've seen it dozens of times myself, and will probably watch it dozens more.One more thing.  A special mention to Jessica Walter.  She gave one of the most believe-able performances I've ever seen.  I HATED HER. "},{"Title":"Worth owning","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good movie, worth owning, part for the time it represents, and part because of all the good acting (understated and funny). Richard Crenna plays a great pompous jerk (are we sure he's acting?) Hector Elizondo plays one of his best parts ever as the DAD (Now he knows Kings!), and Gretzky's wife even does a half decent job. Fisher Stevens and Bronson Pinchot play good supporting roles as well. Matt Dillon does a great job as a kid who's enamored with Crenna's BS. (One actress who is hot as hell is Carole Davis, who plays Crenna's daughter, and who I am almost positive was a Penthouse Pet at one time. She was also in Mannequin and Shrimp on the Barbie. Hotter than Gretzky's wife).......Anyway, good lines, good script, good ending, good movie. "},{"Title":"Delightful, some great dialogue too","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Matt Dillon vehicle serves as the light-hearted equivalent to A Bronx Tale.  Richard Crenna plays the Chazz Palmentieri role as the idolized kingpin and Hector Elizondo plays the Robert DeNiro role of the honorable working class father.  There is some memorable dialogue, cute humor, and distinctive card playing (the upside down fan).  But, best of all, are the coming of age lessons that are taught to Dillon's character about values, hard work, and summer romance.  In the latter category, the movie is aided immensely by the refreshing debut of Janet Jones (now best known as Mrs. Wayne Gretsky).  I recommend this without reservation! "},{"Title":"This holds up well.","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always enjoy seeing something set in 1963 too; last year of that '50s era before everything kinda went to the 60's everyone knows and cringes at. Very well made, fine acting, Dillon, Crenna, Walter and Elizondo especially all at the top of their games.Watch out for the scene where Elizondo encounters Crenna for the first time and sez 'I already know who you are' more or less to Crenna. He can tell this is the type that would screw his friends at card games or in anything just to get ahead.They don't beat you over the head with the 'coming of age life-lessons', but they are believably done and the movie does sink in as you watch it.No surprise that Janet Jones greatest fame was as Gretzky's wife--now BETTING wife(!) at that---not as an actress. She's just kinda flat. Very easy on the eyes certainly but....Baywatch gal level you know? Check it out, the DVD doesn't have any extras but the story itself is well worth watching. Fun cameos by Steven Weber (Wings) and Marisa Tomei(Cousin Vinny) etc. too.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Under-rated.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Flamingo Kid is a great coming of age film. I have viewed this film a lot and it gets better every time. Garry Mashall does a terrific job with the material and Matt Dillon holds it all together. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Comedy!","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great cast but the storyline is about a kid coming of age during a summer stint as a valet/cabana boy at a Long Island Beach Club. Matt Dillon does a fine job in this role as a lead. He holds his own against heavyweights like Richard Crenna and Hector Elizondo. There is Jessica Walter who played bored Mrs. Brody. The cast also featured Martha Gehman as the sister, Nikki, to Dillon's Jeffrey Willis in the role. While Jeffrey's father, Arthur, is not too happy that his son is working at the club, he deals with it and Mr. Brody's influence over him. Arthur Willis is a hard working plumber who lives with his family in a Brooklyn apartment and not a spacious mansion in Long Island like the club's crowd. I also recall seeing Fisher Stevens and Brian McNamara play his friends and Bronson Pinchot in a small role as well. It's a fine film with some comedic moments but not too many and a predictable ending. "},{"Title":"Dillon Young and still very good","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was very good.  The cast is excellent.  I loved Dillon, Elizondo and Crenna.  They had great chemistry together.  Janet Jones was nice too look at, but as far as acting goes, she didn't do it for me.  The story was very good and kept me interested.On a whole I rate the movie a 8.   "},{"Title":"overlooked Garry Marshall comic gem","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Matt Dillon stars as a Brooklyn kid who gets a job at a summer club as a cabana boy where he learns about life in this coming of age comedy directed by Garry Marshall..along the way he meets a stunning beauty (Janet Jones, angelic in her screen debut)  and he begins to fall for the good life and forgets about the true value of life, work and family.A good cast and great music make this a very good movie..on a scale of one to ten.. 7 "}{"Title":"Matt Dillon's summer as a cabana boy at a private beach club","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At first glance, 1984's The Flamingo Kid looks like a coming-of-age beach flick. What occasionally attracts me to these types of films is their youthful energy and fun spirit, as well as the babes. It brings one back in time to the carefree time of his/her coming-of-age years. What surprised me is that The Flamingo Kid is more than just a youth beach flick.The story takes place in the early 60s where 18-year-old Matt Dillon, a plumber's son from Brooklyn, gets a summer job at a private beach club. This was his final summer of carefree fun before going off to college, but his experiences at the beach club change his plans. He makes loads of money on tips, meets a beautiful blond and becomes fascinated by a new mentor, fast-talking businessman and cardshark Richard Crenna.Crenna convinces Dillon that there are easier, faster (i.e. dishonest) ways to make loads of money than going off to college for years on end. When Dillon moves out of his house and cancels his college plans it naturally creates some serious friction with his father. Will Dillon go on to become the next generation's fast-talking businessman/cardshark in the mold of Crenna or will he see the error of such an enticing lifestyle? Almost the entire film was shot on location at an Atantic beach club with loads of gorgeous females on hand, including Dillon's girlfriend in the story, Janet Jones. Cutie Marisa Tomei even has a cameo.The bottom line is that The Flamingo Kid offers everything you'd want in such a film and more, including a truly interesting story in which you care about the outcome. And, thankfully, there's NO RAUNCH. In addition the soundtrack includes numerous early 60's hits like Runaround Sue, etc. What's not to like? Runtime 100 minutes GRADE A- "},{"Title":"A really sweet, amusing, and delightful comedy sleeper","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1963. Naive, earnest, and affable working class 18-year-old lad Jeffrey Willis (an excellent and engaging performance by Matt Dillon) gets a summer job working as a cabana boy at the posh El Flamingo Beach Club in Long Island. Will the amiable charisma and affluent lifestyle of slick car dealership owner and ace gin rummy cardsharp Phil Brody (marvelously played to smarmy perfection by Richard Crenna) as well as the allure of the enticing Carla Samson (flawlessly embodied by the delectable Janet Jones) cause Jeffrey to forget his humble blue collar Brooklyn roots and aspirations to attend college once summer is over? Director Gary Marshall, who also co-wrote the sweet and witty script with Neal Marshall, relates the enjoyable and engrossing story at a steady pace, offers a vivid and affectionate depiction of the nifty 60's period setting, maintains an ingratiatingly easy'n'breezy tone throughout, and delivers the usual life lessons about integrity and staying true to one's actual self in a pleasant and likable matter. The adroit acting by the sturdy cast helps a whole lot Dillon astutely nails the morally conflicted nature of his character, Crenna shines as a smooth sleazeball, Hector Elizondo likewise does first-rate work as Jeffrey's proud, honest, and hard-working father Arthur, Jessica Walter brings genuine snap and bite to her juicy role as Brody's snippy fed-up wife Phyllis, Carole Davis makes the most out of a rather minor part as Brody's snobby and sexy vamp daughter Joyce, and Fisher Stevens has a ball as Jeffrey's fast-talking smartaleck buddy Hawk. The bouncy soundtrack of choice 60's golden oldies keeps things bubbling along. Popping up in neat bits are Bronson Pinchot, Marisa Tomei, Steve Weber, and John Turturro. James A. Conter's sunny cinematography gives the picture an attractive sparkling look. A real treat. "},{"Title":"Worth owning","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good movie, worth owning, part for the time it represents, and part because of all the good acting (understated and funny). Richard Crenna plays a great pompous jerk (are we sure he's acting?) Hector Elizondo plays one of his best parts ever as the DAD (Now he knows Kings!), and Gretzky's wife even does a half decent job. Fisher Stevens and Bronson Pinchot play good supporting roles as well. Matt Dillon does a great job as a kid who's enamored with Crenna's BS. (One actress who is hot as hell is Carole Davis, who plays Crenna's daughter, and who I am almost positive was a Penthouse Pet at one time. She was also in Mannequin and Shrimp on the Barbie. Hotter than Gretzky's wife).......Anyway, good lines, good script, good ending, good movie. "},{"Title":"Classic movie. One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie. Hopefully it will be made available on DVD soon. Matt Dillon was great as well as Richard Crenna.  The characters are amazingly mundane, yet still hilarious. There are so many great lines to be taken from this movie. See it again and again and you will be quoting it for years. "},{"Title":"OK coming-of-age movie","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's the summer of 63 in Brooklyn. Hawk Ganz (Fisher Stevens) and Steve Dawkins (Brian McNamara) return to the old neighborhood and invite Jeffrey Willis (Matt Dillon) to the Flamingo Club to play cards. Car dealer Phil Brody (Richard Crenna) is the best gin player in the club and father of Steve's girlfriend Joyce. Jeffrey is taken with Joyce's cousin Carla Samson (Janet Jones) from California which drives Alfred (Bronson Pinchot) jealous. He gets a job parking cars at the club. His father Arthur (Hector Elizondo) expected him to work an office job at an engineering firm for the summer. He befriends fellow newbie Fortune Smith. Jeffrey idolizes the successful Phil Brody who takes him under his wing. His wife Phyllis (Jessica Walter) isn't so keen with the lowly help when Carla invites him for dinner. This is no jab at Matt Dillon because he does this character well. I simply don't like this character. To be fair, I don't like any of the characters in this Garry Marshall movie. It's missing the usual Marshall comedic touch. There is a real good father son conflict. I could invest more into their relationship if I could feel more love than anger in the family. The few jokes fall flat for me. It's an OK coming-of-age movie. "},{"Title":"Likeable.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Likeable little film has Matt Dillon and some of his friends trying to make some extra money for college by working at a high-class country club. Dillon likes the way life is there to father Hector Elizondo's dismay. Involvement with a car salesman who has a knack for poker (Richard Crenna) engrosses Dillon even more, but soon he learns that all is not as squeaky clean as it appears on the surface. A good screenplay and subtle direction by Garry Marshall help out this movie immensely. All the actors work well together. Watch for a then-unknown Marisa Tomei during one of the country club sequences. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Best movie I was ever in!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Actually, one of the few.  It was a really enjoyable film, full of positive energy, and lots of great actors.  The plot is fun, and unique, I just wish I had been on screen a bit more.  This is a great movie to own. grin "}]