[{"Title":"This is intense.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"83 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I put this eighties cult classic right up there with Blazing Saddles (1974) and Dr. Strangelove (1964) as one of the best satires ever to hit the silver screen. No exaggeration this is one bizarre and one very funny flick. Seeing it again after almost twenty years, I gotta say, it lost nothing.Emilio Estevez stars as Otto Maddox, a head-strong and slightly naive ex-supermarket stock clerk and sometime punk rocker. He's kicking a can down the street when up pulls Bud, a repo man, played with a fine degeneracy by Harry Dean Stanton, who asks him if he wants to make ten bucks. (Otto's reply is memorable but not printable here.) When he learns that Bud just wants him to drive a car and not...uh, never mind, he bargains it to twenty-five bucks. When he finds out that Bud repossesses cars for the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation, he is sorely offended. But when he realizes how intense the life is (and how bleak his other employment opportunities), he becomes a repo man himself.Meanwhile there's J. Frank Parnell (Fox Harris wearing a demonic grin and weird black and empty frame glasses) driving a hot '64 Chevy Malibu. You don't want to look in the trunk, Officer, he tells a cop who pulls him over on a desert highway. By the way, the map under the opening credits shows the action of this film beginning somewhere on old Route 66 in New Mexico, suggesting alien mecca Roswell territory perhaps, but most of scenes were clearly shot in LA, and the desert scene just mentioned was also probably shot in California as evidenced by the Joshua Trees in the background.What director and scriptster Alex Cox does is combine urban ghetto realism with bizarro sci-fi shtick. He adds a fine punk soundtrack including the title song from Iggy Pop with a brief appearance by the Circle Jerks, and wow are they appropriate, but you have be a punker or a 15-year-old to really visualize their moniker. The supporting players, Sy Richardson as Lite, a black cat repo ace, and Tracey Walter as Miller, a demented street philosopher, really stand out. I also liked the black girl repo person with attitude (Vonetta McGee).The real strength of the movie, aside from probably the best performance of Estevez's career, is in the street scene hijinks, the funny and raunchy dialogue, and all those sight gags. My favorite scene has Otto coming home to find his parents smoking weed on the couch zombie-like in front of the TV listening to a Christian evangelist while he scarfs down Food out of a blue and white can from the refrigerator. I mean Food is on the label, period. The Ralphs plain wrap (remember them) are all over the sets, in the convenience store, at the supermarket, bottles of plain wrap whiskey and plain wrap Tasteetos, plain wrap beer and plain wrap cigarettes.Some other good shtick the dead rat thrown in the car with the woman that doesn't accomplish its purpose; the money in the presents that Otto throws out the window busted open by the tires of another car for us to see and drool over; the I left a book of matches line that diverts Otto's idiot friend pumping gas; the pepper spray; Miller by the ashcan fire contemplating the disappeared from the future and the lattice of coincidence that lays on top of everything (trippy, man); and the punk criminal act of Let's go get sushi and not pay. And Otto's clean pressed white dress shirt and the tie--I love the tie--as Lite tells him, Doing my job, white boy.See this for the authentic eighties street scenes and for my UCLA Bruin buddy (by way of Oxford) director Alex Cox who dreamed the whole thing up. Only an Englishman could really see America authentically.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"One of the coolest movies I've ever seen! An absurdist punk rock sci fi classic!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"58 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first watched 'Repo Man' around 1985 or 1986 and it knocked me out. I've watched it many times since and it STILL knocks me out! Alex Cox has made quite a few strange movies since this, mostly excellent (check out 'Three Businessmen' sometime), a few not so good, but this is gonna be the movie he will always be remembered for. It's a black comedy, a science fiction movie, a buddy film, a punk rock movie, it's all kinda things. There has been nothing quite like it made before or since! Emilio Estevez has made some really bad movies in the 80s and 90s but he is excellent as disenfranchised surburban punk Otto, and the legendary Harry Dean Stanton ('Cool Hand Luke', 'The Rebel Rousers', 'Two-Lane Blacktop', 'Alien', 'Paris, Texas',etc.etc.) gives one of his most memorable performances as Bud, the repo man who tries to be his mentor. The supporting cast are all first rate, especially Tracey Walter (Miller) and Sy Richardson (Lite), two actors who never became household names but who still generate knowing smiles and nods from cult movie fans everywhere at the mere mention of their names. Also keep an eye out for an almost unrecognizable Miguel Sandoval ('Get Shorty', 'Blow'). Cox would use him in most of his subsequent movies, most notably his absurdist classic 'Three Businessmen'. 'Repo Man' also has a celebrated soundtrack by Iggy Pop, Black Flag, Suicidal Tendencies and others. The Circle Jerks also perform in a memorable sequence. This movie is a cult classic which looks as good now as it did back in the 1980s. I love it. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The Chevy Malibu","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man was one of the films that came out in 1984 that, in a way, revolutionized film story telling, as we knew it. We are given a hint about what's coming right on the opening sequence when the Chevy Malibu, driven by the spooky Frank Parnell, is stopped on a highway.Alex Cox, the innovative director of Repo Man, made a film that mixes a lot of movie genres with a satisfying result. That's why when it was discovered, it became a huge cult movie. It was one of the films that had midnight screenings for its many fans that flocked to have a great time and who identified themselves with the movie.The best thing in the film is the interaction between Bud and Otto. Harry Dean Stanton has always play cool parts and this movie is no exception. Emilio Estevez gave, what might be, his best movie performance as the young punk that gets to meet a world he never knew existed. All the players gave their best to Mr. Cox and the result is a film that, in some ways, might baffle at first, but once the viewer gets into it, he will be hooked.Iggy Pop's music is an excellent partner for the action. Alex Cox is an innovative director, as he proves with Repo Man. "},{"Title":"One for the first of the crapped-on generations...","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"58 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those who were unlucky enough to reach adulthood during the 1980s or 1990s will relate most to this film. Like all the best films, it sets no specific genre for itself, instead preferring to tell a story and leaving the audience to respond in its own way. Many don't get this film as a result, and a lot of the sight gags require an understanding of 1980s commercialism. The reward for getting it, on the other hand, is one of the trippiest films ever committed to celluloid.Director Alex Cox uses his connections to, or perhaps that should be knowledge of, the American punk scene to full effect here. The soundtrack is unlike anything heard in films of the same period, with numerous standout tunes that demand just as much attention as the on screen action. With lyrical snatches like let's all leech off the state, gee, money's really great!, every moment in the film, musical or otherwise, is a commentary on the plight of Otto's generation, and generations since.Aside from the cameos from numerous musicians that you can connect to more famous figures in a Kevin Bacon sort of manner (Chuck Biscuits would later drum for Danzig), the film is very well-known for containing some figures who were either famous at the time, or would become famous in subsequent years. The obvious example is Emilio Estevez, but cast members like Harry Dean Stanton or Sy Richardson will also give off a spark of recognition. A lot of the film becomes a game of where have I seen that guy before?. Not only that, but at least half of the lines are inherently quotable.If there is one flaw in the film, I can't think of it. The rain of ice cubes is a bit poorly realised, but that just adds to the film's effect. One notable writer has been quoted as saying learn to see the worst films, sometimes they are sublime. Repo Man is sublime, but is also one of the best, for a number of reasons. Instead of using the money hose to wash away its creative problems, it revels in its inherent stupidity or weirdness. Where else can you see a woman with a robotic hand made out of tinfoil, and actors working so well around it?In all, I gave Repo Man a 10 out of 10. If you're into weirdness, this is the Holy Grail. Those who enjoyed films like This Is Spinal Tap or Rebel High, ponder no further - get this film on DVD-Video *now*. "},{"Title":"80s cult film","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot is impossible to describe but, basically, it's about a 20 something named Otto (Estevez) who works as a repo man.  That's about it...the movie chronicles all his bizarre adventures and strange people he meets.I saw this when I was in college in 1984--it totally blew me away.  I went back to see it 4 more times!  It had a huge following on college campuses back then.  Sadly, it seems to have disappeared.  That's a shame because I think this is perfect for high school, college kids and people with open minds. It is a true cult film.  There are many great lines--too many to get in one viewing--this film demands multiple viewings.  The actors deal well with the offbeat dialogue and situations--especially Estevez and Stanton.  As for what it means---who cares?  Every time I saw it I saw something different in it.A classic.  Do not miss! "},{"Title":"A punk rock, science fiction b-movie comedy of the highest order!","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  By the time I got around to seeing this movie, I was prepared for something great. One of the best movies I'd ever seen. I wasn't really disappointed.'Repo Man' is so original, so funny, so weird and so frequently brilliant that it just can't be ignored. It also has aged fairly well. It looks pretty good in 2004 for a cheap cult film of the 80s.I can't really say much about the storyline without giving it away, but what I will say is a young punk kid is taken in to the weird, wild world of repo men, who all take speed and keeping the repo man honour is more important to them than to mafia bosses.It also features a brilliant soundtrack with the likes of punk rock icons Iggy Pop, The Ramones and The Circle Jerks.A brilliant film, recommended to anyone.  "},{"Title":"Repo Man's got all night, every night!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this movie more times than I know. Fifty at least, since I was able to find a copy two years ago. And I still don't know what it all means. But I sure do love it anyways.I suppose Repo Man was one of those essentials in the catalogue of must see punk movies. I think that's where I first heard of it, as a punk science fiction movie. That explains why it's such a crazy movie.Emilio Esteves is down and out suburban punker Otto, wasting away in his little town with no way out. He just got fired from his crappy price tag job at some hoser supermarket. His girlfriend dumps him and hooks up with newly released convict, Duke, who, along with a punker named Archie make a hobby out of robbing stores. Plus, his friend Kevin is a total nerd. And his parents, perpetually brain dead from overexposure to the tv preachers, gave away the money they promised him, which would've helped him get out that dump.Bud (played by super duper Harry Dean Stanton), a Repo Man, turns Otto on to the dangerous business of reposessing cars, which then becomes Otto's new occupation and introduction to some pretty crazy sh!t. Aside from dodging bullets by angry debtors and the fierce competition among the Repo Men to obtain a high stakes Chevy Malibu, Otto is also turned on to some UFO conspiracies as weird scientists go searching for extra terrestrials. That town Otto lives in is one crazy place. There's a lot going on, but it is so wierd, that it actually turns out to be good.If you like punk culture movies, this is definitely one to try out. Plus, you get a slamming soundtrack with most of the songs performed by the Stooges and the Circle Jerks. The Jerks also appear as the lounge act in the bar, and the guy who plays Kevin, Zander Schloss, later joins the Jerks.  "},{"Title":"Best punk movie ever","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"47 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Today most part of culture is based in consume we are what we dress, what we drink, what we eat. The punk scene started more that twenty years ago because the young and bold realized this, unfurtunately, we still are what we consume. Repo-man is the best picture I´ve seen that resembles the punk sesibilities of no future and anarchy and its no wonder Alex Cox later directed Sid and Nancy. In this movie you can find that ugly stetic, nihilistic breath and the wasted youth of the young people who crashes to the capitalistic jaws of a system understood by few. This is one hell of a movie, and 18 years later after being being made, it ended being profetic. In fact,1999`s Figth Club seems to me like Repo Man updated, and the X-files and MIB are previewed here. Repo Man is a brave masterpiece on the no future  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Sci-fi Satire","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a surprise for me, I really didn't expect 'Repo Man' to hit such a chord with me, and alas it succeeded in making me a fan. I was admittedly a little put off by the film's supposed punk outset but was glad to find that it didn't take itself seriously and often had its tongue planted firmly in the cheek.What Alex Cox delivers here is a timeless classic that has seemingly influenced a lot of my favourite films to date, and of course was influenced itself by other personal favourites. So not only was it natural for me to love 'Repo Man', but it won me over on its own rights with its wonderfully satirical tone and hilarious yet interesting dystopian science fiction themes.Although incredibly annoying at first, the film's characters eventually won me over and by the end of the film I had learned to love every one of them. This was thanks to the effective and focused characterisation dealt with by Cox, allowing his characters to grow from being dislikable idiots to harmless jesters. Indeed if it wasn't for the characters, 'Repo Man' wouldn't be as funny as it is and it wouldn't even be as interesting. In key with the writing, the cast also do a great job with the handling of their characters, all turning in solid and memorable performances.If there is one complaint I have it is that the pacing sometimes goes a little out of balance and leads to the story to getting caught up in trivial scenes that either should have been cut or been made more progressive to the plot. Nevertheless, I absolutely loved this film (especially that brilliant ending!) and recommend it to fans of science fiction comedy or satires. Granted not everyone will enjoy at as much as I did, but it certainly deserves a watch. "},{"Title":"What an empty life we live!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching Repo Man, one gets a sense of just how empty our modern world is. The movie has disaffected punk Otto Maddox (Emilio Estevez) becoming a repo man, meaning that he repossesses cars of people who missed payments. Through this, he gets to know the wacky punk world even further. But there's one car that may be harder to repossess not only do various other people want this car, but there's something in the car...Repo Man may be known as a cult movie, but it deserves more recognition than that. Aside from being a window into the early-'80s punk culture, it shows the disintegration of American society. Alex Cox created a real gem here. Estevez is perfect in his role, as are Harry Dean Stanton as a detective, and Tracey Walter as the strange car's driver. "}{"Title":"here is a stab at explaining the movie","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's a raw stab at explaining it The 64 Malibu is the thing. The lovely little Chevy itself is a classic, a real gem in a sea of 80's downsized, emissions-lowered, cookie cutters, but it contains the promise of something even more 'classical' and that is TRUTH, MEANING, etc., all that is lacking in Otto's world, which is this world, our world, and a not very 'intense' world, save that it is intensely boring. What the car contains of course is Alien intelligence. Something from beyond this world and even beyond the usual concept of a heaven (the car actually zaps a Bible at the end, though it may not be the 'real' Bible it zaps, perhaps the car is merely angry at how we read it?). I think that the car is a 64 is also no coincidence. The failed promise of the 60's might still be hiding in it. From the looks of early 80's LA we get in the movie we are led to believe Cox regards that era as a wasteland.Otto, like all good punks, hates EVERYTHING, except hate, which, though he may not know it, is really not hate, but a reservation for some unspeakable divine which we come closer to at least by rejecting it's false forms. It is only when Bud teaches him the 'Repo code' and it's many corollaries (no commies, no Christians either, ordinary effing ppl, look at em. I hate them. And so on.) that he begins to realize that there is something in THIS world, beyond our superficial culture, yet hidden, inextricably within it, worth standing up for. Otto soon rejects his old friends, who were mindless haters, as it were. We see the consequences of that life when his old punked-out friend is dying and he makes the speech about him being nothing more than a suburban punk. Otto is finding a reason to live. He is slowly building a moral foundation of sorts. It is not a mature morality, both the code and Bud are no doubt full of holes, but it's a start. The kind of start a kid like Otto might really hook into. Otto has to start this process from the ground up because he certainly isn't going to accept anything on faith from his parent's generation, and perhaps he should not. He starts to dress well, not because it's 'dignified' to dress 'well', but because it makes the job of stealing er . . repoing cars from the people who can't pay for them easier. I suppose the reward for getting all of this is the Malibu - the great repo in the sky, so to speak, and the reason, higher still, for having lived the code. But what really is in the Malibu?What Miller teaches him about time machines and UFO's and 'coincidences' sounds like a simple-minded sort of new age philosophy, just like you would expect from a burned-out, homeless, ex-hippie, but it turns out Miller is a sort of prophet/savant and is actually in possession of the invisible key to the Malibu. Miller has never driven a car until now ('the more you drive the less intelligent you become') He is a driving virgin. He has saved himself for this moment when the REAL car arrives. Driving I think means both actual driving but also striving/living. Why do something so expensive, wasteful and dangerous as driving when there is really no where to go and nothing worth doing that you need to drive to? This is in the vein of the farther one travels, the less one knows.At the end Otto and Miller are chosen by the car and beam the fcuk out of here. Otto this is intense! Miller; (matter of factly) 'The life of a repo man is always intense'. Has God (the Aliens?) given up on us? Will they come back for us with the answer? Is Cox simply saying 'this place is fcuked so get out if you can. I'm not sure. I suspect Cox is skeptical about our prospects (the cold war was still going on back then, we lived with the possibility that many thousands of nukes could launch at any moment) and is looking for help 'from beyond', if there is any to be found, but I don't think he is actually the type to worship aliens. That part is a metaphor for something else - something we will have to find here. I do think he is telling us something about where to look for the actual way but in the tradition of anti-metaphysical philosophy the telling is not so explicit. It's a more zen-like no telling. Or maybe he is just mocking the above and mocking me? I'm not sure. I think it manages to be both somehow. I don't know what it says about me but the epiphany at the end seems both absurd and real to me. I laugh and I cry. Maybe Cox himself had no idea about 'saying' anything and just made what he saw in his mind's eye. I love this movie! "},{"Title":"Serious plots? Try serious punk.","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man is a good film for anyone who likes punk, drugs, stealing cars or humor. Watching this movie made me laugh and glow with happiness.As I was watching the terrible plot unfold i realized that the movie was not really about the plot to me ; No, this movie far exceeds serious focus on plots. This move instead focused on Emelio stealing cars, railing speed and drinking warm beer. The dialog is quite funny and entertaining, and the plot is unbelievably ridiculous. This soundtrack is punk. The circle jerks, Black flag...I rest my case. This movie is Punk. Emilio is punk. You and your friends should watch this movie and have a TV party, aha. But remember, real punks are way too punk for friends. I've had it. "},{"Title":"Insanity/Genius...and the sheer definition of cult movie.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't an unequivocal classic like CITIZEN KANE or THE GODFATHER, because I can perfectly understand why a lot of people just wouldn't get it. But for those of us on REPO MAN's own peculiar wavelength it IS a classic, and the fact that it is so strange and mad and silly and profound and hilarious all at the same time puts it into a category of brilliant cinema all of its own. No doubt non-believers will find this tiresome, but it is almost impossible to like this film and not quote lines of dialogue from it at every opportunity. If that wasn't enough reason for its status as THE cult movie of all time, there are punk icons to be heard AND seen (I can't believe I used to like these guys!), a startling revelation about John Wayne, the labeling on the food and drink, and the not unrelated naming of major characters after beers (Miller, Bud, Lite)! Intensity is only one of this film's many, many virtues... "},{"Title":"A modern cult classic","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man is one of the granddaddies of the modern concept of cult films, so how much you enjoy this film will depend on whether you prefer classic cult or the new interpretation of that phenomenon. It used to be that cult movie were bad movies that a small number of people liked an awful lot. They were generally not well acted or well written or well directed but there was something about them that a distinct minority of the audience would embrace and cherish. Maybe it was the basic idea of the story or a particular character or scene but there would be something that would catch the attention of a few while most viewers simply considered the film a piece of crap. That definition has changed in the last couple of decades. A cult movie is no longer a bad film that has a small but devoted audience. Cult now signifies a deliberate weirdness and a disinterest or refusal to be conventionally entertaining. No longer attempts at normal filmmaking that failed, cult movies today are never meant to or try to appeal to broad audiences. The whole goal is now to be as distinctively odd and incomprehensible as possible. While certainly not the first modern cult film, Repo Man is one of the first widely known and established some of the conventions of the modern cult genre. In a very generic sense, the movie is about the coming of age of Otto (Emilio Estevez) a young punk who tires of his life working days at a grocery store and nights slam dancing with his fellow losers. By chance, Otto falls in with Bud (Harry Dean Stanton), a repo man who brings Otto into the business and tries to teach him the repo code. While that's going on a bunch of federal agents are trying to find a 1964 Chevy Malibu with some alien corpses in the trunk and there's also another side story where three of Otto's former punk friends embark on a crime spree that turns into the worst afterschool special of all time. There's a lot of weird stuff in Repo Man. All the federal agents are blonde except for the lead agent who has a metal hand. Everything the characters eat or drink comes out of a generic package. A grimy mechanic dispenses zen wisdom and the repo men have an angry debate over whether or not John Wayne was a fag. If you take out the weirdness, this is a terrible movie. The story is haphazard and none of the actors except Harry Dean Stanton ever get much chance to emote, and he's basically stuck reciting lame theories about the way of the world to Otto. But with all the strangeness, I can definitely see the appeal. You'd certainly need to be the right age and the right attitude to be grabbed by the story eff the world outlook on the pointlessness and absurdity of life, but it also helps to be old enough to remember what the 1980s felt like to people who weren't in tune with Ronald Reagan's new America. With its blaring punk soundtrack and its wallowing in oddity, Repo Man is definitely an acquired taste. But it you can acquire it, it is pretty tasty. "},{"Title":"A movie released 20 years too early","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie on TV in 1985, I remember feeling freaked out and intimidated by its initially disjointed feel, indy-film quality scenes loosely glued together into a rather amorphous plot, the aggressive characters and Emilio Estevez's performance as a cynical vehicle repossession man. The movie left me feeling hollow and emotionally drained, until I breathed a sigh of relief when the coveted Chevy Malibu finally turned into the fantastic UFO that seemed to underpin the jerky plot.Watching it for a second time, in 2006, I realise how remarkably contemporary this movie actually is. This can only be accounted for by the fact that it embodies some of the postmodern values that are common in many of today's movies. The characters seem less volatile, Estevez's repo man is an icon of our modern times (disenchanted with his job and with values in general), and the sound-bite interplay between the characters fits into today's mixed-up, muddled-up world.This leads me to the conclusion that Repo Man isn't as much a cult movie as it was a movie ahead of its time, released 20 years too soon, embodying values that are more relevant to today's society than during it's first release. Only in the 1990's did movies depicting America's seething underbelly of racial and social tension and disaffection hit mainstream cinemas. This could be taken to indicate that Alex Cox recognised a movie-style that had yet to be exploited. It could be argued, of course, that Repo Man was the inspiration for a host of other movies to come, which created the trend we now accept as mainstream.As with Estevez's protagonist, the individuals who are suffering the repossession of their vehicles are equally cavalier and unconscienable, such as a millionnaire who's missed payments for 6 months running and an elderly African American lady who spins out a sob-story.It's only downfall, if it could be regarded as such, is the outdated special effects, making Repo Man a prime candidate for a remake with modern effects, but with the same plot, dialogue and action. However, would this go down well with the fans? That remains to be seen. "},{"Title":"A true audience divider &#x96; terrific cult satire in the eyes of some, unpalatable mess in the eyes of others.","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" How does one go about describing Repo Man? Is it a comedy? Is it a science fiction film? Is it a drama about alienated youth? Is it a surreal urban fantasy? The answer is that at various times it manages to be all of the above, plus several other things as well. Repo Man refuses to be pigeon-holed into any specific genre. Its narrative is intentionally scattershot, its characters and situation deliberately eccentric, and for many viewers this might prove too great an obstacle in the path to their enjoyment. However, certain scenes have tremendous visual impact and throughout the movie the dialogue is hilarious and cleverly philosophical.Punk youth Otto (Emilio Estevez) &#x96; whose attitude towards all authority figures is one of disrespect - is fired from a tedious supermarket job after being impudent to the boss. He plans to use some money promised him by his parents to fund a little travelling, but learns that they have given it all away to a TV evangelist. Frustrated, Otto leaves home and whilst wandering the streets is approached by a car repossession agent called Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) who tricks him into driving a repossessed car back to headquarters. Soon after, Otto is offered a job working as a repo man. Initially he doesn't warm to the idea of taking on what he perceives to be an honest, decent, law-abiding job. But he quickly comes to realise that being a repo man basically amounts to being a legally-empowered car thief. The job brings with it more excitement than his punk lifestyle &#x96; he uses drugs, he gets into car chases, gets into fights, gets to drive cool cars, and to top it all gets well paid for it. He also gets to hang out with the other repo men &#x96; bad ass dudes with fast mouths and tough reputations. Otto soon finds himself caught up in the hunt for a Chevy Malibu, so sought after that its repossession value is a staggering $20,000. Various parties are out to get the vehicle, including Otto's bunch, government agents, UFO cultists and a rival repo company fronted by the Rodriguez brothers. Turns out that the car in question has some radioactive aliens stuffed in its trunk&#x85;..The actual story of Repo Man doesn't hang together in the slightest, nor is it meant to. It starts out more-or-less coherent, but as the film goes on the plot matters (and means) less and less and less. The film evolves into an experience rather than a story &#x96; crazy little exchanges of dialogue provide a telling social commentary; outrageously over-the-top events illustrate, in dark and satirical terms, the attitudes of the 1980s youth culture; an exciting punk soundtrack accompanies the on-screen madness. Estevez gives one of his earliest and best performances as Otto, while Stanton as the more experienced repo man is just fantastic. Many viewers will find the film's conclusions too bleak, but for audiences of a certain generation it captures perfectly their frustration with the systems around them. Some viewers will be driven to the exits by the disorientating narrative, while others will simply listen to the dialogue and soundtrack with a knowing smile. Some viewers will groan about violence, foul language and anarchy &#x96; which the movie contains in abundance &#x96; while others will recognise these things as a sad but real characteristic of the times. Repo Man is a film that you'll either like or hate &#x96; a cult classic in the eyes of some, an irredeemable one-star dog in the eyes of others. "},{"Title":"You must see this prophetic objet d'art","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Does repo man hold up after twenty three years? No. It has become prophecy in celluloid. Were ours a just society, laws would require DVD players to be sold with Dr. Strangelove, Rebecca, The Wizard of Oz, Eraserhead, Blue Velvet, and, most crucially, repo man.Watch repo man until you tire of it. You won't. You'll demand more viewings. Every look begets another nuance. Young Estevez' wild laugh infects your psyche. Harry Dean Stanton's grim, Cold-War 'Repo Code' perfectly straddles sublime Cy Richardson's understated, post-funk melancholia and Tom Finnegan's surrealistic, dead-on confrontation with end-time reality.The late Fox Harris' Treatise on Radiation, Everybody could stand a hundred chest X-Rays a year - and they should have them!, was profound in '84. Today? Time proved him to be inspired.Can you refute Tracy Walter's, You'll find one in every car? I can't. His assertion, astute in '84, is, today vindicated, as our so-called 'culture' vainly tries to cover the pandemic stench of Unbridled Capitalism with paper baubles.By the by, weren't Hermanos Rodriguez harbingers of cultural infarct?Fox Harris' 'J. Frank Parnell' is loosely based on Sam Cohen, developer of the Neutron Bomb. Dr. Cohen has reportedly viewed repo man dozens of times. Sam Cohen loves it all the more each time. A smart man.Women with mechanical hands. Guys dressed like detectives, who shoot blanks, put themselves into tense situations, and don't care who threatens to shove their dog's head down the toilet. repo man has these essential societal elments, and more. repo man is a celluloid neutron bomb. it destroys societal pretensions and leaves us laughing, albeit wiser. repo man is the Lattice of Coincidence which binds doomsday to elation, specifics to vagaries, and folly to timelessness.Dr. Paul Vincent ZecchinoManasota Key, Florida10 July, 2007'no soy medico' "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic punk comedy stars Emilio Estevez (in the single best thing he ever did) as an aimless young punk who gets involved with a bunch of whackjob repo men, led by a hilarious Harry Dean Stanton. Sort of what comedy would look like in an alternative universe where punk ruled. Full of visual gags, running jokes (I like the digs at Scientology), absurd scenarios, and pop-culture junk &#150; in fact, director Cox sees the world, apparently, as a playground constructed out of the underbelly of culture punk rock, conspiracy theories, ufology, cults, car chases, gun play, and the like. One of the more life-affirming movies I know; a movie that it's pretty damn hard to dislike. Comes complete with a gimcrack push towards transcendence at the end. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The best movie - EVER!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Repo Man is - no joke- my absolute number one favorite movie of all time.  I think I've seen it between 25 and 35 times and I can recite most of the movie while I'm watching it.  Absolutely the weirdest, funniest, most punk rock movie in existence.  Every actor is great in every minor role and excellent quotable quotes abound throughout.  Plate o' shrimp.  It may take a watch or two before you get what is going on but its even enjoyable on a scene by scene basis, with tons of funny out of left field stuff, like food.  The soundtrack rages of course with Black Flag and Suicidal Tendencies on it.  What more can I say - see it or be a loser.  "},{"Title":"Getting Repo Man","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is without a doubt the movie of my adolescence. I first saw it in theaters back in Southern CA where I grew up during the second wave of the Punk era (80-85).A lot of people who have heard of Repo Man that I speak with today claim to just not get it. It's kind of hard to describe what this meant to those of us living in the Reagan Era of the 1980's. You have to remember - The Cold War wasn't over, The Berlin Wall had not fallen, and Nuclear War was still a scary reality that could have happened back at the time this movie was made.Repo Man is more than just a cult film though - it's a masterpiece that you have to give full props to Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton (who wasn't even originally slated to play Bud) for having the foresight to be in.Put it this way - if you like Punk Rock, and enjoyed all the antics that went with that life style back then (not the punk of today) then this is a must see film. It will remind you of a lot of what was both good and bad about the 80's, and forever stick in your mind as one of the better soundtracks to the sub-culture. "}{"Title":"Muddled, boring, uninteresting tale.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Emilio Estevez is a teenage punk who gets fired from his job as a supermarket shelf stacker and gets tricked into life as a car repossession man by old timer Harry Dean Stanton.What follows is a muddled, boring, uninteresting tale of all sorts of miserable characters on the trail of a 1964 Chevy Malibu - with a $20,000 bounty and a very mysterious cargo.Estevez sulks his way through the film, and is fairly effective as the young loser, while Stanton is good as his father figure and mentor.All in all not very impressive at all but nevertheless a film with a loyal following from cult British director Alex Cox. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Emilio Estevez's OTHER bad mid-80's movie (the other being MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE) has no plot that pushes things forward and barely anything interesting happening other than Estevez's I'm so cool I don't have to do anything interesting schtick. Harry Dean Stanton tries desperately to be another Cult Movie type father-figure guy, but's he's just not memorable. The movie tries to appeal to teen audiences by making some jabs at suburbia, but the effort is simply too small.But the real weaknesses are the way the Sci-Fi elements are shown and the main character. I know I'm going to seem like a square for saying this, but there simply is nothing to like about the guy. He acts like some punk, but he himself admits he's a bored suburban kid, he treats his sexual partners like trash, he doesn't do anything to help anyone else. Just a waste of life who oddly gets rewarded at the end, probably to appeal to the worthless sections of teen audiences.The Sci-Fi bits really just seem tacked on and very weak. It all boils down to a trunk and a rotten flying car! Geez, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang had better Sci-Fi. "},{"Title":"It happens sometimes. People just explode. Natural causes.","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man has become one of those films where even though it was savaged by many critics of the time (not Ebert, he loved it), was met with very poor box office as well, but now everyone seems to shout that they loved it back then, always have! It is the very definition of a cult movie, a pic that went underground and found its audience, so much so it burst back above ground and today is still being discovered by an ever intrigued movie loving audience.Repo Man was one of a kind, a film that refused to be pigeon holed, a true original. Story for what it's worth has Emilio Estevez as L.A. punk Otto Maddox who gets bluffed into a repo man job. Taken under the wing of Bud (Harry Dean Stanton), Otto gets to become a fully fledged repo man, taking on all the perks and dangers that come with the territory. But when a mysterious 1964 Chevy Malibu arrives on the patch, all bets seem to be off because everyone is either after it or being disintegrated by it!The life of a repo man is always intense.OK! Where to start? Offbeat, eccentric, punk, funky, funny, smart? Repo Man is all those things, it dares to be bold and challenging, its satirical edges slicing away at film genres and American societies. Director Alex Cox (how wonderful that such an American film is directed by a British guy) fills out this scuzzy part of L.A. with hippies, freaks, punks, aliens, scientist nutters, UFO nutters, effeminate coppers and the repo men themselves, a bunch of grizzled souls hardened by life's travails, but always with a quip, a smile and a gunshot at the ready.The dialogue fizzes with cheeky derring-do, some lines even today still quotable and used in pubs and clubs across the continents. Robby Muller's cinematography has snap crackle and pop, as does the rocking soundtrack as Cox invites the likes of Iggy Pop, The Circle Jerks, Black Flag and The Plugz into his weird and wonderful world. Performances are bang on the dollar, Stanton the class act, Estevez superb, Tracey Walter proving what his fans already knew, that he's a legendary character actor.From an opening involving a pair of smoking boots, to the glowing sci-fi nirvana finale, Repo Man kicks ass. One viewing is never enough, and for sure there are those who have seen it once and hate it to the point of refusing to ever watch it again. That's a shame, because repeat viewings are essential, because the more you watch the more Cox's deliriously cheeky movie makes sense. 9/10 "},{"Title":"So many Ideas were spawned from this movie","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man !! Well not a bad attempt at low budget sci fi. Its appeal lies within its strangeness but even more appeal will come from those who relate to the main character Otto ( Emilio Estevez ) If you can relate to him you will get more enjoyment out of the film. Otto is a typical teenage waster who doesn't like taking orders and wants to live his life by his own rules. At the same time he isn't a bad guy unlike some of his friends. Otto is the only multi dimensional character in the film, every other character is some form of stereotype. I use Multi Dimensional loosely as even the Otto character is barely touched upon and without reading between the lines can be transparent to most people. Trying to do Sci Fi on a low budget will always be difficult ( trying to do Sci Fi with a budget is hard enough ). It definitely shows in Repo Man as the FX is pretty bad, this kind of adds character to the film but at the same time make it look shoddy. Im sure I could make a better metal arm myself with stuff i can find at home and some silver paint. Maybe the point was to make it look silly if so it worked. To Sum up Repo Man is zeitgeist of the late 70's early 80's ( has more of a 70's feel to it ) One thing i did notice was how many film writers/directors have plagiarised many elements from the film and improve on them in their own way. Paul Thomas Anderson, Quentin Tarantino, Robert Rodriguez, Wachowski Brothers amongst othersFor that reason it has originality and is different to many films from that era.I'd give it a 6/10 worth a watch at least once, maybe twice if you want to examine whats on show.If your into MOVIES blah blah Hollywood give it a miss, if you like film and appreciate it then definitely give this one a go. "},{"Title":"I was looking for the joke with a microscope","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quote from the title song that is. (Hi Iggy.) This movie has cult classic written all over it.This movie and Street Trash have a lot in common. This was first and gore-less though. In both cases it worked.Repo men grab cars and try to rake in dough finding a Malibu that may or may not have aliens in it. Throw in the government (all blonde guys in suits) and a frazzled scientist (the late Fox Harris) and there's more plot here than it could almost handle.The script was great however. Classic lines all over the joint. You'll look for reasons to use these quotes I guar-un-tee you.Also keep an eye out for Cox's little in jokes. This one's chock full of 'em. The only one I noticed without help was the Plate o' Shrimp connection.Why can't they make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Gets better with each subsequent viewing","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Repo Man DEFINITELY  needs to be seen more than once to be thoroughly enjoyed, as the whole thing is too weird to be absorbed and appreciated all at once. The film is basically a comic book made as a film (and the fact that Alex Cox churned out a couple of pages to go with the original script seems to prove that intention). It is the total success of that translation that makes it so repeatedly watchable - the exaggerated characters with their little peculiarities (eg Rodriguez with the hairnet, the agent with the dodgy hand); the stylised, choppy dialogue (not unlike dialogue cut up by comic book frames), the cute generic food products and visual gags; the overall absurdity. Not to mention that I always thought the Otto and Kevin duo beared an uncanny resemblance to Bart and Milhouse.... Emilio Estevez, I think, is responsible for the most quotable f*** you I've ever heard, as well as the most angry looking (but hilarious) blink. And the quotes - nothing more needs to be said about those! The soundtrack - FANTASTIC!! All in all, the key to appreciating Repo Man (as with many other films) lies in consciously noting the deliberate departures from reality that the creators have taken. Otherwise it will all wash over you in a wave of incomprehensible nonsense.  "},{"Title":"Only an a**hole gets killed for a car.","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's one of Bud's (Harry Dean Stanton in one of his best roles) eternal truths. Along with a host of other gems he uses while training Otto (Emilio Estevez) in the code of the Repo-man. Another is; Bud You ain't no communist are you?  Otto Hell no!  Bud That's good, I don't let no communists ride in my car, no christians either. Or, Bud You gotta dress real square, like a cop, 'cause if they think your a cop they'll think your packin' something. Made in 1984 while the punk scene was dying this punk rock metaphor points out everything wrong with the straight life as well as everything right in a cult film. Otto and his friends spend their time slam dancing to hard-core music and guzzling beer or doing crime just for the hell of it. Punks were the ultimate anti-conformists in the late '70's and early 80's. They rebel against the establishment purely because it exists, looking at society and seeing nothing worthwhile. Nothing to relate to has led them to this way of life. That blandness of society is shown through the use of generic brand products everywhere in the film, a joke within the joke. I loved it when Otto opens the fridge at his stoned out (another inside joke about the failed 60's lifestyle) parents pad and starts eating a can of food. One has but to remember the line in Iggy Pop's classic opening title track, Looking for the joke with a microscope, then you'll get it.I saw Repo Man in '84 while living in San Francisco based on the bands who were chosen for the soundtrack, many of whom were playing around town at the time. That soundtrack sounds as good today as it did then, buy it if you can find it.  The B story, or was that the A story? of what was in the trunk of the '64 Malibu was again a play upon the whole government conspiracy theory thing and this way before the X-Files. I along with my fellow audience members danced out of the theater laughing our butt's off we had such a great time. Later with some new found friends setting in a local bar across the street we started speaking some of the lines over again setting off a new round of laughter as we remembered those scenes. Otto; I ain't gonna be no stinking repo-man. Marlene hands Otto some cash; To late kid, you already are. Intense, an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Repo Man is Always Intense!","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm gratified that a lot of people take this film as quite universal, a dark comedy classic of no future that holds up 20 years down the road, and probably will continue to hold up for decades as an intriguing portrait of alienation and the underbelly, scummy society formed by those who can not abide all that is wholesome, brainwashed and suburban in the USA (world) in the Modern Age. For me, I also fixate, perhaps too much, on this film as the perfect time capsule of a time and place now gone Los Angeles in the punk rock years. yes, there was a scene, and had its own specific quirks unlike the punk rock scenes in New York, London, or anywhere else. Punk rock on the freeways, in the hellish heart of suburban sprawl. A lot of exaggeration in the portrayal of the scene, but through such hyperbole, the film probably cuts to the heart of what was happening in more ways than one. I have to admit though, they were about 14 years ahead of the curve with the Circle Jerks going lounge. Ask Brian Setzer about that one.But a lot of what this movie shows is vanishing, or has already vanished. Gentrification is creeping into the post-apocalyptic neighborhoods where the Repo Men plied their trade and new condo or loft buildings are being constructed just near Skid Row. L. Ron Hubbard and Dr. Gene Scott (referenced in the film) are both dead. Ralphs doesn't sell those plain-wrap generic groceries anymore; they're all about artisanal gorgonzola cheeses and fair-trade estate-grown coffee now. They're even building a new Ralphs downtown for the first time since the 1950's. The forlorn bus that Otto rode is giving way to new subway and light rail lines. No new freeways will be ever be constructed in Los Angeles, since the land is just too expensive.And no more plate o' shrimp since shrimp have gone extinct. Just kidding on that one, but it's probably coming. You can still get Orange Bang though.Anyways, I saw this film the very year it was first released and loved its quirky, itchy charms them. I've seen it several time since then (probably about 10 times). I just saw the new DVD the other day, and it still has the power to amuse, shock and empower. And the commentary track is quite entertaining -- they even got Mike Nesmith to participate in it, bless him. I will be watching this film many more times. You just gotta admire a film that has the guts to insist that John Wayne was gay.If you have never seen this film, why not? Go now! See it before they repo your car! Highest possible recommendation. "},{"Title":"Loved every minute of it!","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" REPO MAN is a well made Sci-Fi/Comedy/Action film that is surrounded in a world, of Aliens, drugs, robberies, Repo men, shrimp & no name food products. The story has a bug eyed, clench fisted EMILIO ESTEVEZ as a punk named OTTO, who is recruited by HARRY DEAN STANTON's character to re-posses cars, then one day Otto stumbles upon a strange 1960's Malibu, driven by a scientist who has dead aliens in the car trunk that even though dead, are still quiet dangerous & one sought by the FBI & a variety of other folk, most of whom do not play abide by the law! REPO MAN was a delight to view, it's very funny & always entertaining, the actors work well together & Director ALEX COX is great at directing this, this film had just a few slow spots, but they were easily overcome by the films, weirder than not charms & funny bits. Highly recommended & always fun to watch! **** stars "},{"Title":"Simply amazing, hilarious cult film.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the film that basically defined cult film for the 80s, hitting almost every important pop-cultural touchstone that would inform alternative culture for the next 10-15 years (TV evangelists, space aliens, punk rock, drug-addled gangsters, etc). All that's missing is an appearance by Elvis Presley. Its style and mannerisms have been aped so frequently (and thoroughly) in everything from the sublime (the Simpsons) to the idiotic (3rd Rock From The Sun, etc, etc, etc.) that it's hard to remember sometimes just how completely out of left field this was when it first appeared. In a way, it reminds me of how Saturday Night Live suddenly defined a whole new kind of comedy when it first appeared in 1975.The good news is that the movie still looks as fresh and unique today as it did when it came out, and it will still make you laugh out loud. Seeing the movie complete and uncut for the first time in 10 or 12 years, I then turned around and watched almost the entire DVD commentary track immediately afterwards. As always, Repo Man rewards repeated viewings with layer upon layer of bizarre jokes and wonderful cinematography. The crowning glories of the movie are the almost universally excellent performances by the actors, who go beyond deadpan to deliver deadly earnest portrayals of their various twisted characters.One of the few movies that truly deserves the overused adjectives original and seminal, Repo Man is one of the most influential and enjoyable movies ever made. "}{"Title":"An Overlooked Low Budget Masterpiece","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had never seen Repo Man until earlier today and I can honestly say that I am shocked at the low 6.7 rating. I believe that this movie deserves a much higher rating for accomplishing what it did on a low budget. This film inspires me because it is simple but the storyline carries it and makes it a classic. A new favorite of mine.Emilio Estevez is the perfect person for the role. He did such a great job as the misunderstood punk kid turned repo man. All the other performances were great as well, especially Harry Dean Stanton, who, my opinion, is a horribly overlooked actor. As I said earlier, the story is awesome. The dialog was also great and there were a lot of hilarious and quotable lines. You gotta see Repo Man! Check this one out if you have a brain. Nothing more to say! "},{"Title":"Punk is a strange genre.","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in 1984, Repo Man is at the confluence of punk rock and generic brands. Starring Emilio Estevez as Otto, Repo Man is the hip story of disaffected youth. In the early 80s, men were still wearing wide lapels, paisley ties, and coiffed hair, and our hero in Repo Man has a buzz cut and a pierced ear sporting a cross. And when he drinks beer, it comes in a white can that says BEER, and the can has a huge UPC on the side.In addition to Mr. Estevez, we have the inimitable Harry Dean Stanton and Sy Richardson as Otto's mentors in the car repo business. Otto's fellow repo men are named Bud, Miller, Lite, and Oly. If you can see Repo Man on the big screen, I recommend it because the signs in the background are part of telling the story of the punk esthetics, with Mr. Stanton's voice over and Mr. Richardson's smooth lyricism. Read all the signs.Among the strange things about the punk movement is how modern it still is. Compare the costumes here with, say, Earth Girls Are Easy, a film released four years later. The costumes in EGAE are hopelessly dated, but you'd be hard pressed to put a year on Repo Man based on how people dressed.And unlike EGAE, Repo Man still holds up. It's a funny movie still. "},{"Title":"I'd rather die standing, than live kneeling.","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The life of a repo man is always intense, says Miller to Otto as they zip across the L.A skyline.Repo Man is a fantastic venture into a world of wackiness well crafted by writer-director Alex Cox. There are funny one-liners, bizarre concepts, and quirky characters melded with solid acting (especially from Harry Dean Stanton and Tracey Walters), raw punk music, and incredible atmosphere. If there were any film to define a 'cult classic' it would be between this, Brazil, and Rocky Horror. From the familiar generic food labels to the lobotomized driver of the Chevy Malibu, we have a memorable film that subtly questions the choices we make and boldly answers the coincidental moments that happen in life.The special effects may not work for everyone, but it all still holds up even after almost 30 years. This is a fun film. So sit back and enjoy it for what it is an absurd and eccentric ride.Repo Man manages to pack in references of religion, extra-terrestrial existence and the question of our own existence all at the same time. The repo men is a touch job that calls for bold action, and Otto tries to learn the way. As Bud says in the film, I'd rather die standing than live kneeling. Highly recommended. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Absurdly hilarious!","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's always interesting to revisit an old cult classic years after it has been released. I didn't know much about Repo Man going into it. All I knew was that it had a small cult following behind it, so there must be something great about it. And there certainly was. Repo Man is a quirky science fiction comedy film about a young punk rocker named Otto who finds himself employed as a repo man after helping to steal a car. Otto delves into all sorts of misadventures with his offbeat gang of repo men, namely one involving a Chevy Malibu that contains some sort of extra terrestrial being in the trunk. The film is strange, wacky, silly, and an absolute riot.Repo Man is a film that plays up the absurdity of its plot at just the right level. It's incredibly bizarre purposefully quirky, but just enough to where we can almost believe the story being told here. It's wacky enough to be hysterical, but not to the extent where it doesn't deliver an incredibly entertaining story. Repo Man is a blast from beginning to end, never slowing down and never letting up on the antics. It doesn't waste time being sincere. Instead, it weaves fleshed out characters and a fulfilling story into the comedy aspect of it. It's a film where the story carries the jokes instead of the other way around. This, of course, is what makes any comedy great.The ironic thing about a film like Repo Man is that if you really dissected it and picked it apart I'm sure you couldn't call it a great film. But somehow it makes all of its absurdity, cheesiness, and cheapness work. It's a silly movie that you can't call a masterpiece by any means, but something about the way it flows and the way it feels just works so well and makes it such a blast to watch. It goes to show that you don't need a lot of intricacies, Hollywood star power, or flashiness of any kind. Instead, you just need a good idea and a cast and crew who want to make a fun film. When you have these things the result is Repo Man, a cheeky, silly, absurd film that shouldn't be as great as it is, but I loved it all the same. "},{"Title":"I have seen this so many times and it still gets me laughing","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Otto (Emilio Estevez) is a suburban punk whose sucky life gets even suckier when he gets kicked out of his job, finds out is parents have given all his college fund away to a TV evangelist and his girlfriend screws his best friend, all in one night. Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) asks him for favour, to drive his wife's car out of the neighbourhood. Back at the repo company car lot Otto discovers he's been tricked by Bud the repo man into helping him take someone's car. They offer him a job and after one more night back with his old sucky life Otto takes the job.Bud takes great pleasure in teaching young Otto about being a repo man and teaches him what he calls the repo man code. After snorting speed with Bud then racing the rival repo men the Rodriguez Brothers in the LA river Otto really thinks being a repo man is just so intense Bud replies The life of a repo man is always intense. Later when Otto is riding with Lite (Sy Richardson) it's pretty clear Bud's rules don't mean anything to LiteThe film feels like a series of sketches of Otto out with Bud or Lite or on his own, repossessing cars from people who have not been keeping up payments on them. There's not much in the way of plot except in the form of a crazy scientist J. Frank Parnell (Fox Harris ) driving across America to California with something deadly and radioactive the trunk of his car a '64 Chevy Malibu who is being followed a squad of blond-haired agents led by the one-armed Agent Rogersz (Susan Barnes). Dr Parnell had been stopped by a motorcycle highway patrol cop who was warned not to look in the trunk and he looked in trunk and vanished with flash of light and a scream, leaving just a pair of smoking boots behind. Rogersz explains to the sheriff, It happens sometimes, people just explode. Natural causes.Otto comes across this plot line when he sees a young woman Leila (Olivia Barash) running down the street, so he hits on her and offers her a lift. She is hiding from the blonde-haired agents and tells Otto she is part of group who are trying tell the world the truth about aliens and they have a scientist (Parnell) who has smuggled the bodies of dead aliens out of a secret research base in New Mexico. She shows Otto picture of them but they look stupid and not very convincing (apparently they are water-filled condoms wearing grass-skirts). They get to headquarters of her group, the United Fruitcake Outlet. As Leila is about to leave Otto acts like a dick which causes Leila to change her mind and they get back in the car and have sex.Back at the repo company they get word in about a bounty of $20,000 on a '64 Chevy Malibu, a lot of money for such an old piece of junk. Soon all the repo men in LA are on the look out for the car.Running through the film on a crime spree are Otto's former pals Duke (Dick Rude) and Archie (Miguel Sandoval) and his ex-girlfriend Debbi (Jennifer Balgobin). Everywhere that Bud and Otto go to buy beer is being robbed or has just been robbed by them. Duke's rallying cry is let's do some crimes. and Archie keeps singing the tune of Ride of the Valkyries as they run from one crime to the nextOtto seems to keep finding himself in weird conversations with various kooks. Miller (Tracey Walter) works at the repo company where his only job seems to be tending a barrel of fire. As Otto burns rubbish from one of cars he lifted, Miller tell him his theory of UFOs, alien abductions, time machines and plates of shrimp. That conversation is weird enough but later Otto finds himself in the passenger seat of the Chevy Malibu while Dr Parnell raves about the lies told about the dangers of radiation and how liberating lobotomies are.This film is just so full of great moments and funny characters and quotable lines. There a few little sly bits of cultural commentary woven into the film. Otto's parents are clearly a pair hippie stoners yet they're watching a right-wing televangelist and giving him all their money. Punks gets it too from the sheer idiocy of Duke and his crime gang and especially Duke's last words. This film really seems to divide opinion and some just don't get it. I think I'm supposed to say something broadly insulting, a sort of put down of those don't think Repo Man is hilarious but I don't think I need to since not being able to enjoy the humour in this film is a pretty harsh punishment in itself and there is no reason to mock the afflicted.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fist of it's joke that this film has such a low average...yet strangely understandable. If somebody you meet like this film as much as you do you're probably going to get on.It's cool, kinda makes you tremor how cool it is - in that clever, offbeat, deadpan funny, satirical, great soundtrack, location, fashion observant, paced kinda way - it's not even trying to impress you, but it's incontestable. Take it or leave it. The characters are fantastic. It's cool and meandering non-sequiturs have been mined in some part by Tarantino, and it's offbeat style and characters blown up and magnified by the likes Wes Anderson. The lines...ah the lines; rival The Big Lebowski or Napoleon Dynamite easily (in fact all those funny offbeat films that reference the early 80's kinda are trying to get a bit of this, it's what Joy Division is to the post-punk revival)The story has an offbeat charm that marry's the live of punk turned repo man in a dustbowl boarder town, with magic realist sci/fi conspiratorial nonsense. It's tone, vibe and sensibility is groundbreaking, in terms of offbeat indie comedy. Okay the Estevez character could be a bit more chatty or developed - even though he is a casted out punk interloper, but that's a minor criticism. "},{"Title":"Quirky, yet not over the top","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the understated quirkiness of the acting in Repo Man. It's subtle, droll acting that seems real, especially against the fanciful, tongue in cheek plot. Harry Dean is spot-on as the old Repo Man, and this is one of Emilio Estevez's best roles. A real gem, and one of the coolest L.A. films ever. Like the remake of Breathless, it shows you a Los Angeles not known to tourists, a lived-in Los Angeles that grounds the film in a naturalistic setting, not just a location. THe running jokes are are a pleasure, and all the characters are enjoyable, even lovable. A true cult film right out of the box, it's hard to believe that it's more than 25 years old! "},{"Title":"Let's do some crimes, we'll get sushi and not pay","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man's not the best film of all time, but Christine was on cable TV last night and Repo Man was the best segue I had in my collection.The very strong opening with a soundtrack worthy of Decline Of The West grabs your attention right away. It captures the LA punk scene of the 80s perfectly. The new LA has virtually no Anglos. I liked the product placement of Little Tree deodorizers while all other products shown are generic. I also liked the pot smoking parents who watched televangelist Reverend Larry. They donated $1000 to the kook for the purpose of sending Bibles to El Salvador, while neglecting the needs of his son. Somewhat like a lowbrow version of Mrs Jellyby in Dickens' Bleak House.It's all the little things coming at you all the time that make this a great movie. You need to be listening to all the background distractions because not one frame of film is wasted.Think Buckaroo Banzai meets The Filth And The Fury. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to critique a movie that doesn't take itself very seriously. On one hand, it's absurd and squanders an attempt at suspense with its silliness, but on the other hand it's got a fantastic screenplay with some unforgettable one-liners.A cult classic with plenty of dark humor that couldn't help but remind me of Heathers, and some cheesiness that reminds you it's from the '80s. Clichés are intentional and part of the fun, and the soundtrack fits right at home. It begs to laugh with you and will get your attention like a class clown.A great party movie, it's fun with lots of creativity and a hint of intelligence. "},{"Title":"Rather crude, but also immensely creative and one-of-a-kind!","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is NOT a film that the average film viewer will love. Many will be alienated because of the film's strong language and rather amoral characters. Many will be alienated because the film is so strange and,....well, strange! But, if you have a high tolerance for these factors, then you'll no doubt have a great time watching this cult classic. Just be prepared--this is PROBABLY NOT a film for grandma and the kiddies! In addition to very harsh language, there is drug use, sex (though you don't see anything) and violence galore.The film almost defies description, though I'll try. Emelio Estevez stars as a rather low-key guy who falls into the job of repossessing cars. And, once he takes the job, he finds that the subculture is bizarre. In fact, the people he works for are the most motley crew of freaks you could imagine. And, into the midst of this group of freaks comes a plot about stolen alien corpses and a car trunk that vaporizes anyone who opens it!! Heck, I won't even bother continuing...suffice to say it's just weird.Overall, while the acting and script occasionally fall flat, the film is funny, twisted and never fails to surprise--particularly the hallucinogenic ending! In addition, the film has a great sound track--one of the best I've heard. It's full of punk music AND retro 50s rifts that I particularly loved. Who would have thought I would have liked music from the likes of Iggy Pop and The Plugz?! Plus, if you really like the tunes, you can buy the special edition which comes with the movie on DVD and a music CD as well.By the way, as you are watching here are a couple interesting things to note. The food in the movie is all in generic-style containers and say 'food', 'beer' and the like. Also, note when the one punk is dying--listen to his death speech--it's a classic! "}{"Title":"A great trip back","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I originally saw this movie back in the summer of 1985 on a late-show program on one of my local TV stations in Louisville, KY. It was 100 in the morning and back in those days, local TV wasn't broadcast 24 hours a day like now and we didn't have cable (cable was for the big boys in the 1980's) so the choices for programming were limited. I had never even heard of Repo Man and found myself loving this strange and interesting movie from the outset. When it was over I fell asleep and 24 years later, I'm a grown man with a receding hairline, a wife, 4 kids and a mortgage. I'm flipping through my vast array of channel choices thanks to my digital cable service (man, how times have changed) and stop on a film with a familiar name. Hey, I remember this movie I said. I proceeded to tell my wife of my late night viewing of this movie back in the day and proceeded to watch this movie again.Pure gold is all I can say. Why don't they make movies like this anymore? Everything nowadays is so serious all of the time and no one seems to have fun anymore. Repo Man is great from beginning to end. It has just the right mixture of comedy, seriousness, and all-out weirdness. I miss movies like this. You know, those illogical gems that your not supposed to think about. Where you grab a beer or a mixed drink and suspend disbelief and just accept what your seeing on the screen with complete disregard for logic. In short, just relax and have fun.I'm not going to go into detail about the films plot as there are about a dozen or more thorough plot dissections on here already. I will, instead, encourage anyone who wants to spend an hour and a half watching a great 1980's movie, then they could do a lot worse than Repo Man. If you haven't seen it, then watch it. If you've already seen it, then watch it again. "},{"Title":"going to end up being one of my favorites","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man 9-17-08I knew after viewing about fifteen minutes of this amazing film that it was probably going to end up being one of my favorites. Sure enough by the time I saw the credits role (from top to bottom no less) I knew this was going to join my elite group of films I love to death. You used to be able to literally love a film to death back when the medium was analog...repeat viewings were killer. But I digress..Repo man has a specific peculiarity that seems to permeate every aspect of the film. Everything about it seems just slightly off and as the film progresses it slips further and further into lunacy...in the best way possible. Over all the piece feels rather anti establishment but it does so with out seeming overly didactic. Instead it seems to poke fun at the establishment and the misfits that cant or wont fit into it. This is a comedy of the highest order...one that is funny with out trying to be. The visual approach is rather plain...I mean this is the best way possible as the film is so odd it would probably be distracting to have a wacky visual style. Both Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton give wonderful performances. Though I would remiss to not mention Tracey Walter who is arguably the funniest thing in the film. "},{"Title":"A Repo Man is always intense...","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man is a cult classic from the British cult director Alex Cox, its one of strangest and unrated movie of the 80's. The film tells the story of Otto(Emilio Estevez)a punk that becomes a Repo Man, a car repossessor. Otto and is partner, and boss Bud(Harry Dean Stanton) have a '64 Malibu that have a reward of $20,000..In the end of the movie, the last 5 minutes are memorable, Miller the repo-mechanic,crazy, kind of human\alien guy, flies over the town in a Malibu from outer space. Repo Man its a rare sci-fi cult film, highly recommend for all fans of unrated movies..If you like Repo Man i recommendLiquid Sky(another bizarre movie) and UFOria(weird) "},{"Title":"the damnedest cult-movie; uneven but rocking with attitude, humor and individuality","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alex Cox probably knew what he was doing with Repo Man, but it was probably something he concocted while in the basement of a young punk rocker with a lot of dirty second-rate comic books and a lot of booze. How it comes out on the screen makes it a kind of bizarre outcast in the realm of science-fiction comedies, because it's not entirely a comedy (there's some moments that feel like they SHOULD be more dramatic, like the dynamic between Harry Dean Stanton and Emilio Estevez for the most part, or the scenes with secret-service-type alien chasers). In fact science fiction seems to be looming over the heads of everyone like it's some sort of half-goofy half-conspiratorial quagmire, all leading up to a Chevy Malibu that has a certain 'quality' about it. Much of the story's tangents don't even seem to make too much sense, and the structure feels like it's been put together in cheap (hence the comic-books). But Cox is always working with a mind-set for what's unexpected with absurdities and, oddly enough for such a punk-rock movie, quirkiness.Estevez plays Otto, a perennial punk-rocker who has a 'f*** you' attitude to practically all authority figures, which keeps him usually unemployed. Enter in Stanton with his job as a repo-man, with cars getting taken away by dildoes who don't follow the rules, and so he joins up as he's got no prospects at all. As he learns how to go about getting car after car, a suspicious wormy guy in glasses is driving around a peculiar car that has a trunk that's similar to something out of the Ark of the Covenant, only more alien-like. So then, as Cox's rude and crude attitude goes, we get the secret-service guys, the bizarre punks who are all about causing disorganized chaos and robberies, ill-tempered Hispanics, a far-out guy at the repo place named Miller, and meanwhile there's always wackiness around the corner. The characters are more or less the main thing Cox works with here, as almost everyone here is an eccentric, or an oddball, or a total off-his-rocker loon (or just, you know, with their 'secrets'). And Otto himself is a prototype of the typical 80s kid, with no respect but not necessarily stupid either.And around these characters a lot of crazy things go on, or lines of dialog, and they either work or they don't. The only problem is that Cox isn't always focused with everything from scene to scene, and there's a mid-section that just comes off even too weird for me. But I didn't mind this for the most part; there's almost a sense in the narrative that it's supposed to be sloppy and mismanaged, and through this there's more inventive qualities than one might find in a more prestigious flick with more money. Add on to this one of the great 80s soundtracks, and an ending that gives a big laugh with a big raised-eyebrow, Repo Man is a shaggy dog story, a rebellious-youth pic, and an urban take on the old tale of aliens coming to Earth (for what reason I still can't tell). A minor work of ingenuity that is understandably with its cult audience. "},{"Title":"Saw it finally","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only thing I remember someone telling me about this movie was of all the generic beer everywhere. That was pretty noticeable. This movie is just out to have fun, and it accomplished its mission. There was quite a few entertaining scenes. And some excellent one-liners - top of the barrel on those really. Emilio Estevez is on top of his work in this one in the mid-eighties from when he was probably most popular and definitely in more flicks. The story is pretty stupid - but all the antics are pretty fun, save for one terribly too violent scene which had no place in the movie. Otherwise this had some great lines worth watching just for that. Long-live the eighties. "},{"Title":"You have interesting friends Otto.  Thanks, I made them myself.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has to be a shining jewel in Alex Cox's canon. The movie itself is relatively simple and the plot is at times very murky, but it delivers big on laughs and is high on the WTFWT (what the f*** was that) scale. Emilio Estevez plays Otto, a punk who has no job, future, and whose girlfriend left him for his best friend. He meets up with Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) who is a repo man. Bud gets Otto into the world of repossession and gives him advice along the way. During this tutelage, an order goes out for a mysterious 64 Chevy Malibu that everyone (the feds, other repo men, and religious fruitcakes) alike is trying to track down. The movie plays on quite a few tongue-in-cheek references to pop culture and modern society while delivering jokes a plenty.I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys the bizarre and really doesn't mind watching a film that has plot points that seem to kind of meander anywhere. For punk fans, look for cameos from the Circle Jerks and the Untouchables. Fans of Alex Cox films also should look out for staple actors Dick Rude, Sy Richardson and Zander Schloss. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a wonderful sound track","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have watched this movie several times, Both the content and the music keep bringing me back. I would also highly recommend the DVD since it has an audio sound track that has some of the major players discussing the film they made as it plays. It has some interesting tidbits and behind the scenes information.The next line is a possible spoiler for anyone that has not seen the movie yet.I wonder if anyone else has seen a connection between this movie and Young Guns II? This is where I see a connection1. At the end of Repo Man, Tracy and Emilio fly off into the past in the car time machine.2. In Young Guns, which could be the past time that the time machine took them to, Tracy and Emilio are both in it like they were old buddies whose past we never learn much about.3. Sooo could this be a deliberate connection or just coincidental? "},{"Title":"IF U LIKE CULT U WILL LOVE REPO MAN","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen alot of movies in my day but Repo Man is the strangest. It has a mix of about every kind of genre there is, the problem is that it really cant choice what it wants to be. But the movie itself is sheer great. Emilio Estevez stars as Otto Maddox, a deasperate young man with a attitude worse than his problem. Otto is fired from his position at a market. Finding that he has no place at home he takes off into the world. He is recruited by a repo man to help him and his co-workers. Otto is a natural, taking cars with ease. Mehinwhile a 64 chevy malibu is being tracked by goverment forces because of cosmic forces that are in the trunk. When otto and the rest of the repo men find out there is a $20,000 reward for it, they embark on a hunt for the classic car. I wont give away anymore about it. I thought the acting overall was ok, however Emilio surprised me with his incredibly convincing punk persona. But the real credit goes twords Tracey Walter who stars as Miller, the somwhat repo man. Miller is everything you would expect from a clasic bum, except his veiws on life are nothingless of extrodanary. Repo Man is a great 80's film, if you havent seen it then go out and get it, you might be plesently surprised. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not very long ago i found about 10 minutes of Repo Man on an old video it looked really cool so i went out and rented it soon after and i am glad i did. Repo Man is a great movie from beginning to end packed with great characters wonderful music and the best story.Its all about a American Punk who gets taught how to steal cars for a repossessing business also there is some weird scientist driving around with aliens in his car drunk. Repo man is definitely worth a watch. 18 for some violence drug use and plenty of F words. "},{"Title":"The perfect '80s movie","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The '80s were the years I grew up in, and I hate them.  One of the exceptions- Repo Man.  I'm amazed that it remains as obscure as it does, as it has an evil script with its p**s-take Asimov references and beer-brand-name Repo-men, a wide variety of visual gags and a kick-arse soundtrack.  I have a hunch that most of its American viewers are unaware that it was written and directed by a Britisher who is obsessed with 'The American Movie' (and thrilled us as the presenter of 'Moviedrome' for many years).  Alex Cox manages to make this an affectionate pastiche of the b-movie genre from a foreigner's perpective, and it is as sharp and  intentionally over-the-top, even '***ing intense' as the amphetamine-addled Harry Dean Stanton (in possible his greatest performance!) himself. "}{"Title":"quirky and entertaining","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much of REPO MAN seems improvised, but all in all, this is a good, quirky and entertaining flick. Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton are particularly good as a pair of repo men (car repossesors), though my favorite character is the scene stealing, completely underrated Tracey Walter, playing a kind of street corner philosopher role. It's also a blast seeing remnants of the 1980s California hardcore punk scene, including various musicians in acting roles, as well as seeing some of the less glamorous parts of L.A. captured on film.  "},{"Title":"The best movie of the 80s","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is really weird! The first time I saw it I almost died laughing. Harry Dean Stanton is the best as the gruff repoman Bud. The best part is near the end when Otto and the scientist are in the car together-Ever been to Utah? The two hemispheres are fundamentally at odds. And I like the part at Otto's parents house, We're sending Bibles to El Salvador. Ha! "},{"Title":"Flubber-butter","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, when i saw this piece of art fantastic, i was knappy for days.  To say the very least, Harry D. is a man among men.  He obviously know how to trip it up and slam it down without losing a single flick.  Estevez gettin' cranky down in the hole as well.  Rad to the highest.  A must see. "},{"Title":"Repo man is always intense","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like an original story and Repo Man definitely delivers a unique experience with intelligent acting by Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton.The title of the movie says it all - don't make you loan repayments and the Repo man will reprocess your car, which is a crazy world Otto Maddox has stepped into by accident.Still to this day after seeing the movie about 30 times I do question the ending, but if a particular car that everyone is interested in has dead aliens in the trunk than we are in for a weird ending. During the film you notice the two different lifestyles Otto has encountered being the Punk scene and the life of a Repo Man. The transition from youth to adult.The director Alex Cox probably thought this movie needed an out of the ordinary story and he definitely gave us that; who would of thought a particular car that was hijacked from a government site contained top secret stuff - aliens!!! Emilio Estevez was the stand out in this movie which was so 1984. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Made-For-TV version","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I own this movie and love it. But I was disappointed when I watched the VHS tape I received for Christmas. I kept looking for the scene where the mad scientist in the Malibu pulls up to the gas station where Otto's nerdy friend is working. It turns out that the best part of that scene is only available in the Made-For-TV version.Frank(Malibu driver)asks the kid Do you have any machines? The best food comes from machines, Doritos, Fritos, Oreos, Tostitos and some times they have Lorna Dune! I know it is inane but I thought it was a key to the real character and a true trait of the super tunnel vision egghead junk food eating class of people.. It's the only product placement in the movie since all the other products are labeled in plain black and white by their generic names.I also like the PG-13 version because it has them saying Flip for every every F-word which really adds some additional surreal stupidity to this movie with a comic flare that the original sometimes lacks. Don't get me wrong, I love this movie, I just think the Made-For-TV version is the best! "},{"Title":"Best Quote","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie many times over the years and it is still excellent piece of movie work.Acting, Script, Music, Cameras, Casting sublime. I am only writing this comment to disagree with the Best Quote reference on IMDb.It must be Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) talking to Otto (Emilio Estevez) (1984) I don't want no Commies in my car.... No Christians either.The script should have got the Oscar -)To a budding budget film maker a must see. I have studied at Degree level Sound and Image Design and am trying to find time in my life to write and produce a movie. (3 Years and 25% complete. Motivation, Money and Momentum -) Repo Man is so good that I was watching it, paused it, googled it for the soundtrack details, (as I am a punk at heart), and thought that the movie loving public MUST see this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the all time best","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Captures the feeling of time from a long ago time when it was risky/dangerous to be a punk. There is some great footage of people moshing and it stands up over time as a movie that has action, adventure, comedy, science fiction, and occult themes, and conspiracies. There are so many great moments in this movie, it is one of my all time favorites, plus it has one of the best movie soundtracks of all time including an appearance by the Circle Jerks doing an acoustic version of when the shi hits the fan. Emilio Estevez as Otto is one of his best roles of all time. Harry Dean Stanton as Bud is a masterpiece of character acting. Don't miss it - you wont forget it. "},{"Title":"One of the most finely realized and intelligent film satires ever made","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What better way to celebrate writing my hundredth review than commenting on an old favorite. Simply put, Repo Man is one of the greatest cult classics ever made. Funny, bizarre, and nihilistic - several things that make a great cult film. Don't let the name of Emilo Estevez put you off. This is one of the most finely realized and intelligent film satires ever made, right up there with both Duck Soup and Dr. Strangelove. Yet twenty years after it was released, it is still overlooked and neglected except to a very loyal following. The IMDb rating is currently 6.7, which is just depressing. Usually I don't get upset about things like that, but it proves that this is both underrated and overlooked.Its hard to pin down exactly what it is that makes the film work. Not since the heyday of the Marx Brothers has there been such clever absurdest and surreal humor in a film. This sense of humor won't appeal to everyone but fans of it are highly advised to seek this out. It does it easily fifteen times better than Napoleon Dynamite. The surrealist angle and minor details are what endure this on repeated viewings. This is one of those rare films in which you notice something new every time. Plus, few films managed to so accurately depict the hardcore punk generation and the appeal of this music to bored suburban kids.The film-making is what really makes it a classic. Sure, clever concepts are all well and good, but often ideas are better than execution. That is certainly not the case here. For once in his career, Alex Cox made consistently hilarious dialog to match his quirky characters and his direction is very fine also, keeping this at a breakneck pace. The acting is great also. As Otto, Emilio Estevez turns in probably his only good performance, far better than The Breakfast Club. However, the heart of the film lies in Harry Dean Stanton as repo man Bud. Hes a multi-dimensional and sympathetic character, much more than initially expected. Stanton is absolutely perfect. So what are you waiting for? This is one of my top ten films and one of the greatest cult classics ever. (10/10) "},{"Title":"A brilliant and perverted comedy","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo man has the funniest dialog of any movie I can think of - except for Pulp Fiction. I am always amazed by people who don't get it as pertains to Repo Man. The movie is full of irony, layered sometimes two or three layers deep. Like when the hero eats at his parents', out of a can labeled food. The careful watcher may notice that all cans, bottles, etc are labeled, food, water, beer, and so on throughout the movie. His parents are smoking a joint as they watch a TV preacher, and are conversing with him at the same time. Simultaneously, the preacher is saying, some say I want your money, well that's right, so take your money and send it to me... At this point his father reveals that he has sent his son's college money to the same preacher, and he is on the Eternal Roll of Honor, or something like that. You don't catch it all until the third or fourth time thru. This is why this is a cult movie - because many do get it. But many just end up scratching their heads. Too bad for them. "},{"Title":"a chicken hangin out on a hook","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm listenin to iggy scream as i write this.... just finished watchin this movie for like the zillionth time... it's still awesome, not a dull or boring minute in it... great visuals, awesome acting (Emilio, this was yer finest moment, bro), amazingly wacky script/story all done with aplomb thanks to the talents of senor alex cox...this film is now over 20 years old and still seems as weird and as relevant and as weirdly relevant now as it did then. if anything the times call for more alienation and this movie is downright spooky under the blacklight scrutiny of modern times ya know what i'm sayinone of my favorite movies D it can't be turned off once it's begun "}{"Title":"A VERY odd couple","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those cult movies that others aspire to make but never manage to duplicate. The odd couple-(ing) of Harry Dean Stanton and Emilio Estevez forms one of the best partnerships to hit the screen. Almost a disfunctional father-son relationship which gets better with each viewing!It has an excellent and moody soundtrack which mirrors Paris, Texas, another whimsical Stanton vehicle. It does, however, contain more bizarre characters and situations than Paris, and therein lies its charm and staying-power. Outside The X-Files, where else will you find such a collection of conspiracy themes complete with religious wackos and deviate personalities? On top of everything else, there is the constant theme of the repo men operating on an almost surreal level of intensity. One perceives that, perhaps,(outside of his direction)  this is Alex Cox's major contribution to the script almost a docudrama feel to the lives and times of the repo dudes.Enjoy it as a weird experience, but also enjoy it as a piece of Absurdist Theatre worthy of Ionesco or Beckett. Yes, I think it is THAT good. Go learn how to repossess a car and thwart the powers-that-be at the same time! Be an outlaw in the badlands of consumer debt. Live on the edge.    "},{"Title":"Easy Rider for the punk rock generation.","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Repo Man is the quintessential 1980s cult movie.This movie is really a series of vignettes, loosely connected to a search for a renegade government nuclear scientist and his 1967 Chevy Malibu. The scientist has stolen the bodies of dead aliens from a government research facility, and hidden them in the trunk of the car.  The Malibu thus has supernatural (albeit lethal) powers, and is sought by many parties.Emilio Estevez plays an aimless punk rock kid, forced to take a lousy job as a repo man when his parents give their life savings to a new-age televangelist.  This film satirizes the bland conformity that dominated the 1980s, although it places a variety of colorful underground characters in contrast to the dull and souless commercial landscape.As Harry Dean Stanton says Ordinary people.  I hate them.  You see Otto, ordinary people spend their lives avoiding tense situations.  A repo man spends his life getting into tense situations.So, check it out if you want a droll comedy that ridicules the militarism, conformity, consumerism, fundamentalism, and cold-war mentality of the 1980s.  I loved this movie in high school, and often regret that Emilio Estevez never did more with his acting career (how his less talented brother Charlie Sheen grabbed the limelight from Emilio is beyond me... maybe because Emilio had the guts to keep a latino surname). "},{"Title":"Its the greatest movie ever seen.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Repo man is my number 1 movie in my favorite´s list, so logically i have to recommend it to everybody, that just like me, loves to see a 80s punk cult movie in its best. Its a classical movie full of bizarre humor and made with ideas from the outside world that we don´t understand the first time we see them, so thats why i already saw the movie about 30 times (really). This movie show us all a lot of attitudes to take in live, its the best movie ever.  "},{"Title":"The life of a Repo Man is always intense","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the all time great cult classics and still to this day, the only good movie ever made by Emilio Estevez. The story revolves around Otto, a misguided punk living in the Reagan '80's, vainly in search of a job and a life. His desperation leads him to take a job as a repo man. With the guidance of several other drunken and disturbed repo men, he just might have a chance. Great punk score and an appearance from the Circle Jerks. The 1980's at its best! "},{"Title":"A True Gem","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the ocean of indy movies there sometimes comes a diamond in the rough. Such is the cheesy praise I give a movie that exudes cheese.I have to say I got into this movie via the album.  A friend turned me on to the soundtrack, so of course, I had to watch the movie.  What a treat to have a soundtrack that can actually be heard in the movie.  The music and the movie were way ahead of their time and still are.  Thus, it stands as a cult classic.  It is hard to classify  sci-fi?  action?  drama?  comedy? All of the above.You have to watch this movie many times to catch the one-liners and subtle humor.  You definitely have to be the right type of person to like this movie - uptite personalities need not apply.With that said - watch Repo Man.  It is to Cyber-Punk what Pulp Fiction is to Cops 'n Robbers.  "},{"Title":"Lonely is the man without a car","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man is a movie created to wake you from the slumber of everyday routine and leave you looking at the world a little differently then you had before. Repo Man is also the only film which I can watch over and over again yet never find even a single moment of it to have become mundane or tedious through the repetition. But having to try to describe what makes Repo Man so good, or even what it's really about, is extremely difficult because the things Repo Man does can only be done through the medium of film - and this, of course, is part of what makes it such an outstanding accomplishment.Repo Man is basically a post-modern urban-setting western. Repo Men are cowboys, rugged individualists with a code of honor. They work hard and they play harder. The desolate landscape they ride in is not the American West, but a modern society which has been completely dumbed down by the irresistible lure of the least common denominator. Ordinary people, like Otto's parents, are just inanimate objects in that landscape. They cling to whichever leader provides a simplistic faith or belief that promises to give meaning and purpose to their existence. The Repo Men are a vanishing breed of rugged individualists in a world increasingly dedicated to instant gratification and mass consumption, or perhaps they're the pioneers of a new frontier, trying to discover how to maintain their spiritual independence in this harsh new landscape.All of this is made possible because the film achieves such a high level of excellence in all aspects of film-making. The landscape, so important a part of any western, is brilliantly depicted through the integration of sight, sound, music, and action. Attention and creativity are lavished on even the smallest details. Don't be fooled, however, by the comfort of having a code to live by. The honor and integrity of these cowboys is just a shallow illusion, and you're missing the point if you believe that salvation lies with the Repo Men or in a whacked-out homeless man developing a special rapport with aliens. There is no salvation other than just staying awake and trying to see things for what they really might be. "},{"Title":"Most hilarious and underrated film of its decade","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is extraordinary, and it has been overlooked by the public and critics alike.  The real story is the dialogue and the interaction between Otto and Bud.  Everything else, albeit terrific, is secondary.  Bud's observations and notions of what is right and wrong with humanity are in some cases exactly correct, and at other times idealized.  He is dead-on when he preaches that good credit is the foundation of free society.  In another scene he elaborates on how he hates ordinary f*ing people because they avoid tense situations.  Later on, he wonders why people don't car-pool.  But his naivete shows through when he claims that all repo men live by the code, while the entire rest of the film is a depiction of repo men engaging in everything but living by the code.  Yet it's his own adherence to the code that keeps him going.  Bud obviously believes that if everyone just paid their bills, the world would be nearly perfect.The perfectly-hilarious scenes in Repo Man are too numerous to list.  The language is more colorful than a group of ten-year-olds who just learned how to swear.  The secondary characters are perfect as well.  The John Wayne discussion was brilliant - I've never seen anything like it on film. Equally funny was the scene where Otto is recruited into the ranks of the repo men.  After Otto pours a beer on the floor of the office, another repo man enters the room and wonders who pissed on the floor again, implying that it wasn't the first time this had happened.  Bud praises Otto for his audacity and hires him on the spot.This film is simply the best appearance ever for Emilio Estevez.  I only wish that I could discuss it and re-watch it with a larger audience.  "},{"Title":"The greatest cinematic achievement of all time","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Repo Man is beyond a shadow of a doubt the greatest cinematic achievement of all time.  I have probably watched my videotape six hundred or seven hundred times, and each time, I discovered new reasons to love the movie.  Emilio Estevez captures the angst of a mid-80's white suburban punk perfectly, while Harry Dean Stanton was robbed when he wasn't even nominated for his noirish portrayal of a jaded, but dedicated, older car repossession agent. The aliens in the trunk, the Rodriguez Brothers, and Agent Rogersz are simply icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"My all-time fave movie","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie on television a year or two after it came out. That would be sometime in the mid-80's and I was around 9 years old. I was immediately mesmerized by this film's cool, zany atmosphere, the great music and the streetwise but also completely off-the-wall story. Ever since, I've seen this movie dozens of times. I've seen the English version with the there isn't a repo man that doesn't take speed scene, the American version with the scene where Otto smashes the pay phone. I've seen it dubbed in Spanish, Portuguese and German. And now I finally have it on DVD and I watch it every two months or so. I never get tired of this movie. I've seen it so many times over the years that it's become a part of who I am. I know most of the film's fantastic dialogue by heart, and the last time I watched it (I was pretty drunk after coming home after a night out) I found myself singing along to the stupid 7-Up advertising jingle that Kevin sings in the beginning.Because of this film, Harry Dean Stanton is my favorite actor. Repo Man is also the only good movie Emilio Estevez has ever been in.If you are unlucky enough to not have seen this movie yet, please do yourself a favor and see it as soon possible. But before you do... C'MON, LET'S GO GET A DRINK !!  "},{"Title":"And yet ... I blame society","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My experience of this movie is remarkably similar to that of many of the other reviewers.  I saw it in the theater (as part of an English class assignment, no less!) when I was a college freshman in 1984.  It blew me away.Some of the negative reviewers have pointed out aspects of this movie that seem derivative to them - but the other items they claim it to reference (e.g., Tarentino's work) came AFTER this one.  Who's derivative?  Let me tell you, at the time this movie was something completely new.  No, of course punk wasn't new anymore, but this movie and its style were completely out of left field.  Having just escaped dreadful, brainless Reagan suburbia for the fertile grounds of college and the big city, it was a big gust in the fresh air I was suddenly breathing, and I loved it.  Still do.I loved the nihilistic punk sensibility, down to the generic food labels, even though I never completely figured out all the symbolism, if any was intended.  Maybe the point, very precisely, WAS the futility of trying to find sense in a chaotic world in which there was no sense to be made.  In any case, it absolutely defined the era in which I was living, and reigned as my favorite movie for several years.So many classic jokes and catch phrases, regularly referenced by myself and my friends for years to come, came from Repo Man ... BAD AREA, You find one in every car ... you'll see, Otto, what about our relationship? ... F*** that!, Ordinary f***ing people, I hate 'em, And yet ... I blame society, Let's go do some crimes, Looking for the joke with a microscope, There's f***ing room to move as a fry cook, Pablo Picasso was never called an a**hole, A Repo Man spends his live getting into tense situations, the whole John Wayne exchange.  And the soundtrack is one of the best in history.Is my opinion tainted by the atmosphere in which I was exposed to it?  Sure, but it's still a great movie. "}{"Title":"Cheesy...but in a good way.","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Emilio Estevez stars as an out of work grocery clerk who accepts a proposition and ends up as the title character, working for a company and learning on the job...the hard way.You know, this movie is cheesy. You can't deny it, but, in this case, it doesn't mean it's that bad. To me, it ranks right up there with Earth Girls Are Easy with Geena Davis and Jeff Goldblum. I know some kids today think these films are cool, but, trust me, when you get a little older, you find out that there's more to life than an old Chevy Malibu and whatever might be in the trunk.I love Estevez as an actor, and I thought he did a good job trying to be serious and hamming it up a bit in Maximum Overdrive, but it seems here like he tried too hard to make it a serious sci-fi flick. As far as the cult classic side, any movie like this that can be quoted in later movies like Twister can't be all that bad, but I still can't give this a very high rating.3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Repo Man is always cool!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the few cult classics I freely  say I enjoyed, this film has a unique  quality of being pretty good, yet deep  down you know this is just trash. It's  quite a quandary, considering this film  is so close to my heart, yet so way off  my critical radar. I guess it is good to  have a film like this on your resume,  one that is just silly, yet likable. Harry  Dean Stanton was brilliant in his role,  fully epitomizing the high stress life the  repo man. Otto was also portrayed nicely  by Emilio Estevez. Watch this film if you  dare. You just might like it. "},{"Title":"Very cool and weird - uniquely entertaining","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Otto is a young punk who works in a supermarket until he walks out of that job like he did all the other ones.  Looking for work, he gets involved with repo man Bud who takes his under his wing and gets him a job repossessing cars.  When an repo order comes in for a Chevy Malibu for £20,000 it becomes the target for not only the two trams of repo men in the city but also the FBI, who are eager to recover the mysterious glowing contents of the trunk.Repo Man is the film that it is cool to like - it is popular enough to get you kudos if you say you like it but not so well known that it loses it's cool.  To me, this goes some way to explaining the rather OTT praise for it that can be found on this site.  Having said that let me say that I do really like this film and I `got it' - however not everyone will.  From the wonderfully trashy opening theme (by Iggy Pop) through the weird dialogue right down to the strange ending the film is gleefully weird and good fun for it.The plot is like the X-Files crossed with a punk movie crossed with a cop movie and then give a few tabs of acid to drop - this is not all a good thing by the way.  The problem with it of course is that many will just be put off by how very meaningless it all it and how silly it is, and if you haven't settled into it after 15 minutes then I would just give up then because you're not going to enjoy it.  I enjoyed it's rather unique sense of wit, whether it be little weird touches (the air freshener in the motorbike) down to Duke's punk who is unsure of what he actually wants in life!All through the film the dialogue is very imaginative and funny and Cox did very well as both writer and director.  I cannot stress enough that it is not for everybody.that is why it is called a CULT film! But if you like weirdly comic sort of stuff then you should enjoy this film.  The cast are really good and they make the script work, delivering some very cool lines. Estevez is really trashy but is fun to watch nonetheless.  Stanton is really good as the mentor and Tracey Walter is funny with more than his fair share of the crazy lines. All the actors play their crazy characters really well but I want to give special mention to Balgobin for being cute despite the punk outfit, but also to Dick Rude, who's confused punk is the funniest thing in the whole film.Overall this is a very funny and very weird film that is not for everybody. You will know within about 10 minutes if this is your type of film, but I would recommend that you try it out as, if you like it, you will really like it.  The plot is weirdly entertaining, the dialogue is imaginative and funny and, by the time the film `concludes' it won't really matter whether or not it ever made sense. "},{"Title":"Either you get it or you don't","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From some of the comments made by contributors here, it is plain that with Repo Man, you either get it or you don't. I've been watching it since 1984, and it's still as blackly funny and nihilistic now as it was then. Of course, some people don't like The Three Stooges, either. Lighten up, AND LET'S HAVE A DRINK! "},{"Title":"weird indie cult hit","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Parnell is driving a car with a trunk that lights up and disintegrates anybody who opens it. Slacker punk rocker Otto (Emilio Estevez) hates his grocery store job and gets fired. His girlfriend dumps her while sleeping with somebody else at a party. Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) tricks him to repo a car and he's not happy. His parents give away all of their money to a TV preacher and he's forced to take up on Bud's offer. Leila shows Otto a picture of aliens that is suppose to be in a car trunk and then there's a $20k bounty on a Chevy Malibu. Otto battles other repo men, his old punk friends, government agents and UFO enthusiasts as he tries to collect the huge bounty. Miller (Tracey Walter) is the spaced out mechanic at the repo lot. There are some crazy sit going on here. It's a wild irreverent indie. What it's great at is that it gets a sense of the rundown L.A. world. There are great lines like John Wayne is a fag. It's a low rent indie and it's happy to be there. It's a little punk and something different. "},{"Title":"A '80s cult classic","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Best '80s punk cult film ever ! Great music, weird story, repo men honor. A brilliant film and proofs a lot can be done with a small budget. The SF effects are great and funny. You will know within about 10 minutes if this is your type of film, but I would recommend that you try it out as, if you like it, you will really like it. The plot is weirdly entertaining, the dialog is imaginative and funny and, by the time the film 'concludes' it won't really matter whether or not it ever made sense. Things happening in the background, bits of dialog that come into play later on, either through visual puns or through other bits of dialog. And read the trivia here on IMDb for all the puns you missed watching the film for the first time !!! "},{"Title":"The more you drive...the less intelligent you are.","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made by a then-29 year old British UCLA film school graduate named Alex Cox, the endearingly loopy sci-fi punk cult comedy Repo Man is a true original. It combines many interesting details and clever gags with a satirical sensibility. Cox dots the landscape with an amazing ensemble of eclectic faces and fills the soundtrack with some very catchy tunes. He also films his quirky story in some of the less aesthetically pleasing areas of Los Angeles, giving it the perfect look. His characters are compelling, especially Bud (Harry Dean Stanton), the career repo man who has his own way of doing things. There's some very funny dialogue and even some priceless, philosophical moments courtesy of wacked-out yardman Miller (Tracey Walter).Emilio Estevez is just fine as Otto, an unambitious young man who is conned into repossessing a car by Bud. Soon desperate for money, he agrees to go to work with Bud and his gang. Otto, who's rather conservative for the kind of world he lives in, starts to find enjoyment in this new profession. Meanwhile, a Chevy Malibu with a Kiss Me Deadly style secret in its trunk, being driven by a nutty scientist (the memorable Fox Harris), becomes a hot ticket item.What's so great about Repo Man is the fact that it's utterly unpredictable. One is never really sure where it's going to be going from scene to scene. Presented by ex-Monkey Michael Nesmith (who'd previously done the cool time travel adventure Timerider), it avoids being overly political although it does have some things to say about mindless consumerism (products in the movie are labelled simply food or beer), honour, and the nature of the universe.Stanton delivers one of his all time best performances. He and Estevez are well supported by such players as Walter (whose plate of shrimp speech is a gem), the cute Olivia Barash, Sy Richardson, Susan Barnes, Harris (who's a real hoot), Del Zamora, Eddie Velez, Zander Schloss, Jennifer Balgobin, Dick Rude, Miguel Sandoval, the lovely Vonetta McGee, and Richard Foronjy. The Circle Jerks have a great cameo in a night club.Everything finishes with a wonderfully far-out resolution that is perfect for the material. It's definitely the sort of thing you don't forget. Those film fans jaded with more conventional storytelling need to really give this one a look.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Plate O' shrimps.....","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Otto is working at the grocery when he loses his temper and quits. Befriended by a Repo Man, Otto sees vehicle repossession as a kind of modern buccaneering. He is attracted by the adventure and the 'who gives a damn' attitude of the other Repo men. At the same time a package is taken from a government lab that has strange effects on anyone who sees it. It is hidden in a car which the government lists for repossession with a hefty reward.The first thing you realise, is how wonderfully bonkers the whole film is. And if you don't like the opening scene with the iconic smoking boots, turn it off, because you'll hate the rest of the film.Cox has never bettered this movie, and the movie is all about anarchy, heavily influenced by the punk scene in the UK during the late seventies and early eighties.The first two acts are brilliant. Estevez exudes cool as Otto, and again, he's never been better in anything else. The support are just as bonkers, and it goes along nicely Leftfield, with subliminal images harking back to earlier narrative, and the whole generic food thing going on is all very sanitised.And then the final act comes, and it loses its momentum ever so slightly, because it just gets too bizarre, and because of this it falters.But all in all, its a wonderful study of suburbanites, waiting for something special to happen "},{"Title":"Cult or not, it delivers the entertainment","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen some cult movies in my time, but few are as satisfying as Repo Man. Despite the trippy subject matter going on here, there's an otherworldly appeal that makes it a fun ride. For one thing, if you need a reason why Harry Dean Stanton is a cinematic treasure, this is it (well this an a slew of others, certainly, but he always enhances a movie). And Emilio Estevez plays his hapless delinquent role to some amusing lengths (there's just something about his voice that makes it funny). Beyond that, the side players fill out the cast with charming weirdness (Tracey Walter especially).It's kinda like After Hours, only less caffeinated - at least in terms of that desolate nighttime feel. Both movies might actually work as a double bill. And everything about this comes together in a sort of oddball harmony. The punk soundtrack (never thought of myself as a punk person, but I dug the music here) dovetails nicely with the overall bird-flipping attitude. And I love the consumerism running gag with the generic food labels. No matter how you look at this, it's wholly unique and a wild trip through the seedier side of Los Angeles.8/10 "},{"Title":"A look into those who live in society's cracks.","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes I wonder what the definition of a cult movie is, and according to an unsupported wikipedia entry it is a film that tends to have a small following of dedicated fans. I would probably suggest that it is a film that upon its original release there was not much interest or support with it, but over time, as more and more people discover it, it gains in popularity. Repo Man I suspect is one of those movies, and I suspect these movies (like this one) gain in popularity because as children grow into adults the film begins to appeal to a wider audience. However there are other films, such as Pulp Fiction, that are considered cult classics, but that has more to do with Quentin Tarrantino having a dedicate fan base.This film is about the people who live in the cracks in society, the people that are strange, different, and are generally ignored, ridiculed, or hated by the mainstream, and I guess that is why it appeals to people. In fact, almost every character in the film would fall into one of those cracks. We have Otto' parents who are caught up in a religious cult, and we have the punks who wonder around committing crimes, and we have the group running around looking for UFOs, and we have the Repomen themselves, who live a life legally stealing cars. Then we have Otto, the protagonist of the film, who seems to get caught up in each of these cracks, but in a way belongs to none of them.The film is actually about a 1964 Chevy Malibu, a car in and of itself not having much value or interest, and it is not in a condition that would make it attractive to anybody, but for some reason quite a few people want this particular car. In fact, among the circles of the repomen it carries with it a price tag of $20000.00 (we learn in the movie that repomen are basically independent contractors, and they earn their keep on collecting commissions on cars that they repossess).The special effects in this film are pretty ordinary, but then what would one expect from a low budget film made in the mid-80s, but what it lacks in effects it easily makes up in it pure otherworldliness. Repoman takes us outside of the dull existence that we live in and throws us into the world of the strange and the bizarre, and then even takes us away from that world in the end, as it also takes Otto away from it as well. Otto is your quintessential nobody, not an everyman, but an everynobody. In a way he relates to that part of us that is disconnected with the rest of the world, the characters in this movie also share in those parts of us that are disconnected with the world. In a way this film appeals to us that do not feel that we belong, but in a way shows us that there is always a place for us where those who believe they belong, in the end are rejected.Let us consider the end for the moment, where everybody who is after the Malibu are rejected, and it is Otto and the mechanic that are accepted by the Malibu, and are in essence taken away. Once again we see the Western meta-narrative appear in this ending where those who believe that deserve salvation, and have earned salvation, are rejected in favour of those who simply trust. Granted, Otto is not really a man of faith, but by the end of the film he has learned to cast aside all of the false advice, that of his parents, of his friends, and even of the repoman Bud, to simply trust the mechanic, open the door, and climb into the car to be taken away, while we see the girl, the one he once pursued, stamping her feet and crying out that it should have been her getting into that car. In the end where do we wish to belong, in the shoes of the girl, or in Otto's shoes? "}{"Title":"Looking for the joke with a microscope!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just the best white trash, punk rock, sci-fi movie of all-time, a deliberately nonsensical '50s B-movie style plot played out in a dysfunctional, suburban LA of no prospects, dead-end jobs and petty crime with a superb rock'n'roll soundtrack featuring the likes of Iggy Pop, Black Flag, The Plugz and The Circle Jerks. And if that ain't enough, it's even got Harry Dean Stanton spouting truly memorable lines like, Ordinary f***ing people. I hate 'em!Intense! "},{"Title":"I Blame Society!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some movies just define people's lives and thoughts.  For me, REPO MAN is such a film.  It's got a worldview that is absurd, scary and funny all at once -- it's got characters spouting the same nonsense that people in blue-collar jobs really say all day (and I speak from experience here!). You know where I'm gonna be when it all comes down?  Goin' north on this highway at 120 per...  (Or words to that effect.)  It's the darker side of the same world (and producer) as TAPEHEADS (another great movie from the '80s), and if you see it, you might never be the same again.  Unless you were just like that to start with. "},{"Title":"Staple film of my high school and college years in late Eighties","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie. Great social satire of 1980's America. I would have given this movie 9 or even 10 stars except that it starts to fall apart from a loose story and sloppy editing at the end. "},{"Title":"What a Cult Classic","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be a bomb but turned out to be a favorite. I really enjoyed this cult classic. Emilio Esteves is quite funny in this as otto. I enjoyed Harry Dean Stanton's role as otto's old cocaine addict partner. He was a trip. "},{"Title":"The more ya drive, the less intelligent you are","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow! I first saw this movie on A&E when I was 16, and I have yet to shut up about it. I cannot explain to the uninitiated what a brilliant film this is. It is the story of a bored punk, repo men, aliens and a Chevy Malibu...and the Lattice of coincidence that beautifully drapes the piece.  The best part of the movie is certainly the odd cast of characters,Otto-the smart mouthed punk looking for something to do, Bud-Otto's mentor and one who fully embraces  the repo man lifestyle, Lite-he's a baaaad man, Kevin-Otto's nerdy pal who aspires to godhood via a fry cook position, Miller-The junkyard philosopher whose pearls of wisdom bewilder Otto and anger his co-workers.  This movie must be seen by EVERYONE!!!!!!! You'll quote it for the rest of your life, and you'll never figure out what it's really about.  Walk, don't run and get the DVD.  I give this movie my highest praises! "},{"Title":"1980's cult classic with an awesome punk rock soundtrack","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alex Cox's 1984 cult hit is an entertaining  mix of social satire and existentialism. Emilio Estevez plays Otto, a disillusioned punker who meets Bud, the head repo man in his local Californian town. Bud played by Harry Dean Stanton ranks among his best performances. He shows Otto the trade of car reposessing, meanwhile a lobotomized scientist is beingtracked by the U.S. Government who want to find out what the mysterious entity is in the truck of his car.  Fun escapism from start to finish and a great punk rock soundtrack including Black Flag, Suicial Tendencies, Iggy Pop and the Circle Jerks who make an amusing cameo in the film. "},{"Title":"Great Cult Film","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The wonderful juxtaposition of modern urban hopelessness mixed with the absurdity of the whole alien in the trunk affair is a tonic for the river of crap that flows from Hollywood today.I've seen Repo Man countless times and I never tire of the disenchanted, yet determined crew of washed-up repo men or the great one-liners (A repo man is ALWAYS intense).Maybe it's a good thing that movies this great only come out every 20 years or so. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie back in 1985 on cable. I never saw it in it's theatrical release but it is a great movie. The movie seeks to entertain and make fun of the world in the early 80's. It has some of the most unforgetable scenes and lines of any movie I've seen. I can't forget the scene where the guy says The life of a Repo Man is always intense! I love how Otto's parents are couch potatoes who send money to TV preachers. I like when they guy says that driving makes you less intelligent. Most of all I like the very last part of the movie. It's so weird you have to love it! So see this movie! Buy it, rent it or steal it if you have to!  "},{"Title":"Punk sci-fi comedy with a killer soundtrack!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ah, the punk Strangelove! What a trip...I remember going back to the Nickelodeon Theater to see it again and again with friends during its first few weeks of theatrical release. A marvelous cast, a soundtrack to die for (Nobody ever called Pablo Picasso an asshole!), some great satiric turns (from the frequently-cited store food shelves to the central conceit of 'trying to recycle nuclear waste') mark this as a cult favorite for many, but a small film with a big heart and an even bigger bite! Two toes up! "},{"Title":"Magical Surrealism","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A movie that shouldn't work, but does, even if it doesn't know what it's about. A mishmash of resonant nonsense and sly satire, like Rocky Horror Picture Show it exists in a magically bizarre universe all its own. Personally, I couldn't care less for the plot, such as it is. It's little bits of business that are almost purely throwaway that I remember best Estevez cowering as Sy Richardson, blank-loaded gun in hand, tells him, Get in the car, white boy.; Stanton saying, My credit is spotless, and discoursing on the Code of the Repo Man (lifted from Isaac Asimov's robotic laws); Olivia Barash's squeal as she and Estevez tumble into the back seat of a car. (Wish I could remember every detail, but I haven't seen this movie in a dozen years or more.) "}{"Title":"Must See mid 80s weirdness...Estevez never better","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First saw this cult gem of the 80s in college..hard to explain other than Emilio plays the LA slacker to the hilt, he wanders into all sorts of peculiar situations his best as a Car Reposser for the Helping Hand acceptance corp.   Harry Dean Stanton plays the veteran Repo Man with the Code. Truly a bizzarre, unpredictable, wacky movie that is worth multiple viewings(buy it)...tell your friends J. Frank Parnell told you to get it...  "},{"Title":"REPO MAN (Alex Cox, 1984) **1/2","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a cult sci-fi comedy that is highly regarded in some circles but one which I never had the opportunity to watch before now; as usual with such 'modern classic' fare for me, while I liked it well enough, its uneven tone and general bleakness cause it to fall short of its reputation.A punk kid is reluctantly roped in as a Repo Man, a renegade band of people who repossess unpaid-for cars; their workforce includes world-weary Harry Dean Stanton, secretary Vonetta McGee and philosophical caretaker Tracey Walter. While there's an admittedly witty script replete with four-letter words, we also get some gratuitous grossness &#150; such as having Emilio Estevez vomiting (for no good reason) after a chase on foot! Typical of writer-director Cox, the soundtrack is full of rock/punk songs; appropriately, his next film &#150; SID AND NANCY (1986) &#150; would be a biopic of Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious and his notorious girlfriend Nancy Spungen, which I might just acquire anyway now.The sci-fi elements involve an unseen 'alien' locked inside the trunk of a car which is chased through the streets of L.A. by two rival bands of Repo Men &#150; a' la MOTHER, JUGS AND SPEED (1976) that I've recently watched &#150; as well as the C.I.A. The meltdown experienced by anyone coming into contact with the 'alien' resembles the explosively atomic climax of KISS ME DEADLY (1955) &#150; and a further tribute to that noir masterwork is the fact that the end credits here likewise read from down to up! In any case, the flying finish &#150; with the now-sizzling car soaring skywards &#150; was a nice touch. "},{"Title":"Lacking structure but hilarious and entertaining.","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man has long been in a long list of movies to see for me. I finally watched it yesterday with extreme anticipation and, while I was not let down, I was not too impressed. I was expecting extreme punk rock on home video and what I got was half-assed 80's trend-punk on film.I wouldn't really call this film a comedy, but it does have some very funny moments. It's the same kind of smart humor you find in films like Raising Arizona but it is not done nearly as well. The acting is great, better that I expected. My biggest complaint about Repo Man is that it really isn't all that edgy. It's tame really. Not enough violence, gore, insanity or punk music for my tastes.I did gain a ton of respect for Emilio though.6 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film ever","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cool soundtrack. Wacky plot. Some fantastic cameo performances. Great lead performances by Harry Dean Stanton and Emilio Estevez...what more could you ask for? Probably one of the most quotable movies ever made too. You can watch the film over and over again and never get bored...and spot things you never spotted the first time round. The soundtrack is legendary - Iggy Pop performing the main theme tune, great racks from the Plugz and the Circle Jerks. Alex Cox really did his homework on this one. The test of a great film is time and this one is still as fresh as a daisy. Strange but true fact I liked the film so much I named my band after it! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time. Notice I said my favorite not the best. Other pictures may be superior on technical merit, actors' performances...whatever.Regardless, Repo Man holds its own, and I try to explain to anyone who will listen that it is a wonderful science-fiction action-adventure comedy-drama.Besides all that, it has one of the best soundtracks ever with Fear, Black Flag, Suicidal Tendencies, the Circle Jerks even make a cameo appearance as a lounge act. Hilarious! Otto I used to like these guys. I've seen Repo Man perhaps 50 times over the last 20+ years, and I still find new material to laugh at. And laugh I do, long and out loud. It's simply a remarkable movie.Finally, if you watch the DVD, it has a great commentary track, which is a rarity.You can analyze it all you want. Me? I'll just watch, listen, enjoy. "},{"Title":"cars, danger, action, experience","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Repo Man, we find an adroit but rudderless teenager (Emilio Estevez, certainly his best role), a grizzled mentor (Harry Dean Stanton, fortifying his indie credibility) and an entire wave of oddballs and alien hunters out to scupper them both. Stanton slyly recruits Estevez, who has discarded his mundane job and family in an unwitting but well meant desire for adventure, to repossess an indentured car. Having tasted of and seduced by The Life, Estevez joins the oddball gang of Repo Men to indulge in a nervy, amphetamine fuelled re-acquisition of the automobiles of the not-so-fast and not-so-furious; the working man, the jobbing stiff, payment overdue. When the next mark turns out to be a prized Chevy Malibu, only our hero, aided by a new found love, can possibly turn things round and find his life finally worthy. Unfortunately the car in question has been sequestered by forces unknown, and the scramble is on. But what exactly is inside the trunk?Cox's finest moment. "},{"Title":"Great cult classic, that's very bizarre, but wildly entertaining, with a creative story, and fun performances!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great cult classic, that's very bizarre, but wildly entertaining, with a creative story, and fun performances!. All the characters are cool, and I loved the dialog as well, plus Emilio Estevez is simply amazing in this!. Harry Dean Stanton is fantastic as the guy who shows Otto(Emilio) the ropes, and so much wonderful wacky stuff happens throughout, plus I absolutely loved the ending, as the glowing Chevy Malibu looked so cool!. The whole unknown cast is great, and it's extremely well made and written as well, plus it's very, very unpredictable throughout. The opening is just plain hilarious as Emilio(Otto) tells his boss off, and it was really refreshing to see something so unique for a change, as I haven't seen that type of movie in a while, plus Tracey Walter is very funny here as Miller. The script is one of the most unique you will ever see, and all the characters are extremely likable, plus Dick Rude(Duke),Jennifer Balgobin(DebbI) and Miguel Sandoval(Archie) are hilarious as the three punks who like to cause trouble. This is a great cult classic, that's very bizarre, but wildly entertaining, with a creative story, and fun performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Alex Cox does a great! job here with solid camera work, cool angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Emilio Estevez is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely convincing as a punk, and Doesen't take any crap from anybody, as I loved his attitude, it's trashy but it sure worked, as I think this is one of of the coolest characters he has played! (Emilio Rules!!!!!!!). Harry Dean Stanton is fantastic, as the guy who shows Otto the ropes, he had good chemistry with Emilio, had a great character, and this was very memorable role in my opinion. Tracey Walter is great as miller, he had some great lines, and was just too cool overall, I really liked him. Olivia Barash is OK as the girlfriend but managed to be the dullest character in the film. Sy Richardson is funny as Lite, I dug him. Zander Schloss is convincing as the nerd, and did his job well. Dick Rude(Duke),Jennifer Balgobin(Debbi) and Miguel Sandoval(Archie) are hilarious as the three punks who like to cause crap. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A  cult masterpiece","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like this movie. It is one of my absolute favorites, the only good movie Emilio Estevez has ever starred and one of the best movies made in the 80's.It is really hard for me to explain why I like it. Ever since I accidentally taped it I have watched it time after time, enjoying the wacky plot, the subtle humor and truly bizarre duologue (another element in the movie which Quentin Tarantino has stolen), the cool punk rock soundtrack and the superb acting of Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton in the Otto - Bud companionship and, not the least discovering something new every time I have watched it.And that is probably why Repo Man is Tarantino ten years before Pulp Fiction and X - Files ten years before that stupid show ever got started. The only other movie that pops into my mind if I should make a comparison is Richard Kellys Donnie Darko and that movie doesn't even posses the ironic, unpretentious B -movie kind of attitude which makes Repo Man so great.The film reminds me more of novels like Don Delillos White Noise or Thomas Pynckon's The crying of Lot 49 and the script is almost like a mixture of these two. Repo Man simply manages to catch and satirize the whole feeling of the 80's in one and a half hour The fear of nuclear war,consumerism, New Age,pseudo science and a lot more. The - at best amateurish - special effects (take, for instance the hail of ice cubes)doesn't really matter. They just tend to strengthen the unconventional and off - beat mood of the film.On top of that it manages to mix several film genres comedy, thriller, Sci-fi, buddy movie etc. and integrate a punk soundtrack superbly.But let's face it Repo Man IS a cult film in the sense that not everybody would like it. Like others has commented it can never - and probably shouldn't be - included into the same league as Citizen Cane. It is best kept as is a cult pearl, loved by a small audience. Emilio Estevez'ever surly and snotty, pseudo-rebellious attitude is simply perfectly casted for the Otto character paired with Harry Dean Stantons elderly mentor in car theft and speed sniffing.It seems to me that he knows that it's his best performance ever, since he and Charley Sheen copied a lot of its elements and even used the same actors in the terrible Men at work. Just a wild guess, but anyone agree?Another wild guess upon watching the film Have you noticed how Repo Man refers to a lot of other movies, mostly big Hollywood blockbusters of the same era?So far I have found a least five references Grease (The race with the Rodriguez brothers at the bottom of the reservoir) Star Wars (the ending), E.T(The flying car), Raiders of the Lost Ark (the car burning up bad guys), Close Encounters of The Third Kind/Degree...whatever(The ending again, off course.2001 - A space Odessey is also a possibility. Finally, Otto's replyThank you I made them myself,to Leila's comment Charming friends you got there, Otto is actually stolen from Blade Runner, in which J.F. Sebastian makes the same reply to Pris, the android.Another couple of goofs In the scene where it is revealed that Marlene is in league with the Rodriguez brothers,she is dressed just like Patty Hearst was on the famous picture from the time she had joined/was forced into The Symbionetic Liberation Army.The Stanley Millgram experiment The way Otto is tortured when he falls into the hand of the FBI agents reminds of the famous experiment Stanley Millgram made to test how far people were willing to go in inflicting pain on others.Elvis certainly IS in the movie In the famous john Wayne was a fag scene Miller mentions I installed two way mirrors in his flat in Brentwood and he comes to the door in a dress. Elvis Presley actually had two mirrors installed in his bedroom, in order to watch his friends having intercourse with groupies.A man who liked to dress upwas the notorious head of FBI, Edgar Jay Hoover. This way a whole new meaning can interpreted from the otherwise absurd dialog. What they are discussing is really masculinity, incarnated in some of the idols of American popular culture and the right wing, albeit with a problematic sexuality. That is why they force Otto to tell who beat him up and form a posse to take the law into their own hands. This just to show some of the many layers in the movie and the subtlety with which a theme like masculinity is incorporated and connected with another theme that runs through the movie Violence.To end this little essay i would ask the reader to imagine this Think of this film done with a multi - million budget, lots of special effects, nerve-wrecking car chases etc. - It would totally loose its charm and originality! That is why I have made such a big fuss out of pointing out the inter textual references. The thing is that about this time the New Hollywood of the seventies had faded out. Instead shittymulti -million- dollar budget films by geeks like George Lucas that used loads of special effects to compensate for a thin plot line had taken over. The great thing about Repo Man is that it manages to parody and ridicule these juggernauts while carrying on the free, inventive spirit of the cult cinema that arose in the seventieths, while at the same time portraying and satirizing the 80's and the Reagan-era.Finally If anyone ever tries to do a remake of this movie I'll kill them. "},{"Title":"Ummm, OK.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is one of those oddly remembered movies... I remember going to see it at the World Theater on High St in Columbus, OH. 20 years later, however, I don't know what I ever saw in it. Bizareeness to the extreme. A Repo Man is always intense and the plate of shrimp is all I remember... although I lusted after the 66 Nova. Emelio Estevez is the quintessential smart mouth punk (leading up to the Breakfast Club...) and Harry Dean Stanton is, well, Harry Dean Stanton. One of those strangely compelling movies yet repulsive at the same time, kind of like Pulp Fiction. If you like weirdness this is the movie for you! xxxxxxxxxxx "},{"Title":"Another little addendum.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo man is a blatant rites of passage film. Otto grows from being a nihilistic, selfish, dismissive punk, into a happy nuclear-powered joyrider. Along the way he meets many people who make mistakes constantly, and are looking for happiness or approval from external sources, often him. Everybody's looking for something, and they're almost certainly not getting it. The Chevy is one device that represents unfulfillable desire. Yet Otto finds it in the end. He fulfils his heart's desire. That's what this film is about for me. Learning to love life for all it's warts and vanities. I would compare it to Terry Gilliam's Brazil, or even at a stretch American Beauty. Never, ever Fight Club. PS The film was written by a guy who went to my school. Oohyeah baby. Other alumni include Dennis Pennis and Will Self. "}{"Title":"Entertaining sci-fi weirdfest","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Recently I purchased this movie on DVD and only then I realised how good it was. The script is witty and funny, the main characters acting ie Otto (Estevez) and Bud (Stanton), is well above average even though the parts aren't really that challenging and the special effects are goofy and look low budget but still work very well.Otto is a teenage punk full of angst and annoyed that his life is going nowhere and he is stuck in a crappy job in a supermarket. He loses this at the start of the film and wanders around through parties and nights where there is alot of beer and the punk music plays loud. This is until he meets Bud and becomes a repo man and gets dragged in to a world of crazy scientists, crime and aliens in the boot of a 1964 Chevy Malibu. All this may sound weird but somehow seems to make sense in the movie as a whole.There are some great lines such as John Wayne was a fag and Let's go get sushi... and not pay which bring huge laughs. This film has everything to be honest, comedy, shootouts, love, sex, flying cars etc. I recommend thismovie to everybody. "},{"Title":"Great Music, Funny side jokes","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a cult classic because it had great side jokes that you have to watch for; for example the blue label food, the reocurring car freshners, the book of Diarelicts, the TV evangelist, and whoever would of thought up alien bodies in a 64 Impala?    Great, watchable, very hip film. This was when Emilio Estevez was cool.  This was when punks were the gangstas of their time. "},{"Title":"Comedic Anarchy... A great film indeed","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sheer zany atmosphere and attitude on display in REPO MAN isexhilarating.  The film has no real plot yet it's hilarious, unpredictable and very  hard to classify.  One of my all time favorites because it's got style, big laughs,  an intelligent social commentary and great music.  Captures the mid-80's punk  scene well. Director Alex Cox never had a directorial effort this strong since.   Certainly not for all tastes, yet see it and judge for yourself. Let's go get a DRINK!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"one of the weirdest yet my best movies of all time!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw the movie in 1984, I thought that it was super weird. After watching it 100 times(exaggeration) it grew to be my favorite movie. There isn't a version that I have not seen yet, however I am sure there are. I found that the story line was all over the place, in every version. You kind of have to piece all of the versions together, to see the whole movie. I think that I must of seen it so many times, that I know all of the scenes off by heart. This is an all time classic. "},{"Title":"A Reel Gem","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Only people lacking the gene that imparts a sense of humor would not like this movie.  This unassuming little movie skewers the movie industry, tough guys, product placement, fashion, religion, science fiction and most people's funny bones.  Although not for everyone's taste, it is packed with more than enough to engage the attention of most 3rd graders, but will really appeal to the intelligent, satiric, and literate in the population. "},{"Title":"RepoMan is a way to learn that life is not to be taken seriously","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen the film numerous times. I love it how the hero's adventures pass through the activities of a very normal life (a meaningless job, delinquent friends, loneliness) to lead him not to despair and frustration like some of us, but to the discovery of alien life and a night flight with a self driven glowing car.  "},{"Title":"It's not pernicious nonsense","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anybody that knows me knows that I only love two things. Twin Peaks and Repo Man. When you think about it, they are lovable for many of the same reasons. Fantastic dialogue, brilliant acing, offbeat characters, etc. Repo Man is a film that not many people in the mainstream appreciate. When we watched the film in English class, everybody but my friends and me were asleep. One even commented that it was the worst film they had ever seen. Hyperbole? Maybe, but I took comfort in knowing that I was intellectually superior to he, for I appreciated a quality film. It is not meant for a mainstream audience because it attacks mainstream life. It is a f***ing brilliant piece of art, and when I die I want the entire 'plate of shrimp' speech engraved on my tombstone. GENIUS  "},{"Title":"Mondo Bizarro!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Punk Emilio (Otto) knocks heads with a group of nutso characters from dopers, stick-up men (and women), spaced-out Jesus freaks, the homeless, the poor slobs who aren't making their car payments, and the wacky staff at Helping Hand, the repo company.  The only way out of this mess for Otto, who has nothing to lose, is to dive into the next journey on his path to nowhere, which he does at the end of the film in a most amazing way. Interesting soundtrack; listen carefully. "},{"Title":"Repo Man is ALWAYS intense!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a truly classic cult film!!! This is one of those films which will produce one of two results Either you will laugh until you cry or you just won't care for the humor. Needless to say, I laughed myself senseless.Emilio Estevez is perfect as Otto, the street punk who stumbles across a job repossessing cars. While his parents give his college money to a televangelist cult & subsequently rot away on the family couch in front of the TV, Otto makes his way through a sea of bizarre characters en route to his destiny.Harry Dean Stanton is pure genius. In fact, he almost steals the show with his intentionally over-the-top dialogue and eccentricity.There are many, many quirks in this film, so keep your eyes and ears open. Pay special attention to the packaged food in the convenience store.Not a film for everyone, but a must for those who enjoy good, bizarre humor.  "},{"Title":"A gloriously demented cult classic.","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever been to Utah? Ra-di-a-tion. Yes, indeed. You hear the most outrageous lies about it. Half-baked goggle-box do-gooders telling everybody it's bad for you. Pernicious nonsense. Everybody could stand a hundred chest X-rays a year! Well, as they say, when it rains. After going six months without a single top 300 entry, I have now seen two in a week.A deliriously demented film that was a cult classic the moment it hit the street, Repo Man is a film so memorable that it's tempting to just start naming off characters and occurrences, but instead, I'm put it in the form of a review Emilio Estevez plays Otto, a rebellious young punk who in his opening sequence, is getting fired from his job as a stockboy for mouthing off and attacking a coworker. One day, Otto gets unwittingly drafted into helping a man name Bud repossess a car, and from there, everything goes to sh-t. Angry old ladies, skinhead criminals, government agents, alien conspiracies and even crazy rival repo hombres float through as Otto floats through, amused and bemused, and occasionally terrified. Soon, a $20,000 commission comes up on the docket for anyone who can obtain a certain Chevy Malibu. This car becomes the crux of the film, and changes hands several times, including by rival reposessors, criminal thugs, and even his own co-workers.The film's scenes of repossesion document all the usual risks and dangers of the trade. He gets yelled at, spit on, assaulted and even shot at. He meets tough, cynical co-workers and thanks to one meeting in a repo'd car, even acquires a girlfriend. But if this was all the film presented, it would be a good film, yes, but it would definitely not get the accolades I'm giving it. No, the film has something else up its sleeve, and it is in fact given prominence in the opening scene. Somewhere on the shoulder of the California highway system, a one-eyed man in an eyepatch named J. Frank Parnell is driving the aforementioned Malibu that apparently has something that can...vaporize people in the trunk. Otto becomes very familiar with this car as well as people looking for its occupants before the film reaches its conclusion. On their first meeting, his girlfriend shows him a picture of what is apparently four dead aliens, and he drops her off at the United Fruitcake Organization, which is led by a woman named Rogersz with a metal arm. He also has several run-ins with some larcenous acquaintances of his, a group of ruffians who rob and assault several people and places throughout the film, and have some of the film's funniest lines (Let's go do some crimes!).Whoops, there I go just listing happenings again. Let's talk about the acting. The young Emilio Estevez (who has been airbrushed to death on the DVD's cover) is great, an ordinary teenager putting on a tough front, and his performance lets us KNOW it's a front, and makes us love him anyway. Harry Dean Stanton made a career out of doing roles like this (and in fact, had a hell of a year in '84, also starring in one of the few films better than this, the masterful Paris, Texas) and provides exactly what you want from him. The rest of the cast is a glorious motley crew of hard-luck character actors, from Sy Richardon, Tom Finnegan and the brilliant Tracey Walter in the repo office, Olivia Barash as the adorable cultist, Jennifer Balgobin, Michael Sandoval and especially Dick Rude as the young punks, and Fox Harris, one of the best weirdos of the '80s, proving his worth here as the one-eyed driver of the Malibu everyone's so interested in.The film strings itself along by vacillating between these two poles, the grounded real dangers of the repossession trade, and the mysterious supernatural threats pertaining to the government agencies, the extraterrestrial organization, and the car whose contents can decimate a human body, leaving only their smoldering shoes. The direction is fine, the acting is a blast, the pacing is scrumtrilescent, the storyline is whacked in the best way possible, and it's a film I just can't imagine someone with a taste for the absurd who couldn't like Repo Man, and as its 6.8 on the IMDb can attest, I find it sad that people can dislike it at all.Let's have a moment of silence for White Heat. Repo Man, welcome to the top 300.Grade 9/10 (A-) / #4 (of 25) of 1984 / #264 of all time "}{"Title":"It's 3AM, do you know where Alex Cox is?","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm wondering because, really, I have no idea. Alex Cox seeminglyappeared out of thin air, directed two of the most brilliant films ofthe 1980s, and returned to oblivion. I see, thanks to handyhypertext links, that he has in fact directed several other moviessince 1986's Sid and Nancy, but I am altogether unfamiliar with allof them. I also hear that they're no good. In any event, at least he had two great movies in him...Repo Man, a hyper-kinetic hodge-podge of mid-1980s pre-millennium hysteria, science fiction, and Zen, is and has beenone of my favorite movies since my teenage years. Consideringhow many other favorites of my adolescent mind (ClockworkOrange in particular) have faded, there must be something toRepo Man that lets it retain its ability to amaze me to this day. It is,for better or worse, the movie I force upon anyone who asks for arecommendation and, as of yet, they've not disappointed. The film is rather difficult to describe. There're aliens, shadygovernment agencies, and several repo men. There's also a lot ofgreat, golden-era LA punk (Black Flag and the Circle Jerks inparticular) and the hunt for a Chevy Malibu with a secret in the trunkthat will knock you out of your boots. The acting here is top-notch, with Emilio Estevez pulling his weightas Otto and Harry Dean Stanton again proving that he may, in fact,be America's greatest actor. His portrayal of Bud, the wizened repoman who shows Otto the ropes, is a manic masterpiece and,really, I often wonder if he was acting. Repo Man, once it starts, never slows down. Sight gags and greatlines fly at the audience every minute and the cinematography ofLos Angeles transforms the City of Angels into a seeminglypost-apocalyptic wasteland (the tone and mood Alex Cox capturesin this film is amazing - the sort of paranoid melancholy - and isdue in large part, I believe, to the film's photography). This moviefeels as though it's flying by the seat of its pants and could havewound up being an absolute mess. That it didn't is to the credit ofMr. Cox, who prevented a wreck and created a masterpiece.(I still think the scene of Otto walking in slow-motion down thestreets of LA is one of the most perfect moments in cinemahistory). "},{"Title":"Hey, that's my car!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Off the wall film about men who repossess cars. Or was it? Finally, they get to repo the car that everybody wants, but they still don't get to make a buck out of the deal. I enjoyed watching this one, but it wasn't what I expected. Very weird. "},{"Title":"Repo Man","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Intense and bizarre cult favorite that stars the brilliant Stanton as a sleazeball repossesor of automobiles and a young Estevez, who shines as a foul mouthed punk who finds that stealing cars is pretty lucrative. You talk about 80's films...Wow! There's enough punk rockers here to bring back some wild thoughts.  "},{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked the fact they added on a bad boy into this. I loved how Emilio Estevez' character Otto had like this I don't effing care attitude because that's just what I love seeing in a characters personality - standing up for your rights. He actually did look kinda cute for a bad boy haha. He would remind you of Ryan Gosling without the romantic phase being involved. Although you would admit he is a ladies man. What lead character isn't? This movie does lead you into different genres from comedy to Sci-fi action. It really doesn't bore you to death. Unfortunately while watching the movie, I was getting really tired so I had to skip the middle part through the end. At least it was a great ending but I kinda regret not watching most of it but anyway, it's a good movie! I would recommend people given this a watch, it is pretty underrated! "},{"Title":"Overrated and insulting to its viewers","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man is a shoddy, amateur movie with a few funny elements (the mad scientist, the wise mechanic, the greedy televangelist) which might entertain you if you're a teen and don't expect much. If you actually want a story or point from a movie, however, it's a pretty insultingly stupid film.I don't mind that the plot doesn't make sense. If Repo Man were just a series of skits about the weird & goofy characters in its dingy urban setting, it'd be an OK novelty. But it's a big problem when the movie honestly wants us to feel tension & sympathy for its lousy characters. We're supposed to be rooting for Otto, the protagonist, especially towards the end of the film near the climax. But Otto is an utterly repulsive, self-centered brat! Every character in the film is more enjoyable than him; some characters seem to actually care about him as friends, but Otto mistreats and betrays them for no reason other than he's a scumbag. He never grows or learns anything. And the filmmakers expect us to like Otto, relate to him, and root for him. Get why it's insulting yet?The characters in general would be a lot more solid if the director had a clue what he was doing. Bud is the only truly memorable character, simply because he's played by Harry Dean Stanton, who knows how to act even when he's in a movie with a lousy director. All the characters are inconsistent and vague. For instance, here's a rent-a-cop character who I guess is meant to be dislikable, but he's so poorly handled that it seems like the movie & characters just give him a hard time for no reason. The character of Marlene the receptionist is also very muddled and, in the end, completely useless despite getting a lot of screen time in the final act. She & the rent-a-cop have a confrontation that comes out of nowhere and is so pointless & stupid that it's cringe-inducing to watch. The whole film gives you the impression that just one person had 3 or 4 funny ideas, then everyone else just rushed to get the thing finished as quickly as possible. You never feel like the people who worked on it cared or had any personal investment.The worst part, though, is that the film makes a few weak attempts at social commentary and satire but NEVER develops any of these ideas. This aspect changes Repo Man from a goofy, lighthearted flick to a hollow and pathetic attempt at pretension. There's talk about communism vs capitalism, a totally pointless recurring reference to scientology (I'd call it a running gag but there's no gag about it), a muddled and awkward dig at people who blame their problems on society, and so on. But there's no actual statement behind any of these. The movie pretends to be edgy and relevant, but it's totally bland and toothless and safe.These pretentious elements all serve no purpose except possibly to dupe viewers into thinking there's depth & meaning. This is the biggest case of Repo Man treating its audience like gullible idiots, and this element pushes the film from being a silly novelty to being an outright insult to its viewers. "},{"Title":"Cutting Cultural Satire From Writer/Director Alex Cox","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Endlessly Quotable Cult Movie From Writer/Director Alex Cox is Filled to the Frame with Sight Gags and Witty Placements All Begging for Repeated Viewings. The Icon of Los Angeles, The Car, is Central to the Plot of a Frenetic Chase to Find a Chevy Malibu (Calif.), that for Some Reason is Worth a $20,000 Finders Fee. What Transpires is an Onslaught of Cultural Witticisms, Puns, and Satire About Everything From Consumerism, Religion, Pop-Culture, Fringe Groups, and the Kitchen Sink.It is a Beautiful Blend and a Barrage of Mind Tweaking that is Oh So Infrequent in the Mainstream of Movies Made for the Masses. Part of its Charm is the Way All of this INTENSITY is Handled with Such a Likable Tone of Aloof Awareness and Serious Silliness.Emilio Estevez has Never Been Better and Harry Dean Stanton is Casting Genius. The Rest of the Cast Also Make This a Winner About a Bunch of Losers. It's Rich and Rewarding for Anyone Willing to Concede its Pretense of a Painful Examination of Who and What We Are, and What We are Waiting For, and What We Do While We are Waiting.Whether it be the Rapture or the Aliens Coming to Save Us, Religion, Communism, or Self Help Mumbo Jumbo. The Point to This Thing Might Be That There is No Point, or that No Matter What Vehicle We Take to Get There, We All End Up at the Same Place. One of the Top Cult Films of All Time. Seems to Make Everyone's List. See it to See if it Makes Yours. "},{"Title":"An unruly masterpiece","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Harry Dean Stanton is perfectly cast as Bud, who mentors punk Otto in the ways of the repo man, which usually involves drugs, alcohol and car chases. Throw in an alien in the back of a trunk of a Malibu that vaporizes people and you have one of the great oddities from the 1980s. Repo Man isn't just some offbeat relic from an era that churned out so much cult cheese, it's a brilliantly shot, nihilist comedy that holds up perfectly today. It's also a brilliant debut for director Alex Cox, whose career quickly took a nosedive and never recovered. There hits a point in the last act that throws out any pretense of narrative and goes for broke. It's almost screwball in the way Cox throws everything at the wall and hopes it sticks and most of it does. It's all the characters running amok and while some of it doesn't make a lick of sense, it's all so bonkers you'll have either given up by this point or submitted to just go along with it. Repo Man is a one of a kind classic. "},{"Title":"An Excellent And Hilarious Sci/FI Comedy And One Of The All-Time Great Cult Classics.","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man is an excellent and hilarious SCI-FI/Comedy and is a classic. A brilliant combination of great direction,a wonderful cast,well-written screenplay,beautiful photography and an amazing soundtrack,Repo Man is not only one of my favorite movies but one of the all time great Cult Classics.Set in Los Angeles,California,Repo Man tells the story of Otto(Emilio Estevez),a teenage punk rocker that lives an aimless life until a Repo Man named Bud(Harry Dean Stanton)hires Otto to repossess a car. After repossessing the car Otto is hired as new Repo Man in which Bud and other Repo Men show Otto the ropes. Meanwhile,there is a 20,000 reward for a 1964 Chevy Malibu that has something strange in the trunk which leads to hilarious situations for Otto who finds out life for a Repo Man is always intense.Repo Man is great film and is one of the best Cult films of all-time because there was nothing like Repo Man in 1984 and I don't think there has been many films like Repo Man since it's release. I mean can you name a film that mixes SCI-FI,Comedy,Punk Rock,Satire,Mystery all in one film? I can't think of many films that mixes together genres so effortlessly and gets away with it. Repo Man throws in everything but the kitchen sink and gives us one of the best genre mash-up films ever made. The first five minutes of the film set the tone for the rest of the movie giving viewers a movie that is filled with hilarious and bizarre situations,a movie that is so original and unique that sets up it's own world and rules with reckless abandon giving viewers a real world that is distorted and offbeat. Repo Man has a lot funny and wild scenes in the film whether it Repo Men stealing cars,government agents,Teenage thieves,crazy scientists,rival Repo Men and quotable lines with every character using personal feelings about how they deal with life. The film is episodic but never feels uneven or disjointed where you feel like every scene in the film fits together and I think that is one of the reasons I love the film so much. Each scene and situation in the film becomes more and more weird as the film goes on and as you watch the film you are never sure where the film is going to go. I also love the Satire in this film as Repo Man takes shots at Evangelists,the U.S Government and food and drinking products(all food and drinking products are non-brand)and it's funny. The original screenplay by Alex Cox is is excellent and well-written giving many of the characters quotable lines and dialog that is over the top almost to the point you are going to be quoting the lines yourself. With Cox's screenplay every character is unique and out of this world and original. Cox's brilliant screenplay is one of the things that makes Repo Man a classic. The photography by Robby Muller is stylish and beautiful making Los Angeles and the world Repo Man look mysterious and at the same time strange and crazy. The photography is one of the things that gives RM it's greatness and brilliance. The characters Bud and Otto are such classic characters and you will love them as soon as they hit the screen. Bud is a great character because he loves his job as a Repo Man,has his own ideals and beliefs and doesn't care what anybody thinks or says about him. Otto is a character most of us can relate to because Otto while he is rebellious and intense Otto doesn't know what to do with himself or his future until he meets Bud and Bud in some ways gives him direction in a funny fashion. Bud and Otto are two characters you will never forget. The ending of Repo Man is one of the greatest original endings I have ever seen in a film,it's so bizarre and weird and at the same time leaves open a lot of questions that are left unanswered. Repo Man's ending is something that you will never forget and is one of the reasons Repo Man has endured as a classic.The whole cast does great jobs in their roles. The always amazing Harry Dean Stanton is excellent and funny as Bud,with Stanton being cool and saying great lines. Emilio Estevez is brilliant as Otto,with Estevez bringing charm and laughs to the role and Estevez has great scenes with Stanton. Tracey Walter is wonderful as Miller,a man who thinks a lot. Olivia Barash is great as Leila,a government agent who becomes Otto's girlfriend. Sy Richarson is fantastic as Lite,another Repo Man. Del Zamora and Eddie Veldez are memorable and fun as Largeto and Napoleon The Rodriguez Brothers rival Repo Men. Fox Harris is wild and over the top as J. Frank Parnell,the driver of the 1964 Chevy. Dick Rude(Duke),Jennifer Balgobin(Debbi)and Michael Sandoval(Archie)are a laugh riot as the trio of thieves who are also Otto's friends. Tom Finnegan is great as Oly,boss of the Repo Men. Susan Barnes is weird and mysterious as Agent Rogersz. Zander Schloss(Kevin),Vonetta McGee(Marlene)and Richard Foronjy(Plettschner)give good performances as well. Also look for cameos by Jimmy Buffett(Additional Blond Secret Agent),Helen Martin(Mrs. Parks)and Punk band Circle Jerks.The direction by Alex Cox is brilliant,with Cox always moving the camera and giving the film a great style,pace and visual style. Wonderful direction by Cox.The score by Steven Hufstetern and Humberto Larriva is fantastic,eerie and matches the tone of this film. Great score. Repo Man also a amazing soundtrack with songs by Iggy Pop(Theme song Repo Man),Circle Jerks(Coup D'Tat,When The S*** Hits The Fan),Suicidal Tendencies(Institutionalized),Black Flag(TV Party),Fear(Let's Have A War)and more. A brilliant Punk Rock soundtrack.In final word,if you love Cult films,Comedy,SCI-FI,Genre films or films in general,I highly suggest you see Repo Man,an hilarious,original and offbeat film that is not only a Cult classic but also a film classic and is a movie you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Boat in the Woods....","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lesson about love. Lesson of love. Rough, tough, cold, disturbing. Stone and crush. And fly.Water as soul of a basic story. A punk rocker, a father and some repo men. A trip. Some beautiful images. Few days. The end of dream. A movie in the shroud of silence.About questions and lost answers, about world like strange fight against yourself, about search of truth. About God, in fact. This film is religious in a form who must discover step by step. After a time it is more that a drama, remember about your father or your boys, about the family and memories of an old age but occasion to be honest. Repo Man is without definition or rules. May be a letter or a testimony , a photo or a tower, a boat in black wood or only way to home. A movie who must be see. It is enough! "},{"Title":"Melon Farmers!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film ages ago on BBC2. They screened a cut version of the film. Funnily enough, Alex Cox himself supervised the cutting of the film. Hence the phrase Melon farmer was used instead of ..........Anyway I always preferred this version of the film for Alex Cox showing the absurdity of censoring bad language in films. As anyone who ever saw the premiere of Die hard on ITV will probably testify. "}{"Title":"Not weird enough, but hey, that's cool.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see Repo Man when it was first released because I heard it was weird.  That's perfect, I love my brain turned in peculiar directions.  Well, maybe it's the life I lead, but I didn't find Repo Man especially weird.  It's a nice little tale, but it seemed too familiar.  I can't say where or when, but it's out there somewhere and I've been there.  And that's OK.  It's probably a generational thing -- the movie resonated all those raw fresh nerve endings of the times.  And besides, when you're first getting your brain twisted around really strange ideas it's pretty profound and always a rush.  That's cool -- though as time goes by it gets harder to find that kind of rush.  So as more years pass and other weird little films come out, but somehow just aren't weird enough, Repo Man can always remind you what it was like. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A punk rock classic!!yes it is an acquired taste but it is hilarious and truly original.  Great soundtrack by Iggy Pop, Circle Jerks, Suicidal Tendencies etc... "},{"Title":"Strange Little Movie...","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Story The plot of this movie is somewhat difficult to describe and it's even more difficult to make sense out of it. What I can say confidently is that this is a dark, absurdist comedy about a punk kid who gets roped into being a repo man and his bizarre adventures along the way. This movie has a small cult following, so I'm preparing to get ripped apart when I say this, but some of the writing is brilliant, like Fox Harris as a mad scientist bragging about getting a lobotomy or Tracey Walter's bit ranting about how humans must have paradoxical origins in the future, but the rest is just plain terrible. This movie tries way too hard to be smart and hip and edgy. The end result is somewhere between self parody and pretentious bullshit. I know that I'm supposed to laugh at the ridiculousness of lines like, Let's go do some crimes! Yeah, let's get sushi and not pay! but instead I just groaned in embarrassment for the movie. So, yeah, the story gets a D, as in doggy.Acting There are some really good performances here, the best being Harry Dean Stanton as a very dry, crazed repo man who thinks he's the wisest man alive but doesn't really know anything. Emilio Estevez... I'm not sure what to say. He plays the worst kind of scum on the planet, and he does it well. So, if I was supposed to hate my main protagonist, then I guess he did a good job. If not, if he was supposed to a likable anti-hero, then he failed. Everything he did, everything he said, and just the look on his face made me want to hit him or hope someone in the movie (which, fortunately they do hit him, so wish granted). As already mentioned, Tracey Walter does a good job and Fox Harris makes a great mad scientist. C Direction Again, this is a hard one to call, and it's hard to decide whether I'm complaining about the story or the direction. The timeline just doesn't work in this movie. The big offender comes when Emilio gets ticked when Emilio gets ticked with Harry and gets out of his car in a rage. A completely unrelated scene follows. I'm not sure if said scene was supposed to take place five minutes later, a day later, a week later, or what. Emilio runs into Harry later, and they're fine with each other, as if they never had a fight. Later in the movie, I guess they remembered their little spat, and then they're fighting again. Now, maybe the script was written chronologically and then was pieced together in a different order in post, in which case this is the directors fault. Or maybe it was bad writing. I don't know. I didn't see the script. In any case, both categories suffered. D Visuals These were actually pretty good and some of the best laughs in the movie came from the sheer ridiculousness of the visuals. I liked the thing in Fox Harris' trunk and I liked the ending sequence. So, I guess I'll give this a B.Overall I ended this movie feeling very conflicted. The things that were good were great, the things that were bad were awful. It is a cult classic, so perhaps you should see it to see what all the fuss is about, but I can only really recommend this movie to those who like arty, surrealist style movies. It's kinda funny at times, but not a gut busting comedy, so I can't recommend it on those grounds. Basically, if you're not an art student and are able to watch it for less that five dollars, it might be worth your time, but only if you've seen all the other movies first. D "},{"Title":"The weirdest cult movie i've seen.","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Due to the fact that this movie's made in 1984, the special affects aren't all that great. The plot of this movie is bizarre especially the ending of the movie, i wonder if this movie was made for stoners, anyways i like the idea of Repo Man, stealing cars  & getting some commission for it. The movie starts of with  more than enough information, his girlfriend cheating on him him getting fired at his job. There's more than enough parts in this movie that are pointless. The movie looks like it was made in a rush in some ways. This movie is pretty funny in some bits, i was thinking to myself if this movie wasn't based on some weird ufo thing in the trunk of a car then this would've been more entertaining rather than bizarre. I liked this movie in someways but even though i wouldn't recommend this movie to people who like normal movies. I give this movie a 5.5 / 10. mainly because i thought Emilio Estevez was great through out the movie, otherwise nothing really worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Reasons why this movie rocks","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1.) This film perfectly nails the despair, bleakness and fierce dog-eat-dog amorality of the Reagan-era 80's. The rivalry between the two different groups of car repossessors, the gang of stick-up punk hoodlums who are always robbing various stores, and the overall mood of merry nihilism suggest a world that's gone totally topsy-turvy. 2.) The first-rate cast all give terrific performances. Harry Dean Stanton delivers a marvelously crusty portrayal as Bud, a weary and cynical veteran repo man who shows disaffected punk Otto (superbly played by Emilio Estevez in his best-ever role) the ropes. Olivia Barash as brassy love interest Leila, Tracey Walter as spacey philosophical mechanic Miller, Sy Richardson as the funky Lite, Vonetta McGee as sassy secretary Marlene, and Fox Harris as brain-fried lobotomized scientist J. Frank Parnell are all likewise outstanding. 3.) The amazing punk rock soundtrack From Iggy Pop's awesome ending credits theme song to the nifty club appearance by the Circle Jerks, the soundtrack smokes in no uncertain terms. 4.) There are cool cameos by Luis Contreras as a supermarket security guard, Jimmy Buffett as a blond federal agent, Angelique Pettyjohn as a repo wife, and writer/director Alex Cox as a car wash attendant. 5.) The incredible quotable dialogue (favorite line *Beep* this; let's go do some crimes). 6.) The hilarious running gag about the generic food labels. 7.) The positively gut-busting convenience store shoot-out. 8.) Cox concocts a wickedly fresh, funny and on the money delightful multi-genre pastiche which deftly combines elements of black comedy, science fiction, conspiracy thriller and even film noir into a singularly wired and original cinematic brew. 9.) Robby Muller's sharp, sparkling cinematography gives this picture a gorgeously polished look. 10.) There's an infectious raw energy and hilariously quirky sense of blithely anarchic dark humor to be relished in every last gloriously gonzo frame of this fabulously flipped-out one-of-a-kind idiosyncratic gem. "},{"Title":"Repo this movie","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The years have been cruel to this film. People who like this movie must be caught up in 1980s nostalgia.The acting, scripting, editing, & effects in Repo Man are now student film production quality at best. Apart from Stanton everyone's performances including Estevez are high school grade amateur standard.This movie starts out scratchy and ordinary and then rapidly goes down hill before dropping off the edge of a cliff towards the end. I think the description of reviewers that this film is 'absurdist' is just a cover for it's incompetence, poor choppy editing and lazy scripting. It's an Emperor's new clothes scenario.The plot becomes stupid and inconsistent towards the end. Eg. People are sick but then not sick when around the magic car. There isn't much comedy to speak of. Just a few limp one lines. The Special in Special Effects in this film is more like the special in special school. The glowing flying car at the end in particular is incredibly poorly done. It's like they ran out of money and patience while making this thing.If you watch this movie you will be wasting 90 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"Only insomnia","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Only insomnia ensured that I saw this film for the third time when it was screened late at night on TV last night. I saw it in the cinema in the 1980's - how this film captures the era - and on TV when I was visiting New Zealand some years later in a hilariously bowdlerised version, peppered with expletives rendered as flip you and holy sheepdip etc. Reminiscent of an extra on the Sean of the Dead DVD with its tame funkings and prinks dubbed in.Alex Cox was a director who burned brightly for a very short time in the mid-eighties. Straight to Hell was surely a contender for the worst film of all time accolade. Cox did pop up again as an astute presenter of cult films on British television.Repo Man is one of those quirky cinematic gems which deserve cult status. A pretty savage picture of an era of monetarist economics and violent young punks, but it's hard not to feel nostalgic about it if that was when you were young(ish) yourself. In this film Emilio Estevez will ever be young and p*ssed off and Harry Dean Stanton at his peak following his tour de force of a performance in Paris, Texas. "},{"Title":"A unique cult film","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Repo Man is a person that repossesses things if they haven't been paid for.After being dumped by his girlfriend, and losing his job, Otto gets a visit from a man in a car, who offers him $10 to drive a car to his lot. The man tells him that he has to drive his Grandma to the Hospital, but can't leave his car in the area, or else it will get stolen. Otto takes this task, and completes it. The man reveals that his name is Bud, and that Otto was actually helping Bud repossess a car.Since he has no job, Otto agrees to work for the group of repo men, hence the title. Soon, he's taking cars from all over the place and meets Leila. Eventually, a strange twist happens that has something to do with a bomb and a Chevy Malibu.However, the story seems to fall in the middle and end. The middle is just numerous chase scenes that happen over and over again, and it manages to move rather slowly. The ending takes a good twist, but makes no sense at all, while every character somehow manages to get a hold of a gun.The films other flaw seems to be that Otto is nearly un-likable, and shows no signs of character development.I suppose the appeal of the film is in the dialogue and/or imagination.The director and writer Alex Cox created the dialogue himself. I didn't really get it, but I did enjoy the speech about humans coming from the future. Truly imaginative.I guess I will never get cult films, but they do have their audiences. For example, my dad is in love with this movie, my mom with Big Trouble in Little China and my sister with Napoleon Dynamite and Nightmare before Christmas. Good Dialogue, imagination and possibly&#133;humor Bad Long, repetitive and makes no sense Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"Repo Without a Cause.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  REPO MAN is a fun sci-fi flick about an L.A. punk (Emilio Estevez) who gets pulled into the world of car reposession, with the main target being a strange '64 Chevy Malibu with aliens in the trunk.  For a movie with cheap looking effects, this one stands out as an entertaining portrayal of an urban punk trying to be himself and not trying to fit in with the other punks, though some of the other actors barely make an impression and some performances are a little below par, but that's beside the fact that this is a movie worth watching.3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Low budget & really bad","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cannot fathom for a second why anyone would like this film, much alone call it one of the greatest ever. This movie was pure low budget garbage, and here's why.Estevez's character was so unlikable. Harry Dean Stanton's character raved on and on about nothing important. There was no point to the story. The acting throughout was lousy. It was like they filmed everything in one take. There was nobody else on the streets during the scenes, could they even afford extras? Cheap effects. Bad camera angles from the one camera they used through the film. Poor editing. Characters lacked common sense. They lacked brains. Their lines were terrible. Does pure gibberish appeal to everyone who liked this movie? There was absolutely no redeeming qualities to any of the characters. I kept waiting for this film to be over.I almost stopped it midway through and quit like I did with MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE, another of Emelio's worst. Hanging around a bunch of repo men sure looks depressing. What a crappy job to have.There are a lot better 80's classics out there, I'd skip this one. How the hell can anyone even want to see this more than once? That's what boggles me about many of these reviews.Another commenter said you either get this film or you don't. I don't get it. 1 star out of 10. "}{"Title":"What is WRONG with you People?!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"       I don't feel I have to qualify my statements to anyone regarding the disgustingly bad Repo Man but I will for the sake of this movie so as I won't be called an elitist movie-swing. I love cult. I love cult-movies. I love all kinds of cult-movies. I like everything from Monty Python, Highlander, Rocky Horror Picture Show, Night of the Living Dead, Evil Dead, Dead Alive, John Water's Hairspray, and even Ed Wood movies. Niche movies that are so bad they're good, or that are shunned by popular audiences because they were ahead of their times, that only a few caught on.Repo Man tries too damn hard. It tries to be witty with bizarre dialogue laced with profanity, like some quasi-proto-Tarantinoesque influence gurgles in this movie, but it's neither raw nor edgy, it just falls flat like bricks plopping out of the characters' mouths.Some scenes are painful to watch as characters stand around like they're waiting for their lines to be fed to them. Comedic action builds up like a steam-cooker set to ultra-low, and instead of a bang, it's more like a queef. The landscape of Eighties era Los Angeles, and its urban decay is an interesting backdrop to this cadre of Repo Men who live day-by-day like Japanese Ronin, with nothing but their wits and their Code of Honor but instead of building on this, it just comes off as - Who Cares?When I questioned the reason behind the Generic labeling of everything from Food to Beer- I thought it was perhaps the director attempting to get some subtext regarding the extremes of America's Free Capitalism and its antithesis, Communism, but after seeing the trivia on the movie here on IMDB, it's merely the fact that the director and producers couldn't get money for product placement. Okay, perhaps some might say that I was looking for too much meaning where there was none, but then the same could be said that there were no characters, no story, no compelling reason that this movie should be rated so highly. It's just there are so many other better films, with better acting, quirkier characters, and funny dialogue that totally bury this film.The only reason I can surmise that this movie is so popular, is because it would be an ideal movie to watch when totally inebriated or stoned. But I'd rather watch 2001 A Space Odyssey than Repo Man, if I was stoned....but hey one man's stoner movie is another's trash-bin testament to bad cinema. "},{"Title":"Better hanging out with Repo Men, than the repoman","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Repo Man which earned 80's cult status, isn't anything to make a big fuss of, but if seeing it back in the 80's, it would a much more positive impact on me. The idea is intriguing. Tough guy, Estevez, the star here, does well. In my opinion, he's an under-appreciated actor, he's much better actor than you think, in front of the naked eye. Is he a better actor than his brother, Charlie? Seriously.... yes. He transforms well into different characters, his career should of gone further, or may'be he decided to give up the acting gig and just concentrate on writing and directing. I'd go with the latter, but he shouldn't of quit acting. In fact he is bloody good in this, as Otto, who unwittingly finds himself, sucked into some repo work, but also falls in love with a weird girl who harbors a secret, involving aliens. Unfortunately Otto and co, repo an alien's car. Whenever someone opens a boot of this car, that someone is only left with their boots as they're body disappears, prefore we see a blinding light and the victim's lit up skeleton, which I found fascinating, although the film I didn't. We have some pro actors too. The actor alien is great, but on the surface RM isn't anything special. It does have it's comic moments (the scene with Estevez and stoned TV. glued parents is a hoot) It's surprising to think Cox followed this up with the much bigger and better, Sid And Nancy. To me RM is small fry, compared to the other, but you gotta start somewhere. Trademark, is ballsy Estevez, calmly retorting, to his new employers, by purposely wasting a perfectly good can of beer. Unforgettable. It's strange how not much happening movies earned cult status like this. It's just a too cool for school movie That's your answer. "},{"Title":"First impressions  Sympathetic, but Confused","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been watching this film as part of a current infatuation with 80s trashy sci-fi movies.Repo man is one of those cult movies that has acquired a sort of legendary status. People seem to love it or hate it. I can sort of see where that love or hate response comes from, but I just didn't feel either way about it.First of all, the acting in this movie. It's funny B-movie stuff. Harry Dean Stanton is a classic lowlife bastard, Emilio Estevez plays the dumb punk convincingly, and the rest of the cast are a satisfying bunch of flat stereotypes. So far so good, that's the way it should be in a movie like this.I also liked the overall styling of the film. Alex Cox clearly wanted to show modern life as grimy, ugly, and sleazy as he could, and I think he did a fairly good job. The generic food, drink, and beer labels, the general lack of decent people throughout the film, and the wrong-side-of-the-tracks feel of the scenery, all add up to the over the top trashy atmosphere.Now for the bad news  The plot. It's there somewhere, but it somehow gets lost between all the comedy scenes and the incidents of repo-man life. I found myself forgetting about the Malibu and the aliens several times during the movie. Maybe that isn't so bad, since the idea is a little far-fetched to say the least. It was a bold idea to mix the corrupt repo men story with the science fiction elements, but somehow the genres don't seem to really mix, they are just thrown in the same movie without any clear sense of how the two fit together.That being said, I did enjoy this movie, for the effort it makes. It's a weird idea, which unfortunately doesn't really go anywhere, but it certainly has many entertaining moments. I'd recommend it to anyone willing to waste 90 minutes on a couple of good laughs. If you're looking for more than that, go watch something else. "},{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The cult film. We all have at least one. Truly loving an obscure or absurd film is like being in a secret society. It has its own lingo, and sometimes even its own dress code. Somehow I've managed to avoid 'Repo Man', one of the ultimate cult films, for nearly thirty years. So when I stumbled upon a VHS copy while on a recent thrift store sojourn, I thought it was well worth ninety nine cents to see what the fuss was about. Turns out not much.I really wanted to like this film, even thought for a few minutes that I would love it, but ultimately its nothing more than a proto 'Dude, where's my car?' with more four letter words and less narrative clarity. In short; I hated it. With its heavy satire, punk rock soundtrack and absurd story, I can definitely understand why it became a cult classic. I'm just not ready to drink the Kool-Aid. "},{"Title":"A lame and senselessly profane 80's cult movie","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've heard about Repo Man and its legendary status for a long time, mostly because of the edited-for-TV version that scrubbed out the profanity with Shoot, Flip and Melonfarmer overdubs which might make for a hilarious viewing...if you're lucky to have seen this edited version on television one late Friday night.The movie is one of the worst of the 80's that you might never have seen but know of its cult legend. Please don't be a fool by renting the movie thinking it will be funny as it's on the comedy section at a video store. It's the opposite of what you'd expect and it will infuriate you for wasting $1.50 rental fee or less on this trash heap.Why is it a trash heap? Because the plot is a totally one-joke shot. You'll see what I mean when you witness the mind-blowingly lame and anti-climatic ending. Not to mention dumb plot and character arcs and useless dialogues -- some flippant remarks this, profane insults that for humor effect.Alex Cox was a smug, hack filmmaker for writing and directing such a pointless and idiotic script. What were the financiers and producers thinking when they read the script? Hilarious and unconventional yet splendidly creative? I saw Sid & Nancy several years ago and didn't like that movie (except for the brave performances of the insane lovers), but Repo Man take the cake in being one of the most pointless and annoying movies of the 80's decade. The only scenes worth watching are the amusing scenes with the punk criminals (mohawk haircuts and all) because 80's was quite a nostalgic time for the youthful.Moronic story, why'd they agree to appear in this? acting and offensively dumb script make for the mind-numbingly tedious experience trying to make sense out of the schizo plot (what plot?). Alex Cox should go back to law school, I think he'd make an interesting living as an entertainment attorney representing underground punk bands. He's a good writer but this movie is embarrassing for everyone involved.1/2 star out of four "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is at the top of my list of all-time worst movies I've ever seen. It's been a while since I've seen it but nothing else has come along that stinks as much as this. I guess it probably wouldn't be that bad if it at least had a decent plot, but c'mon... the FBI hiring repo men to look for a car with dead aliens in the trunk? This is ridiculous because the FBI would have law enforcement looking for the vehicle, not repo men. The plot is extremely weak, the acting sucked, and the ending was the absolute worst. OK so they find the car, and then they start flying around in it? It's very anti-climactic. They could have at least gotten picked up by a spaceship or something, or at least had some explanation as to why/how the alien bodies are so powerful, but no... just open the trunk and get zapped, unless you're the repo man hero, then you get to fly around in the car. Just stinking awful, and Emilio should be ashamed at this ultra-low budget turkey he obviously was just trying to do something to pay the bills with. "},{"Title":"Doesn't make much sense anymore","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading on the IMDb about how awesome this movie is, I decided to rent it and watch it with a friend, expecting something amazing. Sadly, we did not get much out it, even though we tried hard to enjoy it.It has a lot of nice touches&#150;hilarious performances by Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton, funny sight gags, a great soundtrack, etc.&#150;and the plot itself is pretty funny (it starts out like a mockumentary, but soon turns into general weirdness). But overall, I just couldn't like it.First of all, the supposedly great dialogue just didn't seem very funny. A repo man spends his life getting into tense situations. Let's go do some crimes. Did you ever feel as if your mind had started to erode? The writing is clever, but it's not really laugh-out-loud FUNNY. You have to think hard about every line before you get it. Not that this is a bad thing, but it gets kind of exhausting after awhile.The main problem, though, is that the movie feels painfully dated. I can see how young Gen-Xers must have thought this was coolest movie ever, but I think the humor just doesn't apply today. The Reagan administration is long gone, televangelism is dead, Zen has gotten old, and basically everything else the movie flips off has changed or disappeared. It is a great satire of the decade, but you have to understand every facet of the 80's to get it. Dr. Strangelove, which this has been compared to, was a good satire of another decade that still remains understandable and relevant. Repo Man, however, is severely lacking in timelessness... a key ingredient for a movie like this.6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is obvious that this movie was written not by professionals, but by actual repo men.  The so called plot hops around from aliens to drugs, and never makes sense.  The guys who wrote the movie apparently couldn't make a decision on the conflict, so they just tossed in everything they could think of.  "},{"Title":"This is a cu*t classic(the missing letter is not 'l')","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I initially came to know about the movie when I read an article in The Economic Times, nearly an year back. This was included in its list of 30 must watch movies for a B school grad. I downloaded it then and watched it today. After a long period of time, I had to go on different forums to understand what the f**k i just saw. Otto is a youngster who has been kicked out from his job at a supermarket. He is recruited as a re- possession man by Bud. There job is to take the possession of a car whose EMI has been delayed. The movie runs on a parallel track which gives it the weirdness. There is a scientist who has escaped with something lethal in the trunk of his car and various government agencies are trying to capture him. The acting is competent with Harry Dean Stanton getting the best lines. The special effects are amazingly amateur and some of the sci-fi sequences are unintentionally hilarious. The movie is a cult classic. But the reason behind this could not be understood by a normal mind like me. 2.5 out of 5 for the Repo Man. Went it with high expectations. am mildly disappointed. This was remade as Repo Men starring Jude Law. Won't be catching that anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has been called a cult classic, which usually means that some people love it and most people just don't get it.  Well, I didn't get this one.  As far as I could tell, there was no plot.  The story just droned on and on, and then mercifully ended without ever telling us anything.  Maybe I just missed the point, but I have never been brave enough to try it again. "}{"Title":"Weird Film That Only Appeals To The Pretentious","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I fail to see the appeal of REPO MAN . I concede that it contains a good opening hook where a policeman stops a car , opens the trunk and gets a nasty surprise . But after that the movie , like , the characters , just drives around aimlessly . It resembles a lot of movies of the period in that the musical soundtrack is more important than the thin narrative , but what makes it even worse is the painfully episodic quality of the storytelling . Just look at the number of scenes that feel they've been edited in the wrong order . I know that the sub genre known as  road movies  aren't famous for their tightly plotted structure . On top of that can anyone really explain the plot ? There's a difference between a cerebal film where the audience have to join up the dots but that's entirely different from one where the plot is absent . Director/screenwriter Alex Cox did later redeem himself with the biopic SID AND NANCY but seemed to disappear from the radar afterwards . The reason he's best remembered as being the presenter of the BBC's MOVIEDROME is that his films fail to appeal to a mainstream audience and REPO MAN greatly reflects this "},{"Title":"Sub-B Grade","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The funniest movie of all time! You HAVE to see itI was bored to death by this movie. Sure it has a few funny spots, but overall its just plain BAD. Is it popular because its this bad or is the joke to recommend it to all your friends as the funniest movie ever. I tried to watch it a second but my opinion of it just dropped lower.The acting is OK, but the script and dialogue is pathetic, but hey go watch it - it is after all the funniest movie ever.Did I screw with your mind? Maybe this is why people love this movie because it screws with your mind, but only if you let it. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was without a doubt the worst movie I've seen in a year.  Don't waste your time.  I don't understand how it got 6.7 out of 10.  The movie has no plot.  The science fiction part is overdone.  The idea of hot alien corpses going nova in the trunk of a car is stupid.  The character Bud is totally unrealistic.  Even at the dollar rental, I felt cheated. Yuck!!!  My $0.02. "},{"Title":"Absolutely worthless","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Looking at the relatively high score of this movie and all the glowing reviews here, I got duped into thinking that this might be some kind of cult classic, a hidden gem that I somehow missed, so I went to all the trouble of digging it up.Good God! This was the most pathetic pile of incoherent tripe that I ever had the misfortune of seeing, and I have seen a lot of bad movies. There is absolutely no plot of any kind, the acting is completely uninspired and unmemorable, and the story is... well, I would like to say absurd but that might possibly give you a misleading positive impression. The story is simply retarded.If this movie were about the adventures of a newly hired repo man taking other people's cars and running away, it might have been mildly entertaining, a light flick with car chases to help a boring afternoon pass sooner. But suddenly we have dead aliens(?!), some car with some radiation in the trunk which kills people and eventually gives it the ability to fly (no, I'm not making this up!), and several apparently conflicting government agencies hunting after it, with absolutely no sense to it all.This might look like I'm simplifying it too much, but really, that's all there is to it. It's a vapid pointless non-story about nothing at all.Many of the reviews here seem to idolize it as some sort of punk-rock anthem, imbuing it with a kind of coming-of-age symbolism, or claiming the absurdness is supposed to be off-beat or zany, and that you should watch this movie stoned.Believe me, no amount of chemicals can make this movie even remotely watchable. If you want a trippy movie, go watch Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas or something. There is nothing particularly punk rock about this movie, aside from the generic angry teenager stereotype, nor does it have any other vaguely redeeming qualities. There is nothing funny, deep, or sci-fi about this movie. It's pure, concentrated, seizure-inducing BOREDOM.People who watched it as kids in the 80's seem to have some nostalgic feelings towards it, and that might probably explain their misguided scores/reviews.If you've never seen this movie before, do yourself a favor and stay as far away from it as possible. "},{"Title":"not to great of a cult classic","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've often thought that I wouldn't like a great deal of the eighties cult classics that I do if I was exposed to them today. I think Repo Man might have proved my little theory. Like some people are saying I don't get it. I never watched this in the eighties. Although I got a few chuckles the humor seems mostly to be very amateurish. I also don't get why this is supposed to be a punk rock movie. There didn't seem to be that much punk rock in it just a lot of surf music and a few cliche punk rocker thugs. "},{"Title":"Repo Man","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It apparently had bad reviews, I'm not surprised, I couldn't understand the significance of it, why the critics give it four stars (out of five), and I dozed off somewhere in the middle. The story as far as I got is that punk Otto (The Breakfast Club's Emilio Estevez) quits his job, and starts working with Bud (Harry Dean Stanton) as a Repo Man (repossession for cars that have not been paid for). That's about it. I knew there was some sci-fi element because of the alien car or whatever, and at the end Otto gets in it and flies round the city, but this still wasn't enough to impress me. To be honest, as far as I saw, I'm not really bothered that I fell asleep during it, and I have no plans to watch/try it again for any reason. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"A Good Movie For Punks & Religious Bigots","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The release date says 1984 but it might as well say some year in the 1970s because it had that sleazy look and hate-filled, anti-religious bias that was so prevalent in films in that decade. It usually didn't take these filmmakers long to get their religious cheap shots in, and that's the case here, too.Within 15 minutes, the was the usual dig against TV evangelists (give it a rest!) and the people who listen to them, three usages of the Lord's name in vain and a ton of other profanities. it had that scummy '70s atmosphere right from the start. The lead character, Otto Maddox, (Emilo Estavez) is a real punk, too. This is another good example of Hollywood's hypocrisy of being tolerant to every group but Christians. Even if the bias doesn't bother you, the absence of a plot and the stupid dialog should. This is nothing but garbage. Punk-rockers, and just plain punks, love this film, and that should tell you something. "}]