[{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The franchise film!","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"51 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy (1984) was the first of many films from this series. Since this was the 80's and this film was very successful there was only one alternative, milk the cash cow until it was dry. Like most of these films, the first one is the best and most creative of the bunch. The film follows a bunch of losers and outcasts who join the local police academy for various reasons. The main character is Mahoney (played by Steve Guttenberg) a man with a shady past who enrolls in the academy as an alternative punishment for a previous criminal act. He becomes the motley crew's leader and representative.This movie made Guttenberg a star and it started a film series that would live on D.T.V. and make the producers a lot of money. It also gave people jobs and made others into minor stars. I found this movie to be very entertaining. If you're into juvenile humor and a bunch of cheap laughs, then I recommend this movie. Others need not apply. Followed by six sequels!!Recommended for some laughs and low brow humor. Hey, it's one of the essentials.xxx "},{"Title":"This shows that movies can be stupid and funny at the same time.","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, so Police Academy is probably the ultimate manifestation of the word witless. But it doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is nice, silly fun. The plot basically has a series of goof-off misfits enrolling in the police force and turning it topsy-turvy. Steve Guttenberg, as Cadet Carey Mahoney, may have to remember this as his peak in movies, and he does a pretty good job here.Anyway, the movie is pretty much an excuse to be silly. And they do just that. With hilarious one-liners and one gag after another, you won't be disappointed. Of course, I advise you not to watch it if you're the type who only wants to see important movies. "},{"Title":"A classic of 80's","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't understand why this movie has such a low rating on IMDb (right now it's 6.1, that isn't so bad but this movie deserves more). It's a classic comedy which is still funny even after 20 years. It always elate me. Jokes are pretty simple and even innocent compared to nowadays movies but that's probably what's good about this film because it's funny to watch to whole family. You'll fall in love with a characters and this movie itself so much that every time you'll hear a theme of Police Academy it will make you smile. If you haven't watched it yet you definitely have to do it because they don't make this kind of movies anymore. "},{"Title":"A laugh riot!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  During my spring break in 1984, I went up to Michigan to see some of my relatives. One day while I was up there I went to see Police Academy with my mom, my grandma, and a cousin. Before we saw this, I remembered Chicago Sun-Times film critic Roger Ebert gave this movie no stars. I also remembered Ebert reviewing this movie on his show At The Movies with his late partner Gene Siskel (this was before their show went nationwide and was retitled Siskel & Ebert). Ebert summed up Police Academy in one short sentence IT IS BAD!!! And Siskel agreed with him. But I went to see this movie anyway and to this day I'm glad that I did. Police Academy made me laugh my head off. After the movie was over I said it was the funniest movie since Airplane! This movie was so funny I went to see it a second time over Memorial Day weekend 1984 with a friend of mine here in Chicago. Police Academy still makes me laugh to this day. It's too bad the sequels didn't live up to this, the original. The second, third, and fourth movies in the series were marginally funny. The fifth and sixth movies were less funny and the series started to wear out its welcome. I've never seen the seventh movie Mission to Moscow but I heard it's a stinker. So I'm sticking with the first movie because it's the funniest.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know what got to me. This evening, I went to the video store and got this one. I first saw it back in the 80's. Now let's not go nuts and call this the best comedy of all times. But it's still a pretty decent one (or indecent if you prefer!). The movie is generally funny, the characters are likable, and it's filmed in Toronto! I was surprised to realize that with the first scene showing the Toronto skyline. Some scenes are very funny, especially the one with George Gaynes (Commandant Lassard). Ah! the podium scene! So funny! Pea-brain humor, but good pea-brain humor!Out of 100, I gave it 71. That's good for ** out of ****.Seen in Toronto, on April 5th, 2003. "},{"Title":"Up the Academy...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yep, this is the one that started it all.  The right one to blame.  Police Academy - never duplicated, countlessly imitated.But before you go throwing any stones...this one is funny.Yep, believe it or not, its joke success ratio is amazingly high.  Is it because it's R-rated?  That's a lot of it, but it also has a good pedigree. Director/co-writer Wilson also created TV's WKRP in Cincinnati, Israel and Proft have written Bachelor Party and some other funny stuff you may have heard of (they had a hand in the Naked Gun films).And the cast, in this instance, is fresh!  Guttenberg has seldom been better, nor has Cattrall (well, maybe except for Porky's), Gaynes, Bailey, Smith, Winslow or Easterbrook.  There are a handful of good lines, more good scenes here than in any four of the sequels you can name and plenty more opportunity for good old raunchy Animal House-style guffaws.You don't believe me?  Think about the scene with the hooker (Spelvin) in the speaker's podium.  Then think about the punch line (Good speech.).  You see?  Ah, memories.Take it from a hard-bitten veteran of the series.  This is as good as it gets.  You want to see a funny movie about cops?  Register at your local Police Academy.Six stars, plus a star more for Guttenberg's final scene.  Classic. "},{"Title":"Put your mind in neutral and be entertained!","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great movie for relaxing after a hard day at work. It's sheer escapism and good-humoured fun that only requires the watcher to put their mind in neutral, rest their feet, and not think too much.A lot of the gags are not very original; we've seen most of them before in some other form. But the basic premise of a Police Academy full of misfits provides a novel context. I've only seen this first movie of the series and don't really have plans to see any of the others. Can't believe they've made ssssssssooooo many sequels.Too much Police Academy could certainly wear a bit thin, but first time around it's sheer good fun. "},{"Title":"Bloody Good Fun","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Group of Wannabe's and a Doesn't Wannabe, Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) Join the Police Academy in the hope of becoming respected members of the Police Force.There's a problem, they are with out doubt the worst bunch of wannabe's the police academy has ever seen and Carey just can't wait to get kicked out, only being there because it was the only way he could avoid jail.Some Truly Funny Moments and lots of memorable characters, this film is a bloody good romp, that should be enjoyed by most people.Too bad the sequels generally sucked big time! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It turns out that the mayor of a city is wanting to have a better Police force and so opens up a more spaces in the Police Academy so that more people may apply. It turns out that the new applicants are a bunch of losers, wackos, and other various people that just don't fit in.The whole film is very funny. The characters are normal but very different making them look like complete misfits against each other. But the show is stolen by G.W. Bailey who plays the mean but brilliant Lieutenant Harris.The movie is a very funny and promising film that is lots of fun. ****   "},{"Title":"Oh this one is a Scream....","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this when it first came out...what's not to like-Rizzo from Mash's headlong flight...uh, at the horse there, the little accident prone guy's setting off a chain reaction by tossing an apple, Steve Guttenburg's goofy deadpan all throughout this, plus a scene involving George Grizzard and the Full Monica.  You will also enjoy Bubba Smith's driving lessons.Trust me. This one works, its funny, and its too bad the follow ups weren't as raunchy or original. Yeah you can fault it for being as subtle as the Three Stooges, but who cares? It's a hoot.*** outta ****, makes me laugh and why not? "}{"Title":"Made Itself Famous for just being stupid!!!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just read someone elses review on here and it was brief and to the point and made a lot of sense. Police Academy is just harmless fun. Is it stupid?? Oh my yes!! Cheap, dumb, pointless, low budget?? Yes, yes, yes and yes. Does any of that matter?? Not when it comes to the Police Academy. I mean you gotta give it some credit for spawning no less than 6 sequels!!! This is the film that started it all and for whatever odd reason you will find it will endear itself to you when it's all over. Something has to be said for the fact that it was made for just over 4 million dollars and grossed well over 100 million world wide. That pays for as many ridiculous pointless sequels as they want.The plot and premise is actually pretty good....the mayor lifts any and all restrictions on police academy recruits enabling people of all shapes, sizes, skills, and intelligence to join the academy. On top of that Carey Mahoney gets himself into trouble with the police and is forced to join the academy for training and he can't quit or he'll go to jail...but he can get thrown out, or try anyways. Police Academy really only works because of the characters. It's not even really the actors because let's face it the acting is campy as hell but the characters are so outlandish they are memorable. Steve Guttenberg who was really at the height of his career plays the wise cracking, prank pulling Carey Mahoney. His sarcasm, wit, and caring for his fellow cadets make him a great hero to the film. He probably does the best job in the film of acting which isn't saying all that much but the film is not about acting, it's about comedic timing and Guttenberg does a good job. I won't go over the entire cast but rather just the ones who the film kinda used as main characters. G.W. Bailey is the perfect protagonist to the film. He's mean, and you love to hate him and he's the perfect balance to Mahoney's character. Their characters are fun to watch square off. Bubba Smith as the larger than life Moses Hightower, is quiet but funny in his own way and his size brings him a lot of great funny moments. Donovan Scott is great too as the underdog, overweight, made fun of guy who you wanna see kick some butt and he does. David Graf, Michael Winslow, Bruce Mahler, and Marion Ramsey all play some diverse and funny characters each one with their own schtick and shortcomings. You'd think with all these characters it would be too much but they are all used in small doses to keep the comedy rolling and it works pretty well. George Gaynes plays Cmndt. Eric Lassard, the rather unintelligent, aging, senile leader of the Academy. His role is kind of a cult classic and he does have some great moments and he adds a touch of class to the cast.Director Hugh Wilson hasn't really done a whole bunch before or after Police Academy, nothing that stands out anyways, but he did put together this great cast and made a really stupid movie that people seem to love. As I watched it I couldn't help but think how incredibly dumb it all was but then something would happen to really make me chuckle and when it was done I realized that for some strange reason, I liked it. It just has a little something and I think it's the cast and the way the movie is put together, it absolutely doesn't take itself too seriously. If you're looking for an eighties comedy that has everything you would expect then Police Academy is the one to look for. 7/10 "},{"Title":"very bad taste can be very funny","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some of the funniest scenes on film. When Guttenberg says to Gaynes, You mean I'm trapped here? and the hapless Gaynes replies, Yes... We all are. I nearly died laughing. Twenty years later the line is still hilarious! In the one dimensional world of Police Academy, they really are all victims, trapped in their one dimensional roles. Of course Blanks and Copeland walking into the Blue Oyster bar deserves immortality. The joke was so good they put it in the 2nd or 3rd movie again. It was worth it just for the great tango music. Cadet Hooks (Marion Ramsey) singing Santa Claus is Coming to Town during the driving test was great. Tackleberry is stereotyped as every guy I served in the Army with, (that I didn't particularly like), yet manages to be very very funny. Hightower (Bubba Smith) was excellent as the child trapped in a football players body. Many of the other gags are forgettable slapstick and the makers added enough gratuitous breast shots of naked girls and bad language to appeal to teenage boys. I think only the first 2 PA's are worth watching. The second one is an excellent vehicle for Bobcat Goldthwaite and Tim Kasurinsky. Oh, watch for a very young Ed O'Neill (not credited) handing out uniforms on the first day at the Academy. Cheers "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy (1984) *** (out of 4) You're either going to be a fan of this film or you're going to downright hate it. I'm a fan and have been since first watching it as a kid. A group of misfits join the police academy after the Mayor opens the program up for anyone. This doesn't sit well with all especially Lt. Harris (G.W. Bailey) who wants to rejects out. Steve Guttenberg, Kim Cattrall, Bubba Smith, George Gaynes, David Graf, Leslie Easterbrook and Michael Winslow play the various rejects in this film and as a fan I think all of them make their roles quite memorable. I really think this film holds up very well today with its politically incorrect rumor and most of all its non-stop attempt to gain laughs. Not all of the gags work but the majority of them do and that makes for one very entertaining and funny film. There are countless great scenes including the speech from Gaynes where he has a special guest, Smith learning to drive and the infamous gay bar where two rats get sent for trying to spy. I've never understood why some critics took this film so serious. They call it stupid but I think that's the entire point. The movie isn't trying to win an Oscar nor is it trying to make an AFI list for the greatest movies ever made. The movie is just trying to be funny and it does that enough to where this is still a very memorable film no matter what the critics say. "},{"Title":"Affirmative Action For Idiots","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy and the subsequent films in the series is a guilty pleasure of mine. The films are puerile, vapid, stupid, gross beyond belief and I laugh my Glutteus Maximus off at them. So apparently did a large part of the American movie going public.The premise for the film is right at the beginning off screen narration where it is explained to the audience that a mayor's executive order in a quaint metropolitan area has said that the police academy will not discriminate on any grounds. Apparently that also includes intelligence as well. So we find that a whole lot of people are now applying to be cops.What a class they are too. They're headed by Steve Guttenberg who is given a choice by another police captain friendly to his late father who is concerned about Guttenberg's lack of direction in life. We've also got Kim Cattrall the rich débutante who's just bored with her life, David Graf who takes the gun/penis dichotomy to the extreme, Bubba Smith the peaceful florist, Bruce Mahler the henpecked husband, and little Marion Ramsey who has voice projection problems and my favorite Michael Winslow the human sound effect machine.Of course we have to have a villain and in this case and in a few subsequent episodes it's G.W. Bailey better known to today's audience as Lieutenant Provenza in Kyra Sedgwick's squad in The Closer. He will stop at nothing to run this group off the police force and they, especially Guttenberg, will stop at nothing to goof on him.Another favorite is George Gaynes the absolutely clueless commandant of the Police Academy. What that man can do with the word 'many.'Confession is good so embrace your inner grossness that allows you to enjoy the Police Academy series. "},{"Title":"Leslie Easterbrook makes this Movie","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" TITLE POLICE ACADEMY was release in theaters in the United States on March 23 1984 and it takes you 96 minutes to watch this movie. Kim Cattrall, and Steve Guttenberg Police Academy is a 1984 comedy film directed by Hugh Wilson, and starring Steve Guttenberg, Kim Cattrall and Leslie Easterbrook. It grossed approximately $146 million worldwide and spawned six sequels.SUMMARY A new mayor has announced a policy requiring the police department to accept all willing recruits. Not everyone in the police force is happy about the new changes. The main character, Carey Mahoney, is a repeat offender who is forced to join the police academy as an alternative to jail, a proposal by the officer who has been lenient on Mahoney due to knowing his father. Mahoney reluctantly agrees to this and decides that he will get himself thrown out. However, the chief of police, outraged by the mayor's lowered requirements, decides that the new cadets should be forced to quit rather than being thrown out. Lieutenant Thaddeus Harris, who trains the cadets, agrees with the plan and employs tactics to make their lives as miserable as possible so that they do in fact quit. Mahoney tries many schemes to get thrown out as he cannot quit, as part of the deal made with the officer said if he quit, he was going to be sent to jail. However, toward the middle of the film he decides to stay for good having fallen in love with Karen Thompson, a fellow police cadet played by Kim Cattrall. While in the academy, Mahoney becomes friends with fellow cadets Larvell Jones, Eugene Tackleberry, and especially, Moses Hightower (played by former pro football great Bubba Smith), a quiet giant of a man, after helping him prepare for the critical driving test. After passing, Hightower is very thankful to Mahoney. Unfortunately, Hightower gets himself thrown out of the academy because of an incident when, after fellow cadet Laverne Hooks has been racially insulted, in which he lifts and turns over a police car with the hated cadet Copeland inside. Soon later, Mahoney gets involved in a lunchroom brawl caused by Copeland and Blankes, and takes the blame for throwing the first punch, which finally gives Lt. Harris the green light to expel his most despised cadet. Before Mahoney actually leaves the premises, however, a major riot breaks out downtown. The resulting police emergency forces the cadets into real action for the first time. During the riot, a tough outlaw manages to steal two cadet revolvers (one from Copeland and the other from Cadet Blankes). The outlaw grabs and disarms Lt. Harris by surprise, taking the officer to the roof of a nearby building as a hostage.QUESTIONS Why did Despite his troubles with Harris did Mahoney try to help him? Why was Mahoney taken Hostage? Who suddenly appear on the rooftop in street clothes? Did Mahoney and Hightower graduate from the Academy? Why did Mahoney and Hightower receive commendation? What was inside the podium hiding? MY THOUGHTS Now thoughts about this movie! It wasn't a bad comedy, but it did lack the things that can keep your attention. However there was one actress that caught my attention and that was Leslie Easterbrook. She was the only reason to keep watching this movie. She a very lovely actress and I hope to see her in the future movies. Based on the fact that Leslie was in this I give this 7 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"I'm trapped here? Oh yes, we all are!","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is a pretty good documentary included with the DVD collection in which it is revealed that producer Paul Maslansky got the idea for the whole premise of Police Academy when he was working on Hot Stuff in the late 1970s. Evidently there was a police force in charge of crowd control during the making of that movie that was, ah, interestingly diverse to the point that it caught Maslansky's attention and inspired him to approach a sergeant and ask him why there were so many gym class drop-outs on the force. The sergeant replied that they had a fair employment policy in place that compelled them to accept any applicant who took an interest in becoming an officer, but then with a wink he explained that they could flunk out whoever they wanted after three weeks. Instantly, a light bulb popped on above Maslansky's head.Do you see what this means? Police Academy is based on a true story!!In response to public discontent as a result of a crime wave that has been sweeping the city, the Mayor puts in place a new rule forcing the Police Department to accept any new applicant regardless of age, height, weight, sex, background, attitude, religion, nationality, IQ, criminal history, or SAT score, which causes the police academy to be bombarded with societal aberrations the likes of which would surely cause the public more concern than the criminals causing the crime wave in the first place. No nonsense Police Chief Henry Hurst is immediately and thoroughly appalled at the new ruling as he watches the dregs of society flood his beloved police academy, while Commandant Lassard sits in his chair and cheerfully allows the curious developments of life to happen around him as they will. Most of the recruits that become central to the story are honest people who really want to be police officers, except for Casey Mahoney (Steve Guttenburg, in a career-making-and-then-breaking role), who is forced into the academy as an alternative to jail. How could anyone at any time ever be offered the choice of becoming a police officer or going to jail? Watch the movie and you'll find out, but it doesn't really matter. It has to do with Mahoney having a powerful father, but the point is that Mahoney is a smart-ass who has not a scrap of respect for authority and who is determined to get himself booted out of the academy before lunch on the first day. The academy is equally happy to be rid of him, but for circumstances beyond either of their controls, this is not an option. It's a preposterous situation, but you have to admire it's simplicity and effectiveness in paving the way for a whole movie full of slapstick hilarity.The rest of the relevant cast provide the springboard from which six sequels sprouted in subsequent years. Indeed, the plots of the movies run a distant second to who is back for each subsequent movie. Moses Hightower is a towering black man who became tired of being a florist, of all things, and decided to become a cop. His counterpart is Cadet Hooks, a mousy black woman with the voice of a stretched balloon who, among other things, must learn to speak with authority. Larvell Jones comes from a background similar to Mahoney's in a lot of ways but is better known for his ability to imitate the sound of almost anything (this was also a career-making-and-breaking role for Michael Winslow). Then there are Tackleberry, the trigger-happy but hilarious gun fanatic, Karen Thompson, the attractive cadet played by Kim Cattrall who provides a welcome distraction for Mahoney, the overweight and perfectly named Leslie Barbara (a man), and Doug Fackler, a priceless geek who is prone to cause accidents that don't affect himself. And overseeing them all is the delightfully creepy Lieutenant Harris, who is determined that they shall all fail miserably. This should seem like an exceedingly easy task, but as they say, never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers!The first movie in the Police Academy saga follows little more than the adventures of the recruits described above as they work their way through the police academy. There is a delightful competition between Lieutenant Harris, who treats his job with deadly seriousness as needed to ensure his own advancement, and the rest of the recruits, with Commandant Lassard popping up occasionally to fulfill the duties of a man clearly more interested in goldfish than law enforcement, but it's impossible not to love the guy.Speaking of which, Lassard is the, umm, victim of one of the movie's more childish and unamusing jokes. I am not sure how successful the joke was when the movie was first released (I was 5 years old at the time and can't remember my initial reaction), but it is an unfortunate representative of much of the rest of the movie. Police Academy is a milestone in the evolution of the cheesy comedy, there are no two ways about that, but the comedy in the movie has, ah, not dated well. Modern audiences will find not a single genuinely funny moment in the entire movie, but it would be madness to say that this means the movie isn't any fun.I remember when I was a kid I used to drive my brother nuts because I always wanted to watch Police Academy movies over and over again, but at some point I lost interest, and didn't gain interest again until about a week ago when I stumbled across the Police Academy DVD collection. But for an amusing trip to the comedy of the past, you can hardly do better. Grab a couple beers, bring your buddies over, and relish the comedy of your childhood. There were never any Academy Awards in mind, but I'm willing to bet that you can't watch this movie without having a little fun&#133; "},{"Title":"Not that bad!!!!!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy ain't Bridge On The River Kwai but it ain't The Mighty Morphine Power Rangers movie either. It's low brow humor fits in perfectly with the era of film that gave us The Jerk, Porkys, Revenge Of The Nerds, Animal House, and Caddyshack. I agree that this first one is judged unfairly because of it's unfunny and numerous predecessors. Imagine if Animal House would have had seven sequels, and if the star, John Belushi was only in the first four. People would sing an entirely diffrent tune then. After the third PA these movies were horrible but even part six is more tolerable then Beaches or The Joy Luck Club. The first one is fine in my book. "},{"Title":"Still very Hilarious!!","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Funniest comedy, spoof, to come out in the 80s (1984) I did not see this when it debut back then, R-rated restriction, and this is a time when I definitely was a minor and definitely not allowed to see this sort of movie, even if it is in the comedy genre. So, I saw this film when I became a young adult and it still can have me gasping for air from laughing so hard. So, many, many, scenes here that are goofy and the antics!!! Actor Steve Guttenberg, actresses Kim Catrall, and all the other casts all make this work! I don't want to give away spoilers to those who have never seen this film, but in my opinion, it is soooooo very hilarious!! You the new viewer out there may enjoy!! "},{"Title":"The worthwhile Police Academy movie","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first of Police Academy movies is somewhat underrated, undoubtedly by the dreadful sequels.Agreed, the humor is low-brow slapstick, but the action is good and the jokes are fun. The film recognizes it's essence, a take on classic military comedies; the two cronies get a crew cut, and are told afterward they're not in the army. The stereotypical characters aren't too creatively thought out, but Guttenberg plays his character Mahoney well.If you aren't totally fed up with the horrid sequels (Mission to Moscow is about as fun as getting your brains dug out with a spoon), this movie is great entertainment in right circumstances, like having fun with friends and beer.The 8 out of 10 includes a small underdog bonus. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy that's still funny","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of the best comedies of the 80s. It's a great ensemble comedy in the tradition of Caddyshack. Steve Guttenberg is hilarious and Michael Winslow's human sound machine abilities are amazing. The movie features a sexy Kim Cattrall long before Sex and the City and a fantastic cast of supporting characters.Yes, it's a bit silly, but everyone needs to be silly sometimes. Some material may be inappropriate for small children, but Policy Academy is a must-see for older kids and adults who like to laugh.The sequels go downhill and are more of the same, but #2 and #3 are still worth renting. "}{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It may be dumb, not very original, have pretty much all jokes based around sex and toilet humour, it may have spawned 6 sequels so far, but it is still for me one of the funniest movies ever. Legendary (!) characters and timeless sketches ensure that, whether you love it or hate it, it has a major place in comedy movie history.The Poilce force under Commendant Lassard decides to bring in a whole new batch of recruits, throwing all past criteria out of the window. Now ex-cons, scumbags, stupid people, men and women of all shapes, sizes and races can apply for a position in the police force by going through a rigorous training scheme. One man, Carey Mahoney is constantly getting into trouble with the law, but his misdemeanours are small, more of an annoyance than a threat. He is ordered either to join the Police Academy, or be sent to prison. He reluctantly agrees to join with the plan to get thrown out immediately. He meets Jones on the way who agrees to join too, a man with the ability to recreate any noise imaginable. So we meet the other recruits-Tackleberry, the NRA gone wrong. Hightower- ex-flower shop owner, almost 7 ft of pure muscle. Hooks, a timid young woman. Barbara, an overweight mummy's boy. George Martin, who pretends he is Italian to get the ladies. Karen Thompson, Mahoney's love interest, and Fackler, a clumsy nerd. Along with these come Copeland and Blankes who soon suck up to the man who will be training them- Capt. Harris.Harris wants the top spot, and believes that if he can show that Lassard's plan is a failure, he will be promoted. To do this he goes about destroying the Cadets' spirits, trying to expose their weaknesses. However, when a riot breaks out the cadets show their training and true worth, and prove that they are good enough to become real cops. We also meet Sarg Callahan, a female officer who likes the men... and Commissioner Reed the man Harris is trying to impress. During the film each character has very funny moments, Jones with his noises, Mahoney with his tricks, Hooks with her voice, Tackleberry with his guns etc. The funny parts are extremely funny, highlights including The Blue Oyster Bar, the attempt to throw Barbara's books out a window, and the podium- 'SLIIIIIIDE!' scene. Every actor puts in a good performance, the score is a classic, and everything works out well. it may be a no-brainer, but it is therefore perfect to watch with your mates. All the Cadets redeem themselves, overcoming their personal flaws. Yes it is understandable why people would hate this film, as people are unfortunately predictable. Some will not find this funny at all, some will, as with anything, but don't judge it for its foolishness, just watch and laugh.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Harmless Fun","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't go into the details much of Police Academy, because it's quite simple and everyone should know it by now. The PA series has been around for 20 years now and we know the drill. The PA series is what it is. It's silly, totally ridiculous, but harmless fluff for clean viewing. I am not gonna write how dumb it is or how cheap it is. Why?. We already know this. Everyone knows this and has for 20 years. Writing about it just to blast it and all that and how stupid it is is kind of redundant. Uh, really?. There has never been any question, doubt, or any misconception about what these films are or like. People know what they are and they know what they are going to get when they rushed to the theater to see it or watch it now. They obviously liked the way it was and the simple, mindless fun it delivered, because if they didn't, then the movies would not of been as successful or popular as they were, or had so many made. I definitley know many scholary people who enjoy movies like this because they are fun and innocent and let you have a fun side. It's alright to like PA and any of it's sequels.  "},{"Title":"My review straight from the horses..... well see the movie","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So many people say this is a stupid movie, without any class or any good lines.  This movie is one of the funniest I have ever seen.  I laugh so hard at this movie every time I see it.  Sure it is immature, it is silly and not exactly complex comedy, but it is great.  And who wants things to be so complicated?  There is a little more to this movie as well, I don't think it is so simple.  The movie has a lot of characters saying racial slurs, acting racist and all of that jazz.  Not many films I know even then really even mentioned anything along such controversial lines.In this movie Steve Guttenberg is the leader of a group of crazy people that are entering the Police Academy after all requirements are lifted as to who can enter the Police Force.  Guttenberg is the misfit who is on the verge of going to jail.  Football player Bubba Smith plays a new recruit to the police academy, who is strong, quiet, and he cant, like I'm going to tell you, watch the movie.Then these is Hooks, an incredibly quiet and shy black lady, George Martin, a ladies man, Leslie Barbara, a portly nervous young man who wants something more, Douglas Fackler, a clumsy man, then there are two of my favorites first there is Larvelle Jones, played by Michael Winslow, who is full of funny noises, pratfalls and sound effects.  And of course Eugene Tackleberry, the crazy gun lover who always goes a little too far in training.Then there are the bad guys, Officer Harris, a man who is put upon by the Chief of Police to weed out some of the bad candidates, those that are not white and not male mostly.  And then there are his minions, Blankes and Coates who look the part of good officers according to Harris.Where do I start with the great moments?  Tackleberrys constant screaming of loud lines (Drop the stereo or I'll blow your God)$%& nuts off a§$'$$&) is hilarious, and then there is the scene with the horse... (WWHHHHEEHHHHEEEE!!!!)  Which I still cry with laughter when I see, it is classic.  Funny stuff.  SPOILER  I can't help but cry watching that scene, Harris walking by all of those people, the cadets snickering snickering and when the noise is made I fall out of my seat.  This is legendary comedy.The critics hated this movie, but it was an unexpected success at the box office.  What is there not to like about the movie?  Its not trying to be a great film, but the underdogs win and everyone likes it when the average guys win.  Critics sometimes just don't know what they are talking about. What is interesting is these movies were huge hits in Europe, and the reason there were so many sequels is largely because of their popularity in Europe.This movie had so many bit part players in it.  Leslie Easterbrook played the very attractive Officer Ramsey; she was in many sitcoms and game shows years before.  Ted Ross was in numerous films and TV series, not to mention the Whiz, as the Lion.  Debralee Scott was in Angie and Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman.  Andrew Rubin was in the Jeffersons in one episode as Tom Willis white son.  George Gaynes was in so many small parts for years before coming to his role as a goofy lovable Commandant Lassard, and GW Bailey was in MASH in its final years.  All of these great character actors come together and create this excellent film.  Bubba Smith for years of course was a football player, and he is great here.I watched every one of the Police Academy films before I was ten except for the first one.  My father would not let me watch that one for years because it was too dirty.  I am not upset I would not have appreciated it when I was so young anyway.  Hugh Wilson, the creator of WKRP in Cincinnati, directed the movie and he is excellent here.  WKRP is a great television show. Watch this movie.  Watch the next two as well.  They both are good, after that they slowly descend into stupidity.  I refuse to watch Mission to Moscow. Anyways watch this movie and cry with laughter.  "},{"Title":"great stuff","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well.. It's not really the greatest film ever. Not even the greatest comedy but it did make me laugh my ass off and thats really all that matters. Most 80s sex comedies just come off as crap.(ie porkys) but this and Revenge Of The Nerds are great. This movie has great one liners(good speech), many funny scenes (the gay bar scene is classic), and just plain fun. at least to me.The plot is nothing big, steve guttenberg(who i dont like at all.) gets in trouble with the law and has to go to the police academy, that is letting pretty much anyone in, He goes and trys to get thrown out. He meets a weird bunch of people while there. It's a pretty meh plot but it's an 80s comedy, no need for a good plot.OK. so this is hardly a great movie, it's good fun, it's funny, it's entertaining, but guttenberg annoyed me but still its good to me at least. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Best viewed after midnight for maximum pleasure!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy is a 'great' film! Okay it's not Oscar winning quality, no but it's one of those films with a certain 'appeal'. Yes it did brandish six more sequels which went downhill in quality! But the original is the best. It's genuinely funny and unlike the many to follow it has adult humour. It's probably best viewed after midnight for maximum pleasure. This brings a real mix of the 'finest' raw recruits desperate to be police officers, pick of the bunch would be Mahoney signing up with the intention to get booted out! or there's ex-florist and huge mantle Hightower, who could end all crime himself! There's the womanising George Martin. The excellent Lesley Barbara, gun mad Tackleberry etc led by the madcap Lt. Harris and his dominating matrix Lt. Calahan, who are ably watched by the bumbling Commandant Lassard. A hooker running loose on the campus, a huge riot, not to forget Blanks and Copeland and of course the BLUE OYSTER bar! Fantastic! 8/10 "},{"Title":"slapstick and mindless fun","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whenever I am ill or not feeling happy,  I can easily switch on a Police Academy film and its slapstick and mindless comedy always make me smile and make me feel better -)  This is a great film... but that is my personal opinion! "},{"Title":"A plea for fair judgement","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I feel that this is unjustly treated by the masses. The mistake many people seem to be making with this series of films is to judge them all together and average them all out, so by the time you get to the 7th, it's got so poor that the average is dropped right down.To all who read this review, I must ask that this not be done. Judge each film in it's own right. Then you will be able to appreciate these examples of fine comedy. This, the first, is by far and away the best. Maybe this is because I'm doing what I tried to prevent others from doing, I don't know. Or maybe it's just because the film is a great laugh.Each of the other six films are perfectly watchable in their own right. Try not to consider the other films when you watch each new one, this way you should be able to appreciate the later ones a bit more. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie...","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy has some good lines and great bits, no doubt about it. In fact, G.W. Bailey's Lt. Harris is one of my all-time favorite comedic villains, and his clashes with Steve Guttenberg's Carey Mahoney are just pure fun. The completely unbelievable rioters towards the end (the hundreds of low income urban white guys on a rioting rampage) exhibit some bad casting, but what film is without fault? Besides, this is a slapstick comedy of the 80's era. And c'mon, Robert Folk's marches for this film (heard most prominently at the beginning) should be considered one of Hollywood's most enjoyable themes in the world of movie scoring.However, what should've been a ruby in director Hugh Wilson's crown as one of his earliest movie-making achievements, the film losses a lot of its charm with the knowledge of the bastard children it would go on to spawn. The Police Academy sequels have become somewhat notorious as being the very essense of what makes a bad sequel really bad. Each one became gradually poorer in writing and casting, especially in writing. Each one demonstrates the true desperateness of the cast as the more employable actors left (well, more employable ACTOR, if he can even be called that Steve Guttenberg). In each sequel, the supporting cast for the most part return, like glutoness, yet starving, stray dogs. Like a drunk vagrant dancing and singing for quarters, Tackleberry is still the big crazy guy who likes guns, Jones the whacky black guy who makes sounds, and Callhan, the chick with the big breasts. And by the way, Groundhog Dave is one of those cast members, I think....hs words read like the back cover of Police Academy 6.... "},{"Title":"A good start to the series!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy sets itself apart from the following six films in that it is not suitable for children. Each of the films which came after could easily be enjoyed by a younger age group, but the nudity and sexual content in this film pushed it up to mature rating.The Police Academy series is one of the finest examples of successful succession comedy in film history. Never has there been a series, any series, that has lasted so long, yet still managed to entertain. This isn't supposed to be some sort of Zen experience; the Police Academy series is supposed to be light-hearted, kind of slap stick, all-around good fun. No great cathartic experience needed. What makes these movies timeless is that people who enjoyed these movies in their twenties when they first came out can now enjoy them with their children, because they know that the movie isn't filled with the typical language, nudity, and violence to be found in so many films today.  "},{"Title":"Bit dated now, but the original film is definitely the best of the bunch!","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first in the series that spawned six sequels is definitely the best! Better remembered as part of my childhood viewing, and I always had an affinity for the wisecracking misfit in Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg)- who is the glue that unites the rabble together to fight crime! Memorable is also the first main antagonist as Captain Harris (played superbly by G,W.Bailey), who becomes the butt of many many jokes by the would-be recruits. George Gaynes as Commandant Eric Lassard is also brilliant in playing the naive and somewhat stupid superior to them all, but his likable charm wins you over.The first film introduces us to an array of misfits and recruits, who become characters throughout the series. Besides Mahoney, there is the gigantic but sometimes gentle Hightower (Bubba Smith), the gun-enthusiast in Tackleberry (David Graf), the quietly-spoken and meek Hooks (Marion Ramsey), the voice-worker in Jones (Michael Winslow)the maladroit who indirectly causes accidents in Fackler (Bruce Mahler), and the buxom and fiercely sexy Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook). These characters return throughout the sequels! However, some characters are unique to the first film, such as the womaniser in Martin (Andrew Rubin) and the overweight and bullied Leslie Barbara (Donovan Scott) are significant in this movie as Mahoney's pals and sidekicks.As a kid, my favourite character was Jones due to his unique ability to create sounds with his voice, but that seemed to have worn thin as an adult, and I much preferred some of the other gags such as the Blue Oyster one that keeps coming back, and the podium scene particularly because George Gaynes sells it so well. Also, Mahoney's antics and interactions with Harris is rather funny, and the social misfit proves his worth to society in the end. 'Police Academy' made me a big fan of Steve Guttenberg back in the day, and I always managed to see his other films, but it was here where he made his mark. In the tradition of the 80s, 'Police Academy' spawns many a sequel, but in this case, the original is the best!A solid ***½ out of *****! "}{"Title":"The first of many - too many","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" White, straight males in 'Police Academy' do all right - everyone else, not so much. The movie is so juvenile in its attitudes toward women, race and sex, especially homosexuality, that what should be an inconsequential, harmless caper is instead frequently depressing. Maybe it wouldn't be so bad if the humour was smart and had a point, but this is a movie that wants to be 'Porky's' when it grows up.The first in a series of seven films, not to mention a couple of TV series, this introduces the characters who would hang about like a bad smell for most of the sequels Mahoney (horny), Lassard (dumb), Harris (pompus), Tackleberry (militant), Hightower (big), Callaghan (big tits), Hooks (squeaky; not squeaky), and Jones (noises). The talents of the actors are variable but none of these characters is particularly endearing despite their longevity. I like G.W. Bailey, a long-underused actor, and Michael Winslow's vocal talents are impressive if stretched thin as his one and only character trait. So there's no real plot but rather a series of sort-of sketches that appear out of nowhere, carry on for a while, go nowhere, and then end, often without a punchline. This set-em-up, kill-em-off structure is a brave approach to comedy, for sure; the series' inability to present the most basic comedic idea in a way that isn't dismayingly inept has always baffled me. The gags tramp through the movie like prisoners on a death march, and when one comes along that does raise a laugh, like the bully who tries to throw a recruit's books out of an open window and misses, it's cheap as you like. The female characters are objects of lust, prostitutes and demented wives. All Leslie Easterbrook's scene revolve around her huge jugs, while Kim Cattrall is a sketchy love interest and a pair of legs. I wasn't looking for a feminist treatise, and a bit of cheesecake is expected in this kind of thing, but this is wilfully reductive stuff. Two prominent black characters (Bubba Smith and Marion Ramsay) are on the receiving end of racial slurs, and one scene takes a strangely serious turn when Hooks is insulted by another recruit, Hightower upends his car and is kicked out of the academy. Admittedly the racism comes from characters who are ignorant and stupid, but in a movie this silly and tasteless it just doesn't sit right. Most jarring of all is the jaw-dropping treatment of the movie's gay characters. The casual homophobia typical of movies like this ('Sleeping's for fags') wasn't clever even in 1984, but when we get to the scene where two cops stumble into a stereotypical gay bar replete with leather-clad, handlebar-moustachioed sex pests who can't keep their hands to themselves, the movie completes its mission to amuse sniggering teenage boys whose brains have fallen out. Obviously a 'Police Academy' movie isn't the place to come for satire, or rounded characters, or even competent jokes, but the way it shamelessly humps the leg of the lowest common denominator is dispiriting and embarrassing.Nice theme music though. "},{"Title":"Intermittently funny but consistently crude and basic film that will appeal to fans of Porky's and the like","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" On the 4th March 1984, newly elected Mayor Mary Sue Beal announced that she was changing the hiring practices of the city's police force. No longer would height, weight, sex, education or physical strength be used to keep new recruits out of the Metropolitan Police Academy. Hundreds of people who never dreamed of becoming police officers signed up immediately. Naturally the police were completely freaked by those they suddenly had to work with. This is their story. This is the police academy.It was a source of much bemusement (sadly not amusement) to me that my ex considered the Police Academy series to be among her favourite comedies. Supposedly having better taste (or perhaps just different taste) I never really saw the appeal of the puerile material and obvious gags of the sequels but admit it had been years since I saw the original. Happy to eat humble pie, I had a recent look at this film to see if it had devalued by what it would later become. To some degree of course it had, but that it is not to suggest that the original was ever anything special, because it wasn't and isn't. The plot is just a simple collection of basic gags, many of which you can see coming minutes before it arrives. It never aspires to do more than this and in fairness it does produce some funny scenes even if the majority are in poor taste or just very simple.The cast match this approach and they do the best they can with what little they have to work with. Guttenberg is a reasonably lovable rouge and is a good lead for the type of film that it is. He is given good support by lots of (now) familiar faces who maybe don't have a lot to them, but do their specific stuff. Cattrall is still a surprise find years later and she turns in a posh, sexy type well. Gaynes plays his simple role really well and produced one of my few laughs with his infamous (and crude) speech scene. Bailey is fun while Smith, Graf, Ramsey and Winslow all do their thing with characters who, for better or worse, we all know.Overall this is a very basic film that will appeal to those who like this sort of teenager nonsense. Yes the sequels generally got worse, but this doesn't mean that the original was ever brilliant, because It isn't. Occasionally funny but mostly this is just a collection of obvious gags that don't aspire to much and deliver only the basics. "},{"Title":"Priceless!","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let's face it, the Police Academy movies have a few sequels that no one is really interested in. But when it comes to big laughs, there is nothing like the original Police Academy. I had not seen this movie in a long time, so I figured I should give it another watch before commenting on it. May I say that I was just on the floor laughing with the original humor and wit that only the original can hold.I just loved Steve Guttenberg, whatever happened to that guy? ) But every scene he had was just so brilliant and laughable. I especially loved the scene where he and a hooker were hiding under the podium where the leader was giving a speech about the academy, and the hooker performs some interesting acts on him in front of the crowd! Like I said, this movie is priceless and will have you laughing from beginning to end. Enjoy! 10/10 "},{"Title":"A surprisingly funny comedy given the reputation this series has","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A lot of criticism has been levelled at the POLICE ACADEMY franchise over the years, but I've never thought the films were all that bad. They've dated, yes, but their mix of slapstick goof and the occasionally raunchy gag is a good one, and this first instalment in particular feels fresh and invigorating. I reckon POLICE ACADEMY is the closest that America ever got to having their own CARRY ON series.Anyway, this is a typical early '80s production, about a bunch of new recruits and their hapless taskmasters, and the inevitable adventures and mistakes they end up making along the way. It's similar to the likes of STRIPES but far funnier. Steve Guttenberg holds everything together back when he was popular, contributing a likable everyman charm, but it's the supporting characters who really shine here. Bubba Smith's Hightower is a fan favourite, but I particularly enjoyed David Graf, whose voice box is worth its weight in gold.The well-judged performances continue in the form of G.W. Bailey's delightfully frustrated antagonist, Lieutenant Harris, and George Gaynes's hilariously befuddled Lassard; that classic podium gag involving the latter is still the highlight of the entire franchise for many people, including me. "},{"Title":"A comedy classic on its merit","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I grew up with this movie as a child when my father bought it at the Video shop when it was first released and became part of my childhood. I found comfort in the film. The lead character is played by Steve Guttenburg who is well cast and plays a rebel turned opportunist when he is recruited in to the Academy for his juvenile antiques. Kim Cattrall is beautiful and well cast as the demure Cadet with whom the chemistry is good with Guttenburg. The story line is inspirational and entertaining with other well written characters that in paradigm make the acting and storyline entertaining with rich humour and some action at the end to provide excitement when they overcome doubt by proving the cynics wrong such as Captain Harris. The sequels were frivolous and lacked the funny maturity of this one and eclipsing it. A couple of the sequels such as 4 and 6 would of been good independent comedy films not exhausting the brand. Guttenburg was at the height of his career then and this certainly is a classic from his era in the 1980s and in my view film History. If you would like to be entertained and humoured this is a great film. "},{"Title":"Police Academy (1984)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gently funny in the most stupid of ways. It's very immature, but in an almost innocent kind of way. It works due to the wide range of frankly bizarre characters. There's no real plot, just a series of events, but the battle of the wits between Bailey and Guttenberg is worth watching. Anyone who grew up on these films knows these characters without knowing much about them. Winslow, Smith, Raynes etc. All add to the charm and simplicity of it all. Never as funny as I remember from being a child, it's still highly enjoyable and impossible to dislike. Nostalgia? Certainly, but it needs some quality to still entice me in after all these years. "},{"Title":"Silly, naive but yet a classic...","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know what this is. Don't think this will be any deeper than you expect, any classier, any more intelligent.- The plot is clear and simple. - The atmosphere, your typical family, naive, 80's heavy-handed silly cliché. - The characters have no depth and are all stereotypes. - The beginning is a character-presenting catalogue. - The ending, the very paradigm of what you expect. - There's that action all those comedies have in the middle (til end).But it is funny. - The characters are still enjoyable, despite being naive; the actors are likable, friendly faces from the 80's. - It's got some nice 80's prime-time action score. - That brunette is deliciously cute.And basically it's a classic, with a classic setting, classic characters, with its notorious inside jokes !7/10 doesn't fully do it justice. 9/10 is way too much. 8/10 is a nice, representative mark.Watch it it's funny, you won't be losing time. "},{"Title":"Fun to Watch!","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy is a hilarious movie worth watching over and over again. This isn't anything but a movie to watch for a fun time. When I saw this movie had terrible reviews, I didn't bother to read them. I knew I would love this because the plot appealed to me.This is about how anyone could sign up to be police officers under a new law. They are given 14 weeks training under a lieutenant who has a goal of kicking them all out. Will anyone succeed in completing the program at the Police Academy? You have to watch this to find out.I think the acting is pretty darn good. My favorite character is Michael Winslow and his sound effects. I found all the characters to be likable even the one portrayed by George Gaynes.Overall, this is a hilarious classic that will live on. I hope the sequels are just as good. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"A very silly, but still extremely funny 80's comedy hit","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A motley assortment of lovable losers and misfits enroll at a police academy in order to become law enforcers. Rascally troublemaker John Mahoney (winningly played with affable charm to spare by Steve Guttenberg) tries to get kicked out and clashes with hard-nosed chief instructor Lt. Harris (robustly essayed with lip-smacking ferocious bulldog aplomb by G.W. Bailey). Director Hugh Wilson, who also co-wrote the blithely inane script with Pat Proft and Neal Israel, maintains a snappy pace and an appropriately good-natured tone throughout. Granted, the giddy screwball humor ain't exactly sophisticated, but it's often amusing in its cheerful lighthearted silliness just the same (the Blue Oyster Bar and the climactic riot in which our engaging bunch of kooks' flaws prove to be their secret strengths are especially amusing stuff). Moreover, the game and lively cast have a ball with the broadly pitched material George Gaynes brings a perfectly pompous attitude to the role of Commandant Lassard, Michael Winslow does all these great off-the-wall sound effects as the zany Larvel Jones, Marion Ramesy is simply adorable as the timid and squeaky-voiced Laverne Hooks, plus there are neat turns by Kim Cattrall as fetching, thrill-seeking rich gal Karen Thompson, Bubba Smith as gentle giant Hightower, David Graf as gung-ho firearms fanatic Tackleberry, Leslie Easterbrook as the tough, imposing, but gorgeous and enticing Sgt. Callahan, Donovan Scott as the meek Leslie Barbara, Bruce Mahler as the bumbling Doug Feckler, and Andrew Rubin as suave ladies' man George Martin. Popping up in cool bits are 70's porn star Gloria Leonard as a brash hooker and Debralee Scott as Feckler's doting wife. Michael D. Margulies' polished cinematography does the trick. Robert Folk's spirited military marching band score boasts a catchy and effective marital drum riff. Okay, this picture certainly isn't an exceptional piece of cinematic art, but it does deliver a steady supply of solid laughs and never gets too crass or vulgar. A total hoot. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Blue Oyster","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Perfect light comedy. The humour is decidedly slapstick but there is also much subtle fun and the tone is (almost) mature. So you could watch this with your disapproving mother-in-law -- almost. Compared with modern comedic fare the tone is chaste (almost). There are great lines and visual gags; and the acting is superb, this movie brings a lot of comedic talent to the screen. I also liked the idea of a ragtag band of losers proving their worth.The plot, as if you didn't know it already, handles a bunch of social dropouts joining an elite academy which is intent on dropping them off the roster; they inevitably find their bearings eventually and become good serve-and-protect coppers.Look out for The Devil In Miss Jones's Georgina Spelvin playing, well, the hooker. "}{"Title":"Raunchy and hilarious at the same time!","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most people would dream to go into law-enforcement. It's like the military, only not as hardcore. In Police Academy, it's nothing but side-splitting hilarity scene-after-scene. Instead of your average Joe who wants to find a better career, this academy chooses all walks of life from a florist named Moses Hightower(Bubba Smith), an photo developer with an effeminate name Leslie Barbara(Donovan Scott), a trouble-maker named Casey Mahoney(Steve Guttenberg), a human sound machine named Larvelle Jones(Michael Winslow), a dainty lady who gets hardcore with the bad guys named Hooks(Marion Ramsey). She shouts at them saying, DON'T MOVE DIRTBAG!, and my favorite, an Army solider with strong words, I'm talking Eugene Tackleerry(David Graf, 1950-2001). These people don't look like much, but they do have something to show. I liked the scene where the Latin cadet who sneaks into the ladies dorm at night, and when Callahan(Leslie Easterbrook) catches him in the act, she proved to be more woman than any of the other ladies in the academy. Mahoney wants out, but when the riot hits, he changes his mind and gets the glory. He also helped Hightower stay in the academy as well when it comes to the driving test, which he does exceptionally well. With all the others scenes I can tell, I only chose the ones I like. This movie is a true gem of its kind. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Funny 1980's comedy","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Language,Nudity,Sexual Content and Some Violence.Police Academy is the first of the police academy series.There have been plenty of sequels plus a television series which I saw a few episodes of many years ago.I haven't seen any of the sequels and I hear they are not as good as this.This is a pretty funny comedy and if you like comedies, you should check this one out.It is a lot like the film Stripes only taking place in a police academy instead of the army.This film is about a misfit man who goes to the police academy to become a policeman, many funny misadventures occur throughout the film.Police Academy is a film that's fairly funny at times.I suggest renting it if you want to watch a comedy. "},{"Title":"The Police Academy movie is the meaning of Slapstick.","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy is a movie that keeps the laughs coming thick and fast while being probably the best slapstick comedy of the mid 80s. The movie is about a police academy and its many mishaps that happen involving its many cadets (starring Steve Guttenburg). Overall this movie is hilarious and deserves a high rating and is not to be judged by the sequels which have given the first movie a bad reputation (suppodsedly as I like the first 4 at least and have not seen the others. I think that this movie deserves a rating because of the first movie and not the others and that this movie is definitely worth while to watch for everyone who feels like a good comedy. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is one of the best films of the 80's! This classic family,comedy,action film is great for all the family! It is about a group of people mainly consisting of criminals and what not and there adventures in this police academy. Steve 'Honey I Shrunk The Kids' Guttenberg stars, his acting and his attitude of his role makes this film even more funnier! This was one of the best films he ever did. I borrowed this film thinking it was going to be a bit rubbish, but i laughed and chuckled the whole way through. I would definitely recommend this film to teenagers and adults, but not for children under 11. Overall this Hollywood classic is FANTASTIC!!! People who loved the Airplane movies will love this.I hoped this helped "},{"Title":"Goofy police action","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sometimes you just want to sit back and laugh. You don't need any deep thought; you are just looking to relax.After final exams yesterday, that is what I wanted and Police Academy fit the bill. Nothing spectacular, but it did provide two hours of laughs with juvenile jokes starring Stve Guttenberg, who made four of these films; the gorgeous Kim Cattrall, who racked up a whole room for of awards and nominations for her role in Sex and the City; G.W. Bailey from The Closer; Leslie Easterbrook, seven Police Academy films and The Devil's rejects; and many funny supporting actors.Not high art, just good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Slapstick comedy gold","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my all time favourite slapstick comedies. The town's new mayor drops all restrictions for entry into the police force. As a result all kinds of misfits apply to enter with hilarious results. Captain Harris played by G.W Bailey is wickedly funny and the scene where Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) sticks his head out of the podium to Captain Lassard's astonishment, made me laugh so hard I fell off my seat in the cinema. It still gives me a chuckle even now! It may all be vulgar and politically incorrect at times but what is wrong with that? If every film made was thought provoking and sophisticated, life would be very boring. I would also advise all the critics who kept slating this film over the years to lighten up and don't take themselves so seriously! I do agree though that the sequels got progressively worse but Police Acedemy 2 and 3 are still watchable and funny - just! "},{"Title":"At least the franchise started off well...","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I knew it would be a matter of time before I reviewed one of these films (For the record, there are 6 sequels and a new rebirth in the works, and don't ask me how many I've sat through.). I think the key reason the PA movies are the most dissed film franchise ever comes from the makers' ultimately well-intended mutiny on their original audience. This film, the very first, is actually an R-rated Animal House takes over the law flick, before the makers decided to market toward families. There's scary fuzzy homo-biker club humor! Stuck up Captain Harris flies head-first into a horse's patoot! There's a mysterious hands (or is it... never mind) under the podium gag... before the Clinton era! And say what you want about the films, but honestly, who doesn't love a trigger-happy Eugene Tackleberry (the late Otterbein grad David Graf) or that dude who does the sound effects, Jones (Michael Winslow)? My favorite scene belongs to NFL great Bubba Smith (as the BFG Moses Hightower) who goes all Hulk smash on a squad car when racism shows its ugly head. So go ahead, be cool, and diss the Police Academy flicks - most deserve a little bashing - but I'm tired of that trend, and these days, there are way, way, WAY dumber movies. "},{"Title":"The Cannonball Run (1981) of police genre comedies","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Numerous comedies have been made involving a group of misfits coming together under one roof for a common reason. This specific plot has been used in countless comedies and for countless genres. It is by far from the greatest movie made but the one that comes to mind that was quite popular during the 1980s was Hal Needham's The Cannonball Run (1981); a ragtag group of zany car drivers set out on the biggest race of their lives to reach the finish line. A few years later, this movie would be released and its plot isn't a stranger to what was previously mentioned; an ordinary group of schmoes from the city join the police academy after it becomes legal for anyone to join for any reason. If they pass, they are officially apart of the police force. Simple as that, and as bare bones as it is, the movie gets by just fine for the most part. The only difference between the two movies is that one is in an actual race of who will win, while the other is a race of who will graduate.Written by Neal Isreal, Pat Proft and Hugh Wilson (who also directed) have put together a decent script with a number of positives and only a couple of negatives that clearly needed to be changed. The biggest issue with its script is that it's not a whole story. Since there are numerous characters, there are just several subthreads that run parallel to each other. This also means some characters will have better developed backstories than others. This is usually the sacrifices that are made for bigger ensemble casts. Unfortunately with that come a number of clichés that have been seen in other comedies. Some of which most filmgoers would expect because of how predictable the typecasting is. Yet, this is forgivable because all the main actors who have the majority of screen time are all likable in their roles. This is due to their distinguished personalities. The big three characters belong to Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg), a labeled troublemaker but only for the wrong reasons, Karen Thompson (Kim Cattrall) as Mahoney's love interest, and Capt. Harris (G.W. Bailey) who strongly loathes Mahoney and wants to remove any other rejects. Bailey continues to be funny in his roles. Every character that he has been cast for remains comical in their own way with his clumsy facial expressions. Then there's gentle giant Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), the shy Laverne Hooks (Marion Ramsey), sound effects master Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow), the innocent dough boy Leslie Barbara (Donovan Scott), the tough and attractive Capt. Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), the old forgetful Commander Lassard (George Gaynes), hispanic man George Martin (Andrew Rubin), the gun-totting crazy man Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf) and a couple others. With all of these personalities on screen it is hard not to find at least one thing to exploit from each character when it comes to comedy. For the majority of the time the comedy works efficiently. It's not falling off your seat hilarious but there are several moments that will create some good laughs. A lot of the gags and slapstick are stupid and goofy but they work because of how ridiculously quick the situations get. However, there are some jokes that are a bit crude. Humping and butt jokes are bit immature even if the tone is to be goofy. For its time, yeah maybe it was funny but now, those kinds of gags are just ehh. One of the bigger surprises is when there's a racial slur thrown out in the spotlight. Umm,...OK, since when did one of these antagonists become filled with that much hate? Thankfully, it is resolved (somewhat). Come on, there's no reason for that. Keep it classy.Michael D. Margulies was the director of photography for this feature. Although most of his work was shooting for TV movies, it seems as though he handled it well. Margulies gets a lot of the surrounding police campus and the city scenes don't look boring either. They're not beauty shots but they do work. The music was composed by Robert Folk who would be better known for scoring music to the Jim Carrey vehicle Ace Ventura When Nature Calls (1995). Although Folk's work isn't easy to physically find other than a couple areas, he at least makes it catchy and easy to listen to. The main theme for the franchise has a memorable motif involving flutes and snare drum to emphasize the military aspect of the police academy. The rest of the tracks have more jazz themed tunes, which isn't the usual way of producing a film score but it works nonetheless.Its large cast of comedic talents are clever in their own ways even for a largely thin plot. However, some jokes are bit silly and ill-advised even for its goofy tone. These flaws are thankfully made up with music that is unique and memorable and focused cinematography. "},{"Title":"Not very sophisticated , but funny classic comedy from the 80's","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not necessary a fan of low brow , unsophisticated humor. I avoid toilet and vulgar humor. Police academy isn't an intelligent or sophisticated comedy. However I like it because the humor is pretty much innocent and never crosses the line of good taste. Yes , it's R rated comedy but most of the jokes here actually make this a good family entertainment. It was made in era where similar movies like Caddyshack (good) , Porkys (bad) , Stripes (bad) Bachelor party (decent) or Revenge of the nerds (decent) gained popularity. From all of them PA was the most popular and is the best. Funny thing &#x96; The plot was actually inspired by real life ! Paul Maslansky got the idea for Police Academy during production of  The Right stuff (1983). A group of police cadets arrived to help with crowd control for the filming of a street scene. When the cadets piled out of the buses to take their posts, they were diverse; men, women, tall, short, black, Chinese. Maslansky found it humorous, asking the sergeant, Are these all going to be future San Francisco's finest ?  The sergeant looked at Paul and said that due to an equal opportunity recruitment policy, We've got to take them all into the academy, but we can flunk them out.The movie has got some kind of plot , but to be honest the whole story is just an excuse for a marathon of gags. Police academy pretty much feels like a series of sketches with likable goofy characters. Ah yes , the characters . There are the main strength and the heart of the movie. They are pretty much one dimensional and lack depth , but how entertaining they are ! They memorable , colorful , likable and unforgettable. Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg in role which made him famous) the wise cracking, prank pulling underdog with heart of gold. Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow) the human sound effect machine. Tackleberry (David Graff) the gun-happy macho. Comendant Lassard (George Gaynes) the completely clueless old man. Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith) black giant . Lieutenant Harris (G.W.Bailey) the lovely asshole. Hooks (Marion Ramsey) shy black woman with voice projection problems. Feckler (Bruce Mahler) the ultimate unlucky nerd. Who could forget about them !The movie was written by Hugh Wilson (director) , Pat Proft and Neal Israel (Bachelor party and the Naked gun trilogy). Memorable one liners and scenes , especially  The scene with the hooker in the speaker's podium , the horse scene , the unforgettable Blue Oyster bar , the sexy Amazon drill instructor , Princess ?! More like a Prince to me ! , Larvell Jones intimidating guns and many more&#x85; The movie doesn't care about political correctness and that's one of the reasons why I like it. Solid acting from all people in the cast. Watch out for young and uncredited Ed O'Neill (Married with children TV series) handing out uniforms on the first day at the Academy. Robert Smith created one of the most memorable and likable music themes ever. He also provides a good score for the whole movie. The tango is called El Bimbo performed by Jean-Marc Dompierre and his orchestra.The sequels didn't live to the original and sadly many people seem to think that the original was bad too. I don't really think they should make them in the first place. There simply wasn't any potential to create good franchise. The sequel number 2 is watchable , but the series got repetitive and boring very quickly. The TV series were also bad.Police academy is a good comedy. It's FAR from Worst movies ever  list . It's innocent, silly , sometimes stupid fun . It's better than so-called raunchy comedies like Stepbrothers that Hollywood is making now. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"It was very very very very funny.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy starts out with Prankster Carey Mahoney being asked to either go to the police academy or jail, of course he chooses to go to the academy along with many other people such as the rich girl Karen Thompson who likes to dress like a man, Moses Hightower a giant if you ever saw one, momma's boy Leslie Barbara, Girl Lover George Martin, Lifelong Gun Maniac Eugene Tackleberry, Mircophone Mouth Larvell Jones, Very accident prone Douglass Fackler, the two try to be tough Chad Copeland and Kyle Blanks, and mousy voiced Laverne Hooks. They are trained by the very mean and strict Lt Thaddeus Harris (my Favourite character throughout the series) and the tough Sgt Debbie Callahan and every man wants her and There is The very forgetful Commandant Eric Lassard who has the least idea of what to do at the academy. They all go through training and have some very funny moments throughout the film but soon they are called in to save the day from a large bunch of rioters and Hightower ends up saving mahoney's and Harris's life from the leader of one small band of gang members.a Truly very very very very funny film. "}{"Title":"An Excellent film!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is awesome. I own all of the police academy's except for the moscow one which sucks! This movie is hot! Also lovely leslie Easterbrook is hot. That lucky George Martin! I highly recommend this.10/10P.S I'm a boy. Not a girl.  "},{"Title":"dancing sir. mostly dancing","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you ask me, Stripes and Porky's were both not that funny and pretty overrated. They did have there moments, and dont get me wrong Bill Murray is pretty damn funny but that movie wasnt that good, but I wont get into why I didnt like that movie, because this is a review for Police Academy, unfairly called one of the worst films ever. Why? I dont know. It's offensive or homophobic. color me homophobic but i laughed my ass off at the gay bar scene. classic stuff.Well there's not much of a plot, but i always see plot to be bothersome and bad. Yeah, screw plots, but seriously this isnt the movie for plot. steve guttenbergs character has to go to the police academy because he got in trouble with the law. I dont really like him but this movie still made me almost piss myself. It's great stuff. The rest of the cast is pretty damn funny too.If you ask me, It's a pretty good, entertaining, fun movie and To show you I'm out of my mind, I'll say I enjoyed most of the sequels to some extent too. Yeah yeah, I'm a nut. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Oooh, political correctness blah blah blah... Waddageek! (cough cough)","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that Police Academy is one of the funniest films I have seen. It regularly takes a place in my top ten, as I'm not a snob or a political correctness addict (WADDageek, cough cough) and I can recognise that some films are funny, pure and simple.For the reviewer (below) who posted comments like Ooohhhhh, the innocent tone of the film...the character development...the man what does this and the man what does that... If you are analysing Police Academy (not Ghandi, Schindler's List or even Goodfellas) in those terms then you should lighten up, fool. It's a film that doesn't deal with serious issues. It's a comedy. Do you go to pantomimes and analyse the mise-en-scene?Anyway, personal beefs aside, Police Academy 1 is highly amusing. Head up horse's backside...the whole megaphone / shoe polish thing... amusing stereotypes but not offensive enough for the same actors to play the same roles four times in a row (at least). If you liked American Pie 2 then you'll like this, unless you thought American Pie 2 was homophobic or tasteless, in which case avoid it like the plague. For one, I found both films funny and didn't watch them in the style of a Daily Mail reader.10/10 "},{"Title":"the funniest and dirtiest of them all","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The First Police Academy had been rated R, cuz it showed some tits and butts in it, and some inproper words... but the movie got very popular with the kiddies too, so the next in the series were all rated PG...I like this one best, mainly cuz the humor hasnt gotten any PG-limitations like the others in the series, and well the characters here were way better... the Tacklebarry character isnt streched yet, here he's some weird guy that likes ACTION. I miss Bobcat Goldwaith in this movie though, Zed's the reason i like police academy 2,3 and 4 as well. So go and see this one !!!! (i bet u have seen it already, everyone has) "},{"Title":"silly fun","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though critics slammed this, it's obvious that it didn't matter to crowds back in 84, with this going on to make about 90 million that year.  Guttenberg's starmaker has him as a wise ass trainee in the P.A. which he was forced to join.  He clashes continuously with Bailey's Lt. Harris.  Then there's the other yo yos who can't do anything right, clumsy Fackler, hothead Tackleberry, and the human sound effect, Jones.  They generate lots of good gags and create some memorable characters.  And despite the sequels getting bashed, they're not as bad as some say.   "},{"Title":"Watch ONLY if you Like Slapstick Movies!","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy is what it is, one of the many teen slapstick farce comedies of the 80's that spawned much of the screwball shenanigans that still exists today in these types of movies. It doesn't offer much in the way of story lines, plot, or premise. However, it can still be fun IF (and this is an important if,) you like slapstick comedy.It's nothing more than a bunch of immature cadets going through basic training at a Police Academy mixed in with the typical college sophomore humor of sex jokes and situations while trying to say to the audience, Let's see how many moronic elements we can get out of a low-budget comedy to make high school or young college kids say, hahahaha, this is funny. However, Police Academy's biggest problem is that it's not quality comedy in any way, shape or form. There ARE a few funny situations, but nothing that is memorable or hasn't been done 100 times before in these types of movies. The film also suffers from the lack of any big stars to make it appealing even to the audience that it is trying to reach.If you are under 20, and like screwball comedy, Police Academy is a one or two shot viewing when there is nothing else on or when the video store is out of the movies you want to see and you find this in a bargain bin somewhere. For other viewers, this is a movie to avoid. "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented POLICE ACADEMY one night because it had a good cast and I heard that it was pretty funny. I didn't expect it would be a bad movie, I just didn't expect that it would be this good. It was the first time I saw a comedy that was actually funny and a good movie. Most comedies seem to be funny just not very good, but POLICE ACADEMY is both funny and a good movie. It's hilarious. The movies kind of crude, but it's nothing compared to some of the movies out today. If you like crude comedies, you will love this, but if you're not then this isn't the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Offensively bad, unfunny comedy (spoilers)","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So many things to complain about, and with only a thousand words...When Police Academy was first released, the audience was issued with 2D glasses so they could see the characters in all their glory.  This group of cardboard cut-out non-entities are perhaps the main flaw in a deeply flawed movie.  Imagine how this puerile rubbish was pitched  People what shouldn't be in the police actually do be in the police.  There's one man who does be cocky, another man what does make noises, a fat man whose belly is big, a woman what does speak quietly, a big man what is tall, a man who is clumsy and does wear glasses, a man who sleeps with lots of female women, a woman what is manly, and a man what is nasty.  It would be generous to call these people one-note characters; they could barely make up a note between them. This bunch of stereotypes provide jokes and plot twists that can be guessed from the moment they first appear on screen; the only surprise in the movie comes in learning that it wasn't written by a twelve-year-old.Steve Guttenberg's Mahoney is supposed to be cocky and charming, but is instead just a charmless, smarmy nothing.  His character arc is sophisticated; he moves from being a cocky, anti-authority figure, to being a cocky, anti-authority figure in a police uniform.  And he's not the only one to undergo such development.  The woman who speaks quietly learns to shout; the fat guy who can't do self-defence beats up some innocent people; the slut settles down; the butch woman learns to love; the clumsy weed does something slightly unclumsy; the guy who makes noises learns to carry on making noises; the guy who loves guns continues to love guns; and the big tall guy stays at about the same height.  Okay, so those last few weren't allowed to explore the depths of their characters quite so completely.  A true loss to the world of cinema.With characters as feeble as these, the movie can at least be saved by some great jokes.  Which makes it more of a shame that there aren't any.The most off-putting thing about this feeble, laugh-free movie is its attitude towards homosexuality.  Whenever this subject comes up, the innocent tone is lost completely.  When a dog tries to mate with a man's leg he is called a `queer'; when some cadets are sent to a gay bar they find themselves forced to dance and smooch with a threatening bunch of men cloned from half of Village People; the Commandant, who had thought Mahoney was gay because of a particularly puerile gag earlier in the movie, sees him kissing a woman and says `now that's more like it.'  Remember, viewers these people are to be feared, a moral that suggests this script was written in 1954 and took thirty years to get the green light.  Another darker moment, as out of place as a decent joke, is when one cadet calls the quiet-speaking black woman `a chicaboo'.  Hightower, the big black guy (he's big, geddit?) walks up to the racist cadet and the car he's sitting in, and turns the car onto its roof.  He gets thrown out of the academy.  That's Hightower, not the racist guy.  These scenes reveal a darker and inappropriate side to the movie, which take it from unfunny pap to offensive plop.Inexplicably making tons and tons of money, Police Academy was followed by six sequels, a TV adaptation, and a short-lived animated series.  Together, they made more than three people laugh. "},{"Title":"cheap imitation","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Towards the beginning of this film, there's a gag about a man's wife who doesn't want him to go off and join the 'open-enrollment' police academy. He is impervious to her pleas, and drives off, ignoring her efforts to run, hop, and jump for miles just to keep demanding he not do this. Eventually she winds up on the hood of his car, but by then he's already at the academy.Descriping this scene doesn't do it justice; it is very funny, and almost certainly the work of Pat Proft, known for his contributio0ns to the films by Abrams and the Zucker bros.If only the rest of the film could be this funny! Alas, despite the presence of Proft, the film is really just one among a hundred Animal House imitations of the early eighties - you know, a bunch of losers out-do the savvy pros, etc. (See also Nerds, and Dangerfield's college film, and a couple beach movies, one of the Porky's, etc. etc.) - a genre itself inspired, not by the great comic visions of the past like those of the Marx Bros., but cheap mildly gross television shows like McHale's Navy.Mediocre is the word here folks - and it's really baffling why some people like laughing at films like this rather than spending the time developing their taste so they can appreciate something finer. The reason why they might is because finer comedy is funnier comedy - so, do they want to laugh or not? The answer, I fear is, they don't want to laugh - they want to snigger. If male, they would rather get drunk at a topless bar than make love to a real woman. If female, they would rather a boy buy them a cheap but gaudy ring rather than a thin band made of real gold.But looks are deceiving; despite its popularity, this isn't either an amusing film or an interesting one. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Crude but Funny Just the Same","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Due to a severe shortage of police officers, the mayor of an undisclosed city decides to issue new guidelines for the local police academy which essentially abolishes all normal standards. As expected this results in a large response for applications but when all is said and done those finally accepted aren't exactly the cream of the crop by any reasonable standard. Consequently, the chief of police orders the man in charge of the police academy, Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) to weed them out. However, since he has been prohibited from firing them he has to make them quit instead. Yet even then this goes against his temperament and knowing this the chief of police turns to two of the meanest police cadre by the names of Lieutenant Harris (G. W. Bailey) and Sergeant Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook) to essentially get the job done. But none of them fully comprehend what they are up against. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say that this was a decent comedy for the most part and from what I understand it has garnered more than $100 million and spawned at least 6 sequels. So it has been quite successful in that regard. That said, about the only criticism I have of it is that some of the humor tended to be a bit on the crude side which I thought was completely unnecessary. But that is just my opinion. In any case, there is some good humor here as well and because of that I have rated this movie accordingly. Slightly above average. "}{"Title":"This academy rules","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I guess something you never so coming, was Ebert's review of this. May'be he missed the point. The 1984 hit, was pure slapstick, meant to take digs at the police academy. It's as entertainingly addictive as 1985's Night Patrol. Of course, nearly in all cases, the original's the best same case here. We're introduced to a bunch of richly written characters, delinquents, wannabes, who we grow to love over the next chain of sequels, each character, totally different from the next. Sadly most of the actors, and they are good, didn't go very far after this. Of course, the chief character or the main dude of our story, is the delinquent Mahoney, who as a valet driver rightfully drives an abusive customer's car sideways. He's arrested (not the first time) and forced to do community service, via a police academy program, which for Mahoney, is what you could call hard time. He butts heads with a nemesis lieutenant, Harris (G.W. Bailey- Major Crimes) and this is where the real fun lies, but also we have a little revenge, a liked for two kiss arse students, who like to be pain in the arse martyrs, where Mahoney and them square off in one scene. I loved Bubba Smith in this too, as Hightop. I could spend hours going on about the wonderfully meaty formed characters and the gags, but P.A. is a see for yourself comedy, another reason that just made the eighties great. For those who have never seen it, and there wouldn't be many around, let me tell ya, it's not too late to watch, as it will have the same infectious impression on you now, as if you watched it back in 1984. "},{"Title":"Fun early-80's comedy","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Released in 1984, Police Academy details the amusing misadventures that take police at a police academy when the mayoress removes the conventional requirements for joining the force. No longer is sex, weight, height, etc. a factor, which opens the door for a wide range of recruits &#x96; mostly misfits &#x96; including those played by Steve Guttenberg, Kim Cattrall, Michael Winslow, Bubba Smith, Donovan Scott, David Graf and Marion Ramsey. G.W. Bailey and Leslie Easterbrook play trainers while George Gaynes is on hand as the commandant.I judge comedies by how funny they are and Police Academy has a few laugh-out-loud scenes with the rest being consistently amusing. Steve Guttenberg is a strong protagonist and it's cool seeing Kim Cattrall when she was so young. I like the fact that you get to know many of the recruits; you start caring for them and whether or not they'll make it. There's a little bit of nudity and raunch that I could do without, but that's to be expected with a movie like this. In any case, it's not the bulk of the picture, which focuses on goofy and dumb humor. The ending leaves you with a good feeling.The film runs 96 minutes and was shot in Toronto, Ontario and nearby Brampton.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Sophomoric classic","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy's got it all part sex comedy, part screwball, a wide array of novel characters (and the great actors that bring them to life) and that great '80s finale when the misfits must unite to save the day. Steve Guttenberg's at his finest here, playing the class clown incarnate, and Michael Winslow is a gag machine unto himself. Kim Cattrall is super- fine and George Gaynes fits the Leslie Nielsen mold to a T. It's just one memorable scene after another (the sexy Amazon drill instructor, Hightower's Drivers Ed, Lassard's podium scene, Tackleberry in . . . well, any scene he's in). I'm kind of ashamed that it took me so long to finally see this movie, but I'm thoroughly glad I did. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Enlivened by its memorable bunch of characters.","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Keystone Kops type humour was kept alive and well in the 1980s with this now legendary franchise starter, a sometimes raunchy and often silly but still reasonably engaging comedy that gave birth to six (!) sequels, a live action TV series, and an animated TV series. As is usually the case with most film series, the first film is the most inventive; things would only go downhill with each successive entry. Things aren't always terribly funny, but as was said in the summary, this is an entertaining cast playing police cadets with one quirk or another.The premise was simple a mayor in an unnamed city (this was filmed in Toronto, Canada) decides to allow just about anybody to enroll in the police academy. This leads to the predictable enough development of various oddballs signing up, including trouble maker Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg, in his star making role), former florist Moses Hightower (football star Bubba Smith), vocal sound effects specialist Jones (the hilarious Michael Winslow), meek voiced Hooks (Marion Ramsey), and gung-ho weapons nut Tackleberry (David Graf). Mahoney tries various means of getting himself kicked out, but changes his mind when he falls in lust with female cadet Thompson (and she's played by Kim Cattrall, so you can't blame him). The cadets all get tested when their services are required in dealing with a riot.Other series mainstays we meet for the first time are grumpy instructor Harris (G.W. Bailey), doddering old Commandant Lassard (delightful George Gaynes), and buxom blonde Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook). Winslow provides the brightest moments; although the pacing lags at times, he can always be counted upon to generate some hearty chuckles. Bailey is a good sport considering Harris's fate in one scene. One amusingly ribald moment occurs when a hooker played by porn legend Georgina Spelvin performs a service on Lassard while he's trying to make a speech.The payoffs are all satisfying - including the final gag - in this enduring bit of 1980s pop culture.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A colorful bunch of recruits","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The new mayor has announced that all sorts people are accepted in the police academy.Police Academy (1984) is a comedy film directed by Hugh Wilson.There are some colorful characters in this movie, and colorful actors portraying those characters.Steve Guttenberg plays Carey Mahoney, who wants nothing more than to get out of the police academy.Kim Cattrall is the hot Karen Thompson.G.W. Bailey is Lt. Thaddeus Harris, who tries to make the lives of the recruits miserable.Bubba Smith, who we sadly lost last year, plays the big but sweet Moses Hightower.Donovan Scott is the chubby Leslie Barbara.George Gaynes is the very fine Commandant Eric Lassard.Andrew Rubin is George Martin, a ladies man with a Spanish accent.The late great David Graf is the gun-grazed Eugene Tackleberry.Leslie Easterbrook is the sexy sergeant Debbie Callahan.Michael Winslow plays the human beat box Larvell Jones.Marion Ramsey plays the quiet Laverne Hooks.The movie is filled with hilarious moments.Like George Gaynes' podium moment.Not to forget those machine gun and other sounds made by Michael Winslow.This is some classic 80's (some critics may disagree), that got six sequels.And if everything goes as planned, Police Academy 8 should be out next year.Let the craziness continue! "},{"Title":"My favourite film series ever","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The year is 1984 and the mayoress has removed set personal criteria form the requirements to join the police force. No longer is sex, weight, height and orientation a factor. This now allows for an insurgence of people applying. The Police Academy series follows a select group of misfits in their quest to become police men and women.The first film of which this review covers follows these misfits in their time at the Police Academy. The main focus is on a petty criminal called Mahoney. Mahoney is busted for criminal damage and as punishment is forced to go to Police Academy. Mahoney initially feels that this isn't the right place for him and he makes it his mission to be thrown out as he is not allowed to quit.As the classes go by and the training exercises are played out, Mahoney soon realises that he is actually enjoying the academy and does want to become a police officer.We are also introduced to the gun maniac Tackelberry, the very tall Hightower, voluptuous Callahan, squeaky Hooks, human beat box and sound effects master Jones and the ever confuzzled Commandant Lassard.This group become good friends and become the base for the rest of the series of films.Steve Guttenberg, Kim Cattrall, GW Bailey, Bubba Smith, Donovan Scott, George Gaines, David Graf, Lesley Easterbrook and Michael Winslow create the main cast and are all prefect in their characters. I can not fault them at all.I will always recommend Police Academy to anyone who wants a good laugh but to see a good film as well.Written by Aled from aledh.co.uk - Reviews by Aled, Ash and Darren "},{"Title":"Switch your brains off and have some entertaining fun","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This cult movie is a must see for any fan of humorous movies even though it won't beat The naked gun series or the Monty Python movies such as Life of Brian. It's maybe on the same level as the Vacation series minus the cultural part of those ones. But this movie deals with many clichés of the eighties and presents a couple of absurd, superficial and yet very funny characters that guarantee for many laughs, slapstick humour and absurd situations. At the end of the movie, you begin to appreciate those simple characters with all their weird behaviours, forces and weaknesses. The story and the reactions of the characters are simple and predictable, but maybe just because of that very entertaining and funny. This is a movie where one might switch its brain off and just laugh out loud as this comedy doesn't take itself so serious.A positive point about the movie is that there is also some action and some well hidden social criticism in this movie if you take a look beneath the surface. Another plus is the fact that the jokes are not all sexual as many movies of that kind but in fact quite simple but still diversified so this movie is a perfect entertainment for the whole family if you're not too severe and conservative with one or two slightly sexual scenes. That's why I highly suggest to watch this first part of the cult series. "},{"Title":"Misfit Police Force","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From writing team Neal Israel and Pat Proft, this was most likely their finest hour. They came up with the idea of sending up, or making a comedy out of, the training program at the police academy. Simple really put a bunch of misfits through academy training and see what happens. Result a very funny film.Fortunately the writers have peopled this comedy with some quirky, enjoyable types who will consistently have you laughing. Steve Guttenberg, Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, G.W. Bailey, Leslie Easterbrook, Donovan Scott and George Gaynes (especially good as the bumbling Commandant Lassard) all keep us entertained.The thing is, Proft and Israel started something that looked like it would never end.Tuesday, November 3, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"I've said it before and I say it again, original Police Academy is a lot of fun.","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What do Police Academy (1984) and Amadeus (1984) have in common? Well, apparently they were released in the same year, 1984, and for me, as different as they are; they both belong to the favorites. That's right, 8 times Oscar winner Amadeus, the work of Art, the movie that deservingly has made the countless top lists, and the comedy Police Academy which received zero stars from Roger Ebert who called it bad and idiotic. He suggests in his review, It's so bad, maybe you should pool your money and draw straws and send one of the guys off to rent it so that in the future, whenever you think you're sitting through a bad comedy, he could shake his head, and chuckle tolerantly, and explain that you don't know what bad is. Well, I've sat (or at least I tried to sit) through my portion of bad comedies and I swear, the original Police Academy is not bad. I wonder if very respected by this viewer critic ever changed his mind because I personally sat through original PA dozens of times and I like it a lot. I laugh, I have a good time and what is the most amazing thing, I remember the characters' names - it does not happen to me often. I see them all vividly and think of them with the smile - such a colorful crew of misfits who tried to make it to the Police Force. The first and the most charming is of course Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg will be remembered for this role. And for Diner, of course), a repeat offender who was forced to join the police academy as punishment and tried to get kicked out for the first half of the movie. Then there is gun obsessed Tackleberry, David Graf, RIP (Son, where did you get that gun? My mommy gave it to me). Next, the sweet, shy and soft spoken Hooks; the intimidating by his size but gentle ex- florist giant Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), Jones (Michael Winslow),the guy who could imitate any sound possible and make amazingly realistic sound effects using only his mouth; the young and sexy long before she was not so young but still very sexy in the City, Kim Catrell (cadet Thompson), and those two idiots who look like grown up Beavis and Butthead and who were the frequent visitors in The Blue Oyster Bar where they did a lot of dancing, mostly dancing. There were also memorable staff members at Lassard Police Academy, starting with oblivious forgetful Commander Lassard who liked to give the public speeches...with some special help from under the podium. There is very diligent and strict Lt. Harris who took his job in forcing new cadets to quit very seriously. There is also Sgt. Debbie Callahan in the full Valkyrie mood. To make it short - Police Academy is fun, always has been and I believe will be. I've seen it so many times I know the lines by heart and I still watch at least the parts of this classic when they show it on TV. I'll tell you what - the second and the third movies are also funny. In the second, the new character, Zed, a leader of the local gang of punks, (Bobcat Goldthwait with Ozzy -like voice) enters the series, and in the third, the reformed Zed returns as the cadet and has the funniest scenes with Tim Kazurinsky (Sweetchuck). The rest of the series get repetitive and boring but the first three movies still hold tight. Now back to the question in the beginning of my review. What do Police Academy and Amadeus have in common? Both are the winners of the Golden Screen Award which is presented to the distributors of domestic and foreign feature films - including documentary and children films - with more than 3,000,000 admissions within 18 months since their release or re-release in Germany. Looks like Police Academy made it internationally, and even more - the second and the third movie also won the same award. So, Mr. Ebert, I think it is the time to admit that Police Academy is very far from being the bad movie not worthy even a star from you. Silly, witless - yes. Bad? Absolutely not. "},{"Title":"Police Academy review!","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the all time funniest slapstick films made. This film brings back so many good memories for me from my childhood!! The film was original and unique!! The following sequels that followed weren't bad, but many would disagree with me on that!! The films were not trying to be serious and if you take them for what they were (Silly) then you would appreciate them! Police Academy 1 had many great elements created by using good character development that stood out within all the cadets! The film was so over the top you couldn't help but laugh at it, and that's what made it fun! Overall, I would give Police Academy 1 seven of a possible ten stars for it's decent story and refreshing concept!! "}{"Title":"A rather good start for a whole lot of sequels.","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, these Police Academy movies would become rather weak, but I thought they started out rather good with this one and part two. This one in the series is also the most risqué, as this film series would actually become more of a family type comedy series when this one is an R rated one that has nudity and one rather funny speech scene. It kind of did the opposite of the Meatballs franchise that went from family friendly to more adult oriented. The gist of the story is simple, a lot of people who should not be in a police academy enroll in one and each is a misfit type in his or her own way. Granted I do not seem them enrolling someone like Mahoney as they kind of frown upon people with troubled pasts becoming police officers. You have your gun toting security guard who always wanted to be a cop, your giant strong dude becoming a cop and a womanizer along with a host of others. The comedy is good and for the most part it works. I enjoyed the two idiots who shaved their heads bald in the one scene and when they got caught up in the bar. Lots of funny stuff, unfortunately the sequels would mainly just repeat what was in this one and the next film and the jokes would become rather stale as the series went through six sequels I know of. "},{"Title":"Larvell Jones & His Sound Effects Attract Me!","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Michael Winslow & Bubba Smith's roles were the most humorous throughout the films.(especially since the 1984 'debut')! I'm glad Michael Winslow is staying with the movie contract! (As quite a few others have left). Favorite scenes. A I like the scene of Carey Mahoney teaching Moses Hightower, to drive approximately 245 A.M. to 300 A.M. B Larvell Jones' two gun imitating, first, in handcuffs next to Mahoney, he exasperated the patrol, it is so hilarious, almost causing the telephone call, to be disconnected! And in Commandant Lassard's police car, during the riot! I also like the scene of Jones' trick of imitating a electric megaphone to get Mahoney out of class & also calls Lieutenant Harris, to the Firing Squad! C Leslie Barbera got his 'revenge' on those that threw him & the Kodak camera street-room over the bridge, at the early opening & during the riot, he sees them again, but jumped to a wrong conclusion, seeing them take items out of a house. Leslie Barbera used jui-jitsu & overcomes all of them, just to learn what they had was theirs, all the time. 63x927is58401. "},{"Title":"Police academy a passable comedy","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" police academy made in 1984 was to try and capture the same sort of zany scatological humour that had placated audiences in movies such as airplane , the naked gun , but police academy's humour comes in the form of slapstick and sketch like gags etc. and raunchy . Any the film is about a man named Carey Mahoney played by Steve Guttenberg who is told by his prison officer that he has to complete the 14 week training course or he has to face a prison sentence and when arrives he meets a whole host of weird wacky misfits who hope to become police officers themselves and hopes he can endure what is ahead of him . Everyone gives an memorable performance in the film such as Guttenberg Michael Winslow as Jones but the main one that stands above the rest of the cast is GW Bailey as captain Harris who suitable mean and smarmy to the point of sheer exhilaration . Overall police academy is funny in bits not all the way through but its very entertaining and better than all the abysmal sequel's that followed it . Rated R for comic violence and some strong language and sexual scenes "},{"Title":"World's Wackiest Police Force","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has got to be the wackiest police force on planet Earth. Crime is running ramped in town so the Lady Mayoress has lowered the standards of the town's police in order to allow new recruits into the Police Academy. A great comedy classic.The character Lt. Harris (G. W. Bailey) reminds me of Sergeant Carter (Frank Sutton) - so that give you an idea of how comical this guy is. And Lt. Harris is definitely my favorite of the entire police force.If you like wacky police/governmental comedies such as Turner and Hooch, The Naked Gun, Spies Like Us, or Men in Black then you might like Police Academy.8/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are some films that you can watch over and over again and get the same enjoyment. Rarer are the films that you enjoy more each time you see them. POLICE ACADEMY is one of these. I'm amazed that this film isn't held in the same regard as WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S II. In this film the women are not natural at all. On the other hand, the women held it together with excellent acting. It's worth seeing for some inventive uses of sound and the actors. This one is much better than other reviewers would have you believe. What I liked best is that the movie never take itself seriously without being a parody. Romance, comedy, fun, perfect cast and directing. "},{"Title":"Back in the old days there were johnsons as far as the eye could see.","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Due to more relaxed requirements, the police academy is now accepting anybody who wants to be a cop. This leads to an assortment of misfits and oddballs signing up, as well as one guy (Steve Guttenberg) who's forced to join or else go to jail. Despite expectations that they will all fail, the recruits actually do pretty good. This doesn't sit well with a hard-assed instructor (G.W. Bailey), who's determined to flush the academy of all recruits he deems unworthy to be police officers.An '80s classic with lots of funny lines and scenes, as well as very memorable theme music. Yeah, it's followed by a series of derivative sequels of varying quality but this first one is really good. It's helped by a very likable cast, many of whom would stay with the series. Steve Guttenberg, Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, David Graf, Bruce Mahler, Marion Ramsey, and Leslie Easterbrook are all great fun. Kim Cattrall would only appear in this one. She doesn't get as much of a chance to be funny as the others but she sure is beautiful. People make a lot of jokes about Police Academy like it's a crappy movie. Perhaps that's because the sequels kept coming long after there was no gas left in the tank. This first movie is the best and stands on its own. You can watch the sequels if you choose to, and some aren't bad, but it's not necessary in order to enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Fun 80s comedy","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The mayor has open up the admission policy of the police academy. This has led to a myriad of different characters trying out for the force. Lt. Harris (G.W. Bailey) is the hard nose trainer determine to break the unlikely recruits. Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) keeps trying to be kicked out from this program that was forced upon him. Karen Thompson (Kim Cattrall) is a rich girl. They and the other misfits will turn the force upside down.This is a fun 80s comedy. The characters are good nature. The movie has the heart in the right place. If there's any needed improvement, it's the need for great wacky comedian. Other comedies of the era like 'Animal House' has John Belushi. This one has Steve Guttenberg. He's more a comedic actor rather than a full blown wacky comedian. It just doesn't get to the next level for a comedy. "},{"Title":"Stupid comedy at it's finest.","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you enjoy a comedy that has little to no intellectual thought put into it then this may definitely be for you. I remember watching this a long time ago. I didn't think all too much of it (although I did find it funny). A few months ago I saw about the entire second half of this and really loved what I saw and decided sometime later I would watch this.The plot (but do we really care? - I mean COME ON it's a stupid comedy) is that the mayor of a town passed a law that anyone can enter the police academy regardless of weight, height, gender, education or basically anything really. We follow some characters graduating from the police academy while getting into some stupid yet funny situations.If you want to see this movie - see it for the gags. Some of them are hilarious. You have some really stupid lines like this.Nobody screws with me! I'm sure that'll change once you meet the right girl. So if that kind of humour doesn't really appeal to you then this movie probably won't. It only is a bit of mindless fun. I won't watch 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7. I saw about the first half hour of 5 and that was more than enough for me.Thank you for reading this review I hope you've enjoyed it as much as I have. (if you haven't seen this movie you probably won't get that joke) "},{"Title":"Perfect old school comedy","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Story/Plot - The year is 1984 and the mayoress has removed set personal criteria form the requirements to join the police force. No longer is sex, weight, height and orientation a factor. This now allows for an insurgence of people applying. The Police Academy series follows a select group of misfits in their quest to become police men and women.The first film of which this review covers follows these misfits in their time at the Police Academy. The main focus is on a petty criminal called Mahoney. Mahoney is busted for criminal damage and as punishment is forced to go to Police Academy. Mahoney initially feels that this isn't the right place for him and he makes it his mission to be thrown out as he is not allowed to quit.As the classes go by and the training exercises are played out, Mahoney soon realises that he is actually enjoying the academy and does want to become a police officer.We are also introduced to the gun maniac Tackelberry, the very tall Hightower, voluptuos Callahan, squeaky Hooks, human beat box and sound effects master Jones and the ever confuzzled Commandant Lassard.This group become good friends and become the base for the rest of the series of films.My verdict - This is one of my favorite film series ever. I have watched these films a few too many times but I love them. I will always recommend Police Academy to anyone who wants a good laugh but to see a good film as well. Steve Guttenberg, Kim Cattrall, GW Bailey, Bubba Smith, Donovan Scott, George Gaines, David Graf, Lesley Easterbrook and Michael Winslow create the main cast and are all prefect in their characters. I can not fault them at all. "},{"Title":"Mahoney cops some flack as he stays in a state of arrested development.","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I was a young lad there were a number of movies that could guarantee having me in fits of laughter throughout. The Cannonball Run films were a blast. Smokey & The Bandit II was watched a lot in my youth. And the Police Academy movies. Of course, cherished movies from the past don't always hold their positions. Especially movies from the 80s.Surprising as it may seem, the first movie in the Police Academy series holds up reasonably well to this day. Oh, I'm sure it would be easy to pick it apart and point and laugh at the very 80s essence of the thing (yes, there IS intermittent use of the saxophone throughout the livelier soundtrack moments and we even get some Frankie Goes To Hollywood in there) but if you know to expect lowbrow, far-fetched shenanigans then this remains a good choice for fans of bawdy humour.The plot? Well, the police are now taking on anyone and everyone. That means that things like height, weight and levels of common sense no longer matter. Much to the chagrin of people like the tough Lieutenant Harris (G. W. Bailey). It also means that cheeky chappy Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg) is given a choice when he gets in trouble yet again - his friend will make him do some time in jail OR he can go through the 14 weeks at police academy. Passing or failing doesn't matter, he can't leave. So Mahoney joins up with a number of other raw recruits and does his best to get thrown out, not knowing that the people training the cadets have been told to encourage people to leave of their own accord rather than actually eject them from the training. The scene is set for a number of pranks, confrontations and maybe even a chance for a plucky underdog or two to show just what they're made of.Directed by Hugh Wilson (who wouldn't really do anything better, and I mean that as a compliment to this movie and not a disparaging comment to his other films) and written by Neal Israel and Pat Proft (the guys responsible for Bachelor Party) with contributions from Wilson, Police Academy is a movie focused first and foremost on the gags and the humour to be derived from the characters. It tries to stay within the realms of plausibility but abandons any such concerns when it comes to a) the central concept, obviously, and b) the grand finale.The cast are all great fun. Steve Guttenberg may not have done much of note beyond the 80s but he invests Mahoney with just the right mix of cheekiness and charm to make an immensely likable lead. G. W. Bailey is a great foe for our fun-loving hero. George Gaynes is superb as Commandant Lassard, a character who is best described as Frank Drebin getting to wear a fancy hat. Michael Winslow always entertains with his amazing range of sound effects, Leslie Easterbrook gamely goes along with the joke that her character is a tough Sergeant an amazing bust, Kim Cattrall is a lovely cadet who immediately catches Mahoney's eye, the late Bubba Smith will always be Hightower to a generation, Bruce Mahler is the accident-prone one, Marion Ramsey is wonderfully timid, David Graf gets a lot of the bigger laughs as gun-happy Tackleberry and Scott Thomson and Brant von Hoffman are two sneaky cadets trying to help Lieutenant Harris weed out the undesirables. There are others involved but this lot make up the main stable of characters important to this film and/or who would go on to star in a number of the many sequels.There's a grandiose score accompanying many of the scenes, a number of wonderful punchlines (one of the best involving a cadet played by Donovan Scott running into some old enemies while he's on duty), some fleeting nudity and a prank involving a happy hooker. All in all, everything you could want and expect from an 80s comedy. "}{"Title":"Get Mahoney!","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy, a 1984 film, was a film that pointed out to a trend of the gross out genre that will follow. Notably the contribution of the Farrelly brothers and its imitators. It was one of the first films that showed a lot of nudity for the enjoyment of the young crowd it was targeted to. Seeing it recently on a cable channel, we thought how sadly dated this picture looks. There were more sequels, but this one stands out as being the original which all the others imitated.Carey Mahoney is the principal in this comedy in which he does everything possible to get out of getting out of the training facility he has been sent. He has it for Lt. Harris, the control freak in charge of training. He also discovers the gorgeous new recruit Karen Thompson who is first repulsed by his antics, but eventually sees a good side to this man.Hugh Wilson directed the film. Steve Guttenberg is Mahoney, the orchestrator of everything that will get him expelled. Kim Cattrall is Karen. G. W. Bailey plays the obnoxious Harris. Best thing in the film is Michael Winslow, who displays a talent for making all kinds of noises and announcements. George Gaynes is the academy's Commandant who has the fortune of getting a blissful moment while delivering a slide presentation. "},{"Title":"A Fun Slapstick Comedy","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The city is in need of more police officers, so the mayor decides to alter the requirements for acceptance into the Police Academy. Among the new cadets is Moses Hightower, a gentle giant who was a florist. Leslie Barbara, who is tired of being picked on. Laverne Hooks, a mousy, meek voice person. Karen Thompson, a socialite, who hopes that it'll allow her the opportunity to meet some unusual people. Eugene Tackleberry, a guy who likes to discharge his weapon. Larvell Jones, a human sound effects machine, who was met at the police station by Carey Mahoney, a guy who is basically a good guy but has a little trouble with authority figures, a retaliates by committing outrageous acts that get him arrested.He is fortunate that police Captain Reed is a good friend of his father and has been bailing him out but now Reed thinks that jail is what Mahoney needs but Mahoney disagrees. Reed suggest that Mahoney join the police academy but must complete the 14 week course or else he will be sent to jail. So Mahoney brings Jones with him hoping that he can help Mahoney get thrown out.This film is a funny comedy with some raunchiness and a lot of slapstick jokes that will make you enjoy throughout of the movie. Of course, it's not the best film ever made but it is entertaining for those who want to laugh and kill a few minutes out of their lives.As with the comedy, this film also have some serious scenes and take on a serious subject on one scene, which was done well and surprised me a lot. This is a film where you wouldn't expect as much but you get a bit more that it offers.You'll be certain you'll at least connect with ONE character in the film because there are many of them with some great personalities and some having their moment to shine on the screen for at least one scene. The acting by most of them were pretty funny, overall.The music in the movie will get stuck in your brain because it is really memorable, like Pirates of the Caribbean. I would like to complain that there is just unnecessary nudity in the film.If you would like to see a comedy more than you think it'll be, watch this film. You'll like it and be entertained throughout. But don't expect some huge mumble jumbo that will happen somewhere because it's really not that big of a movie but gives some good laughs. "},{"Title":"Damn Funny Film","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Subsequent Police Academy films were very much a let down. Number 1, HILARIOUS. Number 2, OK, but not a classic. Number 3, better than 2 but not nearly as good as 1. The rest. I cry if I watch them. A chuckle here and there isn't enough for me. Just my humble opinion.This first, however IS a classic movie. Not an intellectual art film, just a very funny movie that has managed to entertain millions for quite some time. Anyone who walks into this film with the idea that it's anything but a silly, off the wall comedy, and who feels films must have a message or some deep meaning, is in for a disappointment. Honestly, why would some pretentious snob watch this in the first place? The advertising is fairly clear as to what type of movie this is. But I digress.The basic story line is that a bunch of folks who would never, EVER, have a chance at being police officers under the strict guidelines have their shot when a 'forward thinking' mayor takes over and opens opportunities to EVERYONE. Disaster is being invited here. However, as it turns out, whether or not the recruits really wanted to be cops, they become some damn fine cops. In real life, it's amusing to see that this can actually happen. The best candidates on paper can be the biggest flops and those who, on paper, should be avoided, sometimes excel. Steve Guttenburg should make a comeback. I really don't give a rat's ass what some may think of him, he's got a lot of comedic talent and he proved it in this riotous (yes, there IS a riot in the film!) movie. Steve, come back, we need ya! "},{"Title":"The wackiest cops you'll ever see!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had the opportunity to first see Police Academy on a movie channel, and I really liked the movie. It had really funny jokes and gags, mostly slapstick and verbal jokes. It also proved that a team of misfit cops-to-be can actually help fight crimes! The great thing about this movie is the humor. The funniness of the film can keep you laughing, and the comedy is very original. It's especially funny to know that each of the police cadets have their own unique crazy ability that gives them advantages over their foes. The characters are very memorable too.The downside of this film is that the climactic scenes at the end seemed to end the movie too fast, since I expected more crime-fighting. But since this was the first movie, I guess the film-makers didn't think too much about villainous characters. They probably just wanted to keep the movie as it was, with good clean comedy. The other downside is that there are extremely terrible sequels that follow. A word of warning NEVER WATCH THE SEQUELS OF THIS MOVIE.Overall, the movie was hilarious and fun. Watch it when you need to be cheered up on a bad day. I guarantee that you'll be happy after viewing it.I give this movie an 8/10. "},{"Title":"The only Police Academy movie that counts","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can be said about the Police Academy movies? Well, if you take all seven and judge them as a whole then you'd come to the conclusion that they suck and be done with it. On the other hand if you take the first one and judge that by itself then you may, like me come to the conclusion that it's one of the funniest movies of the eighties.In my mind i won't let the sequels taint this brilliant comedy full of slapstick humour and downright goofiness. When i compare Police Academy to most of the comedies of today then i appreciate it even more.One thing that bugs me is that Michael Winslow is under used in this. It seems that he is involved in very little and is only there to make cool sound effects. I would have liked him to have been involved in the story more.Regardless of that little annoyance this is still a brilliant movie which is far superior to the sequels. An eighth Police Academy is in the works as i type this and all i have to say is that it is a big mistake. Comedies of today on the whole suck and combine that with the fact the last few Police Academies were terrible, i shudder to think what the final outcome will be. The first will never be bettered. "},{"Title":"Police Academy The Original Masterpiece","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy is the first of many great films in a underrated series. Here we get to see many many talented actors and actresses at work, sharping the craft and making one of the best films in the history of the United States. Steve Guttenburgs performance reminds me of some of the great comedy legends of past and present. Comedy must just come natural to this man. G.W Bailey makes a successful transition from his days on M.A.S.H to play Capt Harris. This was a challenging role for him as he has said This role changed my life forever and has made me a better actor. The Role of Eugene Tackleberry is played by David Graf, who to my understanding beat out Bruce Willis for the part,is in top form as a comedy actor. The script was very well written with very few holes. What is most inspiring is the way these characters grow. Many Many people say that Bubba Smiths performance deserved Best Supporting Actor consideration. "},{"Title":"Better than its successors","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Who made Steve Guttenberg a star? sing the stonecutters, a secret masonic cult that Homer joins in a famous episode of the Simpsons. The implication, I think we can all work out, is that Mr Guttenberg, the star of the early police academy movies, isn't particularly talented. Meanwhile a young Kim Cattrall puts in a wooden performance as his love interest that's still better, and arguably more highbrow, than her sex and the city days.Whether or not you hold this to be true, the acting talent of Guttenberg and his fellow cadets isn't really important, because the crude (but often funny) jokes themselves are the true stars of the show, from mix-ups at gay bars to oral sex performed in the most unusual of locations, this first installment of the police academy series is a lot more 'adult' than later films. It's also a lot funnier.Without giving too much away, the scene with the horse is undoubtedly one of the funniest moments in 80s comedy. "},{"Title":"Compared to its sequels this is brilliant (minor spoilers!!)","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lately I watched Police Academy 4 and even though I was all alone in the room, I was embarrassed to be there. But it made me realize just how much of an original film the first installment was. I still like watching this, the one movie, that set off a whole series not just of sequels but also of very bad comedies with the word Academy in their titles. And the reason this could happen was that this film actually had a bucket full of very funny moments. Yes, I fondly remember the training session during which Cadet Hooks turned an arrest into a hold-up, because of her nervousness. Or when it turned out, what kind of bar the Blue Oyster actually is (a joke that was already dead, when the first sequel picked it up). Or when Michael Winslow started showing his sound imitation talents at a police station. A lot of this is really bad, but there's enough good stuff here to make it just the movie you want to see on a nice evening at home with the guys. Man, you even get Steve Guttenberg when he was still funny! 6/10 and a friendly pat on the authors' shoulders. "},{"Title":"Law-enforcers instead of community service.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit this has to be the funniest but silly movie of the 80s. Who else can stop criminals then the criminals themselves. I've enjoyed the way the recruits stick together like Mahoney and Hightower,and the feelings Hightower had for Hooks. During the training they were destructive but innocent. Though they had the inexperience of being a police officer,the recruits bagged the criminals anyway.  "},{"Title":"A classic comedy - unfairly critisised","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was the film that spawned 6 inferior sequels. Highly funny, with plenty of memorable moments, 2 in particular being Blanks and Copeland being tricked into going into the Blue Oyster (a gay bar), and the slide show sequence featuring Lassard and the lady beneath the box.  The sequels may not have been great, but this certainly is, I can't understand why people knock it so much. I give it 8/10. "}{"Title":"Great Characters, Underrated Slapstick","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Granted, the tiring six sequels that poorly followed this film made one wonder Have they given up yet? But the original Police Academy is a great example of ensemble cast of characters and uproarious slapstick comedy. An underrated gem in 1980's comedy. In fact, I dare say that this delightfully funny satire of life in police training has some of the most lovable, wildly hilarious characters of comedies made in the past thirty years. I whole-heartedly recommend watching Police Academy...but the sequels...ugh...  "},{"Title":"Lighten up, folks!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a self-confessed movie freak...and also a writer/director, I have to go on record This film is FUNNY. Times are different now and tastes change, but funny is funny. My good friend Leslie Easterbrook has made a career out of this one character...and she is quite wealthy to boot! After all,$75 million at the box office, plus untold millions in overseas and cable???C'mon, folks...LIGHTEN UP!!! "},{"Title":"Super Slapstick","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This IS funny!The films dragged on and on but I really enjoyed this one.The jokes are slapstick comedy which I find superb, you have the bad guy, the good guy & Michael Winslow who is great. Add a bit of cheeky humor and you have a winner.If you like Benny Hill, this films for you!Nice One - Wicked! "},{"Title":"Police Department Won't Never Be The Same","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie and how it began. You got to like this flim, great characters, buy really funny. It's about people inculding Mahoney (Steve Guttenburg) who was arrested and then went to the Police Academy for 14 weeks and made it as a police officer.Great flim from Warner Brothers.Great flim.*****. "},{"Title":"I suppose it was better than Hamburger...The Motion Picture","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Students of the long-lived Police Academy series will probably note that this film marks the point where the series took a turn for the worse. The story wasn't quite ready for the prostate exam scene of part 2, it hadn't quite achieved the comic desperation of the Proctor-in-the-portapotty scene of part 4, and it wasn't at all ready for the soul crushing, life-rejecting abandonment of decency that was the slapstick romp through Moscow's Red Square in part 7, but a observant viewer of the first film might notice that underneath the tasteless racism, offensive caricatures, and tired repetitive humor, the groundwork was being laid for these later atrocities.At the epicenter of all this is Mr. Steve Guttenberg, who may have been destined for a James Belushiesque kind of stardom if his career hadn't been scuttled in these early movies. He provides a cunning foil to G.W. Bailey, star of Mannequin and countless numbers of my own nightmares, who plays Captain Harris, the no-nonsense but kind of stupid drill instructor. Along for the ride is funny noisemaker Michael Winslow, the poignant and misunderstood Bubba Smith, who provides some necessary pathos with his Mahoney, can you teach me how to drive? speech, George Gaynes as Lassard, Dave Graf as Tackleberry, Leslie Easterbrook as the well endowed Callahan, and a bunch of other guys who were smart enough not to sign on for the sequel.In a movie that really cries out for the additional talent of Bobcat Goldthwait, this team still somehow manages to pull it together. And thanks to the R rating, they were able to pull off a brand of tasteless foul humor that would be inaccessible in later Academy adventures. Like Harris's head in the horse's patoot, or the anguished screams of the bad-guy recruits when they stumble into the gay bar.To be fair, this movie really isn't any worse than any number of mindless T&A slapstick films that came around in the 80's. It compares favorably with similar movies like Hamburger and Ski School and My Tutor, but the problem is that while Young Doctors in Love didn't spawn 6 sequels and both a live action and cartoon TV series, Police Academy did. The result is that we can dismiss movies like Teachers as amusing, forgettable failures and move on with our lives, but we must view Police Academy as something far more sinister a conspiracy to dull the American mind, a reflection of our troubled times, perhaps even the Final Omen predicted by Nostradamus or the Seventh Sign spoken of in Revelations.If you ignore my advice and see this anyway, keep your eye out for the scene where Harris screams the n-word at Private Hooks and Bubba Smith flips the car over with his bare hands. It just goes to show that years before Spike Lee would try to capture the complexity of the black experience in America through his own films, Police Academy had already thoroughly explored that territory, leaving a profound mark on the national dialogue. "},{"Title":"The First, The Best","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy is the first and the best part of this movie-series. Steve Guttenberg does a great job as the leading actor. Many other great comedy talents supports him, like Michael Winslow or David Graf. Formerly M*A*S*H-Actor G.W.Bailey is great as arrogant teacher of the Police Academy. But the very best actor of the team is George Gaynes. He is wonderful as Commander Lassard.  "},{"Title":"The ultimate slapstick comedy","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must have seen this film about 30 times.  I know it's immature toilet humour, but what the hell, if you can't laugh at this, you won't laugh at all.  Steve Guttenberg plays Mahoney, just one of a group of cadets who joins the police force after the mayor of the city declares that everyone can join regardless of height or weight.  This was the start of a series of 7 films including this one.  The rest of the Police Academy films were not as good as the original.... but then what sequels are (Back to the future 2 as an exception). If you haven't seen this check it out for some good laughs.   "},{"Title":"The original is the best. They should have left it alone. SPOILERS","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The original POLICE ACADEMY gets extensive play in syndication on cable tv. The film is a great comedy that is part screwball comedy and part police spoof. The film was released in the early 1980's and was a huge hit. However, they ran the franchise into the ground...I could see one more sequel, but not 7! Some of the funnier moments in this film are; the subplot with the two redneck cadets, the scene where the police instructor rides a motorcycle down the streets of town only to get his head stuck up a horse's ass, the scenes with the black guy who does noises, the scene of Mahoney working at the car lot, the scene where the spanish guy is trying to pick up a asian chick while a wall of 1000+ silently rioters close in behind him, and the riot sequence. One of this film's best assets is that it has a knack of having scenes where something serious is happening, while something humorous is going on in the backdrop (or vice versa). Most comedies like this don't work, but this one did. Watch this one and skip all the sequels after two.....One note, you can tell this film was shot in canada by the cadet uniforms...they are divergent of Canadian law enforcement uniform schemes.  "},{"Title":"It ain't perfect, but it's fun!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A few years ago I first saw this movie. I hadn't had such a good time in years. I was laughing all the time. Okay, the story is, if I may say so, not really good. But that wasn't what the writers meant with this movie. It's for fun!So, watch it with not a to critical eye. And have fun! "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, too many childish sequels plagued the series, but this is one of the best 80's comedies.  It is way better than the sequels, with all respect to them.  Because of this film, Michael Winslow will always be known as the guy that does the sound effects from those Police Academy films. "}{"Title":"Move It Move It Move It","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pure 80s Comedy!  I love the 80s comedies and this is one of my favorites. I guess people liked this movie so much that they made 6 more sequels after. Michael Winslow aka Larvell Jones is number 1! "},{"Title":"Why do people knock this film?","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Granted, the jokes got old once Police Academy 7 rolled around. But this was  an amazingly funny slapstick. "},{"Title":"* * * Out Of Five","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When the lady mayor make possible for anyone to be a police officer, a bunch of misfits run to nearest recruitment poster and take the training to be police officers in this pleasant hit and miss comedy that doesn't always hit the bullseye but when it does, it really hits the mark. It's easy to blame what became the Friday The 13th of comedy on this particular entry but like the first Friday, this is actually a good movie which does what it mainly promises to do. The gross out humor is generally inspired and the movie does have good comic performances. It's not nearly as funny as say Airplane or Stripes but there is a reason why this became a classic. Of course the highlight of it all is hands down Michael Winslow, who's sound effects are always funny. I'll even go as far as saying that PA 2 and (maybe)PA 3 are also adequate comedies as well.3/5 Matt Bronson "},{"Title":"Best Comedy Film Of All Time","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) Police Academy is the best comedy film of all time. I have watched it at least 90 times since 1984 (yes, I am a sad person) and it gets better with each viewing.The story is simple. The mayor of an American city decides to do away with all the entry requirements to the Force such as height, weight, educational background etc. This leads to all sorts of unsuitable idiots applying to the Police Academy. The film follows them through their basic training and at the end we see them go out onto the field.The man in charge of the Academy is Commandant Eric Lassard, a senile old fool played brilliantly by George Gaynes. Lassard is in a world of his own and wouldn't know a truncheon from a wristwatch.The trainer is Lieutenant Harris played by G.W. Bailey. Harris is like a drill sergeant and is committed to making the recruits lives as horrible as possible. In this film he has two brown nosing rookies called Blanks and Copeland who act as his eyes and ears.The other trainer is Sergeant Debbie Callahan who has a huge pair of...well, I'm sure you know what I mean.The recruits are all really funny. Carey Mahoney played by Steve Guttenburg is brilliant. We've all known a Mahoney in our lives. Many many years ago when I was a young schoolboy I knew a kid like Mahoney. Mahoney is the sarcastic prankster who is doing his best to get thrown out of the academy. Jones is also a bit of a prankster and delights in making funny noises with his mouth. Hooks is a shy and introverted young lady whom Harris picks on. Hightower is the big strong guy who can lift up cars and cause loads of damage with his bare hands. We have Tackleberry who is in love with guns and sleeps with one in his hands. There's Leslie Barbara who is fat and unfit but soon proves his worth. We have Douglas Fackler who is always causing accidents (he causes a citywide riot with his clumsiness). We have George Martin who pretends to be something he's not and finally we have Kyle Blanks and Chad Copeland, the typical brown nosing sneaks.The scenes are funny throughout. Mahoney plays countless pranks-watch out for the scene where the Commandant is giving a speech to various police chiefs. Something rather crude happens and it is so funny. Other great scenes include a citywide riot which the cadets are called out to police, the fight between the fat Leslie Barbara and his tormentors and the scene where Copeland and Blanks end up in a homosexual bar and are forced to dance all night.I feel I've gone on for too long. Watch the film-it deserves a viewing. "},{"Title":"Crummy STRIPES rip-off","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Try a little experiment. Watch the movie Stripes then watch this movie. You will see that these movies are very similar, with one major exception. Stripes is actually funny. Police Academy is an obvious rip-off (even the music is so similar it's scary), yet is fails to be as funny. I think the acting alone could help to account for it. Steve Guttenberg is NO Bill Murray! "},{"Title":"The funniest in the series!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy is the funniest in the series! and maybe the best. The final scene is classic. The final song was the right kind of song to end the movie. I have been watching this movie since 1986. It's very funny, and entertaining. I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Pleasant low-brow comedy slapstick","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This low-brow comedy slapstick worked pretty well, largely thanks to a prime example of excellent comic timing by G.W.Bailey as Lieutenant Harris.  Of course, this film was also responsible for inciting one of the most atrocious collections of sequels in movie history, perhaps only rivalled by Jaws.  In this first film, the side-kicks are given just enough room to shine but not enough to become a nuisance.  For an example of how to get this balance wrong, watch any of its sequels. "},{"Title":"Seriously....Seven!","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With seven films in the 80's and into the 90's, the Police Academy series of comedy films are known for their stupid humour and crazy bunch of characters. Here is where the insanity all kicked off and in mediocre fashion, how this spawned so many sequels I'll never know although financially this was a massive success though. The film is about a new law where basically anyone can apply to be a Police Officer and go through training in the academy. Of course the law brings in many wacky people and those who don't even want to be there because they have to go, the film thrives on creating oddballs but really fails to get a lot of decent jokes out, squandering any chances this had at being at least satisfactory.The film stars people such as Steve Guttenberg, Kim Cattrall, Bubba Smith and for me and I think for many others the best person in this, Michael Winslow. Although the character of Cadet Eugene Tackleberry is close to being the best comedy performance in this, Winslow's character Larvell Jones another cadet is actually funny in this, the noises this guy makes are very memorable even from this film. The movie isn't bad in my opinion far from it, many critics in the day really hated this but it isn't really a movie so dumb you'll want to turn it off, it has it's moments and some are pretty good but I just felt it is a little too dumb to be anything but average.Hugh Wilson is the guy behind this directing and co-writing and he doesn't do so well, the moments in which the film could have been funny are squandered by bad choices direction wise and making some jokes just too crude. The movie could also be said to be misogynistic and homophobic which could be true, I heard many homophobic slurs and characters saying another is gay as an offensive term. The treatment of women in the film is questionable and although Cattrall's character Karen Thompson is a strong minded woman, many women in this are seen only in a sexual way.I think although the film can be backwards, some moments of this movie do have good humour and can be funny(it doesn't excuse the backward attitudes though). It mostly gets by in the laughing areas with physical humour and at times Commandant Lassard the man in charge of the academy has some great one liners. Lt. Harris played by G.W. Bailey is also pretty good in his role, he is easily dislikeable and so many things that happen to harm him or offend him are easily likable moments of this movie. Overall I can't really recommend Police Academy mostly because it's just not that good, I mean some people may really like it and it could right up you street but it's too silly for me and I feel for others too. So there you have it, the start to a long running series of films that just seemed to never stop, it did finally of course but even today they are talking about doing a reboot, I hope if they do then it can actually be a good film for once. "},{"Title":"Not funny just very stupid.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This a not a good movie. It is very boring and not funny. Police academy 2 is better. And is pretty bad movie. It is badly written. Some idiots train to be cops. This movie is nothing but stupid jokes and seen with some naked girls. Don't wast your money. And do not wast your time. Do not see this awful movie. It is boring. I can't believe people like this movie. I need more lines and I am running out of things to say. This movie is pooh pooh. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh, pooh pooh. I'don't see it don't see it don't see it. The acting in this movie is mediocre. Steve G.u.t.t.e.n.b.e.r.g is not a good actor. Kim C.a.t.t.r.a.l.l is a good actor but she wasted her talent being in this awful movie. Do not see it. "},{"Title":"80's Comedy Classic!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Guttenberg, Bubba Smith, Kim Catrall, Donavan Scott, David Graf, Leslie Easterbrook, Bruce Mahler, Michael Winslow, Marion Ramsay, G.W. Bailey and George Gaynes star in this 1984 comedy. Mahoney (Guttenberg) is a guy who gets himself in trouble constantly. He's persuaded to join the police academy to better himself and get discipline. He's joined by Jones (Winslow) who does great mouth effects and some other misfits including gun-crazy, Tackleberry (Graf), accident prone, Fackler (Mahler), soft-spoken, Hooks (Ramsay), nice guy, Leslie (Scott) and big man, Hightower (Smith). Gaynes plays Lassard, the commandant who heads the academy, Bailey plays Lieutenant Harris, Easterbrook plays tough instructor, Callahan and Cattrall plays Thompson, a cadet who Mahoney falls for. Guttenberg and the cast are great, especially Bailey because he always plays a good, mean-spirited character and the late, Graf was terrific as Tackleberry. I also like Robert Folk's great score and recommend this 80's comedy classic. "}{"Title":"The defining 80s comedy, though not really the best","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's hard to say what exactly makes Police Academy such a classic. Sure, it was a massive box office hit, but check out the massive box office hits from this last ten years and see how many you completely forgot existed. Maybe Police Academy remains so well-known because it spawned such a ridiculous amount of knock-offs. If you wanted to make popular horror in the 80s, you could do it easily by lazily rehashing Friday the 13th. If you wanted to make a successful comedy, you just had to make this one but with a different kind of academy. Who can forget Rick Sloane's Vice Academy-franchise? I can't. I've tried. It may just be a lot simpler though Police Academy is just pretty funny. It's not the most intelligent movie ever made, but it does have a lot of jokes good enough to live through six sequels and stay relatively fresh. The characters are all stereotypes (there are attempts at giving them some depth, but I gotta say those are pretty stilted and pathetic), but at least their one characteristic is usually really funny. Pretty much everyone with a pulse likes to sit back and watch Tackleberry be completely insane, or hear Jones do his Bruce Lee routine, because the actors are so good at what they do. Classic stuff. I don't think Police Academy is the best movie ever made, but it's easy to get its popularity.Hey wait, maybe it's the brilliant theme song. I've got it stuck in my head right now, and so do you. It owns. "},{"Title":"Its Not Comedy Gold,But It Is a Lot Of Fun,","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy is a good movie with an average storyline and a good,comedic cast.Its certainly not a genius comedy,there's an awful lot of hit and miss,but jokes do work out well,they work out really well,and they almost make up for the amount of misses.I liked Steve Guttenberg's character,he mainly what makes this movie so enjoyable and I don't understand why they even carried on with the fhranchise without him.The humour in Police Academy is undeniably stupid,but its hard not to enjoy,if you enjoy goofy comedies,you'll probably get a good kick out of it.Follows the antics of inept police recruits,who enlist when the mayor of an American city waives entry requirements. "},{"Title":"Over-crowded cast and mild laughs The '80s saw better.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After watching Police Academy for the first time, I'm amazed at how more six sequels were spawned from it. There's very little original and very little funny about this film of misfit cops-in-training, but somehow it warranted more ventures. The only explanation I can surmise is its memorable characters and incredibly diverse cast.There are a lot of characters in Police Academy, some funnier than others, but ultimately too many for any of them to gain our sympathies. The potential with some of these characters is pretty good, but picking 5-7 instead of 10-12 could've made for a real band of likable cadets and officers. Instead the characters are sort of wedged into the script for a few dull laughs where their individual quirks fit best.There's Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg), the troublesome rebel trying to get kicked out who serves as the main character for all intents and purposes and Lt. Harris (G.W. Bailey), the nasty instructor he drives up a wall. There's his love interest (Kim Cattrall, formerly the infamous howler from Porky's), the only normal cast member and his hand-picked best buddy Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow) -- a human sound effects machine.Let's not forget the gun-crazy Tackleberry, the pudgy mama's boy Leslie, the gigantic musclebound Hightower (former NFL player Bubba Smith), the quiet and squeaky Hooks, womanizer George Martin, accident-prone Fackler, Police Commandant Lassard, the rough but sexy Sgt. Callahan and Lieutenant's cronies Copeland and Blankes. Writers Hugh Wilson, Neal Israel and Police Squad! writer Pat Proft clearly have no idea which characters will be a hit and which won't, so they cram them all in.Naturally, we pick our favorite characters and hope to see more of them and these characters help us stay sane, give us something to look forward to. In general, however, most of the jokes they are involved in are nothing more than amusing for a couple seconds and very few actually have the set-up and payoff that comedy is built on. The only time that actually happens makes for the best scene in the movie where a prostitute mistakes Commandant Lassard for her customer.In general, there are so many better screwball comedies from the '80s -- like the ones Pat Proft would later work on -- that Police Academy ends up really low on the totem pole. Watch all the John Hughes comedies before considering a taste of this one. "},{"Title":"Rather funny than dumb","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First things first I fully agree on the bad reviews about the sequels .. but this one is different. The first Police Academy Movie comes up with lots of funny ideas (mostly slapstick gags) and even an not to uninteresting plot. But unlike the other PA parts this one doesn't exaggerate the slapstick humor keeping gags and story on a balanced level. As far as i can see it most of the bad reviews here like so often resulted out of wrong expectations. This movie is not to be intended to be a smart and sharp satire but rather just a movie for simple unpretentious entertainment. If you only are able to laugh about movies that mentally challenge you Don't WATCH THIS ONE or you gonna waste your time/money. "},{"Title":"Wasn't impressed by it.","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Policy Academy Trilogy is one of the most memorable cinema work in the 1980s, so, I naturally was hoping that the first movie in the franchise would be a good one.This first movie, about a group of good-hearted but incompetent misfits who enter the police academy after the city's mayor allowed for virtually any one to apply, was just one gag after the other, with little or no plot. The excessive sexual innuendos were over the top and the movie takes a very long time to gain any steam. You might get a few chuckles here and there from the ongoing jokes, but you probably won't mind much excitement or thrills in the action-less plot.The acting, though, was as good as it can be in the film, with Steve Guttenberg, Bubba Smith, Michael Winslow, Marion Ramsey and George Gaynes being the highlight of the show. David Graf's Tackberry character was a little too overzealous and Andrew Rubin's oversexed George Martin character was a turn-off.If you would like to watch the Police Academy movies, stick with the sequels, particularly Parts Two and Three.Grade D- "},{"Title":"The original and 'best'","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A sharply edited, quick witted and fairly exhaustive schtick-flick. In the pantheon of gag-a minute comedies, Police Academy can lay claim to being one of the better features. Pressed into service as a serial social irritant, Steve Guttenburg carries the film as the cheeky charmer. The grit to his oyster is the pompous G.W. Bailey as Harris and the principal pantomimics are completed with the mad commandant Eric Lassard of George Gaynes.Crime prevention is very much a side issue for the 'cadets', with the resolution of personal imperfections that brought the misfits here in the first place being the stock material. There's also all manner of vice to spice it all up and feed a natural gravitation towards toilet humour. Apart from Guttenberg and Bailey, no one acts particularly well but it doesn't matter. 6/10 "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police academy is a fantastic and a funny movie. I thought it was brilliant. This movie was made in 1984, the actors and the actresses did a good job with this movie especially the actor who played a fantastic part of being the copper that made all the sound effects. He is fantastic. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny comedy","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Misfits decide to become police officers,but a higher officer wants them to fail. Likable silly comedy has funny jokes and the sound effects guy is hilarious.Rating***1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Hard To Believe But This Is Rather Amusing","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's amazing the number of film franchises there's been in the 1980s and 90s where a relatively good film has been turned into a long running franchise , so long running that the franchise has dirtied the name of the original movie . Take HELLRAISER for example which is a twisted morbid love story which has the iconic Pinhead in only a couple of scenes disappointing people who think he's the star of the movie unlike in later HELLRAISER sequels . DEATH WISH is another movie that you have hazy memories about and rewatching it after a gap of many years you're somewhat surprised that Chuck doesn't run around the streets of a city mowing down crowds of scumbags . HALLOWEEN and NIGHTMARE ON ELM STEET are other movies that would end up mutating into something else but perhaps the best example of sequels spoiling the reputation of the original movie is POLICE ACADEMY Okay the original POLICE ACADEMY isn't Oscar material but it is 90 minutes of solid amusement . A young man called Mahoney has the choice of either becoming a police cadet or going to jail and I guess being a good looking young white boy Mahoney doesn't really have the choice . There that's the set up and it's a simple one perhaps too simple so the screenplay gets padded out with what can best be described as  patchey sketches  . In many ways the film is structured like CADDYSHACK and like CADDYSHACK the jokes may fail more often than not but there's still plenty of laughs involved due to the politically incorrect humour . The best bits feature two redneck recruits called Copeland and Blanks most especially the Blue Oyster Bar scenes and the scene featuring the fence A comedy that is very funny in parts and I'm surprised to have enjoyed it years after seeing it . I 've never liked the idea of sequels and like franchise movies even less and when you compare the likes of MISSION TO MOSCOW to the original it proves that turning a fairly good movie into a franchise is one helluva bad idea  "},{"Title":"An example of how much better the world was without political correctness...","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ask any cinemaphile and they'll doubtlessly tell you that the best films come from the biggest risks. Terminator 2 was a risk because it was the first film with an official budget of a hundred million. The current Lord Of The Rings adaptations were a big risk because they entailed nearly a third of a billion dollars and a principal photography stage equivalent to that undertaken for Apocolypse Now. Speaking of Apocolypse Now, well, anyone who knows enough about cinema won't need to be told about that one.Police Academy is nowhere near in the same class as those films, but even the most intelligent audience needs some mindless fun every once in a while. Instead, Police Academy's big risk was in managing to squeeze in a lot of jokes that were certain to offend at least someone. People claim that the film discriminates against gays, women, and blacks, conveniently ignoring that the stereotypical nerdy white man and the NRA-endorsing, gun-toting white man also get a good serve here. Nobody is safe. And please, don't read past here if you care about what happens in the film as well as having not seen it yet.Unfortunately, and there always is an unfortunately about adult-oriented comedies of the 1980s, Police Academy does not give its audience a lot of credit. No joke is too low-brow here, and ones like the queer dog were pretty off, even in those enlightened days. The launching of Harris into the horse's butt is a pretty divisive moment in the film, causing fans and critics alike to battle over whether it is just good fun or a moment where the film sinks so low that it will never return. I prefer to see it as an excellent use of trick photography (ie creative problem solving in film, a lost art these days) that, given Harris' character, is pretty damned funny when seen in the right frame of mind.There's also a lot of whining these days that the Blue Oyster scene is discriminatory against the gay. Well, I'd hate to break it to these self-appointed defenders of the outsider, but the Village People pretty much opened this door long, long ago (or at least a few years ago when the film was made). The stereotype of the leather-clad gay man with the handlebar moustache is still firmly ingrained in the mind of every human being who speaks English. It isn't because they are homophobic, but more because gay people (yes, the Village people are gay) put it there in the first place.Pretty much all of my favourite jokes in the film involve Tackleberry, and this is a good example of how wrong these politically correct drones get it. As a mental patient who has been in and out of hospital on and off since adolescence (the handle isn't just for show, guys), I should find Tackleberry quite offensive. I don't. This is because I keep my head on straight when thinking about his character - the writers were well aware that even under the most undiscriminating guidelines the police (at least in states like New York or Los Angeles) can allow, Tackleberry would not come within cooee of passing their psychiatric screening process. In spite of this, he delivers the biggest laughs of the film, all of them revolving around gunplay or the missing thereof. He is funny because he only has to turn it down a notch, and he'll fit right in with Texan police.I saved the best for last, however. George Gaynes' performance is the gold in this troph that gives it true comical bite. At the time, he was known, especially among children, for a children's television show that was so sickly sweet that it gave everyone involved a Play School sort of reputation, including George. George rises above that here and plays the single most oblivious commandant ever depicted on film. He and Steve Guttenberg play off each other so well that its a pity we haven't seen the two of them work together since. I want out of here, right now. Out of this office? - It's just two people talking, but the whole exchange induces chuckles every time.Overall, I gave Police Academy a 6 out of 10. There are some notorious shortcomings in the writing (Kim Cattrall's character is only there to give the leading man a moment of character motivation), and it might as well have this is a product of the mid-1980s stamped on every frame, but underneath all of that is a genuinely funny low-brow comedy that is only guilty of not caring about what people might say about it in nearly twenty years time. "}{"Title":"Anyone know the song that is played in the Blue Oyster bar ???","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm looking for the song when the 2 guys get taken into the bar and dances with these gay guys. It plays right when the Captain gets jerked by the gay guy and is made to dance. Please any help would be grateful! I got information on this a long time ago but lost it somehow. If anyone knows the music I'm talking about please either respond on here or e-mail me.Jason Thanks!ps If it is available on CD, please include the album information as well as the song titleOnce again thanks! "},{"Title":"Best of the worst","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy! The best of the series by FAR. The writers should have known better and never made any sequels.The story is great and the acting by some of the cast is good (Steve Guttenberg). Most of the other cast members put in average performances, but the story makes up for it. This is the only Police Academy film worth watching. The acting in the other films is PATHETIC and the storylines are a carbon copy of the 1st film.Watch Police Academy a few times and you can say you've watched all the series!!! "},{"Title":"So what's the big deal?","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a product of late-eighties/early-nineties trash culture, I was well-acquainted with Police Academies 2 through 6.  I never did see the original as a kid, owing largely to the fact that square ol' moms wasn't hip with me seeing nudity.  My friend always droned on about how cultureless I was for seeing the sequels, which were the stupid ones (and I'm certainly not contesting THAT), while I never saw the classic original.Well, he finally got me to watch it.  I defied him and I defy anyone to tell me what differentiates this pile of garbage from any of its sequels other than chronology.  As I said numerous times throughout the movie to tick my friend off, I find this film to be highly derivative of 'Police Academy 3.'The movie definitely earns coo' points for Steve Gutenberg's delightfully irreverant (by which I mean sexually ambiguous) costume choices. Mmm...after seein' ol' Gut (pronounced goot) showin' off the six-pack in a midriff with some nice tight cutoffs, I now definitely know how he got to be a star. "},{"Title":"great comedy, but alas, only average.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  you know what?  I don't think police academy is a homophobic film. Whenever I see it, and the two bad guy cops enter the blue oyster bar and that song starts playing?   i start grinning.  Very funny.  These two cops are the bad guys.  They're meant to be homophobes.  If you were a homophobe, what would be your worst nightmare?   .... THE BLUE OYSTER BAR!!!!getting away from the political correct angle, the scene where Lt. Harris flies into the horses ass?   Complete comedy brilliance.  STILL.... i only rate this film a 5 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Police Academy","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Many sequels have followed, I do remember seeing one or two of them, but the original is obviously the most loved and successful, all the others only have tiny moments of humour. Anyway, basically with rises in crime, the mayor to open the door of the city's Police Academy to anyone who wants to join (obviously we see how silly this decision was, but at the same time how fun). Chief Henry Hurst (George R. Robertson) does not agree with the mayor's decision, and soon enough the academy is overrun with misfits, including parking lot attendant Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg), forced to go there for causing trouble, his only other option is jail. Other cadets include Karen Thompson (young Sex and the City star Kim Cattrall), who Mahoney has his eyes on, tall flower loving Moses Hightower (Bubba Smith), Leslie Barbara (Donovan Scott), George Martín (Andrew Rubin), gun loving Eugene Tackleberry (David Graf), Douglas Fackler (Bruce Mahler), Chad Copeland (Scott Thomson), and of course, my favourite (the only actor I would to see the sequels for, and who is in all of them) Larvell Jones (Michael Winslow), with the ability to make literally any noise just from his mouth. Lt. Thaddeus Harris (G.W. Bailey) is least impressed with the new recruits, and at first he is making sure Mahoney in particular has the least fun, and then he switches to wanting him out. All the cadets become more determined to make good, especially when a riot starts in the near town. In the end, the riot is stopped, and also some robbers caught, and all of them graduate, it's just a shame the films that follow are not as successful (or possibly as popular). It was number 42 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Good! "},{"Title":"A classic. But why? Why the sequels?!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's all pretty funny, actually - but why the sequels?!We have a lots of funny characters - Mahoney, Tuckelberry, Captain Lassard, Hightower and more. It's a lot of fun but the whole things gets off course a bit boring. It's a memorable comedy but it want be remembered cause off it's quality, screenplay or something like that - it will be remembered cause of it's sequels! It's sex of them! SIX! That's four too many. Cause it's still pretty entertaining in the second and third, but after that it's silly, especially the seventh and last! In Moscow - a shame!!Eighties humour and a lot of fun - see this but stay away from the sequels! Role dice 4 "},{"Title":"Among the Worst Movies of All Time","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Police Academy is not only a waste of money, it's a waste of time. Don't waste either on this truly horrendous so-called comedy. There is not a single laugh in the entire movie.This movie is so bad that I would hesitate to see any movie with any of the cast, or produced by the same producers, or with the same director.Perhaps if you're someone who has never been to a movie you might find this one interesting. But like I said, and it's worth repeating Don't waste your money! Don't waste your time! I only wish Netflix and IMDb would let me rate it a zero, instead of an undeserved one.Here are my opening two lines again Police Academy is not only a waste of money, it's a waste of time. Don't waste either on this truly horrendous so-called comedy. There is not a single laugh in the entire movie. "},{"Title":"First in series of silly ha-ha comedies","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When the police department lowers its academy entrance requirements, the stage is set for some Animal House antics among the new misfit recruits. This uneven, adolescent romp primarily pokes fun at authority figures (We're Not Gonna Take It by Twisted Sister would be the perfect theme song here). Some of the comedy moments are actually funny, but the jokes are mainly high school boys room material, crude and commonplace.Steve Guttenberg heads the cast of young recruits. He tries hard to get expelled, but constantly bounces back. This groundbreaking comedy is followed by 5 (YES five!) sequels, all spiked with more sophomoric gags and childish humor. The series was a huge box office success in Europe (especially Germany!).Made for kids, yet rated R (go figure!). This comedy will appeal to pre-teens, but anyone past the pimple-age will find this film a little beneath them. "},{"Title":"Police Academy","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Animal House goes Serpico in this wacky cop comedy that spawned seven (maybe eight's coming) sequels and a  television series. This first film at least had some funny gags and Guttenberg to carry us through.    "},{"Title":"A Typical 1980s Comedy","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Police Academy is a typical 1980s comedy.  It is raunchy, disgusting, and sexually-motivated.  Overall this is a hit-and-miss film which works some of the time, but fails as well.  However, the characters are somewhat likeable and the film somehow succeeds for the most part in spite of very questionable material.  2.5 out of 5 stars.    "}{"Title":"boring, to say the least","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stripes was one one the best dumb movies I have ever seen. Police Academy, trying to be like Stipes, is just an embarrassment. Many memorable lines from Stripes like I think you're ready for the Special Olympics, or I thought I should join before I got drafted, or All I know is that we finally get to kill someone are hilarious. They are things that you wouldn't expect someone to say, but they make a movie out of it! Police Academy is way too predictable, you know where they are heading, but they stop just before they get there. I can't even remember any memorable lines from Police Academy except this really disturbing one. The shy cop says at the end of the movie don't move dirtbag. It was disturbing because you expected her to become tough and she does, but in such an unamusing and forced way. Of course, Police Academy doesn't have the caliber of actors like Stripes does. If John Candy or Bill Murray did Police Academy, they could make it work. Instead Police Academy hired all these crappy no-name actors from nowhere that take the movie nowhere. I was surprised that there was so much hooting and hollering and laughing going on in the theater. I thought that perhaps everyone else was watching something else. I know it is a little too late, but if you haven't seen this dud, avoid at all costs!! "},{"Title":"Copy off of stripes set in a Police Academy, but is it funny?","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, while the film is an exact copy off of the 1981 film 'Stripes' with Bill Murray, Ivan Reitman and John Candy, just nowhere near as good, it has some funny moments. Aside of Guttenberg's horrible acting rip-off of Murray's character from Stripes, Police Academy has some funny moments, but after the sequel it just got horrible. I mean what, didn't they make 7-8 films? Then a cartoon show? The funniest thing, is watching part of Police Academy- Mission to Moscow, on the local Spanish channel I get. I didn't understand what they were saying, but that made it even more pathetic!  So even though it's basically a rip-off gone bad of Stripes, Police Academy has SOME funny moments, at least enough for a friday night viewing.  "},{"Title":"Burn all copies of this series!!! Well, heehee...","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved the series as a little boy, but now I just can't watch it. Let's forget the disturbing homophobic jokes that show gay men as sex maniacs that will have sex with everything male- even two scared ugly cops, it's just that the jokes in general are bad. It's a kind of humor that passed away from the world, thank god.  "}]