[{"Title":"Just another Friday the 13th, this time with better acting and more nudity.","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've seen every Friday the 13th movie, many more than once. I'm a horror completist, what can I say, and Friday the 13th happens to be one of the more campy and fun horror franchises out there. The first three were fine - all had great ideas, great kills, and great atmosphere. Unfortunately, there was at least one thing off in each of those movies. The original's climactic ending hasn't aged well and some shots linger for way too long, Part II has the most generic male cast in horror history, and Part III felt clunky and poorly paced. Part IV isn't perfect either, but it's a step above its predecessors for a number of reasons.1. The acting - No one watches horror for the acting, I understand that, but when a horror movie has a likable cast and characters you can relate to and root for, it makes the experience all the more enjoyable. Crispin Glover is great as a nerdy, horny white boy and his dancing skills are unmatched. The lead girl and the rest of the supporting cast are all convincing as well, and the boy Tommy Jarvis actually isn't annoying for a child actor. In fact, he's pretty darn good.2. The nudity - No one watches horror for the- okay, some people watch horror for the nudity, and boy is there nudity in this one. For the final chapter the crew went all out, throwing two gorgeous sisters and numerous blondes into the mix and having all of them show their tits and ass. Yeah, both, and although its gratuitous and adds nothing to the plot, it's a nice break from the bloodbaths and I'd take a little eye candy over forced dialogue in a horror movie any day of the week.3. The pacing - The movie begins with Jason's dead body being sent to the morgue, and it isn't long before the body count ensues. The hospital scene is excellent for a few reasons. One, it has two characters that have less than five minutes of screen time but more personality than anyone from the first two F13s, and two, their deaths are awesome. It's a briskly paced movie and surprisingly keeps a good amount of its cast alive for a majority of the film, yet there are enough disposable characters to keep the body count going. It's a great balance.Everything else comes down to good writing and good directing. I like the addition of a family, I like the group of teenage Jason fodder this time around, and there really aren't many dull moments. The inclusion of a seasoned backpacker was a nice touch, and Jason finally getting the sh*t kicked out of him was no doubt satisfying. Although the whole Tommy arc didn't work out in the next installment, he was a nice addition in this one and actually contributed a lot to the story.At the end of the day, this is just another Friday the 13th movie. There are great moments, there are some not-so-great moments, there's a high body count, and there's Jason. It just feels less like a generic B-slasher and more like the franchise finally coming into its own. If you like '80s slashers and want to see some good looking people get terrorized by Jason Voorhees then there's no reason not to check this one out. But check out the others too because, why not? "},{"Title":"great donation to the series","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Savini's death make-up and Jason effects are at their peak. worth watching for tommy's freak out at the end. Crispen Glover is in it, and performs the ultimate BAD 1980's dance scene, worse than anything in footloose. The body count reaches a great height and the nudity and sex is as gratuitous as ever. I personally feel that this is the best of the original 4 Friday movies, coming in a close race with the third Jason. I've seen all the movies more times than i can count and this one holds up surprisingly strong among all eleven films. For those of you who are Friday fans, if you haven't seen this one, you are missing out on a key moment in Jason's history, so go pick this one up today. "},{"Title":"As for a horror movie, this one delivers.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a firm believer that horror movies should be judged as horror movies, and not compared when reviewed to films such as The Godfather, and as far as horror films go, this one could easily be the Godfather of em all. Following closely in the tradition of the previous three Fridays, The Final Chapter places Jason smack dab in the middle of two isolated cabins deep in the woods, one occupied by a group of fun loving teenagers and the other by a peaceful lakeside family. Well of course the violence and gross fun is plenty, but what really sets this film apart from a lot of horror flicks and almost all of the Friday the 13th films is it's tone, quality and over all entertainment level. Director Joseph Zito has a sharp eye for detail and Splatter Master Tom Savini sure does send Jason out with a bang. Of course this ended up NOT being The Final Chapter, unfortunately it should have been. After this entry the series really started to go down hill. If your in the mood for a good old fashion 80's slasher flick, this one's for you. "},{"Title":"Some genuine suspense and elevated nudity levels","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Joseph Zito, the director hauled in to oversee this fourth installment, previously directed the wretched The Prowler, the wooly but entertaining Invasion USA, and would go on to direct the shot-in-South Africa Red Scorpion (with Dolph Lungren). Since The Prowler was such a stinker, it's hard to see how Zito got the job. Maybe he was a master romancer and could talk actresses out of clothes because this episode in the Friday franchise has more nubile nudity and panty shots than any previous entry. It is also the goriest since the original with Savini returning as the effects adviser.Jason is resurrected from gory pieces and returns to his old ways after a stint on a slab. He has a grudge for a particular family and must tangle with resourceful horror fan and pint-sized weirdo Tommy (Corey Feldman).Just as the nudity and short shorts levels are elevated, so is the suspense. Using The Prowler as a guide on not what to do in a slasher, Zito creates some genuine unease and keeps things moving at a fast and bloody clip. The Euro version of this film, which is the one I have, is gorier than the US version and sexier, too.The next installment proved to be one of the worst; so if you're going to subject yourself to one Friday sequel, choose this. "},{"Title":"Cheesy Slasher...plenty of service, no suspense.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'd say this review was going to be a spoiler, but...well, to be honest, it's a slasher movie.  You know how it's going to go.Friday the 13th the Final Chapter features a small family made up of a relatively young mother, the movie's innocent girl, and a young video game player and mask-making prodigy (a young Corey Feldman) that lives out into the woods.  A bunch of teenagers rent the house next door for a night of debauchery.  Jason Voorhees, being a slasher, wasn't adequately killed last time, so he gets to come back now.  The non-character teenagers in the house, like most people in this film, exist only to increase the body count and have no discernable character traits except for degree of sexual experience, which is enough to get them all killed by the end of the film, playing straight by the rules.This episode of Friday the 13th follows the slasher cliches to the letter, but the only times suspense is even attempted are during a few false scare scenes early in the movie and in the final chase sequence.  The actual killings just aren't all that scary--Jason murders again and again.  It's a badly shot, poorly lit, trashy fast-food slasher with wretched acting.  You can pretty much not only call every death, but from time to time predict the exact manner of the death.As far as gore and T&A go, Friday 4 delivers, but in that fast-food style.  As a result, it doesn't even hold a lot of fun for slasher fans.  It reeks of lack of effort, and really wasn't entertaining as teen-killer fare goes.  Avoid it--you'll find a slasher that does it with more style pretty easily. "},{"Title":"Last Remaining Good in the Series","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first four Friday the 13th movies are the best, by far. The next 7 films were half-baked money makers. And if you ask me, Paramount should have left it at this film.Part 4 combines action, horror, thriller, suspense, and even mystery. And the opening sequence is a combined amount of clips from the previous 3 films. The opening sequence explains the series quickly, so Part 4 is a great Friday the 13th film to start with.The film will have less appeal to fans of the similar series, Halloween. The Final Chpater may combine elements from the previous 3 films, but seems to steal ideas and share ideas with Halloween. Friday the 13th was inspired by Halloween, but at times it seems as too much.Overall, the film is the last Friday the 13th film you should watch. "},{"Title":"Return to form....","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Has the bloodiest kills of the series and the most nudity in the entire series. Cory Feldman plays the young Tommy Jarvis who will be finally the match Jason is looking for. The film starts off just like Halloween 4 starts off Jason in the morgue but it is not long before Jason is back on his way to Crystal Lake for more mayhem. A young Crispen Clover is on top as well so this little instalment had some star power it was unaware of. The gore factor is really turned up in this sequel that features the most gruesome killings in the series. This entry and maybe part 5 must be the reasons why the MPAA got their little hands dirty with parts 6,7 and 8 which were so heavily edited that compared to today's standards could be viewed on Saturday afternoon with the kids. "},{"Title":"Jason's body has disappeared from the morgue.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I know there are fans out there that feel the fourth installment in the Friday the 13th series is the best. I don't happen to agree. While the first three movies weren't necessarily groundbreaking in their innovation, there were moments in each that we had not seen before &#150; at least in a Friday the 13th movie. By the time Paramount rolled out Friday the 13th The Final Chapter in 1984, the 80s slasher-boom was in full swing. It was all but impossible to do anything new. Chapter 4 is one big cliché of the slasher genre and a rehash of everything that came before. This one follows the standard formula to a T - A group of idiotic kids go to the woods and for the first 2/3 of the film, we watch them behave like complete morons. Suddenly, and with very little build-up or suspense, Jason shows up and kills everyone in sight. In the end, the one person who seems most incapable of doing so kills Jason. The End. I think I wrote something just like this for the other Friday the 13th movies I've written about.So far, all I've done is blast Friday the 13th The Final Chapter. To be fair, it's actually not that bad as far as these films go. Most of the credit for this should go to Tom Savini. His special effects are top notch and worth the price of admission. One of my favorite kill scenes in the movie occurs early on with the hospital attendant in the morgue. That head snap is nicely done. "},{"Title":"Jason washes his clothes.","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Out of curiosity, I borrowed a friend's Ft13th DVD box set to fill in the gaps with the movies I never saw. Why, why oh why have I done this thing? Friday the 13th The Final Chapter was a rather optimistic title for a film that turned out to be only the fourth segment in a seemingly endless series. The films repeat the same scenario over and over with all the affection and creativity of a washing machine. In fact, I suggest that all of the Ft13th films are so routine that they can be compared to doing your laundry.The presoak cycle is when we get either a recap of the previous films (which conveniently pads out the abbreviated runtime) or a murder. Or both. In Friday the 13th The Final Chapter, we get both an unchronological series of images recaptures some of the gory murders from the previous films, followed by a couple of new murders when Jason's body is taken to a local hospital's morgue.Then comes the main wash. That's when we meet a bunch of new characters that we don't care about; we know they are only there to get murdered by Jason, and any conversations they have are boring and ridiculous, as a rule. A number of obligatory menace shots are required during the main wash, usually point-of-view shots of Jason watching the characters from afar. This is so we know they are in danger, you see, because otherwise we would not know this. The Final Chapter gives us a young Corey Feldman to root for, as well as Crispin Glover doing a very funny dance. Everybody else is pretty much anonymous and stayed that way.The rinse cycle comes as Jason unceremoniously executes the entire cast in various ways, usually in scenes that require him to be hiding in places where he would undoubtedly be detected by anybody with a functioning brain and at least two of their five senses intact (under the bed is a favorite in these movies, a vantage point from which the killer is able to tell exactly when a drop of blood will fall on his victim from the corpse that has been stashed in the rafters or top bunk above the bed). Watch out for the spin cycle, where a harrowing chase scene happens, usually with the one last female who has proved to be a little harder to kill.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter tries to bring something new to the folding table by setting it up that not only does a teenage girl face off with Jason, but her little brother (Feldman) is along for the ride. And how does he help defeat Mr. Hockey Mask? By shaving his head and making himself resemble the childhood image of Jason, naturally. This mesmerizes Jason long enough for someone to attack him with a machete.Tom Savini, the original effects artist who created the gory murders in the first film, returns on this one, but there isn't anything that memorable about the murders themselves. The acting is mostly abysmal, and when it isn't, the dialogue in the script makes it ridiculous anyway. There aren't many scenes that will make you jump, and not much atmosphere, either. It will quite possibly make you laugh, like the inconceivably surreal moment when Feldman appears with his head shaved bald. You might also find yourself frustrated by the gratuitous lack of logic, like the scene where one character would rather toss a chair out of a window and climb out that way instead of stepping over a body on the front porch. I understand some people are squeamish about dead bodies, but when a psycho killer with a machete is coming after you, it's probably best to just get the hell out of the house.Fans of the series should not be disappointed, but Friday the 13th The Final Chapter made me want to stick my head in the dryer. "},{"Title":"Among the best sequels in the series","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After moving into a new house on Crystal Lake, a family finds the teens next door have attracted maniacal killer Jason Voorhees to the area and must band together to save each before falling victim to the masked killer.This one turned out to be among the better entries in the series and is probably the series' best. This one has a lot right, starting with a great smattering of suspense in some creepy, chilling stalking and set-up scenes from the big body count that gets wiped out here, as there's the opening ambush in the morgue, the attack on the hitchhiker and the chilling stalking at the lake with the skinny-dippers there with the freezing winds, rolling fog and truly isolated feels makes it a great scene along with the brutal deaths here. Likewise, the massacre through the house are much more fun here as he manages to wind through the group with absolutely ruthless efficiency going through the upstairs bedrooms, down into the kitchen and finally through the shower wiping everyone out here as there's plenty of great action and suspense throughout this here which all sets up the absolutely greatest part here with what is perhaps the greatest final chase in a series known for having good ones. This here is quite simply one of the best of the entire series as there's a ton to absolutely love here in this chase, with tons of sprawling action here as the lengthy piece runs through several houses and up throughout varying floors on each location along with the constant barricades he has to smash through, chilling suspense in the fact that a child is frequently in the middle of the action that has to be protected along with herself, psychological tactics here with the attempt to mess with his head that comes off quite logically and even some jumps here with the constant bodies thrown through windows and Jason crashing through doors to get at them, culminating in one of the most notorious gore gags in the genre as a brilliant ending to such an excellent series of events. As well, there's a huge amount of blood and gore on display in pretty fun, graphic manners with some of the most brutal kills here as there's such intensity here that gives this an additional measure of fun here with the fact that Jason here is one of the most imposing figures in the genre as he is throughout here. These here all give this plenty of eerie chills and creepiness here as this one really makes for an exciting series of scenes which gives this such a spectacular pace here that it never becomes too dull or boring as something's always happening in this one. Added together alongside some truly hilarious moments both intentional and not and a huge heaping of nudity, this one gets a lot of stuff right as a slasher. There's still a few flaws here, mainly in the continued stupidity by the characters to want to invite themselves to a place that harbored a mass murder rampage the last few days before, considering each of these films takes place the following day, and there's no reason why that should be. As well, many of the supposedly funny character traits are just plain irritating, making that section of the film a little tough to get through when it's supposed to be funny but clearly isn't. These aren't anywhere near enough to knock this down from among the better slasher entries.Rated R Continued Full Nudity, Extreme Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, a few sex scenes and drug use. "}{"Title":"Decent effects.","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Plot Synopsis Jason awakens in the morgue following his massacre. He escapes & continues his killing spree, unaware that a young boy with a penchant for special effects makeup & masks is living in the area.This entry in the Friday the 13th series is the last film to follow the exact formula established by the original film & adhered to closely by Parts 2 & 3. This time, the formula is beginning to get a bit stale. The teenagers featured have no characterisation other than their sexual status &#150; sex is all they think or talk about. Corey Feldman is great as the young makeup expert, even proving to be reliable in finally doing what others have tried & failed to do in the previous films. The effects makeup is better than in the previous sequels, thanks to makeup & gore guru Tom Savini. "},{"Title":"What's the body count now????","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK enough is enough people....how long can Jason carry a grudge about his dead mother? I would think that after all these sequels and all the dead sex starved kids that someone would have noticed that people die when they go to this lake. No one seems too. Anyway, this is yet another tired Friday the 13th that is pretty much as all the rest before and since with kids getting stabbed, hanged, strangled, pulled underwater, smashed in the head with a hammer, pushed down stairs with a machete protruding from their face, ice pick forced through someones temple and what ever else Jason can come up with. At least they have sex before they die..The producers have made their money I would say....now save yours... "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After being mortally wounded and taken to the morgue, murderer Jason Voorhees spontaneously revives and embarks on a killing spree as he makes his way back to his home at Camp Crystal Lake. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. This is one of the bleakest films I have seen in a long time. All characters are surviving in a grim world. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The film is dark, brooding, intense and most of all violent. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Point Where the Series Started Getting Watchable","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" How many times do you have to stab Jason Voorhees before he dies? Apparently many times, because he returns yet again. This time a family (mother, son, daughter), a house full of teenagers, and a hunter (who happens to be the brother of a prior Jason victim) are the unfortunate ones to be in Jason's path. Is this, as the title suggests, the final chapter? Many people give this film a low rating, and maybe they're looking at it differently than I do. To me, you can make only so many movies of a guy hacking up teenagers before the idea gets a little stale. Part four (this film) is when the crew realized you could break up the monotony with a little humor. So now in part four you have a fair amount of laughs, some improved gore (compared to the first few films) and the same old formula of killing kids.You also have two key guest stars Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover. You cannot play down the Feldman power here. Sure, he's young. But he really steals the show and watch his expressions when he finds some neighbors doing something naughty. Feldman's absence from this film would likely have lead to dullness and the premature death of the series.Glover, meanwhile, is the humorous aspect. Well, okay, not just Glover -- the whole opening scene with Axel the Coroner is morbidly amusing (and really anticipates part nine's coroner). But Crispin Glover is fun to watch, and his white boy dance is pretty amusing.The inclusion of character Rob Dier (brother of part two's Sandra Dier) is a good move, adding some continuity to the movie, further connecting it to the previous films. And for horror fanboys who like nudity (and you know you do), this is the episode that contains by far the most nudity in the series. For some people, that's all it takes to sell a picture.So I understand if people rank this film lower because they think it's getting stale or if the humor makes them think the creators aren't taking the series seriously anymore. As for me, that's what makes this one of my favorite episodes in the series (probably in my top three out of eleven films). We have a crew that just wants to have fun, and if we go along for the ride we have a little fun ourselves. Seems fair. "},{"Title":"The best of the best","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The final chapter is by far the best Friday the 13th film in the series.It has the basic premise of every other Friday film teens go to a cabin get drunk and have sex but this film adds new things to the film one of which is Corey Feldman as Tommy Jarvis who is actually a metaphor for a young Tom Savini speaking about Tom Savini he did all the makeup for this film and made by far the best looking pre-zombie Jason yet. The final chapter has the most gore the most nudity the most awesome Jason and thats what makes it the best also we have a young Crispin Glover doing the best 80s dancing that i have seen. So if your into the Friday the 13th films or any kind of horror or slasher this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Let Me Count the Ways","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me start this review by saying I've always been a sucker for the 70s and 80s slasher flicks. Even though most were dull and derivative, some stood out and really made for some good entertainment. Case in point, the first FT13 (that's Friday the 13th in shorthand.) Sure you could see it was ripping off HALLOWEEN, the best of the bunch in my opinion. But it was inventive for its setting- an isolated campground- and the variety of deaths- thanks in large part to special effects man Tom Savini! Not to mention, the identity of the killer is truly remarkable. And for anyone who has yet to see FT13 or SCREAM (you know who you are) I'll let it remain a secret! After its success, sequels were certain to follow. Part II is just as good, even though the characters are paper-thin. Part III (or 3-D) is my least favorite of the original four. Not even the limited 3-D effects could save it! Then came Part IV, labeled as the FINAL CHAPTER... yeah right! Of the four, this one is the most polished. They even went out of their way to get a few name stars Crispin Glover yay! As usual he plays a nerdy character, and I really liked him. Shame that nerds always get killed in shows like this! Unfortunately, we also have to contend with the antics of Corey Feldman. I could never understand his appeal! Once again, we have a variety of inventive deaths and the much-anticipated sex scenes. What else could we expect? These type of movies always delivered what they promised! Personally, there are two other reasons for watching this movie the extremely gorgeous twins played by the More sisters! Too bad the filmmakers didn't close the book after this one, because none of the subsequent sequels would come close to their originality! "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part IV The Final Chapter","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't let the title fool you, this isn't the final chapter in Friday the 13th. Jason returns to Crystal Lake after being sent to the morgue and killing two staff members, young boy Tommy Jarvis is into horror and likes making horror masks while at the house next door a group of teenagers are spending their vacation there and of course are planning a little sex.Meanwhile a man who's sister was killed by Jason is going into the woods and is planning on killing Jason, he befriends Tommy and his family in the mean time.At the teens house they meet some twins and invite them to a night of drinking. Jason manages to kill all of them and then has his eye on Tommy and his sister since he killed their mom while they was out.While left at the house Tommy shaves his hair off to look like Jason and try to connect with him. His sister returns to the house and Jason follows her, and after Tommy distracts him with his shaved hair his sister takes the Machete and whacks his Mask off.So Tommy picks up the Machete and rams it into his head and then stabs him several times with it.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is a must for the fans and slasher lovers. "},{"Title":"full of blood, a good Friday the 13th","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i've seen a lot of the Friday the 13th movies on TV but i have for sure seen f13th part 1 and 2, and this,was the most gruesome and fun. first jason escapes from the hospital autopsy room and brutally slaughters the doctor and his girlfriend, the first massacre is the doctor getting his through cut and his neck snapped in a moment of grisly terror and the crimes continue in terrible ways through out the movie and jason has finally met his match and dies. The little boy tommy and his sister manage to fight jason to the end after he killed 5 or 6 teens but the ending is a good one and a surprise, if u like these kind of movies (gruesome, sexual, and drug based)watch this, you will have fun but don't eat anything while your watching because you will lose your appetite! 6 of 10 Rated R For Strong Horror Violence,Sexuality,Nudity,Some Drug Use, and Some Language "},{"Title":"A Movie To Live By 4","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is it! The end all be all of horror films. This film has every thing a Jason movie, horror movie, or for that matter any movie should contain it. It has Jason breaking through glass, throwing hammers at little kids, and swimming (which is fact that Freddy vs Jason overlooked thus downgrading its legitimacy) This film has a young Corey Feldmen taking on Jason and winning, he does lose his sanity though. Feldmen plays the character of Tommy with great intensity and shines in a role was born to play, and hopefully will return to one day. Crispen Glover does an early role in this as Jim the nerdy guy who can't get laid. He is great in this. You can really tell he's going somewhere with his acting. I hate when his character is killed with a cork screw and machete but those are the brakes of being in Friday the 13th movie. Kemberly Beck is the perfect last girl and is totally hot. i hate that never came back (hint to the dumb idiots who write the new movies, she and Feldmen are what the fans want. Give it to us!!!) Ted White does a fine turn here as Jason and is second only to the legend that is Kane Hodder. White is the first actor behind the mask to nail the walking motif. he also looks the best without the mask.This movie would never had been so great if it were not for the make up effects of Tom Savini. While he does great work here I feel he lied about his reasons for involvement. He has said in many interviews that the only reason he returned was to kill Jason. I say he lied. The only reason he returned was because he was in bed with Joseph Zito the director of this film on another project called the Prowler in 1981. Savini says in other interviews that he does not even remember what Jason movies he worked on thus making me feel that he had no intentions of killing Jason he was just in it for the check. I love the man I just wish he would stop bashing Jason. If you love horror this is the one and the best. "},{"Title":"Memorable entry - especially the ending!  Whoo!","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The scene when whats-her-name gets a spear through the belly when she's layin' in the raft all nekkid? See her eyes cross when she's pretending to die? That acting is seriously Craptastic! Crispin Glover rules in this one, especially when he's looking for the corkscrew (you know what I mean if you've seen it). Corey Feldman is as good as he ever was as a kid actor, and the messy end is one of Tom Savini's best pieces. It's one of my favorite scenes in horror (and my favorite scene in the series.) This one would've been a lot better without all the unintentional laughs, and it doesn't help that most of the intended humor wasn't actually funny. Still highly recommended, though. "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th-The Final Chapter","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think this was the best film in the series. This film could have stood alone as an original film about the monster that wears a hockey mask. It also had the best cast of all the films. Corey Feldman, Judie Aronson, Crispin Glover, Erich Anderson, Lawrence Monoson, and the meanest portrayal of Jason by Ted White. I was familiar with some of the cast, and had seen them in other films prior to this film. Joseph Zito, directed what I would say was the darkest film in the series. It's hard to go back and sit through some of the earlier films in the franchise because they simply don't measure up. Zito, kept his film on track from beginning to end, earlier films in the franchise dragged at the beginning. Harry Manfredini's soundtrack from this entry was the best of any of the films, especially the music leading up toward the final chase scenes. The death scenes were clearly the best as was the make up by Tom Savini. I would say this was the last time we saw Jason as scary. This was by far the best entry in the series. "},{"Title":"WOW..thats a Friday the 13th with Class better than 3rd installment","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Heeres A creepy continuing of the great slasher of all time. Jason back.. and this time a new group of dummies..thats what they are.. get in his area. The movie is a lot better than the early movies. From the start there's horror and dark scenes that make you scream over and over. All the scenes with girls laughing and a lot of acting at daytime are almost gone.. and one of the only day scenes you will see some really nice chicks nude swimming.. after the swimming the rest of the movie is just horror no more fun only Jason killing .. GREAT thats the way you make a Friday the 13 th part and gets away with it.10/10 watch it ..dont rent it waste of time... BUY IT cause this one have to be a part of your DVD movies "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter, huh?","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason's dead body is taken to a morgue where he returns to life, decapitates the coroner with a hacksaw and guts the nurse with a scalpel. Then he stabs an androgynous hitchhiker through the neck while he/she eats a banana. A station wagon full of teens show up to Crystal Lake, and a mom (Joan Freeman), her teen daughter (Kimberly Beck) and young son (Corey Feldman) are already living there. E. Erich Anderson is the brother of the Marta Kober character from Part 2, who's camped out in the woods, waiting to get revenge. The family gives each other a big group hug for cheap sympathy value before all the murders start. Unfortunately here the friendly and likeable characters from the first three films get replaced by a pack of obnoxious, hateful, unbearable teens who insult each other, crack stupid jokes and wander off into the woods by themselves one by one. Skinny-dipping, shower sex and stag film footage provide nudity and hammer, corkscrew, spear, and harpoon (to a guys crotch) provide gore. The Tom Savini FX are excellent (of course). Ted White, who had his name removed from the credits, is Jason. Kevin Yagher was on the make-up crew. The director also made THE PROWLER (with more Tom Savini FX).Score 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Worth Watching","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is good and worth watching but like all other movies that have sequels, the first one is the best because it's so original and unique.  This part of the series has its gross and creepy parts with some humorous scenes as well. "},{"Title":"1984? The year of The Terminator and Ghostbusters? Skip this one!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  --- SPOILER WARNING! ---Friday the 13th The Final Chapter attempts to be a suiting ending to a series that had pretty much run out of steam --- but,  dosh gonnit, they just had to bring back the crazy sucker six more times after this, didn't they?As far as movies released during the 1984 season go, this one should be pretty low on your list. I'm not a particular fan of any Jason pic before Part VI (when Mr. Voorhees turned into a giant, super-strength, walking zombie), and looking at the spectrum of Friday movies, this one ranks pretty low on the list (though not as close to the bottom as Part VIII Jason Takes Manhattan).The first, and appropriately melancholy, thing I can say about this film is that I don't like any of the cast, except for the dead****, who had the role of George McFly in the excellent Back to the Future series. I thoroughly despise that nerdy little kid who plays Tommy Jarvis, the mask-wearing geek who, supposedly, is Jason's most keen enemy (yeah, right!). The girls in the film are mearly there to provide eye candy as they take of their shirts at every possible occasion, much like the other Fridays in the series. Well, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that, don't get me wrong, but it would be cool to have some intelligent actors play these roles at least once, wouldn't it?But, anyway, the females are big-breasted dumbs***s and the guys are sex-crazed loonies. How appropriate for a Friday the 13th film! So, now that Jason has plenty of people to kill, we should all be happy, right? Wrong! The script is poorly written, the effects are cheesy at best, and the suspense is a bit too retarded for my tastes. (Anyone who has seen the flick will know what I mean.) )I suppose you could do worse by watching this film, but not by much. The whole thing is just one lame, cheesy, corny excuse to bring out Jason for another gore-fest, and most of the time that works just fine, but not this time. And besides, the ending is just crap. Tommy hacking the guy to pieces off-screen? Jesus, there are cooler ways to dispose of Jason than having a ten-year-old dweeb yelling, Die! in a suitably cheesy fashion, with his bimbo sister screaming bloody hell.Skip it and watch The Terminator or Ghostbusters. This misfire is just another waste of your hard-earned cash. "},{"Title":"Cool slasher movie","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better friday the 13th movies.  This films plot basically revolves around a bunch of teenagers who stay up in a cabin by a lake in the woods, and get killed one by one by the hockey-masked Jason Vorhees.Look for Corey Feldman in the movie. Rated R For Gory Violence and Sexual Content. "},{"Title":"higher budget","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It seems each movie is better than the last, because of higher budgets, better directing, editing, etc.  However, this  one was one too many.  How many times can Jason live.  This gets pretty ridiculous.  I was hoping Corey Feldman's character gets it but no such luck.  The teenagers were nothing but cannon fodder.  There was no character development. Save yourself some time and do not rent this one.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Far from the final chapter.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This fourth installment had many to think the series was over with the death of Jason, but just wait until the sixth Friday. It sure was fun watching this one and seeing a young Corey Feldman put a temporary end to Jason with good gore, action, and suspense. "},{"Title":"Final Did You Say?","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part IV begins right where Part III ended, as police are collecting bodies(including Jason's) and trying to make sense out of all the senseless deaths. However, despite having an ax in his head, Jason is somehow still alive, and after leaving the hospital(with bodies in his wake) proceeds to return to Camp Crystal Lake, where a visiting group of teenagers(who of course are oblivious to the recent killings) are staying near another family in their cabin. When the killings start again, only the monster-loving boy named Tommy Jarvis can stop Jason once and for all...By any objective critical standards, this film is(as critic Roger Ebert pointed out in 1984)appalling trash, graphically and brutally killing perfectly healthy teenagers in horrible fashion. Sure, that's a given, but that is also what fans wanted, and what this film delivers, since there is no plot to speak of.Despite the title, this was a huge hit, so of course there had to be another one... "},{"Title":"Jason survived but the  franchise didn't","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The final chapter deserves to be hardly thrashed by the fans of the franchise. Its underestimative relationship to its audience is the main reason for that. Rumours calling the Joseph Zito an arrogant man may be proved here. His disinterest to at least try to make some decent movie denudes his personal opinion about the franchise - it is made for idiots. Or, it seems so. So Mr. Zito made this piece of crap. Unimaginative, stunningly stupid wannabe movie. Look guys, you have naked chicks in here, you also have Tom Savini, who gives the s..t about the story - I believe he wanted to say. OK, Mr. Zito but even in the porn characters have some depht (you know what I mean)). And for those ''hillarious'' jokes (computer never lies etc) - save them for your friends ;) The Final chapter in some way justifies its title - Jason is still alive, of course but the franchise is pretty dead, too. "}{"Title":"This well made horror film that should have been the last film from Friday the 13th Series.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the day after, where Jason (Ted White replacing Richard Brooker) is supposedly killed by the last reminding survivor from the third film. Now pretending to be dead, he has killed two hospital employees and he has escaped. Finding another area in the woods, Jason is slowly stalking his way with the vacationers but an young talented make-up artist named Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman) has meet his match with this psychotic killer.Directed by Joseph Zito (Missing in Action) made an strong, brutal horror film with a few memorable moments of suspense and shocking moments. Which was supposed to be the final Friday the 13th movie but sadly in a way, it wasn't. This one is notable for some pleasing supporting performances by Crispin Glover as a would-be stud, Lawrence Monoson as his horny rude buddy and Feldman as Jarvis. White is appropriately scary and intense as Jason. This one is also noteworthy for Tom Savini's excellent make-up effects and the knock-out conclusion. Savini's make-up on Jason is certainly closer to the original design work he did on the first one, compare to Jason's look on Part 2 and Part 3.This has plenty of interesting characters, although the movie was cut for time. Which studio Paramount probably forced directorZito cut a lot of character development to make the picture in a 90 minute format. Some of Savini's effects work were trimmed for R-Rating. Like the sequels, this one has a few plot holes. Good example would be Tommy Jarvis' mother (Played by Joan Freeman), she killed by Jason off-screen but we never knew what happen to her body. Which her body was found by Jarvis' sister (Played by Kimberly Peck) but it was cut in the final version. It was probably cut for time or make-up effect work sequence didn't quite look right.DVD has an fine but grainy anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound. A couple of sound effects are missing on this DVD for some reason. DVD's only extra is the original theatrical trailer. The Box Set of Friday the 13th series has interviews with the cast & filmmakers and deleted scenes. The latest DVD edition, DVD has an digitally remastered anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an new Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes two commentary tracks. Commentary One is by the director, ScreenwriterBarney Cohen and editorJoel Goodman. Commentary two is fan of the movie by Adam Green (Hatchet) and Joe Lynch (Wrong Turn 2). DVD also includes an featurette, slashed scenes, original intended ending and more. This one was supposed to be the last one of the series and this one concluded very well but of course, this one did well at the Box Office and another film came out after this one with a clever title A New Beginning. This is one of the best Friday the 13th sequels and it is also well made with an clever use of earlier footage from the previous movies at the opening sequence. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"If Only the Title Were True","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Maybe to save themselves the embarrassment of admitting just how many of these stinkers they sunk money into, the studio dropped the 4 from this sequel and gave it the cryptic subtitle The Final Chapter. Yeah, right. Like anybody believed that, even at the time.Someone once told me that all of the even Star Trek movies were good and all of the odd ones were sucky. Since I've only seen two of them (both even by the way), I can't comment. But that rule seems to apply to this series. Parts 1 and 3 were beyond atrocious; parts 2 and 4 aren't that bad, as these kinds of movies go.This movie freshens up the tired formula somewhat by adding a plot strand that features Corey Feldman and continues through the next couple of films in the series. And this one has a more unique style to it. I liked the murder that took place in silhouette, a shadow thrown on to a wall during a flash of lightning. The makeup effects were also much more accomplished, and there was some catharsis in seeing Jason get his head split open with a machete (though why does he look like a product of radioactive fallout? Didn't he drown originally?) This movie will still lower your I.Q. by a few points, but you'll be able to respect yourself in the morning.Grade C (compared to parts 1 and 3. It's still an F compared to virtually any other movie available to you) "},{"Title":"Below Average, even for this series","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday April 13th is Jason's Unlucky Day Thought to be killed by the sole survivor of the last Crystal Lake Massacre, Jason kills his way back to the lake to once again murder its inhabitants. This time, has Jason met his match in the little boy Tommy? Even worse than the third. This movie has like no plot, its just Jason back again. Killing again and then being killed. Its not even the final chapter, in fact this isn't even the half way mark. There are 11 installments to date. Starring the talented Corey Feldman (The Lost Boys), in a role he probably pretends he didn't do. "},{"Title":"Not as good as predecessors","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This 4th is definitely not as good as previous FT13TH movies. The feeling is not there like it was in the 2nd or 3rd. I don't know why but I think that the summer camp could have something to do with it. This time it all happens in a house.Lawrence Monoson seemed to have talent here as Ted while Corey Feldman was brilliant as the little kid named Tommy Jarvis. Overall not as creepy as the predecessors, but it is alright. "},{"Title":"More memorable than most.","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Once again delving back into my childhood, I remember this film more so back then, then I did when I watched a few months ago. The first time I saw this film, I thought it was the most graphic film ever made, I hadn't seen too many films back then. The gore and effects are at the peek of the series. I was shocked at how much nudity was in this film, given I was young at the time. Now-a-days it's still a great viewing experience but back then it was a really some thing new to me. The best kill is the first one, with the saw and head snapping around, another great oohhh! moment. This is probably the best sequel in the series, and worth checking out. Friday the 13th is truly the best and biggest slasher franchise of all time, and the films are great whenever you have a marathon of them. If you want a good time look no further, this film has what you want. "},{"Title":"great ending (6.3/10)","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this fourth entry in the series is actually not too bad.i liked it a bit better than the other 3,mainly because of the ending,which was pretty climactic,unlike many movies.plus,it was better paced.this one features a 12 year old Corey Feldman,but i still liked it.it pretty much follows the familiar formula of the last 3.minor spoiler****it's called the Final Chapter,but if you've followed the series at,you know it isn't.end of spoiler***it probably was going to be,but then the filmmakers realized they had a cash cow on their hands,and couldn't pass up the opportunity to keep churning them out.whether that's good or bad is a matter of opinion.in any case,my vote for Friday the 13thThe Final Chapter is a 6.3/10 "},{"Title":"Just a slaughter!","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, before we start I just want to say Jason Voorhees died as a child from drowning, all the murders in the 1st film are his mother who dies at the end. Whoever is killing in parts 2 and 3 is neither him or his mother, OK? Part 4 starts the exact same way as parts 2 and 3 did, by recapping the previous films just in case you'd forgotten them. And just in case you had forgotten part 3 finished on Sunday 15th.Starting from where the part 3 ended (and telling us 10 died, I'd have check my review to see if that's right. I did check, yes 10 died.), We're already into Sunday the 15th and the body of The Killer (I won't be calling him Jason for reasons explained at the start) is transported to the autopsy room of a local hospital. The Killers 1st victim is Axel the horny morgue attendant (I'm still confused at how a dead man did this having had an Axe in his skull) which was his own fault. 2nd dead is the nurse Axel had been about to screw just minutes earlier.Moving into Monday the 16th and 3rd dead was a female hitch-hiker (just because she was there, it seems) and we centre on what will become our main characters, a cabin rented by 6 young adults and living over the road are Mom, Trish and Tommy (played by a young Corey Feldman). The young adults are Ted (the pretty boy rocker), Jimbo(the nerdy virgin who played George McFly in Back To The Future), Samantha (a bit of a tart), Sara (a quiet type), Paul (Sam's boyfriend who comes on to all the girls in the cabin), Twin Tina (seems very easy with the guys), Twin Terri (very quiet) and Doug who seems quite normal.On their route home Trish & Tommy meet Rob who claims to be hunting bear but seems to be looking for the group of young adults, It later turns out he's hunting Jason. 4th dead was Samantha (out skinny dipping), closely followed in 5th by Paul (who impaled his own crotch). Jimbo hooks up with Tina to have sex & Terri leaves alone and is 6th to die. Trish's Mom may have been 7th to die (you only ever see her surprised by something but not killed).After having sex with Tina, Jimbo is 8th to die (in the kitchen) & Tina is 9th to die, pulled out of an upstairs window (where was The Killer standing to manage that one by the way?). Ted is 10th to die (in the living watching the Black & White stag film) and there's a great goof that The Killer can damage the movie in front of Ted then be behind him in less than 10 seconds. Doug is 11th to die (in the shower after sex with Sara) & Sara is 12th killed minutes later (an Axe though the door into her chest).By now it seems only Rob, Trisha, Tommy and Gordon (their dog) are the only ones left alive. Rob, Trish & Gordon go over the road to check on the young adults (who are all now dead, unknown to them) and find the house empty (they should have found Ted & Sara dead in the living room so the bodies were moved). They go upstairs & the lights go out so Rob goes to check things out, Gordon jumps out of an upstairs window leaving Trisha alone in the dark. Trisha finds Dougs body impaled to a wall in the bathroom, Rob is then 13th killed in the basement (screaming He's killing me! He's killing me - statement of the obvious there Rob!).Trisha goes back to Tommy, The Killer throws Rob's body through the window (like a previous film there!) and grabs Tommy but she frees him by hitting The Killer in the neck with a claw hammer. Also he gets a Computer Monitor smashed into his head (could have electrocuted him that way). Trish leads The Killer away from the house (1st time we ever see him actually run!). Tommys shaved head (very unconvincing bald cap there) to make Jason believe he is his younger self and the chop into Jason's head with the machete (which he manages to slice halfway into his skull by falling on it).This ends with Tommy having beaten Jason to death and Trisha in hospital. Tommy comes into to see her and they play the Jason theme to make you think perhaps Tommy took on a little more of Jason's character than we think he did. "},{"Title":"That Jason, what a guy....","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ever hear of gilding a lily?The good folks who brought us this Final Chapter (truth in advertising?  Please....) sure did; this lily's so gilded, you can't even see the plant.The cast is better than usual, especially for this kind of splat-tacular (Glover, Feldman, Monoson, Mahler, Barton, et al), the effects are pretty good (yeah, thanks a lot, Tom Savini) but that's about it.SPOILER...Let's face it; they hyped this as the movie where Jason gets killed off.  And does he?  Well, from the looks of it, he would have been better off (especially after what happened at the end with the machete.  Sheesh.).  But you know there were later sequels.  You think Paramount's gonna let a little thing like death get between them and their cash cow?  Right. ...END OF SPOILERThe whole thing is kind of dumb, truth be told.  But you knew that when the hammer Jason threw impaled itself in the wall by just the end (not the claw, the very end where the hammer and the handle end connect.  Not easy to do, try it.).One star.  See it only if you want to catch Crispin before he got too weird. "},{"Title":"Illogical and Dumb","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just plain stupid. Nothing is scary or suspenseful about this movie. While watching this movie, you will wonder how Jason ever got to be such a huge horror icon with such awful movies. This film is completely unmemorable except for the ridiculously idiotic ending. I would highly recommend not seeing this movie unless you like stupid movies where ALL characters do things that are totally illogical. What also makes this movie so dull is the unbelievable stupidity of the residents of Crystal Lake and its surrounding areas. Wouldn't three repeated mass murders at the same location make national headlines? How come no one in these movies seems to know or care about this? This film's tired story line earns it a 2 out of 10 star rating for me. "},{"Title":"I wish there was a way to take money away from these producers","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've read newspapers more scary.  I can only credit mindless cattle movie-goers for sequels as bad as this.  How this series continued after this movie is beyond me.  I'm only commenting on this to hopefully dissuade even one person from seeing this movie.  There's not even any blood in the movie.  Every death is meaningless and predictable and mundane all at the same time.  I wish there was a way to take money away from the producers/directors/and actors in this film. "}{"Title":"The Final Chapter? ...yeah right!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Paramount spent up big with this one intending (one doubts) to lay Jason to rest once and for all. Following a bigger box office return than any of the previous three films, there was obviously no choice but to bring Jason back in Part 5.They did everything right here....Revived Jason from part 4, sent him back to Camp Crystal lake and laid in a ready supply of machetes! The end result wasn't actually either great cinema or great horror, but it hit the spot with those that mattered - The Voorhees followers, of which where remain millions worldwide.One of the better sequels, but not the greatest. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Includes a spoilerStrangely enough, it is not often that Jason himself puts up an appearance in the fourth entry of the series. Why he is absent from such a large chunk of the film, I cannot be sure, but from a financial point of view, isn't that a bit counterproductive? After all, that's what the fans pay to see, Jason killing people, isn't that right? His absence reveals the movie for what it is a bad teen melodrama that happens to guest-star Jason.Most of the characters are so annoying that we actually root for Jason to kill them, and so he does, but not nearly soon enough. That's the problem here; there's not enough slasher action to sustain such a thin plot. The result a major bore. Granted, Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover have some appeal. Makeup artist Tom Savini obviously had a hand in the script, as Feldman is portrayed as a child prodigy with an interest in special effects. Glover generates some sympathy as a lonely young man. Savini himself does a good job crafting Jason's gruesome demise. However, these elements aren't enough to prevent the film from being a tired rehash. By now, it is useless to comment on the fact that Paramount lied when they said it was the last. Jason simply can't die, and we must live with that fact of life. * (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures  "},{"Title":"The perfect 80's slasher film? Maybe...","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The Final Chapter starts as the authorities are cleaning up the dead bodies left by murderer Jason Voorhees (Ted White), he himself was supposedly killed & his body is taken to Wessex County Medical Center. Everyone thinks Jason is dead but they are wrong & it's not long before he has killed yet again & is on the loose looking for more victims. Six teenage friends, lovers Paul (Clyde Hayes) & Samantha (Judie Aronson), Doug (Peter Barton) & Sara (Barbara Howard) plus Ted (Lawrence Monoson) & Jimmy (Crispin Glover) have hired a log cabin out for the weekend in the Crystal Lake area & become prime targets for the hockey mask wearing homicidal maniac Jason Voorhees who has no intention of stopping his killing spree...Directed by Joseph Zito this was the fourth instalment of the highly successful Friday the 13th series of slasher films & there's a strong case to say that it could be the best one of them all. The script by Barney Cohen follows the same simplistic pattern as before but Friday the 13th The Final Chapter manages to be a lot darker in tone & a lot more brutal than a lot of slashers before or since. The kills come thick & fast, there's never too long to wait before the next victim & the kills are nice & brutal. There's enough nudity to satisfy including a couple of cute twins, the teenage character's aren't that annoying for a change & as a whole the film works very well within the context of what it sets out to achieve. I really like the Friday the 13th series as a whole & this is definitely among the best of them if not the best outright. I liked it, a lot.Director Zito does a pretty good job, he keeps things moving along & manages to inject some tension & atmosphere to the film. The infamous hockey mask barely features in this one as Jason is kept as a killing machine & nothing more, he has no real character or likability in this one. The gore is strong in this one unlike other entries in the series which were cut to shreds, Jason hacksaws someones throat, people are stabbed, have meat cleavers stuck in their heads, people are impaled on various objects, someone has a knife plunged into the back of their head while someone else has a knife stuck through their throat & Jasons death in this one is great thanks to some top special effects by Tom Savini.With a supposed budget of about $1,800,000 Friday the 13th The Final Chapter apparently made over $11,000,000 on it's opening weekend, now you know the reason why this wasn't the final chapter. Generally speaking it's well made & competent throughout. The acting is pretty good all round & better than one might expect from a film of this nature, even Cory Feldman didn't annoy me.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter isn't art, it isn't going to win any awards & it's not going to change your outlook on life but it is just about the perfect slasher. An absolute must for Friday the 13th fans & those interested in the horror genre. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part 4 is a really good horror film with a really good story and characters and most importantly kills. So this movie starts the Tommy Jarvis story and we see a young Corey Feldman who gives a great performance and well the other teens are just kill bait int the film for Jason to completely slaughter. In all honesty the whole point of the film was to show how traumatised Tommy becomes which leads to the next film and originally Jason was meant to stay dead in this film and from now on Tommy would be the killer but no one wanted that so in part 6 he came back form the dead.So the film starts with Jason being taken to the morgue and waking up and killing the staff at the hospital so then he makes his way to camp crystal lake while the teen bait arrive. Now as you guess the story isn't about the teens it's more about Tommy who ends up killing Jason at the end in a really cool but yet odd way by making himself look like Jason then killing him okay sure why not.So I would say this is one of the best in the series and you should definitely watch it. "},{"Title":"Friday 13th  The Final Chapter + All That!","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cartoon-like understudies wear the shoe on the wrong foot and are cast in cameo by the gods amid the picturesque scenery of Crystal Lake.It does not take long to become a foremost attraction with a smouldering saga of revenge in the background.The perfectly waved act of Crispin Glover fuses with the bottoms up delivery of his buddy actor Lawrence Monoson as the class bids a floundering farewell to a party of none.This instalment of the ever popular franchise features the absurd 'Canada and Love' squashed banana cream of road-tripper Bonnie Hellman.Actor Corey Feldman is young Tommy Jarvis, a creator of phantasmagoria who utilizes his gifted insight to efficaciously extinguish the life of Jason Voorhees. In return, Tommy is warped into becoming inextricably paired by a final twist of fate. "},{"Title":"Some pack of patootsies huh?.....","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the confrontation with Chris Higgins, Jason Voorhees, presumed dead, is taken to the Wessex County Morgue. There he escapes, and in the process kills an attendant and a nurse, making his way back to Camp Crystal Lake. Six teenagers rent a cabin next to the Jarvis' cabin in the camp. Soon Jason finds his way there, and slaughter all who get in his way, but not for long. There are two survivors left, a girl and her little brother, Tommy Jarvis............This was the last Friday film featuring Jason that was semi-serious, and before the advent of tongue in cheek horror, the makers must have thought that the franchise was running out of ideas, despite the huge revenue that the films took.So here it's business as usual at Camp, acting is poor, despite the fact that Crispin Glover is part of Jason's haul, and you can tell who is going to get it just by the poor delivery of lines.But even though it's an R/18 rated movie, the. Akers know that the fan base for these movies are teenage boys, so they go heavy on the nudity and gore, which to be honest, is what these films are all about, nothing to do with coherency or good narrative.Feldman though steals the film as troubled Tommy, really bringing life to Jason's Death, and the ending is pretty tense, despite being as predictable as a loaf of bread.So all in all, if your a fan of the film, it's a fitting end to the straight story, after this, things got silly, but still fun... "},{"Title":"Cool movie!,","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the third film, a fourth film was announced and was titled Friday the 13th The Final Chapter and was set for a release in 1984.The film is not the final chapter in the franchise. It is however one of the best sequels in the franchise. This is not a bad film, but it could have been worse.The story takes place immediately right after the third film at the Higgins barn where Jason was axed in the head by Chris. The police find all the victims at the lake and take Jason's dead body to the morgue.Of course, Jason isn't really dead. He quickly escapes the hospital and heads straight back to Camp Crystal Lake. There are a new group of teenagers heading to the lake this time and we also meet a family (The Jarvises) who live on the lake.After knocking off many people, in the most very brutal ways, Jason meets his match in Tommy and Trish Jarvis. Tommy devises a plan, which involves shaving his head, to send Jason to hell once and for all.The make-up designs and special effects for Tom Savini is amazing. This was the most bloodiest or goriest film in the Jason Voorhees franchise. The stalking in the woods is more creepier than ever and the music by Harry Manfredini is just legendary and I got to hear the theme but it has been changed for the other Jason films.The acting is just amazing in this film. Ted White, who plays Jason is scary as hell in the part. Jimmy, played by Crispin Glover, it is really amazing and so fantastic. The fourth Jason is really amazing, but it is not my favorite film.After Friday THE 13th The Final Chapter, the Jason movies would take a downward spiral into complete mediocrity and then back to being scary again. This came out in 1984, the same year A Nightmare on Elm Street, part 1 came out and right around the time horror and slasher films started to became a total mess.So sit back, relax and enjoy this Jason movie.8/10. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The Final Chapter","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first film was good, but it was the famous killer's mother who was the villain, the second film was okay, when he was alive and grown up, and the third film was okay, and he gained his iconic hockey mask, this fourth film just continues proceedings where the last left off. Basically the paramedics are taking the body of Jason Voorhees (Ted White) to the county morgue, but he is still alive and escapes to return to Camp Crystal Lake and continue his vengeance for the death of his mother. A new group of teenagers Paul (Clyde / Alan Hayes), his girlfriend Samantha Sam (Judie Aronson), Sara (Barbara Howard), her crush Doug (Peter Barton), Jimmy Mortimer (Back to the Future's Crispin Glover) and Ted (Lawrence Monoson) have rented a cabin for the weekend, their neighbours are Trish Jarvis (Kimberly Beck) and her younger brother Tommy (The Goonies' Corey Feldman) and their dog Gordon, and there are also local twin girls Tina (Camilla More) and Terri (Carey More), and Rob (Erich Anderson). Jason soon shows up while many of the sex-obsessed teenagers are getting kinky, his kill methods include a cleaver into a face, stabbing someone's back skull, crushing a skull, a double-bit axe into the chest and many more. It is young Tommy, who for some reason shaves his hair off to appear like a picture of young Jason, that takes Jason's machete, stabs it through the side of the killer's head, and attacks his body screaming Die! Die!, Trish is terrified, he is dead, for now. Also starring Tom Everett as Flashlight Man, Joan Freeman as Mrs. Jarvis, Lisa Freeman as Nurse Morgan and Thad Geer as Running Man. It is good to see Jason now fully embracing his iconic image and killing pretty much anyone in sight, and some of the bloody deaths make good viewing, but there is no storyline or other stuff going on, it is very predictable and almost pointless, the title the final chapter should be ignored also, a slightly disappointing horror. Okay! "},{"Title":"Sequels","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequels. You either love them or you hate them. For me, I enjoy one or two sequels that enhances the storyline of the first movie. I enjoyed the previous Friday the 13th movies, but this one is definitely the best in the franchise so far. I found Tom Savini's brutal effects to be very scary, and there is a lot of suspense in this film that makes the character of Jason seem even more psychotic. The death scenes are always fun to watch in horror movies and this movie is no exception; gory and brutal killings happen at every opportunity with a few jump scares added for that extra scare. This movie is a must see for anyone who is a fan of the Friday the 13th movie or slashers in general. Crispin Glover's performance should also be praised; I found him to be very likable, which always helps the audience connect to the characters. Good watch. "},{"Title":"The last true Jason movie?","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, I finally watched The Final Chapter yesterday and I have to admit - believe it or not - that I really had a good time with this movie. But first, let's take a look at the story Not knowing about the dark and bloody history of Camp Crystal Lake, a bunch of teenagers arrives at the Camp to have all kinds of fun, which of course brings Jason to the plot to give them a lesson they won't forget... Sounds familiar? I guess you're right The plot of Friday 4 is basically the same since Part 2 (and even Part 1 with some restrictions). The few new things are a family and a young man who searches for his missing sister (from Part 2). And let's not forget Jason in Halloween II mode. Yes, Jason is dead at the beginning of this movie (but not really) and he will be dead at the end of the movie (this time even for real!), but that is not what the movie is about. Grab a beer (or something else) and enjoy the simple entertainment of likable teens having fun, partying, having sex and getting killed in creative ways. Oh, and why the last true Jason movie? This is just my personal opinion, but the first four movies had a simple story, likable characters and creative kills. And I miss exactly these things in every movie that came after them. Also - and I know that some say he was (un)dead since Part 1 - Jason finally gets killed or stopped. And yes, I like Part 6 but I see it as a action-fantasy-sequel that has not that much in common with the first four movies. In the end it is a very enjoyable movie that has everything in it what a good Friday needs. "}{"Title":"Enormously enjoyable","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While the film was proved to be far from Jason's last killing spree, I would have certainly been very happy with it if it actually been the Final Chapter. Despite his initial reluctance to play the role, veteran stuntman Ted White is the best Jason to date and there is a wonderful atmosphere of tension which pervades the film and the death scenes are appropriately gruesome with Jason's taking the care as the most unpleasant from any of the first four films.Kimberly Beck is a stronger leading lady than either Adrienne King or Dana Kimmell but not on the same level as Amy Steel. For the first time since Kevin Bacon's appearance in the original film, it also has actors whom I can name in the cast, namely Crispin Glover (who is fantastic as the shy, put upon Jimmy, perhaps the most realistic character to grace the franchise to date), Corey Feldman, Judie Aronson and Erich Anderson. Speaking of which, I liked the inclusion of Rob Dier in the film, both because it provided nice continuity as his sister Sandra was one of the victims in the second film and it was a cool idea to have someone hunting Jason for a change. I could have done without him saying, He's killing me! He's killing me! over and over again, however, as it was unintentionally funny which spoiled the scene for me, I'm afraid.The film takes place immediately after the third film and only a few days after the second film and yet another group of teenagers arrive to party! However, on this occasion, they at least had the excuse of believing that the man who had killed 18 people over the last five days (give or take) is dead himself. Still, I wouldn't have gone near the place if you paid me! I loved the fact that, in its final scenes, the film explored the psychological impact that Jason's latest massacre had on Tommy (played very well by Corey Feldman). While the scene in which Tommy pretends to be Jason's younger self is basically a rip-off of the one in Part 2 in which Ginny pretends to his mother, it nevertheless works well on its own merits.Enormously enjoyable but the second film is still the one to beat. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Unforgettable And Suspenseful Sequel And One Of The Best In The Series.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13thThe Final Chapter is an excellent,Unforgettable and suspenseful sequel that combines terrific direction,a wonderful cast,a fantastic score and amazing special effects. All of those elements make Friday The 13The Final Chapter a memorable Horror movie and one of the best in the series.Taking place after the events in Part III,the final chapter finds Jason Voorhees(Ted White)escaping from a hospital this time stalking the Jarvis family and a group of teenagers unprepared for the wrath of Jason.Friday The 13thThe Final Chapter is a brilliant Horror movie and is easily one of the best films in the Friday The 13th franchise and one of the finest Slasher movies ever made because it pretty much has everything you would have in a Friday The 13th movie and Slasher filmcharacters who are dead meat from the start,blood and gore and of course Jason Voorhees. It's also the film that introduced protagonist Tommy Jarvis who would be an important character in the Friday The 13th franchise against Jason. Final Chapter is an absolute roller coaster ride from beginning to end that is thrilling and suspenseful and also came out at the peak of the Slasher genre during the late 1970s to the early 1980s and The Final Chapter(or Part IV)came out at the right time. The the suspense and tension in the film is fantastic with a slow build-up that takes it's time and when the suspense stops the movie explodes with intensity. Also,the movie is great because it combines two genres that were successful during the early part of the 1980sthe Slasher genre and the Teenage Sex Comedy mixing together blood and gore of a Slasher movie and the Humor of the Teen sex Comedy bringing together the best of both worlds with some laughs and terror. The characters are some of most fun and memorable in the entire series whether it's the Jarvis family or the teenagers every main character is interesting. Despite having some laughs The Final Chapter is probably the darkest,nastiest and most nihilistic film of the series thanks to the atmosphere which is bleak and grim with rain,fog and dark lighting that is used to great effect where you feel like no one is safe. The movie also has a tough and vicious mean streak with the blood,gore and kills which are not well-done and horrific but cringe worthy and painful that when you watch Final Chapter you will feel like turning away. As for Jason Voorhees the character is at his very best here,sneaking up on his victims like the silent killer that he is taking his time and waiting to strike at his prey and at times Jason does it in a very surprising way. The Final Chapter is also Jason at his angriest and most vicious I mean in here he pulls no punches and takes no prisoners with the people he kills in this movie and it seems like the more he kills and chases someone the more angry he gets. I think that the only other film in the series in my opinion that can match the brutality and anger in terms of the Jason character and kills would be Jason Lives although the tone of that movie is much lighter compared to this film. This would also be the last time Jason would be hiding in the shadows and darkness because in the later films he's the star and out in full light. The ending of Friday The 13thThe Final Chapter is a terrific ending and one of the best finales in the series with twists and plenty of surprises you won't see coming and one of the finest chase scenes in the franchise that is exciting and frightening. A fantastic ending. The cast is good. Ted White is excellent as Jason,with White being menacing,angry and intense. Kimberly Beck is wonderful as Trish Jarvis,the heroine of the film. Corey Feldman is terrific as Tommy Jarvis,Trish's little brother. Crispin Glover and Laurence Monsoon are hilarious and memorable as Jimmy and Ted,two teenage buddies. Erich Anderson is great as Rob,a man Trish meets. Joan Freeman does a good job as Mrs. Jarvis,Trish and Tommy's Mother. Judie Aronson(Samantha),Barbara Howard(Sara),Camlla More(Tina),Carey More(Terri),Peter Barton(Doug),Clyde Harris(Paul),Bruce Mahler(Axel),Lisa Freeman(Nurse Debbie Morgan)and Bonnie Hellman(Hitchhiker)give good performances as well.The direction by Joseph Zito is outstanding,with Zito bringing and creepy and intense atmosphere to the film and occasionally moving the camera giving the movie a nice pace. Great direction,Zito.The score by Harry Manfredini is another impressive score and adds to the tone of the movie. Wonderful score,Manfredini.The Special and Practical Make-Up Effects by Tom Savini is amazing,gory and some of the best work Savini has ever done. Terrific effects,Savini.In final word,if you love the Friday The 13th series,Slasher movies or Horror films in general,I highly suggest you see Friday The 13thThe Final Chapter,an excellent,unforgettable and suspenseful sequel that is one of the best in the franchise. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (1984)","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If anyone really thought The Final Chapter was going to be the last Friday the 13th film, they were only fooling themselves. The fourth installment in the franchise looks to kill Jason once and for all, and does away with the 3D gimmick of the previous entry.The film starts off with the aftermath of Friday the 13th Part 3D, showing us how Jason got carted off to the hospital. The big guy doesn't stay down long though, as he's back up and killing people right away. Meanwhile, the Jarvis family, consisting of Pam (mom), Trish (teenage daughter), and Tommy (young boy) has moved into a cabin on Crystal lake, with a group of teens moving in across the street. Jason works his way back to Crystal Lake and one by one, kills each doped-up, sex-crazed teen before finally meeting his match against Trish and Tommy, the wonder twins.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter went back to the seriousness of the first film in the series. Jason is even more violent here, the kills are more gory and just more sadistic this time around. Jason also grunts a few times, as he's killing and being killed, slightly taking him away from being just a killing machine. It's this seriousness that I enjoy about the film, but there are plenty of laughs to be had with a set of actual Double Mint twins, Jimbo being a dead f***, and Ted using his computer to try to help his friend get laid.The teenagers here feel a bit more real here, but are still cannon fodder. The real characters to watch are Tommy and Trish, the brother/sister team. Tommy makes masks and dabbles in special effects, and Trish is a down to earth sweet girl who ends up being Jason's toughest opponent. Another character, Rob, is the brother of one of the girls from Friday the 13th Part 2. I like this little tidbit for the character, that he's out there to find Jason for killing his sister.As real as the teenagers feel, there is still very little characterization to be found here. I bring this up because slashers like Halloween and Hellraiser were able to get their characters, be it heroes or victims, across in their films. Had the Friday the 13th franchise just slowed down with the kill spots and upped the character development I would have enjoyed it even more.The film takes place directly after Part 3, which I think is great as it puts parts two, three, and four together as long one story happening over a few days. It also helps the idea of these people coming out to Crystal Lake, as everything is happening so fast no one is able to hear about it before they head out and end up getting killed. You have to think back in the day there was no Twitter or Facebook to spread the news quickly, so no one had an idea as to what was going on.Joe Zito did a great job of bringing the creepiness back to the franchise after Part 3D gave it up for its effect. I love Friday the 13th Part 3D, but I also love The Final Chapter because they did their best to make Jason a scary figure and the woods a more dangerous place to be. The music here is solid, with the iconic music returning and Tom Savini coming back to help in the make up department.Overall Friday the 13th The Final Chapter has a lot going for itself. The kills are nice and gory, there's plenty of nudity, and Jason meets his end thanks to a young Tommy Jarvis, who would return in the next two films. Another great score and slick work by Joe Zito means you'll have a great time watching this one. "},{"Title":"Part 4 is scarier then the first 3","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first 3 Friday the 13th movies are very scary. But not as scary as this one. This is one of the scariest movies made before 1986. There are scarier movies like Friday the 13th VI Jason lives. Friday the 13th VII the new blood is also scarier. Friday the 13th VIII Jason takes Manhattan is also scarier. Jason goes to hell the Final Friday is also scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. Jason is a zombie so I consider this horror fantasy. This movie as a great story line. Great acting. Great special effects. It is a great movie. See it. It is very scary. It has a lot of suspense. If it does not scary you no movie will. "},{"Title":"Meet Tommy Jarvis","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one is not my personal favorite. Mainly it is because of that The Final Chapter does not add anything new and refreshing to franchise. Jason is still here, and he's still killing another group of random teenagers. The basic slasher formula is still working, but the elements of it are not so interesting. The characters lacks personality, relationships between them are minimal. The only exception is Tommy (thanks to Corey Feldman's acting) &#x96; crucial figure in next three films and he's looks very well here. The most of killing scenes, unfortunately, unimaginative and very simple. But, albeit Part IV is not the best entry in the series, it is important in some ways, at least for a slasher fan. Firstly, this part ends the story arc that begun in Part 2, and finally leaves Jason dead (not for long, of course). Secondly, as I mentioned before, this film introduces Tommy Jarvis, which will be the series' most prominent character after Jason Voorhees himself. The story of Tommy's encounters with Jason constitutes another story arc, which ends only in Part VI, so it is interesting to know what was the origin of it all. In sum, I would say it is not a great part of Jason's adventures, but worth a look if you're a slasher fan. I don't think you'll find something surprising, but you will get your flesh and blood dish served good enough to watch this one from start to finish. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Decided to watch this after reading a little about it in Corey Feldman's autobiography and because Crispin Glover is in it and there's a funny story about him in the book.It was a surprisingly enjoyable sequel. I thought it was shot pretty well and there's some decent characters, made watchable by the light comedy moments. Crispin Glover's dance is a great moment.However, the more interesting characters got killed off too soon (the doctor in the early scenes, Crispin Glover about half way through), meaning that the film became a little more boring as it moved on.Some of the acting was good, some terrible. The two random girls (twins?) that turn up about 30 minutes in give terrible performances. So bad it's hard to watch and it brings the film down a little.The kill scenes were OK but they could have been better and I've seen better gore in other slashers that were made before this.Overall it was quite enjoyable, funny-ish and worth a re-watch at some point, ideally with friends and a few beers. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Friday Sequel!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Kimberly Beck, Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover star in this 1984 horror sequel. This picks up where the last film ended with Jason Voorhees (Ted White) being taken to a morgue. Of course, He kills a few people working there and escapes. Soon, Trish Jarvis (Beck), her mother and brother, Tommy (Feldman) stay at a cabin near Crystal Lake along with a group of friends staying next door. After Jason dispatches the teens, Trish and Tommy become the only survivors who face off against him. Glover (Back to the Future) plays Jim, one of the teens who is killed with a corkscrew and meat cleaver to the face. This is a pretty good sequel and Tom Savini did excellent with the make-up effects as usual. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Superior entry in the popular slasher series","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Widely hailed as one of the best sequels in this immensely successful series, this one lives up to its sterling reputation quite well. For starters, director Joseph Zito, fresh off his previous fierce slice'n'dice effort The Prowler, brings an extremely harsh, nasty, and sleazy sensibility to the familiar proceedings The tone is much darker than usual, there's a strong atmosphere of gloomy dread, the murder set pieces are truly gory, brutal, and intense, and Ted White's Jason sizes up as one remarkably scary, relentless, and ferocious death-dealing machine. Moreover, the brisk pace rarely flags and the considerable tension culminates in a positively startling conclusion. This movie scores extra points for a pre-stardom Cory Feldman's appealing performance as precocious young fright film fan Tommy Jarvis, who makes for a welcome and refreshing departure from the usual plucky final girl. The competent acting from an unusually able cast rates as another substantial asset the incredibly fetching Kimberly Beck impresses as Tommy's sweet and personable sister Tirsh, the ever-quirky Crispin Glover almost steals the whole show with his fabulously flaky portrayal of engaging goofball Jimmy (Glover's legendary spastic dance sequence is simply priceless!), and Lawrence Monoson is hilariously obnoxious as Jimmy's smarmy pal Ted, plus there are neat contributions from Peter Barton as hunky nice guy Doug, Erich Anderson as likable drifter Rob Dyer, the foxy Barbara Howard as the shy and virginal goody-goody two shoes Sara, and Bruce Mahler as sarcastic coroner Axel. Of course, this flick doesn't skimp on the tasty gratuitous female nudity The super hot Judie Aronson as the slutty Samantha goes for an ill-advised late night skinny dip while gorgeous twins Camilla and Carey More offer double the fun, pleasure, and sexiness as the ultra enticing pair Tina and Terri. Tom Savini's stand-out ghastly make-up f/x come through with the grisly good stuff; an early head-twisting and Jason being run through the noggin with a machete are perhaps the gruesome highlights. Joao Fernandes' sharp cinematography makes nifty use of a smoothly prowling Steadicam and provides a pleasing polished look. Harry Manfredini's spirited shivery score hits the spine-tingling spot. One of the crowning achievements in this famous franchise. "},{"Title":"Weaker than the first three, but still a great ride.","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Most Friday the 13th fans consider this to be one of the best sequels. I tend to disagree. While none of the sequels produced under the Paramount banner are bad, this one falls a bit short of the previous three.Don't take it the wrong way it's still very much everything a Friday the 13th film should be. There are creative death scenes, some good suspenseful set pieces, and Jason is as scary as he'll ever be. But something seems to be lacking this time around that sets it apart from its older brothers and sisters.For one, the characters this time around are genuinely un-likable. You might think this funny, considering it's a Friday the 13th film, but the previous entries at least contained some characters that we could root for. Here, there are about a total of two characters that don't verge of being so gratingly annoying that we want them to die. And, fittingly, they happen to be the main ones.This time out, Jason escapes the hospital morgue after he is pronounced dead after the end of the third film and makes his way to a rental house in the country, conveniently occupied by a group of some very annoying young adults. Living next door is the Jarvis family--mother, young son, teenage daughter, and dog, Gordon.This film introduces young Tommy Jarvis (played very well by a young Corey Feldman)--a character who would go on to star in the next two sequels (albeit with different actors).Tom Savini returns to the make-up chair for this one following an absence from the previous two films, supplying a variety of gruesome special effects.The atmosphere is certainly more 80s than any entry before it, with the film's fashion and choice of music reeking of bad nostalgia involving poofy hair and over-sized dress/shirt thingys with big belts around the waist (what the heck were those?).The atmosphere is darker than the previous films, with the murders being more mean-spirited and ugly this time around. A sudden rainstorm certainly helps attribute to this as well.As Jason slices his way through the annoying cast (imagine being at a party with sluts who will try to steal your boyfriend right in front of you, an ugly jokester who no girl in the cast wants to sleep with, and one of the most timid, boring girls ever in a Friday the 13th film and you'll get what I mean), the brother of one of Jason's victims searches the woods surrounding Crystal Lake for revenge. Word of advice looking for revenge against Jason = not a good idea. You will lose.The finale is entertaining and contains some genuinely suspenseful moments involving a running Jason and a chase sequence that goes back and forth between the two houses, and Jason's demise is gory and satisfying enough. But, of course, he will be back, making The Final Chapter on the film's title seem like nothing more than a cash-grab.It's an entertaining ride and certainly necessary viewing if you enjoyed the previous films, but it doesn't quite match up. Thankfully, the next installment brings some bite back into the franchise. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The Final Chapter","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is obviously not the final chapter to the series. It is however one of the best sequels in the franchise. This fourth one takes place right after the third at the Higgins barn where Jason was axed in the head by Chris. The police find all the victims at the lake and take Jason's dead body to the morgue. Of course Jason isn't really dead. He quickly escapes the hospital and heads straight to Crystal Lake. There are a new group of teenagers heading to the lake this time, and we also meet a family (The Jarvises) who live on the lake.After knocking off many people, in very brutal ways, Jason meets his match in Tommy and Trish Jarvis. Tommy devises a plan, which involves shaving his head, to send Jason to hell once and for all. Tom Savini's makeup and special effects are brilliant. This was probably the most gory/gruesome of all Friday films. The stalking in the woods is very creepy and ominous. And Ted White, who plays Jason this time around, is very scary in the role. There is one scene to note as well. Jimmy's (Crispin Glover) dancing scene is the funniest things I may have ever seen. This fourth Friday ranks near the top of all the films. Part 2 is my all time favourite, but this is definitely close behind.After The Final Chapter, the Friday films take a downward spiral into complete mediocrity. This came out in 1984, right around the time horror and slasher films started to became a total mess. So sit back and enjoy the last of the true SCARY Friday the 13th movies.8/10 "}{"Title":"This Friday Delivers","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was actually the 1st Friday film I have seen and it was awesome to watch one of the best in the series. Even if the suspense is less tense then before, the gore along with the kills and having the maniacal Jason back truly delivers.Along with Part's 2 & Jason Lives, this would have to be one of my favs in the Friday series.Just sets straight after part 3 when Jason got hit in the head with an Axe and strangled from a rope from a high level. He then gets transfered to a hospital and he escapes, (already killing two) let's say 2 hours later. He then makes his way to crystal lake, stalking sex-crazed, high drug, drunk teens. There's also a little kid who lives with his parents in the woods and he loves video games. Some teens do move into the woods to party and spend a couple of days there.Jason then kills all of them one by one but the kills in this are excellent. Espiecially the shower & cork screw kills. Even Jason's death by Tommy Jarvis (The kid) was done well. It was good to see that Tom Savini did those bloody gory effects. He hadn't done any of them since the first film.One of the best, if u haven't seen this Friday yet, I suggest u do. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Something's missing this time around.","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Final Chapter is widely regarded by Friday fans as one of the best sequels in the series, and the best of the original four films. Call me an oddball, but I'm just not feeling it. Like all Friday movies, this one is still largely entertaining for sure, but there's something different this time around. It's not just the addition of a kid into the usual mix of horny teenagers, or the fact that we see a family in peril for once--it's the atmosphere and tone of the film that feels off.The plot picks up directly where part III left off Jason is dead and taken to the morgue, where we encounter some of the most irresponsible and vile hospital workers I've seen in a horror film. After dry humping near Jason's dead body (was the setting a turn-on?), our masked hero wakes up and the carnage begins anew. This time around, the setting for Jason's massacre is two adjacent houses in the middle of the country one occupied by the Jarvis family (with young Corey Feldman playing Tommy Jarvis, a character who would go on to be in the next two sequels), and the other by a vacationing group of young, slutty teenagers. You can guess what happens when Jason makes his way from the morgue to find more kids partying on his lake.While the acting is probably the best of the series and Tom Savini returns to do the gory make-up effects once again after being absent since the original, something just doesn't quite feel right here. Maybe it's the fact that this is the first film in the series to feel so obviously '80s, or the fact that none of the teenagers are likable in this one. Among the usual group of stereotypes, we get two twins, one of whom wastes no time in trying to sleep with every male member of the cast (even while their girlfriends stand by watching), and a young Crispin Glover, who has a bit of a problem in the bedroom department. The guys exist to constantly compete with the women or pick on one another. As for the Jarvis family, young Corey Feldman is certainly likable as Tommy, and Kimberly Beck is a nice addition to the cast. There is also a sub-plot involving a character named Rob, whose sister was one of Jason's victims in the previous films. Now he's out to avenge her death.The film suffers from some odd and confusing editing in the third act. Jason seems to be all over the place with no rhyme or reason to his actions. One second he's outside, then he's up on the roof, then he's out by Rob's tent in the woods, then he's in the living room, then he's outside again...I'm not sure if this was how the script was written, but it sure was pretty confusing trying to figure out why Jason couldn't just make things easier on himself. At one point, after Jason dispatches of one of the kids in the kitchen, instead of going straight into the living room to pick off his next victim, he goes back outside and goes onto the roof to get someone in an upstairs bedroom. Far be it from me to question Jason's methods, but this seems rather impractical.The chase sequence at the end is certainly not a let-down, with Jason managing to be truly scary at some points. To those who claim Jason never ran, you obviously haven't seen this film.As for the most advertised part of the film--Jason's demise--it is good, if not somewhat anticlimactic. But of course, we all know it wasn't the end anyway.While I consider this the weakest entry out of the original four films, it is still certainly worth a watch. If you loved the previous films, you'll like this one. I just didn't have as much fun this time around. "},{"Title":"One of the best Friday the 13th's","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, Friday the 13th the Final chapter ranks as one of my favorite of the series. In this movie there were 2 different groups we got to meet. The first was the stereotypical group of horny, drunk, junkie, corny teenagers who are renting a cabin across the street. They consist of Paul (The stereotypical popular, horny boyfriend), Samantha (stereotypical whore, preppy girlfriend), Doug (nicer pretty-boy type), Sara (shy, low self-esteem girl), Ted (drunk, junkie, ladies man), and my favorite, Jimmy (shy, horny, mysterious guy). Along with 2 horny twins (Tina and Terri). Then we have the newer party, the Jarvis family. Mrs. Jarvis, Trish Jarvis, and her little brother Tommy Jarvis. They were very interesting, but Jimmy was my favorite by far. There was also a hiker/hunter (which is new to the series), Rob Dier. This movie was one of the best not just because of the characters, but because of the effects and whatnot. My man Tom Savini returns as the make-up artist in this movie. Jason was played very well in this. Also, the music and lighting made the movie much spookier than the previous ones. I give this an 8/10. Very good movie, watch if your a horror/Jason fan. You'll love it. "},{"Title":"haven't I seen this before?","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this 4th , but not final, chapter picks up where 3 left off, with Jason being taken to a morgue after a nicely edited recap sequence which makes the previous 3 films look a lot better than they actually are. Here, Jason reanimates, for no reason whatsoever, without explanation, and after killing a randy porter and nurse, makes his way, somehow unseen, back to Crystal lake. here, we get complete deja vu, with another houseful of teens somewhere on the seemingly massive lake, a family with a teen daughter and preteen son, and also a 'Jason hunting' relative of a victim from F2 thrown into the mix. needless to say the teens are sex,dope,beer obsessed, and during the night they are dispatched in a variety of gruesome ways. This all follows the formula, with after the killings and the chosen few left alive, we have the familiar what I will call 'realisation', where the teen daughter and her brother (plus the soon to be killed Jason hunter)realise that Jason is after them;then the 'chase and reveal', where every time they turn a corner, open a door etc. a body falls out or is found. They end up in the family's house where during a confrontation with Jason, the lad finds time to go off and shave his head and apply theatrical make up (its earlier established hes into horror makeup/puppets /effects) to make himself look like an artists impression of Jason as a boy he saw in a newspaper cutting. This, like the similar 'disguse/distraction' in part 2 doesn't really hold up to logic and scrutiny, especially when his sister is seconds away from a gruesome end downstairs. Anyhow, this distracts Jason long enough for the prerequisite 'mask off' moment and the boy to put a machete into Jason's head. Now correct me if Im wrong, but in parts 2-4 Jason's mask comes off in every film and in each one he looks completely different even though these films span only a few days. Oh well, anyway, the film ends with Jason twitching on the floor and the kid goes into a frenzy with the machete to finish him off. The final scene has a Dr. explaining to the sister about the frenzied violent behaviour her brother exhibited, and we end on a freeze frame of the kid with a mad look in his eyes. Of course, maybe the Dr. could have said,well done, at last someone with the sense to decimate Jason's body when he was seemingly just about to come back to life instead of running off, but there you go. Anyway, in short, a serious case of deja vu from earlier (and later) films in the series. If you like/dislike the series in general then you'll have the same reaction to this due to it being so formulaic. There's a few decent (by 80's standards) makeup effects on the deaths if that is your sort of thing, and you think it can make up for shortfalls in plot,script, characterisation and originality. Probably best enjoyed if your 12/13 years old or with a few mates and beers if you're older. "},{"Title":"Another fine entry","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason again survives another beating to head to another camp site to slaughter yet again another bunch of fun loving teens.Friday The 13th part 4 is yet again another fine entry into the Friday The 13th series and definitely one of the best ones. The Final Chapter no way I'm glad the title was wrong and they decided to make another load because they are really fun movies. Again the body count is high and the gore is level is high, the acting is fine and plus we get more nudity. Although the stalk sequences did drag quite a bit which hurt the tension factor but on a whole this entry is just brilliant.The murders in this one are quite nasty we get a saw throat (literally), a nurse gets gutted, a girl with a spear through her neck, pick axe in the back, shot in the family jewels, axed through a door and into a female's body, crushed skull and more.The directing was also rather good, the night time sequences were shot perfectly and scary which really set the mood and some beautiful day time scenery of the woods and not forgetting the group skinny dipping part that was easy on the eyes.Kimberley Beck (Trish) played great as the quick thinking plucky heroine she screamed loud and ran fast, Corey Feldman (Tommy) was enjoyable as always, Lawrence Monoson (Ted) was amazing he played his part well and his jokes about the computer and calling his friend a dead f**k was priceless, Crispin Glover (Jimmy) was really good as the patient boyfriend to Barbara Howard (Sara) who was really sweet and cute, Joan Freeman (Mrs Jarvis) although weren't in it a lot did well as Trish and Tommy's mother a breath of fresh air, and the twins were stunning.All in all this is definitely one of the best entry's in the series, the effects were awesome and the tension was very effective, we again get good characters played by good actors along with good dialogue, this movie never gets dull or boring. "},{"Title":"Part 4 Is No Final Chapter","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Final Chapter sees the finale of Jasons revenge continued on from Parts 2 and 3. We see up and coming actors like Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover in the cast along with Jason. In this, reportedly at the time, the last Jason Voorhees movie, our fiend, Jason succumbs to death by a blow to the head with his own machete. Corey Feldman who plays Tommy Jarvis is the killer. The fourth installment of the series sees another group of young, attractive teens being murdered by psychopath Jason Voorhees. You would think after taking an ax to the head, he would have died in Part 3, but that is not the case. Jason is suspected dead, but upon arriving to the hospital for an autopsy perhaps, Jason awakes. His goal, to kill anyone that gets in the way. To see just how he is defeated, you must see the finale, which is to die 4. "},{"Title":"the best Friday the 13th","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i have seen every Friday the 13th movie from the first to the latest team up with razor clawed Freddy Krueger,and ill have to say this one is the best one.mainly for the good cast.Corey Feldman(gremlins)crispen glover(Willard)Kimberly beck(nightmare at noon)Bruce Mahler(police academy)although not a stellar cast its a good cast for a Friday the 13th sequel.that unstoppable killing zombie Jason is back to do some more killing.the really good creepy gory make up effects were done by maestro tom savini(dawn of the dead,maniac,Friday the 13th)i know most people will dismiss this as just another Friday the 13th movie,but it is by far the best one.the ones to follow were not as good,not counting Freddy vs Jason.Corey Feldman did this the same time as Steven Spielberg's;gremlins.i am a sucker for actress Kimberly beck who i thought was a very beautiful girl next door type,who i remember from horror films massacre at central high(1976) nightmare at noon(1987) and an episode of the TV show buck rogers titles cruise ship to the stars(featuring the late Dorothy Stratton)i give Friday the 13th part 4, 8 out of 10.as for being the final chapter we all know the answer to that. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best In The Series","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's really quite remarkable how producers of the Friday the 13th series can take essentially the same plot and time and time again crank out something new and entertaining. This dishonestly-titled fourth entry ranks as one of the best installments in the venerable franchise about masked maniac Jason Voorhees slashing his way through Camp Crystal Lake. Thought to be dead following an axe attack at the end of the previous film, Jason suddenly rises once again at the hospital, immediately picking up where he left off. But this time someone's waiting for him young Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman).As far as horror movies go, Friday the 13th The Final Chapter delivers. True, some of it is old hat by now. When Jimmy, played by Crispin Glover, is nailed to a door frame, for instance, you can't help but think producers simply ran out of ideas. But semi-memorable characters, a good pace and a terrific final 15 minutes help make up for the shortfalls. This picture surely won't please all audiences, but those for whom it was intended will have a blast. "},{"Title":"Not Exactly The Final Chapter, But A Good Entry.","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th, Part IV The Final Chapter, is another run-of-the-mill Friday the 13th slasher film, but in terms of this particular series, it is actually a pretty decent sequel. The film starts off with Jason being revived at the morgue, and offing some hospital staff. He heads off into the woods near Camp Crystal Lake, and sets his attention of the Jarvis family and some teens spending the weekend in the woods in a nearby area. As the body count begins to rise, young Tommy Jarvis (who is a horror buff himself) and his older sister must fight against the maniacal killer before he takes their lives too. Has Jason met his match? Or will the Jarvis family just become more of his victims?Despite the fact that this is essentially your basic, routine slasher movie, I have to admit that it was actually surprisingly pretty well-done. The Friday the 13th sequels are notorious for being senseless and following the same pattern every time, and while this one isn't much of an exception, I thought that out of the unbelievable amount of sequels, this was surely one of the better. The storyline is pretty much as generic as the rest of the sequels, but this film manages to pack a decent amount of tension and a smidge of suspense as well. While the amount of tension/suspense and atmosphere is fairly minimal, I have to give this some credit because most of these movies lack anything of the sort.This movie is a gore-packed sequel for sure, and our friend Jason manages to kill people in some of the nastiest, most inventive ways. The victims are continuous, and it seems like someone is dying in every other scene (another thing that the Friday the 13th sequels are known for). But, this does give effects-created Tom Savini to show off his talents, and he does an excellent job here creating them. Compared to some of the other effects displayed in other films, the work here is excellent. The acting is mediocre and for the most part unbelievable, but a young Corey Feldman carries the movie as our leading hero kid and he did a good job here. You also may recognize a young Crispin Glover too, as a doomed teenager, which was a bit of surprise.Overall, if you like the Friday the 13th movies, I can say that this is one of the better installments in the series. Is it anything award-worthy? Of course not. But as far as these Friday the 13th movies go, The Final Chapter (which wasn't really the final, but who would have known?) is a good one. I'd recommend it if you just want to watch Jason do his thing (kill people, that is). 7/10. "},{"Title":"That's good marketing!","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Think about it this way, if you have a series which is making huge profits in theaters, what better way to get people back to the theaters by saying this is the last one? Of course another element that makes this somewhat nostalgic for me is that back in 95 when I was 20 this movie was always on Cinemax or The Movie Channel, every single week. My sister graduated that year and this was the movie we watched when we finally had gotten the place ready for the graduation party. I had seen it before but I saw it again and i'll never forget the look on her face when Jason stabbed the hitchhiker who had just given the finger to those teens who refused to pick her up. On rewatch however it's basically the novelty of watching the human body get dismembered in creative ways. On this angle the movie is watchable. Plus it's fun to see Jason wipe out actors who actually had a future in films ahead of them.* * out of 4-(Fair) "}{"Title":"Jason Finally Hits His Stride...","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth installment in the decadent slasher series Friday the 13th, this film is arguably the best of the sequels. The cast, for the most part, is composed of decent character actors and few recognizable names. Crispin Glover and Corey Feldman give this movie a much needed sense of credibility and, dare I say it, even a little nuance that most of the other films lack. And, more importantly, that God-Awful disco opening theme from the third movie has been replaced by a traditionally creepy, over-the-top staccato-ed score by Harry Manfredini.Jason is back and in top form. Premarital sex, drugs and booze are the underlying themes as once again a small group of young people are chopped into quarter rounds. The gore effects are convincing and the direction competent. Joseph Zito knows what he's doing and effortlessly takes us on a nasty, self-indulgent little thrill ride. A lot of people get wiped out, and with the exception of a few you really don't care either way. The movie seems to understand this, and a such truly invests time in only a select few of it's players. Everyone else is machete fodder.But the heart of this movie is Corey Feldman. His character, Tommy Jarvis, becomes the best and most unlikely enemy for Jason Voorhees. The brilliance of the concept catches one off guard, as no one would have ever guessed a little boy to be such a challenge for the seemingly invincible Jason. But it ultimately pays off, as Jason is at his core a angry, vengeful, hateful man-child. The child of innocence vs. the corrupt child works very well in the finale.Very rarely is Jason looked at as a human character. Mostly, he's an unstoppable force out to kill anyone within the confines of Camp Crystal Lake. I think the best movies in this series are the ones that treat Jason as human being (for lack of a better term) and give you a little insight into his character and what makes him tick. Sure, he's as twisted and simply evil as they come. But as shown recently in Freddy vs. Jason, he can also be a sympathetic madman too.Kane Hodder, and later Ken Kirzinger, gave Jason a certain flair that the previous stunt men lacked. The guy who played Jason here did a good job, but in the end when compared to the aforementioned Hodder and Kirzinger, the subtlety of his performance seems odd. Ha, listen to me. I'm talking about the subtle nuance of the stunt men playing Jason Voorhees. LOL!But, in the end, The Final Chapter isn't even close to being the final chapter. In my mind, it's the beginning of a three movie run that constitutes the best of the sequels. Scary, campy, over the top and above all else fun, this is one Friday you don't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Probably the best in the series.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason has managed to live again, so he escapes from the morgue to go on another killing spree. However, a young boy with a talent for making masks decides to stand against Jason, and he may have met his match. Unfortunately, there is no truth to the title, but there should have been. This would have been a great ending to the series. The story is good, there is an eerie feel surrounding the movie, and it's definitely the least boring of the series. The death scenes are the best out of the series as well. This movie features the best acting in a Friday the 13th film, with actors like Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover, who both went on to do popular movies, unlike everyone else in the cast.This movie really passes as one of the better 80's slasher films. There's great action at the end, and the ending really gives closure to the series, but of course the powers that be had to screw it up by making a bunch of others. If you want an entertaining slasher movie, this is it.6/10 "},{"Title":"The best one int the Friday the 13th series","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Definitely the best one in the series. After 4 they really go downhill. So enjoy the first 4, which really should have been the Final Chapter and then move on to Freddy vs. Jason. Trust me you will still be able to follow along and not miss out on the plot. This movie has an all-star cast. It has Corey Feldman,.....OK so that's that's it, maybe not an all-star cast, but if your a fan of 80's movies then you gotta love Corey Feldman. Anyway in this the fourth installment of the series Jason continues to wreck havoc on carefree teenagers and up the body count. This time turning his attention to the Jarvis Family. But who know could the hockey mask slasher meet his match? I guess you will just have to find out and see. So sit back and enjoy the Slashing good times "},{"Title":"best of the Friday flicks","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This Friday had it all. Out of all the Jason movies this is the one that get's repeated viewings by me. It had so much going for it. Great gore by the master Tom Savini, an excellent cast that included Corey Feldman, Crispin Glover and Lawrence Monoson (Last American Virgin!)....and some excellent TnA....and TWINNSSSSS! This Friday set the bar for all future Friday movies, but it set the bar too high. After this the series became a mockery of itself. If you are to watch only one Jason movie in your lifetime, Friday the 13th part 4  The Final Chapter should definitely be the one. You cannot go thru your life without witnessing Crispin Glover's cracked out spaz dance at least once. Now don't be a dead****! Go rent this movie NOW! "},{"Title":"Good 1980s horror movie","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 4th movie in my Friady The 13th movie marathon.Friday The 13th The Final Chapter is a good horror movie about how Jason Voorhes did not die in the end of the 3rd movie but everyone thinks that he is dead and he was taken to the hospital and he kills two hospital staff and he gos back to Camp Crystal Lake.When he gets back to the camp there are some new people staying there on a holiday and a family living there and he starts to kill them all but he meets his rival there a young boy named Tommy Jarvis (Cory Feldman).There are a few good kill scenes in this movie and the best two are1.When the character Jimmy (Crispin Glover) is in the kitchen and Jason Voorhees Stabs his hand to the bench with a cork screw and then Jason hits him in the head will a cleaver.2.The character Pauel is swimming by him self at night time and Jason stabs him in the groin with a spear gun and picks him up and shoots him in his groin.Over all this movie is a bit better then the 3rd Friday the 13th movie and there are 2 good actors that i like in this movie and they are Crispin Glover and Cory Feldmen.My rating for this movie is six out of ten. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter who's stupid idea was that","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No slasher movie should ever be entitled by The Final chapter. But don't let that stop you from a highly enjoyable slasher movie that has much to enjoy and rejoice in. Friday the 13 takes place very shortly after the events of part 3 as we first met tommy Jarvis (a recurring character in the franchise) here played by a young Corey Feldman who live along the famous crystal lake with his family. We then met our team of teen protagonist on their summer vacation and staying next door to the Jarvis family.Fans of Friday the 13th know little plot is ever covered which is what makes the franchise so enjoyable. Few horror movie franchises were so stepped in 80s culture than the Friday the 13th series but again this what makes these movies so enjoyable the me genertation characters are just so much fun to watch and viewers will be awaiting their grim demise with masochistic glee.Friday the 13 part 4 is a great representation of the franchise with it's trademarks in abundance great repeated viewing for fans and a good starting point for people only familiar with Jason last few disappointing outings. "},{"Title":"Could Have Stopped Here.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th The Final Chapter is not a bad film, but not a great film either it's just average. It would have been a good idea to end the series here probably but there were better sequels later on. Here's The Plot, After Chris' confrontation with Jason in the barn at Higgins Haven, Jason's presumably dead body is taken to the Wessex County morgue. Jason escapes, kills an attendant and a nurse and makes his way back to Crystal Lake.Friends Paul, Jimmy, Ted, Doug, Samantha and Sara are on their way to a lakeside house they've rented. On the way they pass a hitchhiker, who is soon killed by Jason. Next to the rental house lives Mrs. Jarvis, her teen aged daughter Trish, and her twelve year-old son Tommy. Trish and Tommy meet the renters, and run into them the next day skinny-dipping at Crystal Point with local twins Tina and Terri. When the Jarvis' car breaks down, Trish and Tommy are helped by Rob, a passing camper.That night there is a drunken party at the rental house. When her boyfriend Paul starts dancing with Tina, Samantha goes for a swim - and is killed. Paul has second thoughts and goes out looking for her. Terri goes after Jimmy, and Jason kills Paul. While Tina is sleeping with Jimmy, Terri leaves for home and is killed. When Mrs. Jarvis returns home after jogging, she finds the house empty. The lights go out, and when she goes outside to look for the kids she is killed. Trish and Tommy come home and Trish goes to look for her mother but only finds Rob in his tent.At the rental house, Tina goes to freshen up while Jimmy heads downstairs to gloat to Ted. But when he goes into the kitchen to find the corkscrew... Jason hands it to him. Tina is soon thrown out the window and Ted is stabbed while Rob tells Trish about his sister Sandra, who Jason killed (in Part 2). Doug is killed in the shower, as is Sara when she tries to escape after discovering the body. Returning to the Jarvis house, Trish and Rob try to call the police, but the line is dead. They go next door where Rob goes into the basement - and is killed by Jason. Trish escapes back to her house, where she and Tommy prepare to face Jason. . .Not a Great Friday The 13th film but beats the crap out of the next installment, I recommend this to most horror fans. "},{"Title":"Zito+Savini= Good Horror Film.","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth installment of the Friday the 13th series teamed Director Joseph Zito with legendary makeup artist Tom Savini once again. They had previously worked together on The Prowler which was an incredibly bloody and violent film. The end result was a huge money maker for Paramount Studios.The story is certainly nothing new. We have another group of young people being chopped to bits by a masked maniac. Since everyone knew what these films were about by then, it was up to Savini, Zito, and the writers to try and top what had previously been done up to this point. They more than succeeded.This is the film that introduces the Tommy Jarvis character to the story. He is a child in this one and he's played by a young Corey Feldman. Tommy lives with his mother and sister in a house in the woods near Crystal Lake where Jason roams. There is a house next door that has just been rented by six young adults looking for a good time. Think Jason would let that happen on his turf? Think again! After skinny dipping of course, the kids throw a little party at their house, and Jason shows up uninvited and starts chopping everyone to bits. I read in an interview with Joseph Zito that the house rented by the kids was built strictly for use in the movie next to the Jarvis home that was already there. It serves as an effective kill zone for Savini to stage the killings.Some of the better deaths are had by Peter Barton, Alan Hayes, and Jason himself, played very effectively by veteran stuntman Ted White. One of my friends up the street described the killing of Hayes with a spear gun, and I knew I had to see this film. I still cannot believe my mother took me to see this in a theater at age 11! Peter Barton's killing made me peer around the shower curtain to make sure nobody was out there for quite some time. And Jason taking a machete to the head was perhaps the most gruesome death I had ever seen in a movie up to that age.There is a large dosage of nudity and sex in this one. Perhaps even more than in part V, if that's possible. I think Judie Aronson was quite a babe. Paul made a big mistake blowing her off for one of those twins. Teddy and Jimbo are hilarious as the comic relief until they get killed off.If you like the other films in this series, you'll probably like this one. If not, don't bother.8 of 10 stars.Hey Teddy? Where's the corkscrew?? TED????.......... "},{"Title":"Gore galore","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Final Chapter is one hell of a gory movie with some good score at parts! Every death scene in the movie was executed very well and that is a plus for me and it is a step up from two and three, and maybe even part one, as far as gore is concerned. And especially in the final scene where Corey Feldman kills Jason(temporarily). I sometimes have to look away when Jason starts to fall down on the machete(planted into his skull!!) because it is so graphic.Now onto the death scenes because there are many. My favorite is when Tina(one of the twins)is thrown from a window and lands on the station wagon(brutal)and I also think a good death scene is when Crispin Glover(who plays Jimmy)gets stabbed with a corkscrew and gets the trademark machete to the face. The blood in that scene was crazy and I can't believe it was even left in the film. Then there is the shower scene where Jason crushes a guys skull...sick, but in a good way!Still the standout in this installment of the series is the execution of Jason which up until this part have been very tame(with the exception of Mrs. Voorhees' death)and pretty much are tame from here on out so this one is a must see. Don't expect the acting to be award-worthy, as always. Just watch it and don't miss the girl with the banana!! 8/10! "},{"Title":"Savini, Feldman & Aronson Save the Day//spoilers alert","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Final chapter, if you believe that you should be monkey-stomped! This sequel is better than 2 & 3 thanks to effects guru Tom Savini.Jason Voorhees, presumed dead after Dana Kimmell stuck a machete in his scalp, awakens in a hospital to return to Crystal Lake once again, to wreak havoc on sexy young people. Only this time, Jason squares off with a clever young kid Tommmy Jarvis(Corey Feldman), and his older sister portrayed by Kimberly Beck. Corey steals the show here, as he did with every film he was in before his 18th birthday. Nice blend of comedy(Peter Barton in the shower dropping the soap, made me chuckle),gore and babes(emphasis on Judie Aronson, why did she die first!?!, the hottest babe needs to stick around for awhile)Crispin Glover break dancing was almost as funny as Barton dropping the soap. Possibly the best sequel in this franchise. "}{"Title":"Tom Savini Returns!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ... And he isn't the only one! Jason is back, and ready to kill some more bad teens that are up to no good! Friday The 13th The Final (yeah right) Chapter is a great movie and must be seen by all Friday The 13th fans! I love the style of it, and it is way fun to watch.A group of kids, are staying at a house out by Camp Crystal Lake. They do all the things that teens like to do Have sex, drink beer, smoke weed, and do it all without anybody to stop you! Well kiddies, I hate to break it to you, but there is someone to stop you. Jason Voorhees!Alright, look at the cast people. Corey Feldman from the great movies Stand By Me, The Lost Boys, and Bordello Of Blood. We also have Crispin Glover, from Back To The Future, and WILLARD. And even beyond that, we have Tom Savini, master of gore f/x. What more do you need? Jason + Savini + Feldman = One Heck Of A Movie! Go buy the Friday The 13th Box Set today! "},{"Title":"Probably the most moralistic of the Series! WARNING SPOILERS","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th - The Final Chapter (until they made Part 5...) follows on from Part 3 where Jason comes back to life in a morgue and then... (SURPRISE!) goes on a murderous rampage of young pretty things!I think that this would be the most moralistic out of all the Friday films. There were two house-holds in the movie - one was like the Brady Bunch (except for the mother who was divorced!!!!), the other was full of horny teenagers who just have sex all the time.Can you guess who survived?? Yes - of course all the horny teenagers were brutally killed and a couple of the Brady Bunch characters survived (except for Mum - who was divorced and is living in sin(!) and the dog).So the moral of this story is... don't be a horny teenager, don't get divorced, don't be a fat hitchhiker or don't be a dog!For me - the whole implied morals of the movie are a bit of a downer. Otherwise - it isn't too bad (or isn't too bad as far as Friday films go). Jason's death wasn't exactly final but there is a cool twist at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Jason VS. Mouth of the Goonies","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Picking up exactly where #3 leaves off, Jason (played by an uncredited Ted White) is taken to the morgue, where he wakes up, kills two hospital workers and heads back to Camp Crystal lake, and conveniently enough for him there are some drunken teenage idiots there for him to maim/kill/destroy (among them George McFly... I mean Crispin Glover, who, believe it or not, actually gets laid!). Not too far away from the idiots is an isolated family, the hero of them being a pint-sized horror fan named Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman, who would later play Mouth in The Goonies).More of the same - sex, violence, death, drugs, rock 'n roll, the usual. Don't forget the two sexy twins. Some occasional sense of style is abound among the deaths. In terms of acting, Ted White (who actually disliked slasher movies and asked for his name not to be used in the credits, only to have his name mentioned in the montage credits of part 7) takes over the role from part 3's Richard Brooker and actually plays the mute murderer quite well with lots of romping and stomping about. Despite the title, this is not the end. No, far from it.  "},{"Title":"Jason + Tom Savini + Corey Feldman + The Final Chapter title = Great slasher movie.","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Supposedly the last movie of the Friday the 13th series. Paramount executives realized they were about to make their biggest financial mistake if they killed Jason at the mid 80's where the slasher genre was on it's best moment. As everyone knows Jason starred in 8 movies after part 3.Anyways, everyone refers to The Final Chapter as part 4 or just another sequel but this movie stands alone for having the guts of killing Jason once and for all. *SPOILERS* The movie starts correctly with footage (something that ANY fan loves) from Jason's most famous (infamous) killings from part 2 and 3. There are also scenes from the original Friday the 13th. to refresh the audience's mind.After the footage and opening credits, the movie starts where part 3 ended. The opening sequence deserves recognition for continuity in the series by filming in the same location where the ending of part 3 took place (the barn). I learned about it on IMDb Trvia for this movie.Police credits Jason as the responsible for the murders of Camp Crystal Lake and Higgins Haven. They pick up the ax that was used to kill Jason and take him to the morgue. It was just a matter of time before Jason escaped from the morgue in order to continue his killing spree.Jason kills Axel and Nurse Morgan in the morgue and a female hitch-hiker before arriving to his territory, Camp Crystal Lake. Also he comes to visit his mother's grave. Creepy. We meet the Jarvis' family members Tommy, Trish, and their mother. The Jarvis are a happy family that lives a normal life deep in the woods. One day after Jason escaped from the morgue, a group of 6 teens (Paul, Sam, Doug, Sara, Jimbo, Ted, and Jimbo) arrive at night to the house they rent, coincidentally next to the Jarvis'. Probably these teens didn't know about the killer on the loose near the area, or even worse, about the killer's escape from the morgue.The teenagers arrive at night and immediately meet Tommy and Trish. The next day these teens meet two slutty twin sisters while exploring the woods and then go the Crystal Lake for skinny dipping. Those are pretty much their activities before getting murdered. On their way back to their home while fixing their car, Trish and Tommy meet Rob, a tall and muscular camper that is on his way to Camp Crystal Lake. The brothers give Rob a lift and invite him to their home. Tommy impresses Rob with his talent in creating monster masks and his love for horror characters. Soon before night, Rob leaves the Jarvis home heading to the woods for unknown reasons. Night comes and the 6 teens and the twin sisters get drunk and dance before having sex. Jimbo's dancing deserves special mention for being the weirdest thing about the movie. Sam goes to the lake and takes off all her clothes before swimming. The girl has a weird idea of fun; who swims nude at midnight when it's too cold? Jason kills her while she's over a rubber boat and the killing starts. Paul goes in search of Sam only to find her dead body inside the boat, terrified, he swims the fast as he can and when he is about to climb on the dock, Jason harpoons him near his member. Jason heads to houses on his territory and he's surely very mad. On his way, Jason throws his bloody harpoon inside of Rob's tent just to give him the creeps. Rob finds his tent is messed and watches Jason heading to an unknown destiny. Jason kills Mrs. Jarvis outside her house off screen and heads to the teens house. Outside the teens house he impales one of the twin sisters, then gets inside the house, sneaks into the kitchen and stabs Jimbo's hand with a corkscrew, then stabs him in the face with his old machete. After killing Jimbo, he throws Tina (the other twin) from the window making her fall over the van, machetes Teddy's head from behind, sticks his fingers on Doug's face while he's on the shower and then smashes his skull. And last but not least he axes the beautiful and innocent Sara in the stomach. Jason looks very, very angry. On the other house, Trish and Tommy realize that their mother is missing, so Trish decides to look for her in the woods, leaving Tommy alone in the house in case their mother returns. As this is a slasher movie, heavy raining starts and as Trish walks in the woods the audience believes Jason could appear in any moment and kill her. Luckily for her, she finds Rob and have a brief conversation about Jason. It happens that Rob is in the hunt for Jason since he killed his sister, Sara (the girl that gets impaled when having sex with her boyfriend in part 2, on of the most infamous scenes in slasher movies). Rob shows Trish the newspapers about Jason he has collected, and tells her that Jason escaped from the morgue. Worrying for Tommy, Trish and Tommy immediately return to her home. Trish and Tommy tell Tommy about the situation and head to the teens house to see if everything is all right. Tommy stays alone again and reads Rob's newspapers about Jason. While Rob explores the basement of the teens house, Trish goes upstairs and finds Doug's dead body in the bathroom and believes everyone is dead. She screams in panic and tells Rob that the killer was here, when they are about to leave the basement Rob returns down there to get a knife. As there's no light there, Rob doesn't see Jason coming from the shadows, Jason hits him repeatedly on his chest and head with a wrench and other tools. Jason didn't even break a sweat and kills him easily. Rob only screamed and yelled he's killing me! go Trish go!. Trish returns to her home and tells Tommy that they have to leave, when suddenly Jason throws Rob's dead body to a big window of the house. Jason breaks with his hands another window and gets Tommy, trying to choke him. Trish hits Jason with a hammer several times in the mask, and then stabs it on his neck. Tommy barely escapes from Jason's hands and he and Trish run upstairs to hide. That's when the nightmare starts for the Jarvis brothers.While Jason chases Trish inside both houses, Tommy cuts his hair and clothes to copy Jason's look when he drowned at 11 on Crystal Lake. When Jason is about to kill Trish, Tommy faces Jason who apparently thinks Tommy is him as a child, and when gets closer to him with unknown reasons but apparently shocked, Trish hits him in the face with the machete only to remove his mask and reveal his deformed and evil face. Trish shocks and starts crying as Jason walks slowly to her, Tommy lifts the machete and stabs Jason in the face with it. Jason, with the machete impaled in the face falls down on his knees and then falls to the floor as the machete slices his skull and gets through his eye. Tommy and Trish hug believing Jason finally died when Tommy watches Jason's fingers moving. Tommy pushes Trish, picks up the machete and hits Jason repeatedly with it and yelling die! die! die!. The nightmare is over and Jason is dead. END.The Final Chapter is a great example of how to make an effective and good slasher movie in the 80's. There's an identified killed that wears a mask, he's mean, angry, and apparently immortal. There's plenty of gore backed with excellent make-up (of course, by Tom Savini), the score is good, and you get sex scenes as a bonus. Not the best in the series but a very decent and strong sequel in the series. The movie hasn't any pretensions; it doesn't tries to explain about Jason's past or motives, or tries to be scary. It's a straight slash and goes directly to the point in fast speed. Jason appears only about for 15 mins., something that works good for me. Great deaths, good score, excellent make up, and a dark and effective direction by Joseph Zito. Jimbo's death is my favorite.The acting is not that bad, Corey Feldman (Tommy) delivers and his performance is a classic in the genre. The other actors seemed to have a good time, especially Jimbo and Ted (who keeps calling his friend a dead f**k all the time). Funny pair of geeks. I liked Sara's character (Barbara Howard) for having the typical innocent girl look but inside the bedroom she's a tomcat. By the way she's very sexy and cute. Overall The Final Chapter is one of the best slasher movies of the 80's for having all of the elements of the genre put together correctly. Jason's death is extremely gory and also a classic in the genre.6/10. In The Friday the 13th scale 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Finally...","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just when you thought it was over, you best be thinking again. Jason once again returns in numero 4.A family of three, are living on Crystal Lake and some teenagers decide they are going to move into the house right across from them for a good long weekend. Ok, haven't we already done this before? Anyways, Jason shows up again, escaping from the hospital they took him. Once again the same old rules apply. Sex, drugs, alcohol, and plain old stupidity all contract into one thing, they all die except two. So the teenagers move in, the meet up with twins, they go back where all the single guys try to hook up with them, the one that isn't trying at all to get one of them gets on, byebye to both of them. Then the couple that are arguing goes for a swim, adios amigos. Then the druggy, gone. The shower lovers, need I say more. The mother stupidly walks outside to find her kids in the rain? Let me think. I wonder where Tommy gets his smarts from, the father maybe??? The hiker who drops his knife downstairs and then goes after it, mind you its really, really, really dark and he goes after it? He definately had it coming. Thank god he was killed off. I just felt stupid watching him go after it. That leaves, Trish and Tommy. They fight him off with smashing a TV over his head, that doesn't work, nearly chopping off his hand, that only stung him, and then finally Tommy, who has to dress up like Jason back in the '50s, turns around and puts his machette into Jasons skull. Does that kill him? Heck no. He has to chop him up in into little pieces (surprisingly though there isn't any blood shooting up from the corpse whenever Tommy is going away at him). The ending is just stupid, Tommys face lights up like a Christmas tree and you are supposed to think that he is going to kill his sister or something. Right, sure, you keep thinking that.Totally a disaster and I didn't enjoy this movie at all. Like they would kill off a serial killer whenever Michael Myers is about to make is comeback, Freddy is definately killing way to much people, and other B class movies are being made... you definately know that this is going to keep going on forever.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgia trip..","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was recently hit by a big nostalgia trip and having bought the first films of this series on VHS cassette, these had to be seen aswell. They've mostly just been collecting dust in a box but watching them again have me lots of thrills... Normally I'm a bit harsh in my reviews but I really have a soft spot for this series along with the Nightmare on Elm Street series.. These films were important in the task of introducting the horror genre as we know it - wannabe followups like Scream and all the other BS cannot follow this, trust me...if you love horror but for some reason missed these films you are in for a treat!I remember this, part 4, as being the first one I ever saw of the series, and it actually shook and thrilled me in ways some might called perverse, but I grow up with this series in the mid 80ies and got to love it them.In this, fourth chapter, Jason for the first time turns into the very mystical character who can vanish and turn up at other turns at the speed of light. In the past films he moved more humane (as humane as he gets anyway..), but getting killed a few times apparently gave him extra strengths..It is not movie art, granted, but it is great entertainment, especially if you saw them as a kid..... "},{"Title":"Arguably the best sequel in the series...","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    Whether this is the best sequel in the series is really a matter of your personnel taste. Along with parts 2, 6 and 10 Jason was on top form here. This was indeed supposed to be &#145;The final chapter', but I guess Paramount knew that they had a lot more milk left in the old cash cow yet! A year later &#145;A new beginning' was released and so far there have been a further five sequels. And that's not including FREDDY VS. JASON. This follow-up brought Tom Savini back into the fore after he turned down part 2 to work on THE BURNING. I believe his showing up had more to do with his good friendship with director Joseph Zito than any kind of sentimentality that he may have felt towards the series. The two had worked together previously on ROSEMARY'S KILLER and they remain friends to this day.Part four opens with the campfire scene from the second in the series. Some smart editing juxtaposes the Voorhees's story with some of the best murders from earlier films, ending with Dana Kimball's line from the previous movie as she backs away from an unstoppable Jason. `You can't be alive&#133;' Skip to the aftermath of Jason's latest massacre. A chopper hovers above a few police cars and ambulances that are clearing up the morbid site. One of the medics who are on the scene best describes the gruesome setting. `Is this the guy that's been leaving all the wet stuff?' Another man answers, `Yeah, this time he got seven kids and three bikers; (and) this time they got him' So the hockey masked psychopath has finally been stopped? Of course not, but at this moment in time everyone seems to think so&#133; Jason's body is taken to the Wessex county morgue, where two randy workers flirt around his supposedly defunct corpse. Bad move. Actually this scene reminded me a lot of Leo Rossi's brief performance in HALLOWEEN 2, obviously a homage from director Joseph Zito. Anyway before long Jason has risen from the icebox and messily gets rid of the two fruitful employees using a knife and a surgical hacksaw! Great work from Savini by the way. Next up we get to meet the residents of the nearest campsite to Crystal Lake, The Jarvis family. There's Trish (Kimberley Beck), Tommy (Corey Feldman) and their mother (Joan Freeman). Tommy is a horror fanatic with a skill for making pretty ingenious masks. The house next-door to where they live has just been rented out to six youngsters and when they arrive you know that they make perfect Voorhees victim material. Yes they're certainly a cheery bunch, especially &#145;Jimbo' (Crispin Glover) and Teddy (Lawrence Monoson) who give us plenty of giggles at the expense of their joint cheesiness. The number of victims, sorry I meant teens is upped when the group meet horny female twins Terri and Tina. Before long they're skinny dipping, drinking beer and overly breaking the notorious &#145;have sex and die' rule of the slasher genre. Soon enough Jason homes in on the luckless teenagers and begins his bloody rampage&#133;Zito had already proved himself as capable with his previous excursion into the slasher kingdom, but here he had a bigger budget to make use of and a better cast. Crispin Glover gives the strangest performance of his career, especially when he does a crazy dance about half way through the runtime. Actually it's quite hilarious. Judie Aronson, who starred alongside Michael Duddikoff in AMERICAN NINJA the following year, doesn't have much time to get too acquainted with the viewer. She's one of the earliest and most gruesome murders of the feature. But I immediately recognised her and she was attractive enough to the eye. The best performances came from Kimberley Beck and Corey Feldman who both managed to feel at home with the light weight script. Beck seemed to have left the embarrassment of MASSACRE AT CENTRAL HIGH far behind her and was especially effective when left alone with the assassin. Feldman seemed to be enjoying himself and opened up a few doors for his later roles. If silly teenage antics aren't your cup of tea then the movie may drag a bit before the killer makes his appearance. But things really heat up towards the end with some suspenseful chase scenes and great use of tension. Savini keeps the gore flowing sweetly and Zito uses his skilful camera work with finesse. The biggest downfall about &#145;The final chapter' is, as always, the way the censors have had their scissors at the visuals. It looks as if a fair bit of Tom's work ended up on the cutting room floor even though some bloody deaths, especially the first, were left unedited. The shower murder is like a trademark for the director and is very similar to the one he used in ROSEMARY'S KILLER. He even manages at least one &#145;out of seat jump' that sure as hell gets me every time! Watch out for some smart silhouette shots especially one murder that's seen completely as shadow play.The most amusing aspect is the out and out dumbness of the victims. Most of them are murdered savagely only a few feet away from each other, but strangely the survivors never hear the painful cries of their buddies. It also may seem a little far-fetched to some that a young boy could manage to kill a formerly unstoppable maniac. But what the hell were you expecting, this is a slasher movie, not a period drama! The illogical plot has been criticised by a few, but I believe that this escapes rejection because it's so damn good at what it wants to be A successful addition to a loveable genre that plays the rules cliché-perfect. If Paramount had left FRIDAY THE 13TH at an end here, it probably would have been the best horror series ever. Number 3 was pretty weak, but it was no match for parts 5,7,8 and 9, which really were terrible. This is probably my favourite sequel. Manfredini's score may have been lacklustre and Brian Cohen's script may have been illogical, but the direction was so credible that it is impossible not to love it. This is the slasher genre at it's best. Gruesome killings, cheesy teens, creepy momentum and suspenseful chases make this a genuinely great example of a once multi-popular past time. Recently I saw FREDDY VS. JASON at the cinema and although the movie may not be excellent as a feature, one thing can sure as hell be said, Jason wipes the floor with that crispy knuckle knifed killer. Although he may never say a word he is by far the most charismatic psychopath ever to grace a horror movie. This is Jason Voorhees at his best and deserves a visit from all horror aficionados&#133;  "},{"Title":"Not the last, but one of the best.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Creepy, Atmospheric & Chilling Three words that spring to mind when trying to describe FRIDAY THE 13TH - THE FINAL CHAPTER. From the recap at the beginning to last shot of the film, you get a real sense of madness and the horror that sums up the first four films so well. Anyone who disregards these Friday films really is missing the point. It's about the atmosphere and the tension. And this film has it all. It starts were the supposed dead Jason is taken to the mortuary. He soon proves that theory wrong and dispatches a couple of the staff before making his bloody way back to Crystal Lake (the scene of his weekend bloodbath). It isn't long before he's up to his old tricks again as one by one the holiday makers are murdered, all in graphic detail. But a young lad called Tommy Jarvis plays Jason at his own game and proves to be more than a match for the previously unstoppable Jason Voorhees. Buy the DVD, it's got more gore and the trailer is fun too. 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter My Ass!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong I liked this movie but what kind of name is the final chapter if there's 6 or 7 more? This movie was better than the second one cause of the story and the kills were much more exciting. Most of these movies are all the same. They all get stuck together in bad weather and Jason comes. People leave by themselves and never come back. Some go and have sex and are found dead. Then when one person (usually the girl who didn't have sex) is the only one left they throw bodies through the windows and stuff like that. Then she somehow stops Jason and she is found the next day and something pops out of the water or through a window and knocks her out. This one was different. It had that kid who loved horror stuff and he ends up saving the day. It still has the house with all the people but at least they aren't trying to open that stupid camp again. And it still has the two people in love and he ends up dead but it is a good movie if you like the series just don't rent Jason Takes Manhattan that was stupid.  "},{"Title":"McFly shouldn't be worried about Biff in this one!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Because, it is Jason Vorhees that plays the bully here.  He terrorizes Crispin Glover (George McFly of Back to the Future) and the rest of his teenage posse in the fourth installment, and definitive film, in the storied Friday the 13th franchise.  It is up to 80s teen idol, Corey Feldman (Tommy Jarvis in this film) and his older sister to try and put a stop to the axe, spike, knife, machete, spear, corkscrew-wielding maniac.  Good luck, Mouth! Jason does what he does best as does FX master Tom Savini, supplying all the blood, guts, and gruesome deaths that make this series so unforgettable. But why is it that this one is the best, in my opinion?  Well, the best way to put it is that Jason was in his prime.  He wasn't this overdone hero that he is now.  He was the killer and he wasn't supposed to be funny yet. Although, whipping a chick out of a second story window onto the top of a car should not be funny, it is, simply because of Jason's textbook follow-through on the throw.  Get that man a uniform.  Not to mention quite possibly the funniest line in any Friday the 13th movie, which is that of Rob who screams to Trish Jarvis, He's killing me, he's killing me! as Vorhees hacks him to pieces.  The body count is decent, not overwhelming, but not to shabby at 14 (if you include a certain hockey-masked lunatic). Unbelievably, a young Feldman is quite good in this movie as Tommy Jarvis. Perhaps he should review this performance to help get his acting gig back into full swing.  It is also a bonus to see Crispin Glover in this movie. Any chance to get to see this guy is worth the price of admission.  So, my suggestion to you, is to get a hold of this one (the DVD is weak, no real special features, typical of Paramount) and pop it in.  Get ready to jump and get ready to laugh.  If you think of Jason as a composer, and in many ways he is, this is his finest opus.  Ch-Ch-Ch-Ha-Ha-Ha!  "}{"Title":"Uncomfortable title. Should've been just PART 4.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THE FINAL CHAPTER. Back in the 80's  I guess that everyone didn't believe about the title. A Friday movie for every year since 1980 (expect  1983) making millions... why would Paramount kill their golden cow?. THE FINAL CHAPTER is not the best addition in the series, even though it features a gory and creepy death for Jason.   Oh man, Jason what are we gonna do with you?! *SPOILERS** The characters are kind of likeable, but their development is just non existent. Rob was a potential character, he seemed tough and obsessed with Jason. BUT NO, he just let himself die without using his hands when Jason attacked him. Trish was a good lead, she was brave enough to fight with a weak and tired Jason.  That's the next complaint. Ted White gives the worst performance of Jason in the series. This time, Jason looks scared, vulnerable, and weak. He is not half as brutal as he was in part 3, or scary and clever as in part 2. In THE FINAL CHAPTER, Jason just appears about 15 minutes in the entire movie! What? It was supposed to be his last film (where have I heard this? Mmm JGTH?). Jason is half the man he used to be in this film.  THE GOOD STUFF. Tommy Jarvis is introduced as Jason's worst enemy. This character was featured in 3 Friday films. Sara! Wow she was pretty and hot at the same time. She seemed shy and cute, but she ends the night being a big seductress. Barbara Howard is very hot. Nevermind...Jason's death is great, gore at it's best. Thanks Tom Savini.Joseph Zito's direction is acceptable, though it's not as good as Miner's in part 2. *SPOILERS* One a day after the Higgins Haven grizzly events, Jason's dead body is translated to Crystal Lake's morgue. There, he manages to escape and kills Nurse Morgan and Axel. You can imagine Jason's next route. You guess right! Camp Crystal Lake, Jason's favorite place. On his way to it he kills a female hitchhiker, and he watches and memorizes his next victims on a van.His killing spree begins at night where he murders Paul and his girlfriend, Ms. Jarvis, Tina, Terri, Jimmy, Ted, Sara, Doug , Gordon the dog!, (I recovered my breath) and finally Rob. Just as quickly as you can imagine.   The end ends with Trish and Tommy  running for their lives.Tommy finds newspapers about Jason in Rob's camping bag, and he dresses and cuts his hair as the 11 year old Jason that drowned in Crystal Lake. Jason is haunted by that day where he died and when he's about to get to Tommy, Trish takes off his mask with a machete revealing his horrible face. Jason (madly in anger) walks towards Trish, but Tommy takes the machete and stabs it on Jason's head. When Jason falls to the floor, the machete slices his head. Apparently, the machete passed through his temple, then his left eye, finally to his brain. Gory, yes. Satisfying, yes.*END OF SPOILERS* This addition to the series is probably the least mentioned. Besides Jason's death, there's nothing good about this film. Jason is featured until the end, and the plot is just a mix of part 1, and 3.  Tom Savini's make up saves this film from being the worst in the franchise. Anyways, it's a decent slasher film. Recommended for newcomer fans of the series. Die hard fans have to agree that this isn't by any means the best in the series.    We all knew this wouldn't be the final chapter!  The producers prepared us for the great JASON LIVES. THE FINAL CHAPTER just ended with Jason's humanity, leading to a brand new Jason. "},{"Title":"Holy Jesus jumpin' Christmas sh*t!!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Friday the 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter...final chapter my a$$.  That's what Tom Savini thought though and that's why he agreed to do the effects. Once again we're treated to an opening montage of Jason's previous exploits. And then we're introduced to a group of teens vacationing in the area, or cannon fodder as I like to call them.  Then we get to watch as Jason comes up with new and gruesome ways to dispatch each and every one of them.  I know; it's nothing new.  But I still can't get enough of this crap. These kids deserve everything that's coming to them and there's no end to the mayhem in sight.  While it does not offer an end, Part 4 does offer something that the series needed a re-occuring hero.  Halloween has Laurie, A Nightmare on Elm Street has Nancy, and, now, Friday the 13th has Tommy. Tommy Jarvis is someone we can actually root for in the following couple of installments.  Who better to play Tommy than a young Corey Feldman (the better of the two Corey's)?  Feldman, shaved head and all, is great in this. Another unknown cast member featured is a pre-Back to the Future Crispin Glover.  Watch for Crispin bustin' a move on the dance floor.  Another aspect I enjoyed in Part 4 is that there is a character hunting Jason for the murder of his sister (which is a tie-in to Part 2).  That is something that will be visited again in Jason Goes to Hell.  Part 4 marks the beginning of the Tommy era and the end of a somewhat human Jason.  From this point on he truly is an unstoppable, supernatural killing machine.Best kill Jason's own gruesome death, complete with head sliding down machete. "},{"Title":"More of the same (but that's O.K.)","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fourth, and not final installment in the 'Friday the 13th' series finds Jason stalking a backwoods family and their neighbors -- 6 horny teenage pieces of morgue-meat. Obviously, by now, the movie is pretty predictable, so you have to find the fun in it yourself. The Ted & Jimbo characters provide much needed comic relief and have some classic lines, there is plenty of nudity, and an abundance of nasty gore (thanks to make-up master Tom Savini). The movie is just pure Friday night pop-corn fun. There isn't much thought that needs to be put into it. It is, afterall, just a 'Friday the 13th' flick -- but try telling that to Roger Ebert.8/10 "},{"Title":"Jason cannot be stopped","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                          Possible SpoilersEveryone knows this was not the last one, just the last one where he is considered human.  This is a good and worthy sequel.  Another group of stupid kids are ready to be slaughtered, but what's new?  This one introduces the Jarvis family who has their home in the Camp Crystal Lake woods.  Corey Feldman did a great job as young Tommy and his first encounter with Jason is one not to forget.  Also, another thing that makes this movie memorable is George McFly's(Crispin Glover)geek dance.  More gruesome kills, pretty much the same old thing, but the presence of Jason's first real nemesis is what really kind of steals the show.  I give this one a 7/10 because it is kind of boring like the other early entries in the series.   "},{"Title":"TV rots Jason's brains","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  That Jason just doesn't know when to quit. He gets back up, what a chore, and goes on another hacking spree as he descends upon a group of rowdy teens and their next-door neighbors on vacation in the woods. It also appears as if one of these campers is out for revenge. But, does that really matter in one of these movies?No. It doesn't. What matters is that this is a pretty poor film. Non-existent characters and little shreds of a plot that don't fit. A general waste of time. However, the effects are the real shining star here (by a returning Tom Savini). My advice just watch the final two scenes. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series ... so there.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (*** out of *****)Don't believe the title.  They made six more (and counting) after this one (granted, in a `clever' bit of evasion, part five was sub-titled A New Beginning.)  Aside from that, this is maybe my favorite of the series, because, as with part 2, the young, horny cast of potential victims is mostly likable and there are a few jolts and shudders here and there rather than just the usual chop-stab-slice-gouge-skewer-and-bludgeon-by-the-numbers ingredients.  Plus, it stars oddball actor Crispin Glover and Corey Feldman as a creepy, special effects wiz kid.  Glover gets offed with a corkscrew, but Feldman gets to stab and hack up Jason about a hundred times with a machete at the end.  Kimberley Beck and Peter Barton also star and Tom Savini once again provides the makeup effects, including Jason's frightening face makeup.  Zito also directed the 1981 slasher `The Prowler' and some Chuck Norris movies (`Missing In Action,' `Invasion U.S.A.').  They got increasingly sillier and stupider after this one.HIGHLIGHT  Crispin Glover's herky-jerky dance is well worth the price of the rental. "},{"Title":"puppy suicide?","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Does Jas throw the dog out of the window, or does the dog jump out because Jas scared him so?  This is a pretty decent entry in the series but I've always been confused over the doggy incident.  This is one of the few movies that actually kills off a dog.  Usually, the animal is the only character to survive "},{"Title":"Not brilliant (SPOILERS)","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is part 4, so I wasn't expecting an amazing experience but it felt like the film makers couldn't be bothered. The film starts well, with flashbacks from previous films and scenes of the clear-up operation after the part 3 massacre. Then it descends into the old standard fare. This film is literally part 3 played out again, except with different actors. The death scenes, the heart of this franchise, were predictable and unbelieveable. I mean, as if the guy couldn't hear his housemates being tossed out of windows or getting a cleaver in the face right behind him! The deaths had all been done before, and had been done a lot better as well. The only original death scene was Jason's, but it looked so fake that it was ruined. The idea of having the machete land in Jason's face and slide down was interesting, but they just couldn't pull it off. The machete goes in, slides in a bit more and then Jason's head deflates. It looks so fake it is amazing they left it in the film. This film is entertaining, but it's flaws outweigh it's good points. "},{"Title":"Final Chapter...yeah right!","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay everyone let's get something straight, I was 6 years old when they released this movie. So I don't remember the impact it had, but over the next 16 years I have been a die hard Friday fan, so basically there will never be a Final Chapter to this franchise. Let me explain, Jason is familiar to us. He has been in our lives for over 20 years, see I started watching Friday the 13th at 8 years old, and now I watch them with my child. It's just fun. Don't take them seriously, but it's just easy to watch them and this franchise has survived the 80's, 90's, and now we are watching Jason reborn. One day this franchise will get the attention that it SO deserves. 10 chapters with another on the way, and hopefully many, many more to come. Screw Gone With The Wind and crap like that, Friday The 13th is an American tradition.The Final Chapter is one of the best of the series. If you're not a fan you should still check this one out. It's actually the same as all the others, Jason slaughtering guy after girl, but hey that's what we paid to see. "},{"Title":"Another one...","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Still watchable and entertaining, but starting to get tired. More of Jason slashing campers; only this time, it's supposed to be the last sequel. Hmm...I don't think so. Recommended only if you've seen the first 3. "}{"Title":"HA HA HA!!!  That's a good one!!!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" FINAL CHAPTER, eh? Right. Above average by slasher standards, this intended final entry features a good cast of recognizable 80's brat pack wannabes, including Crispin Glover (BACK TO THE FUTURE), Corey Feldman (THE GOONIES), Lawrence Monoson (LAST American VIRGIN) and Judie Aronson (WEIRD SCIENCE). It also ranks as one of the goriest in the series, thanks to the return of Tom Savini, who provided the effects for the first one. Same old story, a group of horny teens travel to Crystal Lake for a vacation, not knowing of course that Jason has awaken and escaped from the morgue. Little Tommy Jarvis (Feldman), a special effects nut, and his older sister (Kimberly Beck) are intrigued by the newcomers, and get to watch as they go skinny dipping (no shortage of sex and nudity this time). Meanwhile, the brother of one of Jason's former victims is out looking to put Jason in the grave once and for all, wandering around in the woods armed with a machete and a shotgun. Jason proceeds to mutilate the bunch in some pretty brutal ways (a boy's head is crushed against a wall, another gets a corkscrew in the hand and a meat cleaver in the face, a girl is thrown out a window and smashes onto the roof of a car, a guy gets harpooned in the crotch--ouch!), until his final showdown with Tommy, who dresses up like Jason as a kid and confuses him long enough for sis to whack his mask off, revealing his grotesque face. When he goes after her, little Tommy grabs a machete and slams it into Jason's head, nearly decapitating him when he falls causing the blade to slide further in. Quite an impressive and disgusting special effects feat. Later, at the hospital, Tommy has a demented look in his eye--leaving the door open for yet another entry despite the title. Enjoyable performances, competent direction and a fast pace make this the best of the series next to Part III. "},{"Title":"Not the worst sequeal at least","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It could have been better I think. This movie still had good death scenes, nudity for all you perverts,weed and sex. This movie continues with Jason being wheeled to the morgue after his arm falls off when a nurse and the morgue tech. started making out. The nurse leaves and goes back to her duties. Jason kills the morgue tech then kills the nurse.  He then goes back to Crystal Lake where the movie focuses on the Jarvis Family and some horny teens renting the house next door.  How Jason got all the way back to the Lake from the hospital is beyond me.  On the way he kills a fat hitchiker.  One by one the horney kids get killed which is no big loss since some of them were annoying anyway.  I won't give away the end but I think the part with Corey Haime is kind of dumb.  Did he really kill his sister in the hospital? I always thought she survived along with Tommy. "},{"Title":"Hand cramps and face spasms","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Any movie where someone gets it in a good, inventive way is always pleasing. This movie has one of the best killings I've ever seen.*** SPOILER ***  While looking for a corkscrew (in a dark kitchen of course), one of the characters gets the corkscrew plunged into his hand, effectively nailing him to the kitchen counter. He looks up to get a meat cleaver buried in his face. It's all pretty brutal actually. Two stars for that, at least. While this is one of the better movies in the series, it's not saying much. It's actually reeeeally slow. If you're interested in seeing some good makeup work by Tom Sex Machine Savini, check it out. And Corey Feldman doesn't ruin this one! But heed my words, watching the series past this movie may cause some to get physically sick as the quality begins to drop. rating **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Not the final chapter.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For starters, this isn't the last one. But I expect everyone already knew that. Ted White who is uncredited gives a great performance as Jason while the rest of the cast do well too. A body count of 13 including a hacksaw throat slitting, a corkscrew stabbing and a head crushing. It is very gory like part 3 and has a good atmosphere. Lacking is there are hardly any likeable characters and Tommy jarvis is annoying. There are some famous faces in this one. You will see Corey Feldman (The Goonies, Stand by me) Camilla More (Dark side of the moon) and Crispin Glover who goes on wondering about if he's a dead F**k. With plenty of action and gore it is still a great 'Friday the 13th' movie and no fan should be without. "},{"Title":"Nothing new...just another film about Jason.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't really say this film was bad, but I can't say it was good either.  I don't know why people insist on comparing these films, they're ALL the same!!!  But they're still fun to watch anyway.  I thought this film was equally as good as the previous films.  I guess you can argue that Part 1 and 2 had a slightly better plot, but they're still quite a bit similar.If you are a fan of gore, then you'll definitely want to check this film out.  Some of the murders are quite a bit more extravagant than the previous films, but others are quite simple, a good mix I think.  There is one scene in particular where I couldn't help but cringe because it really was filthy disgusting.  So, for you gore-loving people out there, check this film out.The acting in this film is nothing to get excited about, as in the earlier films.  But there are some cool actors in this film.  Crispin Glover (Back to the Future and Charlie's Angels) plays a very likeable character, too bad he inevitably must die.  Corey Feldman plays an interesting character in one of his first roles of his career and does a pretty good job.  The rest of the cast is mediocre, although there is a slew of beautiful women in the film.  ...And the Twins in this film!!!  They are reason enough to watch this film.I do suggest you watch the previous 3 films if you really want to know what's going on, but it's not too terribly important, you can figure it out on your own.  If you do end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The adventures of Jimbo and Ted","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th - The Final Chapter is a great horror film. Not just for the great scares and gore, but also because of Crispin Glover (McFly in Back to the Future) and Lawrence Monoson's performances as Jimbo and Ted.Jimbo is basically an unlucky horny teen, and Ted is his friend who thinks he's a ladies man. When combined, you get the funniest dialogue I've ever seen in a horror film.If comedy isn't your thing, this film is still great for having the goriest deaths in the series and a great Jason performance by Ted White. This was also one of Corey Feldman's first films, and he does pretty good in his role as Tommy, the horror masks loving kid.Overall, if you want scares and laughs, then Friday the 13th - The Final Chapter is the movie for you! I give it two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Somewhat enjoyable, but left a lot to be desired.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th - The Final Chapter was supposed to be the big one, and advertised a high body count and a thrilling showdown to end the slasher series. The movie starts with scenes from the first three films. This collage would fill in a new viewer who hasn't seen the first three parts, but it could have been done much better. The collage was supposed to be a bang of an opener, but didn't quite accomplish that effect. The film's plot is once again very simple (SPOILERS ahead) Jason Voorhees is taken away from the country property where he had just murdered several people (in Friday The 13th, Part 3.) He is believed to be dead, and is taken to a facility to be put in an icebox. The next few scenes involving a tasteless character named Axel (Bruce Mahler), are simply tacky. I guess there always has to be a few unappealing characters in this type of movie (maybe so the audience can cheer when they are murdered), but I found the Axel character to be appalling to the point that it ruined the beginning of the movie. Jason kills Axel and a nurse, and eventually makes his way back to the area where he had been slaughtering people. Living in this area of the woods are Mrs. Jarvis (Joan Freeman), her daughter, Trisha (Kimberly Beck), and her son, Tommy (Corey Feldman.) Renting the house next door is a group of six young adults. The six renting the house meet twin sisters on the way to go swimming, and the sisters are invited back to the house for a party. Also in the woods is Rob Dire (Erich Anderson), who is hunting for Jason. Trisha and Tommy befriend him, and there seems to be some sparks of romance between Trisha and Rob. Jason begins to kill during the party at the rented house. Even Mrs. Jarvis becomes a victim when she goes outside her home. Trisha goes for Rob when she can't find her mother, and the two go to the rented house. There they discover carnage, but worse Jason finds them. Trisha makes it out of the house alive, and she and brother Tommy must fight for their lives in their own home. Tommy then attempts to use psychology on Jason, which I again found to be as far-fetched as I did when it happened in Friday The 13th, Part 2. The film isn't too bad, but I feel it would have been so much better without the obnoxious hospital scenes in the beginning, and the psychology attempt on Jason at the end. The acting is more balanced on a decent level than in the previous three films. The plot does allow some character development, but not a lot. Harry Manfredini's Friday The 13th themes are orchestrated differently than in the previous three films, and sound more haunting. However, what would have helped this supposed closing to the series of films would have been to have had a more thriving and relentless score. Tom Savini, who did the blood and gore effects in Friday The 13th, returned to do the effects in this movie. These effects were well done. Friday The 13th - The Final Chapter tried to have a more grand approach, but it never really reaches the levels of suspense that were hoped for. Friday The 13th - The Final Chapter was well filmed and is somewhat enjoyable, but it left a lot to be desired and the overall outcome was average. "},{"Title":"Enough Nudity!!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really stupid I just bought I intend on getting them all even though the acting is not very good at all. The only thing that is good about this movie is the murders. For some reason I like all the blood and gore the story was stupid the only actor I liked just a little bit is young Corey feldman  (ninja turtles voice donatelo, last resort, lost boys, stand by me. Overall I still kinda enjoy the story i gave a 6/10 but it deserves a 3. Their was also to much nudity. "},{"Title":"Final Chapter? funny how this was six sequels ago.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty good yet predictable Jason flick. Nothing big but it introduces Tommy Jarvis who would become the main character in parts 5 and 6. Some pretty good stuff. OVERALL 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"This time Jason has met his Match","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Billed as the Final chapter, this sequel picks up later on in the night after what went down in Pt 3.Jason thought to be dead is taking to the morgue but of course he is not dead and kills a few people before making his way back to the Crystal Lake area.Jason turns his attention to the Jarvis family and a group of teens renting a house out.Jason roams around the woods killing everybody in sight.This is the first three movies with Tommy Jarvis in this one he is played by Cory Feldman.Rob Dire(Erich Anderson) is on the hunt for Jason. while looking for Jason he meets Trish Jarvis(Kimberly Beck) and her brother Tommy.Rob warns Trish of Jason but of course she does not listen. Nobody ever listens of coming danger.As the movie goes on Jason finally meets his match against Tommy with a little help from his sister Trish.I give Friday the 13th The Final Chapter 7/10 "}{"Title":"Fantastic!!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the one.  When I watched this entry to the Friday the 13th Series I just fell for it.  It has Suspense, Gore and Violence.  It is a true horror film with a true killer.  The killings are executed with intelligence and originality.There were instances when I actually winced at some of the violent killings like when you go the dentist and you get a drill eating into your tooth.***  SPOILER ALERT START ***The hacksaw death at the beginning just looks brilliant.  Also when Jason kills the woman eating the banana you actual here this deep grunt as he knifes her in the throat.  Excellent.*** SPOILER ALERT FINISH ***The atmosphere in the film is fantastic.  The fog settings and the change in light throughout the forest create high levels of suspense.  When you see a character on there own you actually feel the light change and the fear sets in.  Amazing.I recommend to any horror fan to get this and enjoy.  It is brill!!! 10/10.  "},{"Title":"*** (out of *****)","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A group of teens staying in a remote mountain cabin are killed off one-by-one by the undead Jason Vorhees. It's up to a pretty young woman (Kimberly Beck) and her horror movie-loving kid brother (Corey Feldman) to stop him.Solid-as-a-rock entry has gory murders (courtesy of Tom Savini) and nice, gothic touches (constant thunder storms, misty lakes and eerie shadows). Pales in comparison to part 2 but still recommended.Other pluses are the excellent cast, scary Jason makeup and an exciting climax. The twist ending was later used in Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Meyers.Includes 1 hacksaw to the throat, a scalpel dissection, 2 skinny-dipping scenes, 1 spear in the groin, 1 machete through the torso, 1 crushed head, 1 axe in the chest, 1 dead dog, zero explosions, no car chases, 13 dead bodies. ***  "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not as bad as the other two sequels (but not as memorable as the original) mainly due to its gruesome gore effects, some rather scary scenes, and some appealing cast members. The gimmick was that this was supposed to be the final Friday the 13th. and was released on Friday the 13th., however we all know that the producers lied. Yet another group of teens are served up for slaughter, but this entry leaves too many questions unanswered. Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Couldn't be better!.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th  The Final Chapter. Ok, I know it wasn't the final Jason movie...I guess thatproducers in that time wanted to end with the infamous Jason movies because they got a bad reputation. As the movie was a hit, producers decided to continue with the series. Where they wrong? Absolutely NO!. After this movie, 6 Jason movies have been released, and for sure there'll be more. About this movie  -It's scary, it has a creepy atmosphere behind it. -Great make-up, special effects. -Good chasing scenes, and some effective scares. -Great ending!  Gory, scary, disturbing-  Jason style!. -The plot is predictable (uh, Jason stalking teens) but it works as it was -supposedly- Jason's final hurrah. So, any other plot wouldn't work. -Acting OK. Corey Feldman the teen heroe of the 80's puts and end to Jason... sure it works! It's stuff for legend. The other characters were ok. The actor who played Jason did it well , but failed in being scary.In overall The Final Chapter is a great horror movie, and possibly the 4th. best in the Friday movies.  WATCH it on a stormy night, it should scare you.   A must see for any horror fans. "},{"Title":"THE END OF JASON VOORHEES...NOT!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Am I glad that this wasn't the final chapter. I like horror movies like this. The scripts never change-bad guy rises from the grave, hacks people up,starts preying on victims, hero manages to evade bad guy,hero narrowly escapes death, hero kills bad guy, bad guy rises again, hero finally kills bad guy, bad guy is dead.That's the formula usually and I like it. I don't know why I like it but I do. The thing I like most about these films is the way that good always triumphs over evil in the end.Jason rises from the grave and goes back to Camp Crystal Lake (Why didn't the US government send the Army into Crystal Lake permanantly?). He kills his victims and targets a family. The great thing about this series is how Jason is outwitted and killed. I won't spoil it but let's just say that someone unexpected manages to kill Jason.If you like homicidal maniac films you will like this. "},{"Title":"not the final chapter but i wish it was...","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, now i have seen alot of horror movies and i know the great ones like halloween or the evil dead 1 and 2 but this is far from great. Sorry to be like that but come on...Friday the 13th was alright and F13 part 3 was ok because that was the one that introduced jason and his mask, but any ones other then that just are horrible. The acting and direction are bad, the script couldnt get much worse, and the special effects and gore aren't even that good. What ever happened to the creepy atmosphere? What ever happened to original deaths? One good thing about watching a horror movie is that you can get frightened and look for originality, but i'm sorry to say that this film has none of that. And instead of looking for a way to make a good horror movie, it does everything to try not become a good horror movie. and after the countless sequels that have followed F13, Jason is beginning to look tiresome and boring. try to avoid this movie "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love these movies of course, but this one I have mixed feelings about. Part of me likes it and part of me hates it, or rather there are some aspects which are good and some that are bad. Let's start with the good the heroine Trish is pretty cool and she is spunky enough I guess, and Corey Feldman was on hand as her little brother and was pretty enjoyable in the finale, which as a whole was exciting and boasted some great special effects, including the whole machete-in-Jason's-head thing. The deaths looked pretty gory but you have to look fast because you can tell a lot of grue ended up on the cutting room floor. What a waste. On the other hand the bad aspects are the awful teen characters, I couldn't stand them, and the grainy photography. Plus it was getting to the point where they needed to do something with the music, even that was getting annoying after repeating itself over and over. This normally has a good reputation about it but I'm still not buying it completely. There are better ones in the series (ahem...Parts 1, 2, and 6 are the best in my view). So watch those ones instead. "},{"Title":"May have spoilers","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the sequels I believe this had the worst performance of Jason.  He moved so awkwardly, and didnt even stalk like a serial killer.  Also his hands are a blackish purple, very strange.  And when that girl was looking out the window, and his arms came through the glass and threw her out of the house, he left his hands reached out in the air for so long as if he were trying to fly away like Superman. "},{"Title":"Jason's back","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 4 THE FINAL CHAPTER was enjoyable. I enjoyed this sequel simply because it was entertaining, and scary. The movie was REALLY entertaining, some of the entertainment comes from the comedy (referring to the Teddy guy's relationship with Jimbo) factors and the scene switches. What I thought was most amusing about this movie was the on-screen body counts and the make-up. I can tell that the body counts are applied on screen in addition to Tom Savini's effects. Thats really all there to say about this sequel great music, kool body counts, neat make-up, and high entertainment value.10/10 "},{"Title":"Of all people to kill Jason....COREY FELDMAN!!!!!!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So this was supposed to be the Final Chapter huh? Well since this was the biggest hit of the entire franchise it was only fitting Jason would return in numerous sequels! What was so embarrassing is that that ugly geeky drug addict washed up has-been Corey Feldman is the one that kills Jason at the end. UGH! To see the legendary Jason sent to his grave by that geek grossed me out more then the murders. Oh well. This movie was a little slower then Part 3 but still one of the best in the series. It was great seeing Jason whack that annoying Crispin Glover in the face with a machete. Other cool murders was Jason crushing a guys head with his bare hands while the dude was taking a shower. Gutting a nurse, and slicing a coroner's throat with a hacksaw. I just wish it was a little more graphic, but by this time the studio was tired of cuts by the MPAA so this was one of the least graphic of the entire series. Even the deleted scenes! "}{"Title":"Not the final chapter,but an excellent sequel","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  O.K. This is not the final chapter,but Jason fans should not be disapointed because Jason is still around.I would have to say that the death scenes in this one were better than the ones in part 3.Don't get me wrong,I loved part 3 also.But the death scenes here were so original and cool,especially the scene where a girl gets thrown out the window and onto a car.I have been a fan since part 1.(I saw that one when I was 7)and I will always be a fan.Jason rules!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Fourth time's the charm","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Pardon the paraphrase, but that's how I feel about this fourth Friday the 13th movie. (Besides, four is my lucky number.) The first three were all watchable, but I generally like Part 4 better. Sure, the title is misleading (since it wasn't a real finale to the Friday the 13th series), but it's got what slasher fans could ask for a high body count and some T&A.WARNING Possible spoilers ahead!I like some of the methods of killing that Jason performs in this film. In one scene, a guy goes swimming out in the lake at night, and finds a dead woman on a raft (needless to say, she was done in by Jason). Then he swims back to shore, and--without much warning--he gets a spear punctured in his groin! In another scene, Jason crashes through a bedroom window and throws the victim out of there, causing her to crash land on a car.Also, another one of Jason's victims is killed while taking a shower. Hey, if it could be done in Psycho, then there's no reason it couldn't be done in a Friday the 13th movie.For trivia buffs, this movie features Crispin Glover. After making this movie, he went on to play George McFly in Back To The Future. "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...BUT STILL A BAD MOVIE!!!*Spoiler!*Once again the same tired story is told Jason kills lots of stupid teenagers whose characters differ from their sex, their names and their clothes. Bad acting (Corey Feldman or Crispin Glover from the Back to the Future-series are no exception!), dumb dialogues and a boring storyline make this flick being another blunt in the filmography of director Joseph Zito, responsible for such political doubtful shots like Missing in Action, Invasion U.S.A. or Red Scorpion. The showdown, which should be the most shocking sequence in the whole film, is a laugh riot! Jason´s monstrous face looks like a cheap carnival-mask! The uncovering of Michael Myers in Halloween, where you see an on the first view normal looking but weird young man is much more disturbing than this take!!Friday-fans forgive me, but this is only ridiculous!!! "},{"Title":"Second Best in the Series","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is one of the best films in the entire series for two reasons, and two reasons only  Tom Savini did the makeup/gore effects (he did the original), and Crispin Glover (Marty McFly himself) in one of the stars.  Tom Savini's gore in this film is highly effective.  At first, I must admit I was slightly worried, though.  The murders in the morgue are pretty dull and standard.  (Since Savini also helped orchestrate the highly original raft massacre in The Burning, I was highly disappointed at this point).  But later, the murders become much more graphic and intense.  One character is stabbed in the head, a girl gets an axe to the chest, and one man's face is crushed by Jason's hand.  The only death that made me shudder with it's total stupidity, though, was the girl in the inflatable raft.  She's lying on her stomach, when suddenly Jason pops out of the water, holds her down, and stabs her through the raft.  THROUGH the raft, I repeat, THROUGH the raft.  Moments later, her boyfriend swims out to see her.  The raft is still inflated, her dead body inside.  How can you stab someone through a raft and then have it stay afloat--did Jason have some duct tape handy?  I know, I know, it's a F13 movie, who cares, right?  It did bother me, though.  Thank god the very next scene was a classic--her boyfriend gets stabbed right in the crotch--talk about learning a lesson about premarital sex!2)  Crispin Glover, Mr. McFly himself, graces us with his presence in this film.  His dance sequence is nothing short of hysterical, and it's almost like he was preparing for his role in back to the future this whole movie.  He does bite the dust toward the end, and in a quite gruesome fashion, but while he lives he's the funniest character ever in a F13 movie.If you like Jason Voorhees and haven't seen this one, you're missing out. "},{"Title":"An improve from Part 3","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is good follow up, actually saves the lame part 3. But not a great film. The film is still kinda rehashing the old story, but the ending is really exciting. The terror at the end really is the only thing saving it. Its a sharp drop from the quality of the First and the second one, but much better than the third. I give it a 5.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not the Final Chapter By A Long Shot!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part IV of the trilogy opens with paramedics collecting the corpses from Part III. Even Jason Voorhees. He's taken to the hospital where he comes back to life in the morgue, kills two attendants then heads back to Crystal Lake. He sets his site on the Jarvis family, who live in a cabin by the lake. They are Mom, daughter Trish, and boy Tommy, who loves to design evil masks. Kind of like Tom Savini. There's a big house nextdoor, that's been rented by six teens looking for a good time. They are Paul, Doug, Samntha, Sara, Ted, and Jimbo.They're soon joined by twins Tina and Tamera.            They have quite a day skinny dipping. The Jarvis-mobilebreaks down but soon coming to the aide of Tommy and Trish is Rob Dire. He claims he's hunting for bear.             That night, Jason shows up. Samantha and Paul get impaled. So does Tamera. Jimbo scores with Tina. But Jimbo get's a meat clever shoved through his face, Tina is tossed out the window, Doug get's in the shower and get's his face crushed. Ted get's a knife in his head, and Sara get's an axe.            Tommy and Trish arrive home to find Mom is gone. Trish goes to meet up with Rob, who explains he's hunting for Jason Voorhees. Rob's sister, Sondra from Friday the 3th Part 2, was a victim of that maniac. Rob and Trish search the neighboring house. Rob meets with Jason and of course, Jason wins. Tommy and Trish hide from him in the house. Tommy get's an idea to make himself look like Jason as a lad. This works, the Tommy grabs Jason's machete after Trish dropped it when revealing Jason's monstrous face.           Epilogue Trish is in the hospital and Tommy is going under special care. That's society for you. Jason Voorhees kills hundreds of people, but when Tommy finally kills him, he get's thrown in the funny farm. This film was pretty good. At the time they thought it would be the last one, but then someone thought up A New Beginning and they went from there. Friday the 13th holds the record for the most sequels, but Halloween and Children of the Corn are trying to catch up. You must see this movie! A familiar face is Crispin Glover (Jimbo) from Back To The Future "},{"Title":"Not half bad, Not half good either.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now don't get me wrong, I love the Jason movies, I honestly do, but what was up with this one?  The one thing I never got was why did the dog jump out the window?  I mean you can see plane as day the dog jumped out the window, was not thrown out, but jumped out.  But anyway, I gave this movie a 8 out of ten cause it's a Jason movie.  Now some of the deaths are cool and some are weak.  *********************SPOILERS***********************A nurse at the hospital is being lifted off the floor slowly by Jason, he stabs her in the stomach with a small knife.  Lame and poor death scene.A guy gets cut to pieces in the basement but it's so dark you can't see a thing.  And it's in the background so it's even harder to see.***********Good Scenes*****************When Jason get's it in the end.When Ted gets a knife to the back of the head.  (Almost as good as Lucio Fulci's skull-knifing in House By The Cemetery but not that graphic.)**************************************************But overall this is a good movie.  Why they didn't include Ted White (Jason) in the credits is beyond me.  But I guess some people just don't want there name in movies.   If you are a Jason fan rent this but the best Friday the 13th movies to see are part 3,6,7, and 9.  Check then all out.  "},{"Title":"Another good sequel, but not really the final chapter.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Good sequel. It stars Kimberly Beck, Corey Feldman, Joan Freeman, Erich Anderson, Peter Barton, Bruce Mahler, and Lisa Freeman.plot Jason survived the axe in the face at the end of part 3, and is now in the hospital. He kills two of the staff members, Axel (Bruce Mahler), and Morgan (Lisa Freeman), then he escapes. The Jarvis family is living in the woods on Crystal Lake, the Jarvis's are Trish (Kimberly Beck), Trish's little brother Tommy (Corey Feldman), and their mother (Joan Freeman), and next door to them are a group of eight horney teenagers. Also in a tent in the woods is a man named Rob (Erich Anderson) who's sister, Sandra was killed by Jason in part 2. First, Jason kills each of the eight teenagers, then kills Mrs. Jarvis. Now, only Trish, Tommy, and Rob are left, but who will defeat Jason?Good sequel, another one of my favorites. This has good nudity, great gore, and good acting.3 1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter, I don't think so","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There was no way they were going to stop making Friday the 13th, it's guaranteed to make money. Maybe it was just a trick to make everyone think it was the last, so we would all run in and buy a ticket. I don't know, but it worked this movie actually did very well at the boxoffice. Just like Jason Goes to Hell we all thought that was the last, now we have Jason X due out March 22, 2002. I don't believe they will ever stop making Friday the 13th. I was a kid growing up and watching these, now I have a daughter, and it looks like she'll be doing the same thing. I hope she enjoys them as much as I did.Now here's my opinion on the movie. I have seen this one hundreds of times, and I still enjoy it. It doesn't really have a plot, just kids camping and partying getting picked off one by one. It's very enjoyable to watch with friends, you don't have to worry if you missed anything if you got up to get a beer, just get them to rewind it if you missed someone getting slashed. I give it a 9 out of 10 it's one of the best of the series!! "},{"Title":"Wasn't this supposed to be the end?","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, isn't this called  The Final Chapter ? So basically your first thought would be the last piece of crap sequel. And it should have been the last. Actually part 2 should have been the last. So basically what we have here is the exact same thing as part 3. Carefree Teenagers off vacationing in the country and being knocked off one by one by Jason. What were they thinking when they made this one??? It was after this one where Jason somehow 'became' invisible. Why couldn't they leave it alone? This movie is what ruined the whole series. I give it a 4/10, only because it was well directed. "}{"Title":"A great chapter in a great franchise","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing of this movie, is that it happens directly after part 3...that same night even. Special effects wizard Tom Savini, who did the effects in part 1, comes back to this movie. And what a great job he does! This movie has some of the best gore shots in all of the movies. Jason returns to the woods, but not actually at the familiar camp grounds that he knows...but it's the woods, & it'll have to do. Jason terrifies a group of teenagers who are away for the summer at a house deep into the woods. Next to their house lives the Jarvis', who wound up getting terrified by Jason too. It's a great installment in the 'Friday the 13th' series. "},{"Title":"I Can't Get Enough!!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 4 was also one of my favorite Fridays, just teens chilling by the lake, having fun, until Jason shows up. Simple and sweet. The characters were great, the acting wasn't bad, and Jason didn't play in this one, there was something extra scary about him. Jason rocks, he's the king of Horror, and he always will be. If you haven't seen this one you must!! Keep killing Jason!!! "},{"Title":"Not even close to the end","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The producers advertised this movie as the death of Jason, but everyone knows a sequel was out by the next year, so that aside this was not the worst of the Friday the 13th series.  Starting right where Part 3 left off, Jason comes back to life at the morgue, and sets back out on a killing spree in the woods surrounding Crystal Lake.  This time he has his eye set on a house full of teenage vacationers, along with the family next door as well.  Nothing new here in terms of plot or acting, even though it is funny to see a young Corey Feldman battle it out with the undead Jason in a rather corny ending scene.  And of course you would think with a title like The Final Chapter, the movie would not leave room for a sequel, but it does.         "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series. Has a great climax.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A great installment in a great series. Pity it is edited and censored over here in Australia (it's the only 'Friday' that is). My order for the series is-Friday the 13th - Part 7 The New BloodFriday the 13th - Part 6 Jason LivesFriday the 13th - Part 3Friday the 13th The Final ChapterFriday the 13th - Part 8 Jason Takes Manhattan(Those are my favorites.)Jason Goes To Hell The Final FridayFriday the 13th A New BeginningFriday the 13th - Part 2Friday the 13thEven though this is extremely cliched, I absolutely love this great horror sequel. I find the first Friday the 13th really boring. And no, it's not because I am a fan of Jason. I just think the sequels are far more entertaining. Ted White plays a truly wicked Jason. I don't know why he was uncredited, if I gave a performance like that, I'd want the whole world to know. I love all the Friday movies except the original. I cant wait for Friday the 13th - Part 10. I hated all the sex and nudity in this film. At times it felt like I was watching a porno film with some blood and guts thrown in. Still, what do you expect. Kimberly Beck as the heroine Trish and Corey Felman as Tommy do pretty decent jobs. Beck is quite realistic and does a fine job as the film builds to its conclusion. I love this film and its wonderful, suspenseful climax. I am also glad that Paramount Pictures did NOT end the series after this film.I give it 10 out of 10 (surprise, surprise!) "},{"Title":"Let me put it in the old computer, the computer don't lie","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It say's your a dead ****'The Final Chapter' is full of great lines like these.  No other Friday the 13th movie is as funny or well written as this installment.  These films are 'guilty pleasures';  Part 4 is no exception.  Each one has it's own charm;  it seems as if critics take the films more seriously than the people making them.Rent 'The Final Chapter' just to hear the quote above.  The banter between those two characters is priceless.       "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter?  Hell No!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason is back only this time he meets his match with the young Tommy Jarvis. Although this one boasts itself as being The Final Chapter the series was far from over.  Not a bad sequel with some very gruesome slashings due to gore king Tom Savini.  Jason out for blood.  Of course the story is about the same as all the flicks with some T&A and before mentioned good slashings, but lets not forget Crispin Glover.  He of course gives a great performance and shows that he is quite a dancer also.  A stand out in the series. That doesn't say much, but its worth a watch and who doesn't love a good slashgasm. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  It wasn't my favorite in the series, but it wasn't my least favorite.  It is about the Jarvis family who live deep in the woods right by Crystal Lake.  Then the house next to theirs is rented out by fun loving teens.  They all start to die one by one unitl Trish Jarvis, Tommy Jarvis, and a man hunting for Jason named Rob Dyer are left. Rob goes into the basement in the house next door and disappears and then Trish and Tommy have to prepare for the final battle... "},{"Title":"It aint over until the fat lady sings","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Star Trek the *Final* Frontier, the Death of Superman, and now the Final chapter of Friday the 13th.  Yeah--right.  This episode had sequel written all over it.  It looked in episode V that maybe Tommy would carry the torch of Jason, but  Paramount stayed with a winning Franchise.  Although, as others pointed out, they should have stopped with this one or the next one or really brought in a new homocidal maniac.This one has a slight plot twist in that someone actually remembers Jason and is seeking revenge.A couple of up the skirt shots and skirt hike ups supplement the copious nudity in this one.  Definitely a must see for Jason fans.  "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jason escapes the hospital that the events of part 3 landed him in and finds victims in some vacationing teens and a small family. But can he beat little Tommy Jarvis?! Highly entertaining, with gory deaths and a chase scene at the end that you want to see over and over again! Plus- Jason's death is a must see.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"It's Actually Kinda Good...","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"     When I first rented this movie, having watched Friday1, 2 and 3, I naturally thought it would be another dire slasher.  However, I was mistaken.    The plot of the movie was typical;a group of teenagers in a house that eventually get killed off by a masked killer.  The style Jason killed was much the same too, so basically it reminded you a lot of the others.   However the surviving characters was not expected.  There were a few scares here and there and some parts even held me in suspense! I have to admit, the film was not what I expected and I have to say  it was a good movie.    If you love horror then this is a must!    "}{"Title":"A pretty good sequel.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a pretty good sequel.  Jason is not dead and he comes to in a hospital and kills two people at the morgue and escapes to continue on to his home area.  The only thing I don't get in these types of movies is why all the party teenagers living in one house.  That's not usual.  Are they gonna have a huge orgy or something?  Other than that, I like this series and I like this film. "},{"Title":"This should have been the last one","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is the so-so fourth movie in the series about Jason, the monsterous killer who wears a hockey mask and kills teenagers staying at either summer camps or houses in the woods around Camp Crystal Lake. All you get in this movie is pretty much the same thing that was displayed in the previous three movies graphic violence, sex, nudity, drug use, etc. with this time new characters playing the victims. Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is entertaining but tiresome. The series should have stopped here. But as everybody knows it didn't. ** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Tom Savini returns to the series","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For the first time since the original, revered special effects master Tom Savini takes the reins in the third sequel to the unexpected slasher hit.Savini's creativity and dedication to his craft is quite apparent, the most notable examples being a victims face bisected by a cleaver, and Jason's own gruesome death.But the story is rather weak. Essentially the same set up as the previous entry in the series, teenagers at a residence located near the camp get picked off one by one. The difference here being that the younger brother of one of the teenage girls ends up being clever enough to figure out a way to stop Jason forever. And, boy, does he ever!Except that Paramount saw they could make more money by making later Friday the 13ths, so we get subjected to the later sequels which degrade the plotline and make it sillier and sillier. "},{"Title":"They should've ended it here.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally the makers of the Friday the 13th movies wanted to end the series, at least untill it made a lot of movie, which it did. if they would've ended it here it would've ended on a high note but we had to endure all the terrible sequels that followed. The final chapter is on par with friday the 13th 3. it's scary, builds proper tension towards the end, and the 2 main characters do have some depth.This film picks up after the 3rd film. jason is taken to the morgue where he later escapes, not before killing 2 of its workers. Soon Jason is stalking 2 parties. one is a group of kids having some fun in a cabin and the other charactersl live next door. this is trish and tommy jarvis. Tommy has a fascination with making scary mask and he is really smart. trish is sweet and really nice. this is way you want them to live in the end. soon it leads up to a conclusion where jason gets his just desserts.the 2 leads trish and tommy played by kimberly beck and a young corey feldman are the only people in the film that have some talent. the kids in the cabin aren't that great. they are just there to be killed. The make up effects match that of the original and the last 15 minutes is the best of all the films.I only wish that they would've stopped here because this is actually pretty good film but they had to make a pretty good series go down the tubes.  "},{"Title":"Best In The Series","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fourth in the endless series is the best of the lot.  Jason is carted off to the morgue but revives and butchers teens around Crystal Lake.  A family lives nearby and the sister and brother fight for their lives against Jason.  Very violent but with good chase scenes.  See this movie.Friday the 13Th  The Final Chapter is Rated R for extreme violence and gore, sexuality and nudity, and for language. "},{"Title":"One of the better ones- thats not saying much though.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 4 does have its  scary moments like all friday flicks have. Overall this is probably the scariest out of the series. Still the movie lacks quality, originality has its share of terrible actors. The main problem with the film is that it doesn't have any new plot, it is the same thing, Jason going out killing a bunch of teens and any one else who stands in his way. Jason does not portray a scary, chilling killer he is just a mindless hacker. The gore level is pretty high like part 1, which will please gore hounds. So all in all the same plot gets tiring and tedious after you reach part 4, but the rest of the series gets much worse. "},{"Title":"Typical.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another entry in the Friday the 13th. series. Features the usual dumb teens, script (same one as the first three, but with a few minor differences), direction, and gore. The gore is strongier in this entry than part two and three, but slightly less than the original. It does contain an exciting final chase scene and some scary scenes though, but it lacks creativity. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, but far from the best.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   4th and originally final installment of the hockeymasked killer franchise has some novel ideas, but for the most part it's just a rerun of the first 3, but it's a rerun of the best parts of the first 3.!!!WARNING SPOILERS!!! This time Jason returns to Camp Crystal Lake to kill off a group of teens that are staying in a 2 story cabin. The family next door learns of what's happening and decides to take action. I like that Corey Feldman plays a horror movie fan and I love it when Crispin Glover does his geeky little dance(LOL). Good story, acting, and death scenes. ***1/2 out of *****. Followed by what are in my opinion, the best sequels of the F13 series. "},{"Title":"Not so bad","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"     This is an ok sequel next to part 2 but its still just a mindless sequel. In this one Jason kills off some more teens that smoke pot and have sex. Cool make up and special gory effects make this a visual movie and thats the cool thing about it. But the name of the movie The Final Chapter is false advertising. As you read this Jason is making his face known again in Jason X. How much of the same story line can one series have? So far 10. And this is just another example of it. "},{"Title":"This one does the trick","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the sequels to Friday the 13th. It is also the last part who is really worth watching (besides maybe part 6). It has everything a teen-slasher flick should have and Jason is the coolest killer of all time. Friday the 13th part 4 holds no surprises, but it does the trick and that´s what counts! "}{"Title":"The darkest and best sequel of them all!  Jason chills!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the rather unscary if enjoyable exploits of the gimmicky FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3-D, it was a pleasant if scary surprise to see director Jospeh Zito taking Jason back to his darkest roots.The all too bright lighting of part 3 is replaced by the most sombre and realistic of the entire series, and Zito's use of Jason quite simply outclasses any other director since, with the viewer hardly allowed to see him properly until the actual finale.  FX maestro Tom Savini returns to provide some excellent make-up, providing the best un-masked Jason of them all, and even Barney Cohen's script is pretty good, allowing an interesting array of characters to develop.Especially good is Crispin Glover, and his mad dance scene is worth the price of admission alone, and a young Corey Feldman also impresses.  So too does the fiesty Kimberly Beck as our heroine, and she really does look scared to death during the chilling finale.By far the scariest of the series, in a way it's a shame this wasn't the final chapter after all.  One of the very best slasher movies. "},{"Title":"The best chapter","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The final chapter is, arguably,  best. Obviously part one is good but just doesn't have the longevity of this installment. Part two and part three shouldn't be viewed more than once, but Jason really outdoes himself in this Final Chapter. It includes some of the best death scenes (the hitchhiker with the banana - excellent!) and can be viewed even when you know exactly what's going to occur next. The climax of brilliance before the series started going downhill fast. "},{"Title":"the best follow up in the series","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this part starts off with Jason dead in the barn, he's taken to a hospital where you guessed it right he comes back too life and go back to camp crystal lake. the plot is the first 3 rolled into one. the movie is full of action, when the movie slows up it picks right up. Cory Feldman plays Tommy and he is great at the role. well you pretty much know what the deal with the movie is teens getting killed, but there is alot more to it then that. there is great suspense and good for a few good scares, like when one of the girls is looking out the window and from the outside Jason breaks through and throws her out, that was classic, titled the final chapter yeah right 5 more followed after this. this was the last good one of the series action violence scares, they put all the works in it, but they ruined it with more sequels, i give this movie 9/10. check this one out it's a classic "},{"Title":"The last of the good Friday the 13ths (spoilers ahead)","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If they would've stopped with this one and never made another Friday the 13th; this film would've been more of a classic than it already is. You can tell that it truly was intended to be the last of the series by the way it started and ended. The beginning with the campfire story from pt2. blended with scenes from the pts. 1, 2, and 3 was a good touch. Especially for those who have not seen the previous three it will catch you up to speed. The ending was fantastic with Tommy snapping. It's a shame that this was the only one Corey Feldman was in.  Great movie. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BETTER!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie which was to end the Friday the 13 series, the final chapter. jason again chopping up victims here and there, he can't be stopped, not even a machette to his body or an axe to the head. He is back but has he met his match this time. An ending to remember with the young Tommy looking like a young Jason, and looking into the camera at the end looking like he has just snapped. One of the better of the series, a mix of a lot of gore and some scares makes for a good watch. "},{"Title":"Good movie, reccomended for horror or Friday Fans","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now this sequel was great in comparison to Part 3.  It was tied directly to the end of the last one which is great and he still has the great mask. Good scares and good gore.  Back to the Futures Crispin Glover is in this movie too (Micheal J. Fox's father in the past) and Jason does him in, its great!This is a great and classic 80's Horror, ever has Tom Savini attached as special effects/gore.  Jason is a bit of a lumbering oaf in this movie but still great.  Fantastic finale! Super creepy and it leaves you thinking. Must for Friday fans! "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie has all of the things that make a Friday the 13th movie violence and sex. Someone does it and then gets slaughtered, that simple... Corey Feldman is in this movie...He does a great acting job(I think this is his first role in a major movie) Anyways, I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Jason's back, and he ain't a happy camper!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very scary! Plus add some great makeup effects by Tom Savini and you got yourself a great horror film!First, we see some clips from the first three movies and here Paul's Jason story from part 2.Then we see police all around the cabin and barn were the events of part 3 took place cleaning up Jason's bloody mess.They then take the brutal killer's body to the morgue. However, he wakes up and kills a doctor and a nurse.Next, we see a family, Mrs. Jarvis, Trish, and Tommy. They discuss how a group of teens will be staying at the cabin next door. Then see them coming in a carpool, and, after not picking up a hitchhiker she gets a knife through the neck from Jason!Also, why trying to fix the car Tommy and Trish meet Rob, who is hunting bear, but the truth is Jason killed his sister, Sandara(from part 2)and he wants to destroy Jason.Tommy is a horror make-up freak, with many scary masks, but is he ready for the horror he's about to face? I give it a 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Average Friday the 13th","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Final Chapter stays true to the first 3 Friday the 13th movies.  It doesn't go off into weird directions like the sequels that follow it.  It sticks to the basics, but pales in comparison to the 3 preceding movies.  Good scares, good gore, and a delightful performance by a young Corey Feldman make this movie a fun treat for fans of the Friday series. "},{"Title":"Entertaining as hell!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Every horror fan, who loves these films, talk about the entertainment these movies deliver. And horror films are the most entertaining pieces in cinema. This is a great chapter in the Friday The 13th series. Starting off at Higgins Haven, from Part III, Jason is taken to a hospital, where he gets two more new victims! Then he goes into the deep woods for another round of teen-slashings! Part V, is entertaining as hell also, as all of them, but it's disappointing that a Jason imposter takes the machete over, but the hallucination Jason gives us a great beginning, and other cool scenes.  "}{"Title":"High body count, elaborate deaths, lots of gore!  Just the way I like 'em!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"              !!Contains Possible Spoilers!!  BEWARE!!Without a doubt, this Friday is the coolest.  With many deaths, a whole lot of cheesy dialogue, and more pointless nudity than most horror films,this should be on most people's 'do not ever see' list.  Uh-uh.  Nope.  This is the coolest, most action packed Friday yet.  The acting isn't gonna win an Acadamy Award, but you can't ever expect that from something like this.  And. . . featuring Corey Feldman in his first (I believe) role.  He is perfect as Jason's mind-f**ker psychic kid.  The end is a masterful scene, I won't spoil it all for you, but I will say it is one of the most explicitly brutal and bloody scenes I've seen in a horror film.  Joseph Zito, the director, should be proud of this picture, though I have a feeling he isn't. (It was banned by several theaters outside of America.)  One bad thing is that the characters' decisions are extremely stupid, and most, including me, will be bothered by that.  It will take some fun out of the movie.  But anyone who's looking for a mindless splatter movie, a few chills and thrills, and great make-up by Tom Savini (he finally returned!!) will find this nothing more, or less, than plain old gory fun.  5/10, "},{"Title":"A meaner Jason that seems to have a chip on his shoulder!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Warning may contain some spoilers.I think Jason has been killed one too many times.  He is probably tired of kids hitting him with axes and machetes and knives because in this episode of Friday the 13th, he is just plain mean.  Not that he was a nice killer in the previous entries, but this time he just seems like he is taking it personally.The Final Chapter is one of the best horror films I've ever seen and if you are a fan of the series, this is as good as it gets.  There are some great scares, a likable cast, wonderful direction, nudity and Tom Savini decides to show up to make the final death of the film a memorable one.  If horror films of the 90's could have this much energy then we wouldn't be starved for crap like Urban Legend and Idle Hands and others.  This is what horror movies are all about and this is a great horror film.What we have in terms of a story is Jason escapes from a hospital in a very tense beginning.  Right away, the film starts with some great scares and some really violent deaths.  Poor Axel, he doesn't fare too well.  And from here we are introduced to the typical characters, six vacationing kids and a mother and her daughter and son and Gordon ( the family dog).  We also have a Jason hunter that is due for a grizzly death.  But the funny thing about the Friday the 13th's is that even though the actors are on screen for such a small amount of time, we actually grow to like or dislike them.  And so when one of them dies we are actually cheering or dismayed that they kick it.  I really liked Jimbo in here.  And when he died ( in a most heinous way ) I was a little bothered.  Then when I saw what Jason does to him after he is dead, well that was just cruel.  But the worst death in this film ( and this rivals Andy getting split in two in the third installment ) is Paul. He meets an untimely death by being introduced to a harpoon gun in a part of the body that it is not meant to receive that kind of attention.  And this death is just another example of the hilarious gag in the series where Jason seems to find weapons that just shouldn't be there.  I mean a harpoon in this one and a spear gun in the third?  That is funny.Friday, the final chapter is a great example of a scary horror film that concentrates on gore and suspense.  It is easily the best in the series and if you forget what it is like to watch the early efforts of the series, then my recommendation is to watch the first four.  They are great and if the series would have ended here, this would have been a perfect ending.This is the best Friday the 13th.  Watch and enjoy.  And tell me if you think he is just a little meaner in this film.    "},{"Title":"","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was supposed to end the Friday series once and for all. Instead, this one made more money than they predicted and they kept on making sequels. However, this is the final chapter for the series for a few reasons. Jason isn't dead until this one. At least, that's my opinion. In this one, he's still sort of human and bleeds from time to time. This is also the last of the series to look like it was shot by a home movie camera in the &#145;70's. But, hey, isn't that part of the charm of these movies?The movie starts off pretty cool, with a recap of the Jason legend and flashbacks from previous movies. The movie starts off immediately after Friday 3 ends. Jason's body is taken to the morgue where he isn't really dead and lots of people die. Jason makes his way back to Crystal Lake. Twelve years old Tommy and virginal teen Trish live on Crystal Lake with their mother. (Don't they get bored out there though? To me Crystal Lake has always looked boring, not to mention the fact that their phones probably don't work.) Anyway, a bunch of teens are vacationing next door and Jason has people to slaughter! Let the body count begin! Oh yeah, there's also this hunter who is out to kill Jason for killing his sister. Guess what happens to him? Tommy and Trish are left to live and Tommy shaves his head trying to look like young Jason hoping that Jason will think that Tommy is him (or something) and that way Tommy can kill Jason. Jason is really dead in this one and Tommy winds up a little crazy.  This one is more of the same but it's definitely an improvement on Part 3. For one thing, there are not zero, not one, but TWO, count them TWO real actors in this movie. Corey Feldman (from the classic `Goonies' and the even classicker `Stand By Me') plays young Tommy, a kid obsessed with video games and horror movies. Let's not forget Crispin Glover (George McFly from the `Back To The Future' series and also `River's Edge', `Wild At Heart' and other weird movies) as `Jimbo.' Corey and Crispin alone make the movie worthwhile. Crispin's dancing is just so bad it has to be seen to be believed. When Corey goes psycho and starts hacking Jason to pieces, it's really cool. I have no idea what sets him off, but boy is he one pissed pre-teen! It's really a shame Corey wasn't in any of the sequels (not counting his cameo in A New Beginning). My Favorite Death Corkscrew Through Crispin Glover  Grade B   "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I actually like this one the best out of the entire series. The violence is to the extreme, the most nudity from the series, and Crispin Glover provided many unintentional laughs. Corey Feldman did pretty well even in horror movie standards.  "},{"Title":"Slightly better then the last one!","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is a slight improvement over the last Friday sequel. What helps is a new director, Joseph Zito, who manages to produce a few scary moments. Unfortunately as always the performances are poor, especially Corey Feldman as the boy who kills Jason in the end. And there is one particularly bad scene when Jason kills a hitchhiker while eating a banana. I give the movie 4/10 "},{"Title":"A step in the right direction.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This, the third 'Friday the 13th' sequel, is certainly a step in the right direction as far as style and effects go.  The atmosphere is much more gloomy and edge-of-seat than before and the effects finally look halfway realistic.  There are also some interesting characters this time - the 12-year-old horror fan, the hunter out to stop Jason after his sister was murdered by the insane wildman, etc.  Jason himself also comes across as a much more sinister figure.But unfortunately the film is bogged down by the usual bunch of dozy teenagers and their boring romances and predictable behavior.  There's also the fact that the plot leaves a lot to be desired, is pretty wafer-thin to say the least.If you've already seen the first three films of this series then you'll find there's not much here that's new, but this is the most well-made of the first four Friday the 13ths, even if the title is rather misleading. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter...Yeah Right","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th The Final Chapter begins as Jason and the kids he killed in Part III are taken to the morgue. Somehow though, he revives and ends up killing a morgue attendant and a nurse and makes his way to a woodsy place called Crystal Point. There, another group of dumb kids end up renting a house for a weekend filled with sex and pot smoking and drinking. The Jarvis family lives next door to the kids and young Tommy is a kid who loves to play video games and make scary masks. Well, needless to say, Jason shows up and hacks the kids in various gory ways with the help of Tom Savini (returning to the series after creating the effects for the original). This Final Chapter should be called The Lame Chapter. The group of teens to grace this film are so annoying that one is actually glad that they get knocked off by axes, corkscrews, butcher knives and other assorted weapons. Thrown into the mess are a pair of slutty twins, a vengeful camper and a hippie chick eating a banana. As usual, this entry has no plot, except for the fact that Tommy might be taking Jason's place sometime in the next sequel, or so the ending seems to tell us.  "},{"Title":"Fourth one A perfect ending","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just like the previous two, this one is also very gory and scary. Part one through four make a perfect horror movie epic. Jason finally does meet his end. That's it!! No need for another sequel. This movie was great. "},{"Title":"Is this the Final Chapter? NO!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Do not take any notice of the title, it is false. Picking up where the 3rd installment left off from. Jason ha been taken to the local morgue, after having an axe smashed into his skull. No he is not dead, however, and begins his killings again.Corey Feldman plays Tommy Jarvis,who with his sister and mother have moved into Camp Crystal Lake. Along with about 6 other horny teenagers.Jason makes it back to the camp and slaughters all of them except Tommy who tricks Jason by dressing up as Young Jason and gives his sister enough time to attack Jason from behind.Tommy flips and stabs Jason repeatedly, while his sister screams in horror.A good film all in all.Shame they never kept this as the Final part, but Part 5 is really good.I give this a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This should have been the 'final chapter!'","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fourth installment in the series does not live up to its name.  Read the title.  Now count the sequels that followed.  I counted six, including the upcoming Freddy vs. Jason.  It's difficult to believe that this gory sequel actually made money.  My evaluation (no stars).  "}{"Title":"It's an ok film.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is the 4th movie in the popular slasher series. It begins with Jason being hauled off to the morgue after Part III's heroine smashed an axe in his head, killing him. Well, he ends up being revived in the morgue and heads back to Crystal Lake to kill oversexed teens renting a house. Cory Feldman plays Tommy, a kid who is obsessed with video games and making masks. This sequel isn't as bad as the others in the series, but it isn't good either. Many of the characters are just, well, dumb and uninteresting, and there is NO plot, just Jason murdering teens in really wild ways for no apparent reason, like Part III. The ending is tense though, with Jason chasing after Tommy's sister, Trish, to the dead kids' house and then back to her house and so on.  "},{"Title":"obviously the best seuqel of the first 4","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great sequel. The gore is extremely high along with the body count. The best killing is when the guy gets his hand impaled and then a machette in his face. It's a classic. 4 starsRated r for intense horror violence and gore "},{"Title":"An Okay Movie No Gore...!!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th 4 was an Okay sequel...It also introduced the very young Corey Feildman...There was no gore,it seemed quiet boring,the death toll wasn't that good either,the ending sucked,but the movie put together wasn't so bad...I liked Kimberly Beck's performance and stunts,here are my ratings!Acting - 2.5 / 5.0 Actors - 3.0 / 5.0 Script - 2.0 / 5.0 Display- 2.5 / 5.0 Gore   - 2.0 / 5.0 Suspense-3.0 / 5.0 Music   -2.5 / 5.0 Overall -2.5 / 5.0  C+  "},{"Title":"more interesting people but less fun all around","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is not the last of the series, and i'm glad they didn't stop here. this movie was not as scary as the first 3. but the people are more interesting than the others but that's it. don't get me wrong this movie was good. i give it **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"It should have been the last","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This should have been the last Friday film. This movie had great action and the acting was great. Jason had a really brutal death.It had a lot of darkness to this film. Lots of rain and thunder.Jason comes back after one day of getting killed off in the 3rd film.I'd say that this film was the 3rd best Friday ever. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If the only they had ended the series here, there would have been three good films in the series and one boring one (Part 3).However they didn't and made 5 more (so far) and all of them have been a poor shadow of the first 4. This movie along with the second are the best in the series. It's hard to take Jason's mother in the first film seriously as she looks like she has stuck a dead cat on her head.While the third film was so obviously filmed in a studio, this one actually looks like they are in the middle of nowhere. There are the usual things that made the series fun, gore, sex, bad acting etc, but this film is oddly creepy as well.The high gore in this film is used to greater effect than the utterly disgusting and horribly pants movie Jason Goes To Hell The Final Friday.The one thing that could have made this film better was if Jason had got that brat at the end. Tommy Jarvis was one of the worst characters in the series, and as bad as Part 7 was, it was an improvement on Parts 5&6 that featured him. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am normally a big fan of the Friday the 13 film series but this is a piece of junk. Normally the gore dosen't bother me, but even I couldn't stand to watch a scene where a hitch hiker gets a knife rammed through her throat while eating a banana. Maybe if it was The final Chapter has they had promised, This movie would have worked, but they decided to make 5 others. Apparentley, they don't know that there is such a thing as too much of a good thing. "},{"Title":"The best!!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's gory & it'll make you jump-several times. This it what F13th should be like (most aren't). It was a nice surprise to see Joseph Zito's name as director although he hasn't done much in the horror field, he did treat us to Rosemarie's Killer/The Prowler a few years back. Top notch fx by Savini. Censored by 20 seconds here in the UK. Jason doesn't slide down the blade at the end. Spoil sports ( "},{"Title":"Jason kicks butt","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE Jason. Out of all the movie maniacs out there,Jason is the deadliest. You just can't escape him, he runs so fast. His murders are some of the most original out there. I loved all the early sequels from parts 2-5 but I think this one (The final chapter...NOT,part 4) was my favorite. I never get tired of watching this one. "},{"Title":"Stop here; Go no further","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's a proven fact Sequels never live up to the original. The Friday the 13th Series proves this, with the horrible Parts 2 and 3. But sometimes, they do something right, as in this, the best of the FT13 sequels(if not the whole series).This movie manages to actually fit some scares in with the unending gore. The grainy photography used in the first three installments has finally been done away with, and the ending(which I won't give away) has some definite eerieness. Now if only they had let it end here, with Tommy staring into the camera.....Tch Tch Tch       Ha Ha Ha "}{"Title":"Cool movie!","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the third film, a fourth film was announced and was titled Friday the 13th The Final Chapter and was set for a release in 1984.The film is not the final chapter in the franchise. It is however one of the best sequels in the franchise. This is not a bad film, but it could have been worse.The story takes place immediately right after the third film at the Higgins barn where Jason was axed in the head by Chris. The police find all the victims at the lake and take Jason's dead body to the morgue. Of course, Jason isn't really dead. He quickly escapes the hospital and heads straight back to Camp Crystal Lake. There are a new group of teenagers heading to the lake this time and we also meet a family (The Jarvises) who live on the lake.After knocking off many people, in the most very brutal ways, Jason meets his match in Tommy and Trish Jarvis. Tommy devises a plan, which involves shaving his head, to send Jason to hell once and for all.The make-up designs and special effects for Tom Savini is amazing. This was the most bloodiest or goriest film in the Jason Voorhees franchise. The stalking in the woods is more creepier than ever and the music by Harry Manfredini is just legendary and I got to hear the theme but it has been changed for the other Jason films.The acting is just amazing in this film. Ted White, who plays Jason is scary as hell in the part. Jimmy, played by Crispin Glover, it is really amazing and so fantastic. The fourth Jason is really amazing, but it is not my favorite film.After Friday THE 13th The Final Chapter, the Jason movies would take a downward spiral into complete mediocrity and then back to being scary again. This came out in 1984, the same year A Nightmare on Elm Street, part 1 came out and right around the time horror and slasher films started to became a total mess.So sit back, relax and enjoy this Jason movie.8/10. "},{"Title":"not quite the final chapter but a great horror movie!!","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The final chapter was the first of the series I saw. This was many years ago and has remained a favorite of mine in the 13th movies and horror films in General.The movie begins with a handy recap of the 1st three movies setting the scene of what is to come. Picking up where 3 ended we follow Jason back to a hospital where the murders continue as he works his way back to Crystal Lake to find a dozen or so new victims waiting to stalked and killed in a host of inventive gory ways.The acting is slightly better the teens slightly more likable and as I mentioned the kills pretty gory compared to later movies where kill scenes were heavily cut by IMPA.Much has been said of the final chapter title and there being 5 more movies after its release however it is in my opinion the last movie in which Jason was human before the movies in series headed in a supernatural direction so if you looking for a good old fashioned 80's stalk n slash movie this one is worth a watch "},{"Title":"Adheres to convention in arguably the best possible way","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes when convention manages to be crafty and effective to the point of achieving the kind of satisfaction you wanted out of a particular film or its genre, you need to give it credit and reward it accordingly. That, in a nutshell, is why Friday the 13th The Final Chapter gets a favorable review alongside its abnormally high rating. If one looks at the film with respect to its genre and time period, a time when the film market was dense with slasher films, coming from no-name studios to reputable ones, and the market was overblown with innovative works and miserably copycats. The Final Chapter doesn't subvert its genre in any way, nor does it really achieve much more than being standard fare for it either. However, the film is, above all, entertaining and effective in what it wants to do - show young, attractive people being killed and mauled by an unstoppable force.The film is actually one of the few Friday the 13th sequels that I can immediately recall taking a more lax, slowburn approach to its material which, given its short runtime, is kind of admirable. We meet two different groups, one a mother and her teenage daughter and young son, and the other a group of sex-rattled, hormonal teenagers anxious for some campground fun over the weekend. Of course, convention and all intelligent assumptions would lead to Jason Voorhees showing up at the campground, killing everyone in his path with his machete. For ninety-one minutes, we watch this gaggle of teenagers go from horny and energetic to nothing more than carcasses in true slasher film fashion.The gaggle of teenagers we focus on are at least mildly interesting, compared to the onslaught of caricatures we see in other horror films. For one, there's Crispin Glover, who is being teased by his other pal, played by Lawrence Monoson, for being a dead-f*** after his girlfriend, nicknamed BJ Betty, breaks up with him on the fly. We get that humorous banter, in addition to a hilarious dance scene involving Glover, along with some fun scenes involving plucky tyke Corey Feldman exploring things that aren't simply the worlds in his video games.With this, writer Barney Cohen creates an environment and a roster of characters that are marginally fun to watch because they actually seem to have life and are payed by actors evidently having fun with their roles. Everyone in the film looks like they're simply excited and happy to be in a slasher film and are trying to pull it off the best they can. When Jason finally shows up, The Final Chapter kicks formula into high gear, by going all out and completely bathing itself in blood and murderous fun, which is when the film adheres to its formula effectively.Why do we go see horror films in the first place? To be given a good jolt, for one. To be entertained is another valid reason. Then there's the reason few like to openly admit, which is to witness numerous people simply be given the literal axe, contributing to an often heavy and bloody body-count when it's all done. All three of those things are present in The Final Chapter, and the unexpected inclusion of fun characters makes the film that much more watchable. The slowburn pacing of the film is often difficult to execute with early slasher films, given their often briskly-paced, graphic nature, but Cohen and director Joseph Zito find a common ground to function on, giving viewers a film that adheres to suspense but also operates as a film with a body count, merging two styles together effectively.There's nothing in Friday the 13th The Final Chapter that won't be remembered on a long-term basis, given the amount of slasher sequels, remakes, and prequels, but there are a lot more specific scenes to remember than other films of its genre, making the affair just pleasantly different enough to recommend on a level that doesn't already comment on its effective use of convention.Starring Kimberly Beck, Peter Barton, Crispin Glover, and Corey Feldman. Directed by Joseph Zito. "},{"Title":"More scares from Jason.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part IV of the Jason Voorhees saga brings him back to Camp Crystal Lake once more on a killing spree and to come face-to-face with Tommy Jarvis again.This one has the usual youngsters doing their nefarious things and finding themselves fleeing from the hockey-masked and knife-wielding Jason, with lots of action, chilling sequences, jumps and gore. But, there is also a smattering of suspense and psychological thrills as Tommy Jarvis, sick and tired of Jason's threat, sets up an enthralling mission to take down the psychopath killer.While one of the better Friday the 13th movies, I never understood why the kids always return to Camp Crystal Lake in each movie, where it has always been a major crime scene. I would have preferred that the film be set someplace else that is less obvious for a homicide maniac to roam about. There are also a few campy dialog here and there, but otherwise, it's not a bad horror/slasher movie overall.Grade B- "},{"Title":"You do it with EVERYONE.","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth Friday the 13th movie is also a contender for best of the lot. It's certainly the best of the sequels. What helps make it so good is the cast, which is a step above the norm for the series. Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover are probably the most well-known. Feldman's character Tommy would appear a couple of more times in the series played by other actors. He plays an important part in this film and its memorable ending. The rest of the cast is good too. The women are possibly the prettiest of the whole series. One of my '80s crushes, Judie Aronson, is a standout for reasons that will become obvious when you watch. There's even a couple of sexy British twins. Well-directed by Joseph Zito with good jump scares, a great finale, and some nice effects by Tom Savini & co. A really fun slasher flick that was laughably meant to be the end of the series...for about five minutes. "},{"Title":"Carry the zero is an awesome Built To Spill song, I'm just saying that, it has nothing to do with these crap movies","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, its the best of all the Friday The 13th movies, and no, that is not saying very much. Its the same movie, they made it eleven times and this one out of that bunch happens to be the one that's slightly better than all the rest. If you are king of the feces people, does being king in anyway make you better than them? It really doesn't, if you think about it. Why make eleven Friday The 13th movies, did the film makers think I missed something? Were they thinking that the first movie had more story to tell just not enough time so like they had to make all these other ones? I'm like, dude, when is it enough, when do we like just let this one go? No? I'm the only person who has seen all this crap before? That's cool then, that's good, if you can legitimately enjoy this movie and the ten other movies just like it, then more power to you. If that is the case then I have one quick question, you know they make good movies too? "},{"Title":"Total bloodbath","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The body count continues in this vivid thriller, the fourth but not final story in the widely successful Friday the 13th series. Jason, Crystal Lake's least popular citizen, returns to wreak further havoc in Friday the 13th part 4The final chapter or just Friday the 13th The final chapter whatever it's called from where you are from. After his revival in a hospital morgue, the hockey-masked murderer fixes his vengeful attention on the Jarvis family and a group of hitherto carefree teenagers. Young Tommy Jarvis is an aficionado of horror films with a special talent for masks and make-up. Has the diabolical Jason finally met his match? This films starred Corey Feldman, Crispin Glover & Erich AndersonIn my opinion, this was not a stand out film in the Jason film saga, if I had to choose a favourite out of the first 4 it would be Friday the 13th part 2 no doubt about it. This film was quite entertaining and had lots of murders as it should for a Jason film, so not a bad entry in the Friday the 13th film series.***/***** Could be worse "},{"Title":"Easily The Best Of The Series","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Definitely my favorite of the series, this contains the best overall cast, the most vicious death scenes, the most intense meanstreak/final act, and one of the greatest opening sequences. Surprisingly, this movie had a few genuinely eerie moments. Ex When the emergency vehicles leave the Higgins' vacation home and the audience is left at the scene that is now abandoned and shrouded in darkness. For some reason, that moment has always stuck with me. Jason's demise was easily the best of the series, with its only real competition being the outboard motor death of him in the sixth film. This also had one of the most attractive casts of the series, which is certainly an added bonus. They all had great chemistry together as well. "},{"Title":"Great Shocking Kills and a lot of Nudity","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As stated by other reviews, this movie contains a lot of nudity and has great suspense once sh!t hits the fan. This is the last of human Jason in till the remake also so he goes out with a bang. This was suppose to be the final film in this franchise and was directed as such. We all know it isn't the case because this one made a good amount of money so Paramount decided to make the next in the series. This one is even more brutal than the previous three and has a lot of nudity which doesn't bother me one way or another. Onto the cast of this one. We actually have two groups with a family known as the Jarvis and a group of kids renting the cabin across from their house. I like this family and they are interesting and believable, I especially like Tommy Jarvis who is a huge factor in the crappy Part 5 and a huge part of Part 6. The kids across the way are actually really played well and between Kissing Teddy and the Death dance, it has some of the funnier moments in the series. Now the kills.Overall I like the kills in this movie better than the previous three even though there is only one kill as brutal as Part 3's handstand kill. But the kill in this one is actually over kill and something your not use to seeing out of a 80's slasher. The pacing is better than the previous entry which is a welcome change with this one probably the best of the first four and maybe the whole series. Tommy Jarvis(Cory Feldman) does a great job in this movie even though he has maybe 25 minutes on screen at the most. Also I love the twins in this movie as their a nice addition to the cast. To think this could have been the end of the series. It does end that way but as well all know, Jason is a cash cow and even the remake did great budget wise. The only two films that flopped are Jason take Manhattan and the underrated Jason X. I give this one a 4.5 outta 5. "},{"Title":"Good production value","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following the events of Part III, Jason Voorhees is thought to be dead and brought to the hospital morgue. There he resurrects and starts killing all over again. He returns to find another group of young partying kids. Next to the kids live a family with little boy Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman). The other future star Crispin Glover plays one of the college kids.Despite having a small budget, the production value is probably the highest of the franchise to that date. It helps to have better actors around. Corey Feldman was actually great. In a world of throwaway victims, he needed to be bigger and he was.The story is still the same. College kids come to party. Jason comes to kill them. It's not anything unexpected. The shower scene is especially good comparable to the greatest shower scene ever from Psycho. However it's still Friday the 13th with the weak dialog, and predictable story. "}{"Title":"And so we bid farewell to the Friday the 13th series after just four chapters","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" And so we come to the final chapter. No, it really is the last one, honest. And as this is the final chapter (which it most certainly is), does it introduce to the series such elements as wit, style, imagination, characters and a story? Or does it merely repeat the formula of horny teenagers getting hacked up by a hatchet-wielding nutcase? Clue It merely repeats the formula of horny teenagers getting hacked up by a hatchet-wielding nutcase. So anyway, these kids are partying in a house near the notorious Camp Crystal Lake, and the next thing you know... Erm, how do I explain it without giving away the plot? The cast includes Crispin Glover who, being a good actor and all, is the best thing in it and provides a few laughs during the meaningless filler between grisly deaths. The ending suggests that the story could continue, but as this is the final chapter, that can't be right. "},{"Title":"My favorite Jason film!","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hockey mask wearing serial killer Jason Voorhees (Ted White) is defeated when a would be victim takes an axe to his skull. His supposedly lifeless body is taken to the morgue where he awakens and begins offing people left and right, continuing the killing spree he started a couple days before. He makes his way back to Camp Crystal Lake, his home, where some new counselors have just arrived. Among them are Jimmy (Crispin Glover), Ted (Lawrence Monoson), Paul (Clyde Hayes), Sara (Barbara Howard), and others. Twelve year old Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman) and his older sister Trish (Kimberly Beck) happen to live near the camp. While driving home, the Jarvis siblings befriend a hitchhiker named Rob Dyer (Erich Anderson). Rob has actually come to Crystal Lake seeking vengeance against Jason for killing his sister Sandra (from part 2). As the masked murderer begins slaughtering the helpless counselors one by one, it's up to Rob and the Jarvis siblings to put an end to his reign of terror once and for all.This is not only my favorite Jason film but is also one of the all time greatest slashers I've ever seen. This entry has some of the best kills, best suspense, best nudity, and even some great acting which is rare for a Friday film. Little kids in horror films usually irritate me, but Corey Feldman as the young Tommy Jarvis actually comes out of this okay. I liked him a lot! It's too bad that Feldman got so annoying when he got older. The Tommy character appeared in the next two installments of the series and quickly became one of my favorite horror protagonists (especially when Thom Matthews played him in part 6). The characters of Jimmy and Ted had me cracking up with their hilarious antics. I adored every scene they were in! Jason himself is also at his best here and I loved the way Ted White played him. He's no longer as clumsy and awkward as he was in the previous two movies. Here he is just a hulking, unstoppable killing machine that cannot be reckoned with. Ted White is by far my favorite Jason as he gave a flawless portrayal as the machete wielding psychopath. Despite its inaccurate title, Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is the best of the series and a must-have for all slasher fans! "},{"Title":"Good solid horror film","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I know when people hear the name Friday the 13th - they think god... the film with a million sequels ... but actually this is little gem... the first 4 aren't too shabby and the 6th one isn't terrible ... this one is one of my favs ... iv been a fan of slasher films since i was a little girl (im 23 now and still a fan) the plot is straight forward - it carries off from number 3 - Jason voorhees laying in the barn - dead...? ha-ha in the morgue he suddenly wakes up and *spoiler* bumps off a few staff ... the film follow the same routine as the others - Jason bumping off attractive teens in the hope of clearing crystal lake ... the acting is better and the kills more inventive ...kimberley beck is especially good as the clever girl and Corey Feldman in a young role really does outdo himself .. this was meant to be the final chapter ... but as all of us know *spoiler* it wasn't! good acting ... solid story and creepy as always ... worth to watch. "},{"Title":"4 stars for part 4","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bah!!!! Was this film meant to end the FTT series ? Well it's not impressive at all. Just Gore, sex, and comedy.Continuing from FTT 3, Jason is apparently found dead and his body is taken to the mortuary, but soon it is found that his body has mysteriously disappeared, and now another killer is on the prowl in the woods, ready to murder anyone who may enter there, including a group of wayward teenagers who foolishly go to Camp crystal lake again for fun.The good? What to say? Maybe the background score. In between the music, you can hear the sam,e old sound of FTT-phishh phishh phishh...Otherwise it's just a follow through of the last 3 films, with gore, gore and gore, many people getting brutally murdered, teenagers interested in nothing but sex and scary scenes that actually look comical and foolish. Only thing is in this they have included an innocent family of 3 as well in this film.Don't expect much. "},{"Title":"Stands out in the series, but still lacking tension or originality","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Contrary to the film's title, this is, of course, not the final chapter in the Jason Voorhees franchise, which has up to now reached ten movies, as well as a re-make and a spin-off. But the huge success of the series meant that production company Paramount Pictures could not turn down such an easy money-spinner, given the movies cost around a mere $1.5 million to make and usually grossed $20-30 million. Although the movies generally range from bad to awful, it is easy to see why they were a huge success - simple plots, lots of t**s, plenty of gore, and a truly memorable killer in Jason. The Final Chapter is widely considered the best of the series by fans, deviating slightly from the repetitive plots of the preceding movies, and giving the film a recurring hero in Tommy Jarvis (here played by Corey Feldman).Picking up straight after the third instalment, Jason (Ted White) is believed dead and is taken to a nearby morgue, where a doctor and a nurse are having a sneaky fumble. Naturally, Jason miraculously awakens and butchers them. Meanwhile, a group of horny college kids (where would this franchise be without them?) are making their way to a rented lodge on Crystal Lake, which is located next to the home of the Jarvis family. After daughter Trish Jarvis (Kimberly Beck) breaks down, she is helped by mysterious hitch-hiker Rob (Erich Anderson), who has rather secretive reasons to be in the area. As the college kids start to party and try to rub up against each other, Jason begins his slaughter.Having up to this point only seen up to this movie, I can categorically state that this is the best so far, and although it's still pretty basic by normal standards, it certainly elevates the sheer mundanity of the previous instalments. Tom Savini, back for his second and last job on the series, creates some memorable moments of gore, including a cork- screw to the hand and special mention must also go to the craziest actor since Klaus Kinski, Crispin Glover, for his spectacular dance scene - it is one of the most bizarre moments I've ever seen on film. Yet the film only really seems so good when compared to the rest of the series, and, ultimately, is still a formulaic slasher film with no real moments of tension or originality, blandly directed by Chuck Norries-frequenter Joseph Zito.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Never trust those in the horror genre when they use the word final.","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" With a number of long running film franchises, there's often that one entry in which a fan can say that the formula was perfected. Such was the case with this brutal and creepy final entry in the Friday the 13th series.All the things we come to expect are trotted out, and then some, with director Joseph Zito injecting some different elements into the formula, including some sexy twins and a preteen, Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman), skilled at making masks and props. Tommy is just one of the people imperilled when good ol' Jason Voorhees (played without credit by stuntman Ted White) is taken to the morgue after his last escapade. He soon revives and slaughters everybody in his way. Tommys' family and a houseful of party hearty young adults will be on the killing list, but hoping to stop the hockey masked ones' rampage is Rob (E. Erich Anderson), who hopes to get some revenge for the death of a previous victim.To start with, it's great how Parts II, III, and IV in this franchise flow together, with this sequel beginning hours after the massacre in Part III has ended. Zito and company don't waste time in getting to the good stuff, with Tom Savini returning to the role of makeup effects supervisor for the chance to kill off a memorable character that he'd created. And the gore is fantastic - head twisted around, corkscrew to the hand, cleaver to the face, face smushed, spear to the groin, and the usual stabbings. That's not to mention Jasons' demise this time around, which is a true show stopper. Harry Manfredinis' score is good and familiar.The cast mostly plays standard issue characters, but standing out, obviously, is the one and only Crispin Glover, amusing as always in the role of the lonely and horny Jimbo. Kimberly Beck makes for a sexy and feisty final girl, and Judie Aronson, Lisa Freeman, Barbara Howard, and Camilla and Carey More as those aforementioned twins add other well appreciated eye candy. Contributing funny if obnoxious comedy relief are Bruce Mahler as sleazy morgue attendant Axel and Lawrence Monoson as Ted, the man whose computer don't lie. Glover has one of his most well remembered movie scenes ever as he busts out some amazing dance moves to the tune of Lions' Love is a Lie. White is an absolute beast as Jason, delivering a performance of incredible relentlessness and brutality. And Feldman is good as Jarvis, the young man who would become a recurring character through the next two sequels.Atmosphere is strong, and the movie moves along quite well. It's always fun and never, ever boring. It's got a sense of humour, but still takes its gory bits of business seriously. The big finale is particularly exciting.All in all, The Final Chapter sizes up as one of the best entries in the spectacularly popular and successful F13 franchise.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best in the series! (Well, tied for best)","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, The Final Chapter is tied with Jason Lives! for best Friday film. The Final Chapter features tons of nudity (the most out of all the Friday films), brutal Tom Savini kill scenes, and some of the most memorable characters. It's easily one of the most entertaining in the series and by far the most savage.Often when I read reviews for horror films, I can instantly tell if the reviewer is a true horror fan or not. I am often baffled by the negative reviews given to solid horror features. I mean, what do they expect? It's the fourth entry in a slasher series. It's not The Godfather or Shawshank Redemption. Don't get me wrong, there are plenty of terrible, unwatchable horror films with no redeeming qualities what so ever. The Final Chapter is not one of them.The film features skinny dipping, dogs getting thrown out windows, twins, Crispin Glover dancing, heads getting ripped clean off, Corey Feldman, old school stag films, and a Jason that moans and runs. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (1984)","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 62/100. Undoubtedly the best of the 'Friday' sequels. Joesph Zito was an excellent genre choice to helm the film after directing The Prowler, and Tom Savini makes a welcome return to the franchise resulting in the best visual and creative kills and best cinematography since the original. Corey Feldman does a good job, and the entire concept of the Jarvis family gives the series a breath of fresh air rather than just focusing on a bunch of horny teens lining up to be slaughtered. Crispin Glover does steal the spotlight from Feldman and maybe even Jason. His body language and dumbfound looks are hilarious and must have inspired him being casted in Back To The Future the following year. His dance moves overshadow some of the film's more gruesome kills. Rest of the teenage cast was a huge step up from part three, although I thought they should have spent more time focusing on the Jarvis family as opposed to the teens. And was Jason hunter Rob really supposed to have that small of a role. Ted White played the most menacing Jason to date, and the film would have been an ideal way to end the series even if the ending including the rather stupid idea to have Feldman shave his head and go crazy. "},{"Title":"What the heck? 5.3/10. Should be lower.","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yeah, this one was really, really terrible. The only good thing about the (whole) movie is the fact that Jason Voorhees in it. If Jason was not in it, I would give this movie a 1/10. You see, I am a really huge horror/slasher fan. Yeah, you could say that I'm a big Jason Voorhees fan. That's because I am. I just finished watching Friday the 13th Part 5 A New Beginning. It was pretty good, actually.It's better than this crappy, nudy sequel to the great Friday the 13th Part Three. This contains truck loads of non-stop female nudity. It's very, very annoying. The one thing that I mostly hate about the Friday the Thirteenth series is that every movie/film of the series, there has got to be some kind of nudity. Brief nudity, graphic nudity, non-stop nudity, and so on. I'm just sick of this nudy crap! This movie got 5.3/10 and Part 5 got 4.1/10?!?! For Pete's sake! Oh, and to the people on my T.V. screen, PUT SOME FRIGGIN' CLOTHES ON!!!! I've said it before and I'll say it again, I would have given 1/10 if Jason wasn't in this. But Jason sure did save my weekend from being a total disaster. Well, the only thing left to say is DO NOT RENT THIS MOVIE!!! Trust me, that is some good advice. Oh, and Jason rocks!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Three Words Crispin Glover Dance","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th The Final Chapter, the 4th but far from final movie in the Friday The 13th kills. It has great kills, loads of nudity, and horror. It has both likable and unlikable pepole, but what sucks about is there are 2 survivors, 1 is likable, 1 is not. Its the most nudity and most funniest. If you've heared about the legendary Crispin Glover dance, it's in this movie. The nudity and kills and uncomfortable, especially the first kill. Cory Feldman and Crispin Glover are the charters you root for, Cory Feldman being a freak, but in a good way, and Crispin Glover being hilauors. It has great kills, and has a good pace, and is very unboring to watch. If you hated Part 3 as much as I did, Part 4 redeems the series. It's a great sequel, but not the best. Part 2 still holds the title. 7.2/10 "}{"Title":"Ferocious Four","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *** Horror icon/Momma's boy Jason Vorhees returns for his fourth crystal -lake killing spree (camp blood to the uninitiated) in this very decent entry in the Friday series.After taking an axe to the noggin in the conclusion to Pt.3, Jason is left to be rounded up with the other corpses by the Wessex county 5-0 in the opening scenes which include the standard slasher re-cap of course, a montage of past jason-kills that plays like a greatest hits for fans; Fun if your new to the Friday flicks, annoying padding if you're not. A creepy concluding scene of the police pulling out and deserting the crime scene all together, leaving the area eerily deserted, really sums up the arbitrary nature of the series; its suitably unnerving in its meaninglessness.Of course our hockey mask hero isn't really dead, just re-cuperating before heading back to the bush to slaughter anyone else that violates the sanctity of his territory & not before offing the horny doctor on call and his nookie nurse, foolish enough to be getting down in front of Jason on a gurney. From here on, there really isn't much that differs in plot from the last or future installments; the standard teenagers in heat throwing a bash soon to be crashed by life- of-the-party Jason and all it's periphery accouterments like night-time skinny dipping and stag reels. Also of note is Corey Feldman, the last survivor character whose shadow side is personified as the monster himself. In true horror fable tradition, the virginal innocent & his polar opposite are inextricably linked & the resonant finale has Jason confronting his inner child in an inspired bit of weirdness, so too bad it didn't quite follow up in the same vein for the following films. Other than the ending, this isn't much of a corker plot-wise. But the director is clever enough to bring a little more pizazz to the proceedings this time, and the direction is what sells this film as maybe the most well made of the sequels. Although the blood & gore is kept minimal by the prudish Paramount, the constant barrage of murders definitely have a nastier tone in pt. 4, sadistic in a way the proceeding incarnations of Jason weren't. The mythos picks up steam here.Still on the human side of undead, Jason isn't the hulking monotonous zombie of the Kane Hodder oeuvre. He's still spry for a corpse and it adds a degree of excitement to the action instead of just boring inevitability. But the killings themselves are certainly disturbing as Jason really goes all out in his war on nubile flesh; Rapes by steel as more than one critic has succinctly put it. The ferocity in the slaughters is underlined by some truly nasty touches (the rebuffed road kill hitch-hiker pureeing her banana while Jason impales her neck or the face mangling shower scene to name a couple) The sadistic kink really marks this entry of something more weight than the other 13ths.The effect is both exhilarating and cringe-worthy in the best dead teenager tradition . The mean-spiritedness on display is used in modest quantity however to underline The Final Chapter, not like the rampant cartoon sadism of the next installment.For slasher cinema, The Final Chapter is a first-rate accomplishment, a perfect capsule of 80's era slasher film and probably the best in the Friday canon. "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First of all, go into this one with a carefree attitude....it AIN'T high art, people, nor does it TRY to be.....it's just a fun, scary flick.The Final Chapter (a misnomer, I know, but get over it) sports a decent cast (some dull performances, but like I said, it's not a Sundance flick), a tried-and-true formula (let's face it, these films don't even ATTEMPT to deviate from the let's kill all the drug using horny teens approach), and some INCREDIBLE (particularly for the early 80's) special effects. Joseph Zito, tyrant though he may have been during filming (Judie Aronson probably didn't miss those nipples once they froze off, anyhow....), did probably the best job in the entire series of creating a dark (and I MEAN dark) atmosphere, yet at the same time maintaining an acceptable and welcome degree of humor (not overdrawn like so-called horror films are today), a few interesting additions (a close-knit family-next-door, a heartbroken and vengeful brother of a past F-13 victim, sexy twins, an acrobatic golden retriever....did I mention Crispin Glover???), and possibly the SCARIEST Jason to date (NO ill will toward the incredible Kane Hodder of Parts 7-10.....Ted White's Jason simply means business). Harry Manfredini scares us again with the familiar stalking themes and an effective score for the first and last reels of the movie that add to the tension.Tom Savini returns to bring more of the gore we loved (and Roger Ebert hated) from the first film, and almost every kill (with the exception of Mrs. Jarvis's off-screen murder) is masterfully done....Jimmy has arguably the worst abuse over all (death by corkscrew and meat cleaver, then having his corpse SAVAGELY ripped from it's exhibition spot).Kimberly Beck turns out a great performance as Trish Jarvis, the film's heroine....she wants to have fun with the wild kids next door, but she chooses instead to take care of her little brother, Tommy (a benchmark character in his own right). She fights almost to the death with Jason to protect young Tommy, and she puts up one HELL of a fight at that.While not a particular fan of Cory Feldman, it has to be said that the kid did a great job playing creepy little Tommy....you don't know whether to hug the kid or pop his head....cute and annoying all at the same time.Jason and Trish's final battle in this one is DEFINITELY one of the best in the series, and the chase scene is absolutely incredibly filmed as Trish is chased from house to house, hacking Jason with hammers, TV's, and machetes and taking a brutal beating herself.One of the creepiest moments in the film comes when Rob is surprised by a noise, turns around, and Jason can just BARELY be seen walking away from his tent.....might just give ya the shivers.Check this one out if you are new to the series....thanks to the fantastic montage before the opening credits, you will be fairly well versed in the past story (yes, there is a story, and as low-budget horror series' go, F-13 manages to keep a pretty good continuity track). Between gratuitous gore, lots of bare breasts, and one of the funniest dance sequences in cinematic history, you will enjoy The Final Chapter....but a word of warning....you might not want to eat bananas for a while! "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Friday The 13th","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After donning the now iconic hockey mask and choosing the machete as his weapon of choice, Jason returns to slice more teenage fodder to ribbons in this pretty amusing sequel, my favourite in the series along with 6. All the regular slasher hallmarks are here to sustain the predictability level for the teenage target audience but this one is slightly saved by introducing a self-referential character twist, with Corey Feldman playing a horror-obsessed kid who might know how to deal with Jason. Perhaps a nudge to the postmodern route the slasher sub-genre would take after the introduction of a Nightmare on Elm Street in 1984. This is quite ironic seeing as by this time the Friday the 13th franchise wasn't going to win any awards, so instead just churned out films that were deliberately bad, (which the awful original tried not to be but was), but remained true to the slasher aesthetic, whilst keeping the body count high and keeping alive the most popular character, that of the masked psychopath Jason Vorhees.6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Top 3.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie includes two of my favorite deaths and one of the best laugh out loud parts in this series. It's also one of the bloodiest and goriest of the series (which is a good thing). I rated this movie like any other movie and that's why it only gets a 6. But a 6 in the Friday series is quite good (most of them are fun trash).I personally like Crispin Glover's ridiculous dance and his gory death. He must have improvised that dancing part. Corkscrew in the hand and blade in the face is my idea of a good death for this series. Also I liked the guy in the shower getting his face crushed in. That was fun.The death of Jason at the end is well done effect wise but I thought Corey Feldman did a terrible job of acting; kid actor or not.If your looking to watch one of the Friday the 13th movies this is what they are really about. Have fun. "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the Series","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 4 is definitely a great horror film and one of the best of the series. Gratuitous nudity, violence, special effects, and Cory Feldman freak out scene make this a great part of the 10 part series (Freddy vs. Jason not included).What we have here is standard for the storyline with a few new elements. The story starts right where the 3rd movie leaves off with the police arriving at the barn and taking a seemingly dead Jason to the morgue. Of course at the morgue Jason wakes up and brutally murders the coroner and a nurse. Now for some down time in the movie to introduce some characters. Tommy Jarvis (Cory Feldman) is introduced as a 10 to 12 year old kid obsessed with horror movies and masks and his older sister whom is not well developed, but you care for her anyway. Introduce a group of kids to party out in a log cabin next to the Jarvis' and you now have a group of people for the slaughter. And last, but not least, the guy who is hunting Jason down for murdering his sister in the second film.As with the first 4 Jason films, they are a lot of fun and definitely some of the more violent out of the series. Tom Savini does a great job with the death of Jason. Cory Feldman was great as Tommy being the one to defeat Jason (not once and for all, though). You even see Crispin Glover in this movie acting like a complete fool (dancing scene).If you haven't seen this Jason flick you are missing out on a great part of the series. Check it out. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Jason is back...with a vengeance!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The DVD poster of Friday the 13th The Final Chapter doesn't really justify how good the movie really is; the poster looks very cheap in comparison to the other Friday the 13th movie posters. But don't judge this film by its poster; this is arguably the best Friday the 13th sequel.The movie starts off with a recap of scenes from the last 3 films. Then after that, the police and paramedics arrive at the scene of the massacre, where the teens and bikers from the last film (part 3) were killed. Jason's body is discovered laying on the floor of a barn, and he is assumed dead. However, Jason's body disappears from a hospital's morgue, and then our attention is focused on the Jarvis family and 6 carefree teenagers who moved in next to the Jarvis house...The way Jason kills his victims in this movie is very impressive. There are scenes where he stabs them in the most unlikely parts of the body, and there is even a scene where he uses a saw to cut open a man's throat! In addition to the killings, the blood pouring out of Jason's victims looks very realistic.The movie has a great cast when compared to the other Friday the 13th sequels. Corey Feldman stars as the younger brother of the leading heroine, and Crispin Glover is absolutely hilarious as a sensitive teen (watch his funny dance scene!). There are also two cute twins starring in the film Camilla and Carey More. Although both twins look the same, I liked Camilla much better. She was cute and sexy at the same time.And thanks to the makeup artist Tom Savini, Friday the 13th fans will be happy to see the most hideous and believable face of Jason. When compared to the other Friday the 13th films, Jason's face looks the most realistic in this one. You have to see his face in this film to believe how terrifying he REALLY looks.The bad part of this movie is that we don't really get to see much of Jason most of the time. Since most of the film is shot in the night, it's difficult to really see Jason. But I guess that's the whole point of the Friday the 13th movies, because there must be darkness in order to feel afraid of Jason.Overall, this is the best Friday the 13th sequel. It has great makeup effects, an interesting cast of characters, and the best Jason face. Only see it if you are a fan of the Friday the 13th films and other horror movies.I give this movie an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Ted...where the hell is the corkscrew?? TED???","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There was a time, back in the day, when the Friday the 13th movies were meant to scare you, not make you laugh. No movie in the entire series does this better that Friday the 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter. This is the DEFINITIVE Friday the 13th movie. Part 4 has the best of everything!! Story, cast,(Corey Feldman, Crispin Glover, Lawrence Monoson), graphic violence, killings, AND Jason. Immediately picking up where Friday the 13th Part 3 (the 2nd best of the series), Friday the 13th Part 4 was such a brilliant addition to the franchise. For those who haven't seen the series, Part 4 is not a bad place to start, or finish. We get a great little campfire story (courtesy of Part 2) and a lot of great death sequences (from the 3 movies past) within the first 5 minutes. We also get real acting, & actual character development with the Final Chapter. This was the last movie in the series that was actually made AS a horror film, and not as a cult film. And this movie does scare! The killings in the Final Chapter are original and beautifully executed. Corkscrew to hand-then cleaver to face, spear gun right in the groin (YEAH BABY), banana vomiting, and 2 WONDERFUL crashing through the window sequences (one with twin Tina, the other with Trish) that still manages to frighten me to this day. The shower seen is pretty awesome as well, and even the dog isn't safe in this one! Awesome!! After Part 4, the franchise became almost a joke, and the films that followed are nothing but camp. They are still good and watch able, but they weren't intended to scare the heck out of ya! Friday the 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter does it all, time and time again. This film has gone under rated and without credit for many years. Many people say that the original Friday the 13th was the best, but I highly beg to differ. Part 1 WAS the original, but it's somewhat slow paced, and Tom Savini's masterful special effects are much more evident in Part 4. Tom was really on top of his game by the time The Final Chapter went into production. Part 1 has the scariest ending, I'll give it that. If you want to see Jason at his peak, when he was a total bad-boy and really did some butt kicking, then look no further than this classic film in horror cinema! This really was The Final Chapter; in more ways than one. "},{"Title":"One of the best Friday films","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is, in my opinion, one of the best Friday the 13th films out there. Unlike any of the others, it picks up right where the one before it (part 3) leaves off. It does have its slow points, but the characters can be easily related to by teenagers. Jimbo (a young Chrispin Glover) and Ted are some extremely laughable characters that really make you feel like they are old friends you knew from high school. This movie also spawns the character of Tommy Jarvis, played by Corey Feldman, who returns in 2 more sequels, which is the only character other than Jason to do so. I think this movie has the scariest Jason, although others would argue that Kane Hodder,not Ted White, is the best Jason. If you are a fan of the slasher genre, check this flick out, it's a blast.  "},{"Title":"Above-average gore effects, below-average script","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th- The Final Chapter (1984) Kimberly Beck, E. Erich Anderson, Corey Feldman, Barbara Howard, Peter Barton, Lawrence Monoson, Joan Freeman, Crispin Glover, Alan Hayes, D Joseph Zito. Once he's out of the morgue, Jason goes back to Crystal Lake to kill campers again . . . this indeed isn't the final chapter, when's it going to end? The makeup gets an up-grade from Tom Savini, but it's not enough to stop killing its audience from boredom. Running Time 90 minutes and rated R for gore/violence, nudity and language.RATING * ½ (out of ****)    "},{"Title":"oh yeah","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is the best movie on the subject of self esteem. It has crispin glover saying oh,god..I'm so horny. If that isn't enough for you, your life is too complicated. besides all that. it is corey feldman's best role ever!!!! I believe it is his ticket back to the big time. Tommy jarvis one more time! "}{"Title":"One of the best entries in the Friday series.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best entries in the Friday series. This time Jason, following the events of part III escapes from a local morgue and wrecks further havoc on a group of unsuspecting teens and a family of three who live next door. Plenty of blood and gore follow Jason's path until the victims are down to next to none. Paramount was originally going to end the series here, but the high box office total would make them unleash Part V on the world hardly a year later. If the series were to have ended here, this would have been a fitting finale. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter? Yeah Right.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another terrible installment that is just barely above the dreaded turkey status. Jason is back but not even he can escape death in this installment or can he? Anyway the main attraction here are special makeup effects as the film did have higher production values than most of the others in the series. Overall though the film is still a waste of money and more importantly time. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Friday the 13th Series Is Like the Energizer Bunny. It Just Keeps Going and Going and Going.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      Going and going and going is the theme for the Friday the 13th series. It seems that it will never end, and with Jason X (Friday the 13th Part 10) hitting the theaters a few days ago, it adds onto this horror series. This wasn't the greatest movie on the planet. Okay, I was surprised to see Corey Feldman in this, after seeing him in the brilliant film Stand By Me, and also Kimberly Beck wasn't that bad of an actor. This movie was okay, and that's all I'm going to say. I give Friday the 13th The Final Chapter a 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Great. A Pure Pleasure","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This, Along With All of the Friday the 13th Films, is Great. In this one, However, We find a Man Looking to Stop Jason. He Also Has Suffered much Publicity. In Others Before it, They Teenagers Have no Clue What so Ever, But in this one they know who he is. We find this more towards the Last Half Hour. The Film and Scenes in the Movie itself contain many Clever Deaths, Like The Shower Scene. We Also Find Jason a Bit More Angry than he was in Earlier Films. We See This is he Dashes at Tommy and his Sister in the House like a Determined Football Player, Rather than Walking. Recommended for Fans of Horror. Contains Much Gore.  "},{"Title":"Very personal...symbolic of Jason's motives","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not the Final Chapter, but the final really good Jason movie that a true Jason fan will get.  Most of us will stop here, or at Jason Lives depending on your feelings for Part 5.  Personally, I believe this film deserves at least a rating of 5.2 on its own website, but I am not the judge.  But I can be the judge of what I believe is pleasing for the eye to see.The Final Chapter is the final chapter in which Jason is still somewhat 'alive.'  He can still run in this movie, and still seems somewhat scary as he hovers in the doorways and mainly in the darkness.  This movie also has so much symbolism, plot, character foils, and such that it is a masterpiece next to the original.  The setting is totally remarkable(the two adjacent cabin-houses with numerous windows), and the characters are not the usual cardboard cut-outs from the previous three films.  This is my all time favorite Jason sequel to date.  I LOVE the cast (especially the sweet, charming Barbara Howard who plays Sara).  And don't question me why, I just do.  It's neat to see Corey Feldman so young.  Reminds me of myself.  A little 80's horror movie FREEEAK!  I rate all of the Jason sequels with either 8-10.  But this movie REALLY DOES deserve a solid 10.  There is a pleasantly large body count of 13, corny sex scenes, enough dialogue, enough plot, and so much gore that even I have to close my eyes.  Now that is seriously bad!  Rarely will a movie do that to me.But back to the effective, amazing symbolism.  If you are a TRUE, a true Jason fan, then you will be able to see how director Joseph Zito uses Jason's motives to be the cause of his slaying in the end (which is also a very memorable scene in the series).  Director Zito portrays the Jarvis family (the main characters in the movie) as the simple, backwoods, rarely-go-to-town type of family.  Kind of like Jason and his mother used to be.  And it's official, Jason Voorhees kills camp counselors because one killed his mother, and Tommy (Feldman) killed Jason because Jason killed his mother.  Now would you look at that!  Perfect directing!  Bonafide symbolism.  It makes perfect sense.  Now if only they would have stopped here with Jason dead and buried for the same reason that he killed his victims.  It just goes to show that you don't mess with a boy's mother.  Or you will pay the consequences.Truthfully this movie should have at least five points on the site because it is just as good as part one.  If it would have been part one, and the only one, then people would look back now and say Hey, that was a great movie!  But they've been ruined by sequels, as the saying goes.  But I seriously believe that not enough people have seen The Final Chapter enough to respect it.  I grew up with them.  They provided my entertainment on those boring Friday and Saturday nights when I was too young to go out. Besides, its practically Feldman's debut.I give it a solid 10/10!  Sure, it's gross and may be considered inhumane to want to watch it, but so are you!  Nobody's perfect.  Have a good time while you live.  Watch Friday the 13th Part 4, and you'll be satisfied with yourself.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"The best of the 9","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th - Final The Chapter is the best of the 9 Friday the 13th movies. A lot of violence, a lot of blood and incredible death scenes. Jason resurrects of the morgue and back to Crystal Lake, but he's killed by a 12 year old boy, Tommy  Jarvis. Jason's death is incredible, as the whole film. Terror fans, don't lose that film. It's too much. Gore 10; Sex 8; Violence 9; Plot 8; Cast 7; Crew 8; Special Effects 10; Script 8; Music 8; Overall 9,5. "},{"Title":"The best.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has it all. The highlight is when Corey Feldman gets chased by Jason- fun!Jason kills many people... as usual. But this one is one of the best Friday the 13th films ever made.I'll be voting a 10. "},{"Title":"The Best in The Series!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best in the series, this is the first film where we actually see and know that Jason is dead.  The beginning is very slick, picking up right after Jason has a hatchet buried in his head, although there are some continuity problems (Part III ended in the morning, this one begins the previous night).  Tom Savini's special effect are top notch (check out the ending machette slide).  The plot isn't as bad as others (Part 5), and there are even some moments when you might actually jump out of your seat. And don't forget, a young, pre-addicted Cory Feldman plays the role of Tommy Jarvis.  Check it out horror fans.  Enjoy it, but skip Part 5 (unless you like mindless gore). "},{"Title":"How do they keep it so fresh?","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Basically... if you're thinking of watching 'Friday 13th The Final Chapter' (which you probably already know ISN'T the final chapter by a long shot) the only thing you need to know is that it's pretty much the same as the three before it. So, if you liked them, then you'll probably like this one, too.Part 4 of any franchise is probably not a great place to start. Although, you probably won't need to know much back story to 'get' what's going on. As with the previous three instalments... a group of over-sexed teens go into the woods, only to be slaughtered by a masked killer.Yes, Part 4 introduces a 'child' into the mix, but that's about as different as we get here. In summary, if you're new to the franchise, start with Part 1 and, if you like that, carry on. Part 4 is the same thing.Although... it may be worth giving this film an extra star (taking it up to four) based on Crispen Glover's dance moves &#x96; seriously... it has to be seen to be believed.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Another entertaining sequel, better than Part III","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a gorehound at all and only occasionally watch slasher flicks, but I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th franchise, which started in 1980 with the mega-success of the first film. My appreciation has nothing to do with nostalgia since I didn't become a fan until I was well into adulthood when I saw 1985's Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning on TV one night in the early 2000s. I think I like these movies because they typically involve young adults in a fun camp-type environment in the woods, which naturally stirs fond youthful memories (not that I'm that old); the presence of a lunatic unstoppable killer &#x97; who increasingly becomes an infernal monster &#x97; just adds an air of danger and suspense to the dramedy and adventure. Add scores of gorgeous females and various filming locations around North America and you have a fabulously entertaining franchise that has yet to end. It's the camp-like settings of most of the series and the unstoppable malevolent force that is Voorhees -- Jason, his mother, or anyone under his diabolic spell -- that especially sets Friday the 13th apart from similar franchises.The first two films are serious in nature with the expected antics of youths on vacation in the woods, but the franchise introduced a campy element with Part III, which pretty much plagues the rest of the series until the reboot in 2009. Not that I'm complaining much, as these films are only quasi-believable anyway. Released in 1984, Friday the 13th Part IV The Final Chapter thankfully omits the cartoonish elements of Part III and serves up another take on the same basic story. This time several youths go out to one of their parents' vacation home on Crystal Lake to party where they meet the sister and brother from a nearby house, Trish & Tommy Jarvis (Kimberly Beck and Corey Feldman). Then Jason attacks! Like Part III, this film was shot on the West Coast instead of the East Coast, specifically Santa Clarita, CA, and nearby Topanga Canyon, which is 30 minutes south of Santa Clarita. The geography is obviously dryer than the first two films, but this won't make much of an impact on most viewers.As usual, the film features a nice assortment of women. This time out there are no minorities like the previous film; the ladies consist of five white girls and a good-looking mother. Trish is easily my favorite -- the best heroine yet (until the next film, that is) -- but they all have their points of interest.Many people find these films scary and shocking and the first two movies have some slightly chilling aspects, some of the others as well, but &#x97; with the exception of the 2009 reboot &#x97; I don't find these movies particularly scary, although they have loads of jump scares. They're sometimes creepy, sometimes suspenseful, sometimes exciting and always fun & entertaining, but not very scary, for me anyway. In fact, I usually bust out laughing at the inevitable death scenes.BOTTOM LINE Despite it's title, Part IV is far from the Final Chapter. There would be four more sequels before the 80s even ran out! In any case, Part IV is another entertaining segment in the series with a new assortment of characters and a new female protagonist. This sequel is notable for introducing the character of Tommy Jarvis and hinting at the lingering diabolic Voorhees spirit. Like its predecessor, Part IV was shot in dry Southern California and Jason, with his iconic mask, is bigger and more imposing than in Part II. While the movie is a step up from Part III it's not as effective as the first two films, largely because of the uneventful mid-section and the lame portrayal of Jason in the last act, although his unmasked face is great.The film runs 9l minutes and the uncut version 97 minutes.GRADE B- "}{"Title":"The Final Chapter was the first Friday the 13th I ever watched.","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The start of the film begins with a montage from the 1st 3 films and then we go to Higgins Haven where the conclusion to Part 3 happened. Jason is taken to a local hospital where he comes to life killing two. He heads back for Crystal Lake to cause more mayhem. We meet the Jarvis family (Tommy, Trish and Mrs. Jarvis) who are the typical family. Across the way a house is rented by partying teens. Also Robis in the area hunting Jason after his sister was killed in Part 2. Jason kills everyone until the conclusion in the Jarvis house.First off this film is one of the best horror sequels ever. People would argue it's nothing more than a hack and slash film with dumb teenagers but this one actually deals with teen issues like a girl losing her virginity. At some moments it feels like a John Hughes styled movie until the deaths begin.All the deaths in this film are very stylized and creative. Tom Savini once again outdid himself, Savini did his last good effects work on this film I believe. He teams up with Joseph Zito again who both worked on The Prowler together.Ted White gives the best performance of the character ever. He was menacing and creepy. The scene where he breaks through the door is frightening yet cool. Harry Manfredini gave a terrific score. And this is actually one film I can Corey Feldman in.For me this was the high point in the series. Jason was a villain and not the anti-hero he was in later films. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter...JUST KIDDING...but it does represent a turning point","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th 4 The Final Chapter represents a lot of really important things to the entire series. While of course its not actually the final chapter by any means it does sort of tie up the first segment of the series, and begin a new turn in Jason Voorhees. It also enters the first character to become a regular in the series, a nemesis of Jason's in the form of Tommy Jarvis. Jarvis continues on in character through the next two films and personally I love a slasher series that uses a re-occurring hero as much as a villain. I thoroughly enjoyed how they opened this instalment with Jason being brought to the morgue after being apparently killed at the very end of Part 3. Its very true that if you nit pick the inconsistencies in story and characters from one film to the next you will find plenty but I also think they work very hard for a low budget horror flick series to keep continuity alive and not leave things behind. Some key performances in this one make it that much better because usually despite some okay performances the cast is sort of just casualties for Jason or a means to an end of the particular film.80's Master Corey Feldman brings the character of Tommy Jarvis to life. Feldman is terrific as the youngster who finds himself in the middle of the slaughter. He is really the first kid to be involved in the Friday franchise other than Jason himself. He brings a certain spark to the cast and is terrific. I wish he had came back for future Friday films other than small flashbacks. Quirky and eccentric actor Crispin Glover is great as Jimmy. He has this inane knack of making awkward funny and adorable and he has a charisma on screen. Kimberly Beck plays Feldman's older sister and while it might seem that she is meant to be the scream queen of this instalment she really isn't. She has a small role and doesn't get a lot of character development like Feldman does. Veteran actress Joan Freeman has a similar role as Beck as Mrs. Jarvis, Feldman and Beck's mother. Her role is significant and yet at the same time she doesn't get a ton of screen time. Camilla and Carey Moore are the eye-candy twins of the film and they fill their role appropriately. Ted White picks up the role of Jason Voorhees and I think he gives the best Jason performance to date. There is something truly ominous, angry and powerful about White's Voorhees.Exploitation, B-Movie director Joseph Zito helms this instalment and given his experience with exploitation films I'm surprised Part 4 wasn't more violent disturbing and nudity filled. I mean it probably has your typical Friday the 13th amount, although IMDb states that this film had the most nudity but I don't think that's true. What's great about The Final Chapter is they really do try to bring everything full circle. With the character of Rob Dier, they tie it together by making the brother of Sandra Dier from Part 2, they show plenty of flash backs, and clips bringing the whole together, and of course giving him a foe in Tommy Jarvis. I feel like this one could have been truly outstanding though. They could have used the Jarvis vs Voorhees angle so much better, and the kills were a little stale compared to previous entries. Still this is a great wrap up to the first part of the series before it essentially gets a little kick start into the future. Keep reading my reviews as I review every single one of the films in order and you'll see what I mean. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Would have made a great send-off","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" All great things must come to an end, and in 1984 Paramount felt it was time for this to pass for the popular 'Friday the 13th' series. Number 4 in the series had all the right stuff to make not only another great slasher flick, but also a fitting end to the series. We saw the return of Tom Savini for special effects, a return to Camp Crystal Lake, the addition of a horror buff to go up against ol' Jason, and a title that guaranteed this to be the series swan song, but was it? Pros Though unnecessary, the opening recap of the previous movies is really well put together. Another good, likable cast. Has some of the bloodiest and most memorable kills in the series. Great effects by Tom Savini as usual. A decent amount of good humor. For a man who was uncomfortable in the role, Ted White was pretty good at being a scary Jason. Fast-paced for the most part. A good score that combines classic stuff with some chilling new themes. An exciting and scary final 10-11 minutes.Cons Aside from the addition of a kid, this one is pretty much a rehash of it's predecessors. Pace drags just little bit in the middle. A couple really major plot holes, like Jason's look, which is really inconsistent with the previous two sequels.Final thoughts Had they really only done 4 'Friday the 13th' movies it wouldn't have been bad at all. Each one is great in it's own right and they compliment each other well. But I'd be lying if I said I wasn't glad they opted to continue the series for years to come. But that's a whole story in itself.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Final Chapter,  My...","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Weak, supposed ending to the atrocious series that, like its protagonist Jason, never seems to just die and fade away. The film opens in yet another derivative manner from Halloween II with Jason visiting a hospital as a dead body. Jason; however, gets remarkable healing and then practices his brand of terminal medicine on a pair of staff workers who naturally have had time to disrobe and at least think about having sex. Well, two houses in the woods on Crystal Lake are the focal point of the film. One house has a mother and her two children, grown-up, attractive daughter and nerdy, pre-adolescent Corey Feldman whose hobby is making horror paraphernalia(particularly masks) better than the average FX guy. In fact the masks and the special effects are courtesy of Tom Savini who decidedly does have talent. The other house has just been rented by a group of...here is the big surprise...teenagers who have nothing but hormones on their minds. Well, what do you think happens next? And that is what happens next, and again, and again. 13 times in this film. The death scenes are typical and have been done over and over again. We even get what has now become the obligatory kill em in the shower and kill em in the bed after they have done the deed scenes. Savini at least does a better job here than those FX guys on the series's films he did not work on, but hey! this is some old, tired stuff even by the fourth installment. Acting honors go to no one(one must be able to act!) Yet, a young Crispin Glover shows signs he might be around after the rap party. There are two bright spots in Camilia and Carey More as two hot sisters that talk alike, walk alike, and even dress alike. What a crazy pair! Obviously, this was not the final chapter. Trash novels, I guess, will always be with us. "},{"Title":"Best Friday film","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having recently watched all the Friday the 13th films again in a short period of time I've come to the conclusion that The Final Chapter is the best of the bunch. This was the last entry that took itself seriously as a horror film and it was intended to be the Final Chapter in the franchise. The filmmakers went all out to deliver a fast paced thrill ride meant to be scary and they succeeded at it too.The film uses elements from the previous three outings and compensates for several things lacking from them. The slow pace of the original and completely pointless middle section (that could be part 2 as well) is avoided here by keeping the action going on in several different locations and therefore never slowing too much down. The cast here is the best of all Friday films and it also has a very likable family at the center of everything, I think most would agree. The story is expanded on somewhat with the added inclusion of a family member of a former victim coming to Crystal Lake to actually look for Jason.Joseph Zito is a bit more stylish director than Sean S. Cunningham and Steve Miner and the look of the film is much darker and better than the previous three. The shower scene in particular looks good (though it looks quite a bit like the one in The Prowler, another Zito directed slasher). The makeup effects are very good, with Tom Savini the master behind them. There's some decent grue on display here and some kills are among the biggest highlight of the series. The ending has some very nasty effects on display when Jason is... I won't spoil it.Although the original is the only film in the series with the classic stamp on it, The Final Chapter surpasses it in many ways; it's more fast paced, has a bit more story, better actors and characters, a very angry, cruel and inventive Jason in peak form (he really sticks it to the teens this time around), better makeup effects, more stylish and darker look and a hell of an ending to wrap things up (for a year anyway). "},{"Title":"Jason-Entry 3 80's Horror Movies SUCKS!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First of all am a big fan of horror movies. I like to see all the F13 movies but most movies made in the 80's got lot of boring elements, and this one is not an exception.Friday the 13th  The Final Chapter (Spoilers******) For People who came late, the original film tells the story of a psychotic woman Pamela Voorhees who lost her little son Jason in the Crystal Lake camp. She eliminates a group of teenagers who have come to reopen the camp, but in the end she was murdered. Then in the second chapter her son comes back as a grownup (masked) man taking revenge for his mother. In the third installment he just goes for more killings and takes a new appearance by wearing a Hockey mask.This sequel starts from where the previous sequel left off, continuing from same day of the previous movie, Jason wakes up in the hospital where everyone thought he was dead and returns to Crystal Lake for more killings.Directed by Joseph Zito this sequel tells the last days of 'living' Jason. That's right, the HUman Jason Voorhees's death occurs in this installment thereby 'officially' ending an era of Human Jason; I think that's why the producers gave the title 'Final Chapter'! For that reason I think this sequel have some importance. (In my view since sequels II-III-IV occurs on same continuing periods, they can closely consider as F13th Second Part Trilogies!). But hey Jason never quits, he re-lives in the coming sequels, more specifically in the 6th Part (because in the next sequel, part 5 the story completely deals with this movie's arch enemy called Tommy Jarvis, on the shades of Jason!).Scripted by Barney Cohen for the story of Bruce Hidemi Sakow, makes the continuing story of psycho-maniac-killer-machine Jason Voorhees. With a body count of 13 plus 1 for Jason himself, this sequel tried to provide a final part to Friday franchise with some strong characters. But the major problem was the script didn't have a good narrative strength, usual boy-girl stuff, boring story telling, lagging events, stupid suspense, almost everything is present here! Camera works done by S. Phillip Sparks, Jerry Karman, Steve Barnes and Randy Nolen under Joao Fernandes were good. But the editing done to those footages by Joel Goodman and Daniel Loewenthal Sucked! The soul for this chapter is provided by Harry Manfredini, but he failed to give a tensioning score.The big surprise in this movie was Crispin Glover, I was amazed to see him as another teenage George McFly again, it was fun. And as for the Jason whose last appearance as human, Ted White did a great job.All in all it's a great movie if you can tolerate some boring lagged suspense we usually encounter in the 80's F13 movies so I would give this movie 1 out of 10.Friday the 13th  The Final Chapter = Final Chapter of 2.nd Sequel Trilogy! "},{"Title":"The first of many final chapters...","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the many challenges that a horror franchise faces throughout its existence is that of how to keep each episode fresh. The makers of the FT13 series had an answer to that question on at least two occasions, but the pressure of the lowest common denominator forced them to ignore it both times. Not that this is surprising. By the time part four rolled out of the gate, they had firmly set themselves up to appeal only to the lowest common denominator. It's all their fault.Unlike parts one, two, three, five, six, seven, and eight, part four contains actors who have worked in other productions since. While Corey Feldman has had a less than stellar career due to typecasting, he does turn in a considerably better performance than is the norm for the FT13 series. By comparison to the entire cast of part six, Corey deserved an award of some kind here.Part four begins with a recap of all the grisly events of the previous three parts. No mention is made of the cloth bag, the disco theme, or Betsy Palmer. Not that these elements really make for much of a difference, anyway. Given that Tom Savini allegedly only participated in this film in order to kill off the character he'd created, that should tell one something about what depths the franchise had plummeted to in just four short episodes. Obviously, the producers thought at the time that this really would be the final chapter, too. Given that seven more films featuring Jason have been released since, I guess we all know how that worked out.To the film's credit, it does manage to come up with some inventive and gory kills. The gore factor is even still impressive after the customary castration by the MPAA. Who knows what sort of wonders of make-up effects we'd have seen if the MPAA would only just realize that adults watch films, too. But I digress. Blood and gore, as impressively realized as it might be, is not going to save a film with a poor story.The story is pretty much the same as almost every other FT13 film. Jason awakes somewhere near Crystal Lake, a bunch of teens go to some remote location nearby, the teens get amorous, Jason kills most of them, end of story. It is the inclusion of the Jarvis family, in particular Tommy, that gives this episode a distinction from the other ten. Nothing else, save for the infamous machete face-slide, can really save the viewer from forgetting which sequel they're watching. I don't remember anything else about this film, and I am not sure I would want to.Not surprisingly, I gave FT13 part four a one out of ten. Unlike parts three and six, I don't wish I could give it less, but this is faint praise considering it took them another seventeen years after this episode to make a watchable Jason film. If you're not fussed about quality, then there is a slim chance this film might work for you. Otherwise, don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Better than I remembered it","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cold start opening has an overview, in flashbacks, of the events of the first three films. Interesting start, as we then jump to the night of Saturday the 14th, with the medics and police cleaning up the crime scene from part III. Had that ever been done by any movie before, showing the aftermath of the previous film's slaughter? Then, after they've cleared out , we're left with the haunting quiet of the farmhouse by Crystal Lake, in the pitch black night.That quiet doesn't last long, as Jason, still clad in his recently acquired hockey mask, is taken to a local morgue. (wouldn't they have taken of his hockey mask?) He either wasn't really dead, or comes back to life, to saw and stab a pair of orderlies, and disappear into the night. After an undetermined time period, he heads back to Crystal Lake, where another group of obnoxious, teen-aged meatheads are just settling in for a weekend party next to a cabin inhabited by Corey Feldman's monster mask-loving character and his family.Hitchhiker Rob Dyer (E. Erich Anderson) is introduced fairly early on, made to look like he might be a killer, what with his large hunting knife and suspicious demeanor. But is he a killer, like Jason, or is he going to be the one who finally puts an end to Jason? He turns out to be the brother of a victim from part 2, searching for her killer. Unsuccessfully, as his character is unmemorably killed off during the film's climax, ruining a potentially interesting character.This has the most obnoxious, repulsive, death-worthy cyphers in this entire series. I was happy to see several of them offed. It also has a lot of violence and nudity, which is what people watch this series for, so there is no disappointment there. But again, the audience has to tolerate these pricks until they get nude and get slashed, before Corey Feldman shaves his head for some strange reason and chops up Jason with his machete.The plot is a bit unfocused, even for a Friday the 13th film, as everybody in the movie basically has an extended cameo top-billed Corey Feldman is only in about a half an hour of this movie, the same goes for Kimberley Beck and Crispin Glover. Again, the hitchhiker is made to look like he will be a major character, but is then killed off in a forgettable fashion after only a few scenes.Jason's makeup is nonexistent uncredited Ted White is just a big guy in a green shirt and brown pants and hockey mask, but Jason's face is grotesque, his death scene is brutal, so fans get the gore they've come for.My original review of this film was quite harsh. After watching it again recently, I don't think it is as bad as I said in my original review. Be forewarned however, that this film has the most obnoxious and repulsive group of cyphers in the entire series. It also has probably the best looking movie poster in the entire series. "},{"Title":"Nothing This Evil Ever Dies","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Final Chapter has definetly got to be one of the best in the series. I have seen all Fridays so many times that I have lost count, but this one I still love and can watch over and over. First of all, it's scary, the chase scene at the end keeps you on the edge of your seat. Second the acting, plot, and music all are great. Third lots of creative killing, that's why we all love Jason. This movie is worth seeing just remember that Friday The 13th is here for entertainment, watch it with friends and have fun. 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"i'll never forgive jason for this one, SPOILERS","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  good thing this wasn't the actual final chapter (the F13 series has lied about that twice already) because this is not a good way for jason to go outthe unmasking of Jason is impressive but even it can't save this pitiful movie, corey feldman is only on screen for a few minutes, most of this film is a bunch horny teens (as usual) watching black & white porneven you're desperate to see jason get unmasked, look on the cover of Castle Freak "}{"Title":"Crispin Saves!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would never have even considered watching this movie until I heard that Crispin Glover was in it.  At that, I ran to the video store and got it. As others have stated Crispin's geek dancing IS the reason to rent this. Everything else is pure crap, though I got a kick out of the TV smash, and the way Corey Feldman looked like a midget John Denver when he had his glasses on!  Recommendation Fast Forward 20 minutes, watch Crispin's geek dance, and Be Kind, Rewind. "},{"Title":"A little better than the first three but don't worry, it's still dumb.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I don't think they read the script before signing on to this bomb. Jason's at it again, for reasons I could never figure out. Jason goes to camp and he finds happy campers until he kills them. This sequel is still gory and still plotless. I don't know why they are making a tenth Friday the 13th. I bet it won't make much because after suffering through nine sequels, Earth is a little careful now. There just isn't much to say about this because it's been done before. In it's own series own movies!! If you really like Jason are like seeing people getting cut like fresh meat at a factory than maybe you should just put on a record and listen to old school bus songs. You might have a better time. I know I would. Friday the 13th The Final Chapter F "},{"Title":"More of the same.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What I love most about this film is the crap-claim in the title.  The Final Chapter!  Hey look!  There's another Final Friday the 13th film five sequels later on the same shelf!  And look!  That's not the last one either! As I wrote in my Jason Goes to Hell review, this phenomena is the most entertaining aspect of the entire series.I like how they show Jason breathing in this film, but if you look at Jason's face when he gets unmasked for the third time you notice he looks .. . different.  More decomposed?  How's he decomposing if he's still breathing?One of the favorites in the series for some strange reason.  Maybe because it has Corey Feldman?  I dunno.  It has less distinguishing features than its predecessors and successors minus the deceptive title.  I mean, Jason's virtually killing the same losers over and over again . . . and I've already made fun of 2 and 3 (neither of which had any integrity or intensity) for using these exact same techniques, set-up, and style so I found this one pretty boring.Two words describe this film perfectly Recycled trash. "},{"Title":"George McFly and a Lost Boy","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Premarital sex. Dudes making fun of what they consider less fortunate dudes. Naked bodies (yes, both sexes) and skinny dipping. People (and, uh, a dog) leaping from windows. And an unstoppable killer whose fetish is to stab from the back to the front, as if knifing someone from the front is so passé. There, that's the review people want to read. But, even for fans of horror, especially 80's psycho franchise thrillers, as I am, should be disappointed in this absolute crap. I have disliked, or even hated a few films, but rarely will one simply irritate me as 'Friday the 13th The Final Chapter' did. Obviously, it's not the last, but it could have very well been. Whereas parts 1-2 had (for the most part) realism, originality, hope for horror and completion and part III, well, III had, okay just hokey 3-D and the birth of the hockey mask, 'Final Chapter' has zero redeemable qualities. Incoherent scenes (Jason escapes a morgue locker that's only open ajar and makes no noise about it, a dog jumps through a window because, uh, I suspect no other reason than he read the script), shallow and useless characters that you actually want to see die, people doing incredibly stupid stuff &#150; just fueling the 'Scream' movies years later and a kid whose big plan is to shave his head to confuse Jason, but has no exit strategy (see the ending of Part 2 for a better scene this ripped off.) Listen I grew up on the series, I found Jason frightening, but any project, horror, Jason or whatever that is basely solely on dollars over substance, it's a disappointment. 'Final' note I love the irony of one character laughing at a B&W soft-porn film, just as I was laughing at this soft-porn film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorites sequels to Friday the 13th. There was quite a few parts that was not surprising to me. I liked the part where the two guys hook up with one of the twins, and the kids who was the special effects whiz really take charge of things when Jason made the kill. Especially when he orphaned the siblings. Jason's bloody reign of terror was not all that surprising. He killed with many methods Hacksaw Toss out the window Shadow stab Cranial Compression Eviseration Etc. You name it, he'll do it. The one undisturbed scene is when one of the girlfriends was changing clothes and the sensual matter was really played out well. That's the one scene that will be never forgotten. The movie was great though there was a little humor to it. It is indeed one of my favorites of the sequel. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"amazing...this is even worse than Part 3","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh boy.  The Friday the 13th films are not known for their well-developed characters or fiercely original plotlines, but this one is just pathetically, infuriatingly bad; it's quite a feat to eclipse the sheer awfulness of part 3, but this so-called Final Chapter succeeds.  As if the filmmakers believed the promise of the title bestowed upon them by the producers, there's even less character development, less logic, and just less going on than usual--this is a rock-stupid slasher where all the teenage characters are fixated on getting laid, the suspense is non-existent, and, as a result, there are about ZERO scares (not even those annoying fake-out scares)--credit that to director Joseph Zito, who keeps Mr. Hockey Mask out of sight for most of the film's running time.  Not that things get better when he shows up--Tom Savini's effects this time around are so sloppy, unconvincing, and the kills so rapidly-edited that it doesn't even lift this movie above the abysmal standards of the rip-offs it inspired.  As I go through this series, one film at a time, right now I have to say this is easily the worst of the bunch--but the climax, as lamely as it's executed, merits a score of 1 in my book.1/10 "},{"Title":"Words to describe this movie....","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Horrible, gay, dumb, stupid, idotic, sucks, bites, unneeded, non-scary, laughable, bad, really bad, really really bad, boring, horrid, yuck, icky, nasty, disgusting, gratuitous. This movie is sooooooooooooooooooooooo bad it makes Halloween 3 look good, ja that bad. Most Important Word to describe this movie 0 out of 10. (or 1 in their rating) "},{"Title":"Brutal and Back To It's ROOTS!!!!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Friday THE 13TH PART 33D, I had feelings about the next installment. I'm not saying it was bad but it seem to be slacking down a little. But writer Barney Cohen and director Joseph Zito surprised me by going back to it's roots and having the violence extremely brutal.Looks like that ax in the head didn't keep ole JASON down. He awakes in the hospital, only to add more corpses to the morgue, to return home to Crystal Lake. There he finds even more kids show up at Camp for some late night fun. So JASON is up to he's old tricks again. But this time he faces a boy name Tommy Jarvis(Corey Feldman), who is an make-up wizard. Can Tommy stop JASON.This is a good installment that really reminds me of the first one. That intriguing tone, because JASON still has the mask on we just don't see it until 20 minutes at the end, a way to go back to it's roots. The violence on here has darken up with brutal and disturbing death scenes. And to me it has the number 1 best death in the whole series, which is JASON'S death himself as a human. The acting is great and amusing at sometimes, thanks to Crispin Glover. But all and all, the first one is still better. If your in for a brutal film, then I recommend. The darkest in the series. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (1984)","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is awful, I saw it when I was kid and it did not scare me at all, in fact it bored me. I watched it again recently and I am pleased to say even as a kid, I knew my horror movies. I don't know why it is hailed as one of the better 'Friday the 13th' movies as their are far superior ones such as part 3 and part 6. Corey Feldman is one of the reasons that the 80s is looked on as a cheesy and tacky period in Post Modern history and once again he blew it in this movie. The guy who keeps laughing at the silent movies is probably the worst bit of casting I have ever seen. Don't get me wrong, I am a fan of the series but this one is a real let down. Don't be fooled!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Remains to see improvement since Part III","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horror icons are just hard to kill plain and simple. Hollywood studios has shown its viewers many a time that if an audience so desires to see one type of formula repeated and repeated and repeated, the amount of people it will appeal to will split. At some point viewers who will recognize the formula will get tired and want to experience something relatively new. Meanwhile, the viewers who enjoy ingesting the same material day-in and day-out will continue to watch what they find entertaining. A great contemporary example of that is Michael Bay's Transformers (2007) franchise. By the fourth entry, many of the fans from the first were not attending the screenings because the formula became so repetitive. The same can be said for the Friday the 13th (1980) franchise. What started out with a premise that caught many peoples attention, soon grew into a series of copies of itself almost on an annual basis with declining quality. Now although this entry isn't worse than Friday the 13th Part III (1982), it's showing no improvement.After proving himself worthy of heading a horror movie with his own The Prowler (1981), director Joseph Zito was hired. According to sources however he was also expected to write, but instead hired Barney Cohen to do it for him. Before this film, Cohen had only written for a couple films in the late 1970s and some TV episodes; all of which were not in the horror genre. Is also probably safe to assume he did not view any of the other films before this entry because there is absolutely no originality in this screenplay whatsoever. With a beginning to this movie looking like how writer Alan B. McElroy got his idea on how to open Halloween IV The Return of Michael Myers (1988), familiar viewers who are hoping for something new to happen in the plot will be disappointed. There is no story being told really. A bunch of sexually active teenagers (of which resemble the same set of personalities from the last three films prior) stay out in a rental home next to another family near Camp Crystal Lake. Once that's set up, Jason is all that is needed to complete the film.Aside from one character named Rob (Erich Anderson) having a motive to why he's roaming around the same area, no other character is interesting. Anderson's character is related to a victim from one of the previous films, but the continuity is even less elaborated on than the continuity from Friday the 13th Part III (1982) had to Friday the 13th Part II (1981). No other character receives any kind of development other than who's going to sleep with one another in bed. Sure, everyone has a libido but it seems as if that's all this film has. A viewer who wants to be invested in a character can not react properly if they don't learn any kind of lesson. With that said, much of the characters on screen are just boring and make the pacing slow down. If anything, if viewers want to see what some actors looked like before they were well known this series seems to be good at doing that. There's appearances by Judie Aronson, Kimberly Beck, Crispin Glover and Corey Feldman.Playing Jason Vorhees for this entry is actor Ted White. Mostly for doing a lot of unknown parts to other films like Tron (1982) and Starman (1984), he is able to fit the look of what people know Jason to look like. As for the actual part that Jason plays in, it feels almost wasted. For anyone who has kept up with the series thus far, why must the movie project its main villain as a mysterious character? Anytime the camera scans various characters as if they are being watched, an experienced viewer knows its Jason. So why even conceal it? There's nothing about it that could get someone thinking to themselves Could that be him?. Sadly even the kill scenes are mediocre even with the beloved help of Tom Savini's practical gore effects. Although Friday the 13th Part III (1982) was more gimmicky than anything else trying to sell the 3D aspect, the kills were at least unique in the sense of trying to be three dimensional. Here, only small bits of the violence seemed inventive.Finally is camera-work and music. João Fernandes took on the role as cinematographer. For Fernandes, the camera remains steady, which is good. Anything resembling that of Jason's point of view shots remain acceptable. Is it anything to be impressed with? No but it's not bad either, it's just standard. The same would/could be said for Harry Manfredini returning to compose his signature score once more. The only problem is that sometimes even for this entry the music felt unnecessary in some scenes. With the main theme of various string progressions that gives the scene a sense of uncertainty, it occasionally feels too over dramatic. This is especially obvious when some viewers know Jason is not around. Plus, there's even jump scares for scenes that aren't even the list bit scary. It's difficult to say whether Manfredini was just on autopilot or was still trying to make the film scary. Either way, it wasn't the most effective as it could've been.For a series with such a devoted fan base, it is amazing to how dull this series is getting. Jason Vorhees will always be a menacing character but so far, he's been surrounded by uninteresting characters and has had barely a plot about himself. The music is kept the same but is beginning to miss too. Not even his kill scenes were as memorable. The only things that may be worth someone's time is seeing various actors when they were younger, steady camera-work and some of the traditional practical effects. "}{"Title":"Jason. again","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" nothing new. nothing original. few pieces who could transform the classic scene but not with great success.few drops of nudity, few special effects , not a camp but a house, same murders and teenagers. in fact, nothing surprising. only the title who seems be mark of high ambition but the result is almost boring. the Jason face, an old sexy movie, a family are not pieces who can change the impression of a not very smart movie who represents only exercise to resurrect an old idea. the chaos seems be the rule. Jason is only a mechanical puppet and the eroticism is the only solution to save the story. but it is not enough. few nuances not change all. only creates a nice illusion to be viewer of a kind of horror . "},{"Title":"The End??? You wish!!!","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Story wise... This was supposed to be the last of the series. Obviously it was so popular that never happened.So somehow Jason manages to revive himself... Which is one of the films biggest issues to be honest as they never explain HOW??? That is left until far later films with new directors.There is very little new here to add... The story follows the same formula as previous, but now the scares are not as good if I am honest...While the first three films played on your expectations and lured you to look for an attack in one place before giving you a blind side... This film only has one when one of the Twins is killed... The camera angles make it so you expect an attack from several different areas in the room and it drags out long enough for you to want to see a blade crashing down on her, Only for Jason to smash his hand through the window and throw on top of a truck below...One really good jump scare!!! THAT IT! The film's started becoming more reliant on the brutality by this time, and it lacked the suspense of the originals. Maybe it is because the franchise was so popular and the films were demanded by fans, so less effort was put in...There are great moments, You finally get to see Jason in all his glory... The face beneath the mask, And its good to see that the hero is nothing more than a child with a passion for making masks!It was a good end to the franchise overall... But typical Hollywood - It was never going to be left there... "},{"Title":"This IS  the one you've been  screaming for!","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is one of the best films in the franchise, and this is coming from someone who loves most of the Friday the 13th films. The plot concerns the Jarvis family and their encounter with Jason after moving to a house near Crystal Lake, Their is also a group of teenagers next door to them, but it's Tommy and Trish Jarvis who have to fend for themselves against Jason after all of their neighbors and their mother is killed. This film has some very cool kills, some good acting, some interesting characters, a lot of very tense moments, some funny moments, an awesome female survivor and the first male survivor of the series. So it's pretty easy to see why in enjoy this film, and why I'd recommend it to only Friday the 13th fans, but horror fans in general. "},{"Title":"Blood and Boobies, lots of Blood and Boobies","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Final Chapter is really gory, really explicit, really boobs, wait what?. Yep they really do go over board with the nudity here, I think I saw at least a flash of boob in every scene. Now it isn't just girls taking their clothes of for no reason, no that would be silly, instead they are taking showers, swimming in lakes, having sex, yeno proper reasons to take your clothes off and show boob. I ain't complaining though, its always nice to see a bit of boob outside of pornhub.The kills are really boob I mean bloody, yeah bloody. Awesomely graphic, I mean you see everything... it's great. Jasons played by Ted White and he is a scary bast@#d, he doesn't walk after you all calm and composed, hell naw he will run after you and tear you apart limb from limb. He has not got time for your bull crap, he wants your head on a platter and he will have your head on a platter god damn it.Tom Savini is in the make-up department which explains the gore, and possibly the boobies, but it definitely explains the gore. I think he also designed Jasons face at the end ,which isn't as scary as it was in The New Blood but the way Tommy slaughters him is pure, graphic, Savini awesomeness. I loves it. So overall, check this one out. Great kills, a great Jason and lots of boobies, lots and lots of boobies. "},{"Title":"great ending","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Again I am still wondered how it was possible that the Friday the 13th franchise got so many fans. Look, the reviews don't give more then 5 or 6 which isn't that good. This last in the series, as they told us then, was directed by Joseph Zito. He just delivered us The Prowler (1981) together with effects from Tom Savini. He was asked to direct part 4 and he asked Tom back again. The Prowler was released in the UK under the alternative title of Rosemary's Killer and suffered various cuts including a pitchfork into the stomach, a carving knife plunged through the top of a man's head and then slowly withdrawn, and a woman's throat being sawn with a knife in a swimming pool. Another famous shot was the fingers being cut by the killer. Savini still says that this was his best work. So again, i thought, well, they combine again so it will be worth watching. But on that point it failed again. Again, it starts with flashbacks taken from earlier parts. The killings itself aren't that gory as in The Prowler but you can see that Savini enjoyed his work here. The reason he agreed to do Friday part 4 was that he created Jason and thought that it would be fine to end the circle and kill him. Those parts were Jason is killed are well done and gory. The machete in Jason's hand and the machete in his head, well, that's what I call horror. again, it takes a while before things happen, okay, from the beginning you have some killings, the most famous one the banana and the hitch hiker but then again, it's a lot of talking and getting to know the characters. So far it's also the part with the most gratuitous nudity. Acting is okay but one person do pops up, Corey Feldman. he was just a child then but his performance is excellent. He even had a shaved head and the look at the end in his eyes is sublime. It's always creepy to see a child with a machete walking around. Be sure to pick up the Deluxe edition. It has some nice dailies sadly without sound but you can see, and hear Zito, talk about those outtakes why they didn't use it, even as they are more gory. There is even an alternative ending, again without sound but with the director telling why it was cut out. It's nice to see it, the best one so far due the last 25 minutes. That's the reason why I gave it a 6. "},{"Title":"I'd be going crazy too, with dialog *that* lousy","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Immediately following the third(and opening with a recap of the first three, at least re-edited to a sort of Greatest Hits montage this time), this has young people(hot girls(that look exactly alike, you'd think they were clones or something) that get naked... seriously, there is more nudity in this than any of the others(do note that it's of both genders), and guys who have short names that are easy to scream) moving to the woods, you-know-where. Jason(who again doesn't mind going against the title as far as the date for slaughterin' goes) decides that now's the time to start killing people there(since some of them had lived there for a while). The characters are bad and poorly acted, including Tommy, a kid who does make-up(no, it *doesn't* make sense) and whose family is annoying, Teddy who thinks he's a gift to women, and Rob, clearly hunting our unlucky number beast of a man, and yet who is fairly useless when it comes right down to it(can you say wasted potential?). Well, the one exception is Crispin Glover, who's hilarious, so much fun to watch(some will love this just for seeing him dance). There are a few creative death scenes(not many considering the body-count, heightened by there being extras in this purely for the sake of them dying), if the lack of suspense other than at the so-so climax(it doesn't reach the level of the one directly prior to this, not even remotely... we see Jason in it a bit, and the performance is OK, if also silly at points; and this has the lamest ending thus far in the series) means that you usually don't get to be scared(the fake-outs are plentiful but always obvious, you can tell if something will happen or not in this), if the butchering is drawn out to several seconds most of the time. No real stalking, hardly any build-up. The filming and editing is average to subpar. FX aren't bad. As you already know, this is *not* the final chapter. There is blood, gore, violence and sexuality in this. The DVD comes with a theatrical trailer. I recommend this only to the biggest fans of the franchise. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Among the coolest ones","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the last part of the franchise that still features the old school human Jason, and he makes a special effort for the occasion. Jason is meaner than ever here, he wants those rowdy teens to suffer damn it. Cleavers to the face, spears through the groin, that'll show 'em to go sorta near his property. Even Crispin Glover isn't safe, all bets are of. This is also the Friday-franchise at its sleaziest, the amount of T&A in this movie is truly dazzling. All of these sequels are essentially exploitation movies, but this one does it best. Because The Final Chapter absolutely can't stand being unexceptional in any way it also has the dumbest final girl of them all, she makes some incredibly interesting tactical choices. Oh Trish, thank God you're so cute. The pace is good, the actors are competent enough to remember their lines, the ending is about as creative as slashers will ever get, what more do you really want? Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Best of the franchise","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is actually another one of my favorite films of the franchise. The main reason being that the kills in this film are arguably the best so far and quite possibly the best of the franchise. Jason must have a thing against Crispin Glover though or maybe he just saw him having a spasm and seizure fit in the living room earlier on in the film. Nevertheless, I've never seen any one victim in the franchise get as much punishment as he did. First, a corkscrew in the hand and followed by a meat cleaver to the face. As if that wasn't enough, Jason nails up his corpse over one of the doorways by his hands and feet to block anyone from escaping. Then later on, rips him down the hard way. Another interesting kill is the shower scene. What makes it a bit more unique is that it's a guy who bites it this time around. Face-palmed to death by Jason's massive hand. Jason's death is also quite grotesque and spectacular. Tommy Jarvis swings a machete into the side of Jason's head and Jason falls to the ground landing face first onto the handle of the machete causing it to slide through his skull. The weirdest part of the film has to be when the dog jumps through the glass window. I mean...what the heck? "},{"Title":"Hey Ted! Where's that corkscrew?","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'd rank this one up there with Friday the 13th Part 2 as the best of the series. The only flaw, just as with most of these films, is that the MPAA slashed the murder scenes; it's even more painfully obvious here than in number 2! This is still made up for by great direction from Joseph Zito (clearly the best director in the series besides Steve Miner, who himself took a step down in quality with number 3), some fantastic (though only briefly glimpsed) make-up effects by Tom Savini (my favorite one being at the end - you'll know it when your jaw drops), and some oddball humor courtesy of Crispin Glover and...that other guy, who I at least remember was called Ted in the movie.If you didn't already know it from The Prowler, Joseph Zito knows how to craft a creepy movie, and knows how to use darkness effectively. In fact, the cinematography here is probably the best the series has seen, so kudos to João Fernandes. Incidentally, a quick IMDb search reveals that Fernandes got his start in porn, lensing such films as Deep Throat!Initially I was underwhelmed by this one simply because I felt it was just a rehash of the same Friday clichés, but listening to the commentary by Adam Green and Joe Lynch on the new DVD gave me a new appreciation of the film, and, as with most great films, it took some retrospective thinking to realize how good the film really was. But as I always say, if you dislike a film at first but find yourself getting the urge to watch it again, it probably was much better than you think. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Jason movies","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, to start of I have to say that this is NOT the best Friday The 13th movie. Many people sees this one as the best but it's not.The plot Tommy Jarvis is a kid who lives with his mother and sister. In the neighbor house, some youths moves in to the house. And guess who's after them? Jason of course. But this time, there is someone who can face up to Jason.The acting is bad, but what do you expect? It's a 80's slasher movie. But that doesn't matter. Jason is scarier than ever. Director Joseph Zito did a wonderful job directing this movie. The blowing wind, the hard rain and the thunderstorm makes this movie very dark and frightening. It has some scenes that absolutely belongs to top ten horror scenes, according to me. The movies headlight is of course, Tommy Jarvis, a young kid who lives with his mother and sister.This movie is the last Friday the 13th who actually was kind of a good horror movie. So follow my advice and watch it and enjoy it because this is a really good movie! "}{"Title":"What should have been The Final Friday 13th movie","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like how they recap the whole series from the being, showing what happened in last 3 Fridays 13th movies.Jason now been taken to hospital and then it's no long before he start's to kill again with some nice nasty gory deaths at the start movie.Then movies goes to family who live in Crystal lake and then number of other teens movie next door to them for the summer. (This movie had even Nuidty then the ones before) The acting in this movie not good from the half cast, some cast are okay for Friday 13th movie but i didn't really care Jason kills then or not.I did find some of scenes creepy and I did find Jason scary again in this movie and also found him really scary near the end of the movie.The ending was really odd but it did work as I found it really chilling.Really Good Sequel I am going to give this a 7 out 10 "},{"Title":"Friday 13th isn't really getting better...","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was hoping that after the somewhat disappointing part III, the series would pick up and improve in quality.Sadly, I was wrong.Part IV, strangely called the Final Chapter, didn't leave a good impression on me. There were only a few good scares and creative deaths that I cringed about. But it's nothing compared to the first 2 films. Those 2 are still, in my opinion, the best in the series.If you can't get enough of Jason, go watch this. Amongst all the boring characters, at least Jason is still doing a fine job.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The best Friday the 13th.","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the best Friday the 13th movie ever!! This movie has everything a Friday the 13th movie and any other slasher movie should . A group of teens on a vacation to the back woods of nowhere get killed off one by one in style. Half naked women getting chased , sex scenes , a bucket load of gore and breasts and for 1984 the days before implants. !! need i say more axes being smashed through doors , bodies being pinned to door ways , throats being slashed and machete madness make this film and guilty pleasure. watch this movie before the remake . only part 6 Jason lives comes close to beating this claming the title best Friday film ever "},{"Title":"Extraordinary chapter of the series but not the final!","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the events of part III, Jason Voorhees is assumed dead and taken away to the hospital morgue. However he isn't dead for he murdered a couple of workers and escapes back to the woods for another round of butchering. Four pals (Crispin Glover, Alan Hayes, Judie Aroson, Barbara Howard, Peter Barton and Lawrence Monoson) are out for a sexual holiday in a house next door to a family of three known as the Jarvis family with the mother (Joan Freeman), teen sister Trish (Kimberly Beck) and young Tommy (Corey Feldman). A traveling man named Rob (Erich Anderson) is on his own mission to destroy Jason once and for all but will Jason finally meet his own match? Excellent installment of the critically bashed but beloved by fans Friday The 13th horror slasher franchise. This sequel brings back the original's make-up artist Tom Savini only to have Jason destroyed and offers a great script from Barney Cohen (He-Man and The Masters of the Universe) that peppers the film with graphic violence, gore and of course a bit of humor with great direction from Joseph Zito (The Prowler). There's also some hot girls with good nudity and memorable kills such as the corkscrew to the hand to the the death of Jason, this film became one of the highest grossing entries at the box-office and was a nice way to originally be the final chapter.But don't let the title fool you cause part V came a year later as a so-called New Beginning. "},{"Title":"Not Jason's Final Chapter, But one of his More Worthwhile Ones","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am not a big fan of the Friday the 13th series, in fact while they all have a silly premise, some of them are also pretty damn boring. That being said, the fourth part, Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (yeah, right) of 1984 is, in my opinion, certainly one of the most worthwhile entries to this generally overrated series. This episode may be even more stupid than its predecessors, but at least it's good entertainment, as it improves on all the aspects one would watch any Friday film for - some suspense, a fast pace, pretty girls who occasionally bare it, and, most importantly, gruesome murders and nice gore effects. Jason definitely looks creepier and more menacing here than in parts 2 and 3, and, as opposed to most other parts, not all of the victimized teens are annoying (some of them are, though).One might wonder why people do still bother to spend their holidays around Crystal lake, when, after three films, the news should clearly have been spread by now that everybody around tends to get massacred by a masked psycho. Anyhow, logic never was the strongest point of the Friday series, and we are therefore introduced to a bunch of teens, as well as a family (an attractive mother, a hot teenage daughter and a very weird little boy who makes very cool Horror masks) who have occupied two houses in Jason's hunting grounds. Jason was supposed to be dead, but, ***SURPISE!***, he walked out of the morgue (not before butchering a few folks). One strong point is the gore here, the murders are pretty gruesome (one guy gets his head cut off with a hand saw, another gets a machete slammed in his face, etc.) and shown in explicit detail. The female cast members are entirely yummy, and blessed with exhibitionist tendencies. Then again, it seems that annoying characters can't be left out of any Friday film, and it is the same here. I couldn't wait for Jason to butcher the idiot called Ted and his idiot friend called Jimmy. Furthermore, the assumption that a 12-year-old boy would think of complex psychological strategies when being stalked by an insane serial killer is ridiculous beyond belief. Yet, this fourth part is easily one of the most entertaining entries to the Friday series. I couldn't say it's highly recommendable, but it's definitely one of Jason's more worthwhile escapades. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite sequels.","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Everybody who doesn't like the Friday the 13th movies are always asking the same question Why can't Jason die?.I say Who Cares?.Just have fun and enjoy all of the gore and death that the Friday films offer.The fact that Jason can't die makes the series interesting and fun to watch,so people really need to loosen up and have a good time.I can't say that the Friday films are as good as the Halloween films,since I think that Michael Myers is a little more interesting.Besides,Michael has more good movies and none of them were bad,except part 3 which had nothing to do with Michael.But anyway,I think that 'The Final Chapter' was a very well done sequel,despite all of the negative reviews. "},{"Title":"Not the final chapter but the most entertaining.","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well the title is a bit of a lie to the fans, because this is indeed not the final chapter. Still if it was the final chapter it would have certainly satisfied most horror fans because it is overall a great film.The cast is great and it was probably the only cast to feature some A-list stars for the time, but it was a good choice because they were probably the better actors and connected well with the core audience. There was even some great humorous scenes thrown in the mix.The brilliance of the movie is that we never really see Jason until the end, but he's there throughout the movie, killing in some of the most inventive ways the series has ever seen. When we finally see Jason, he looks completely bad-ass and terrifying, the best look he ever had.The ending is very cool too because someone was finally able to defeat Jason and sure it wasn't a perfect story arc but this specific one was a top notch horror film. I can only give it 7 because it does still have it's flaws. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Series?","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After clips with narrative updating viewers of the first three previous Friday The 13th installments The Final Chapter proceeds immediately after Part 3 with Jason's corpse being loaded in a meat wagon and delivered to the county morgue where he immediately revives to return to Crystal Lake to resume his killing spree.This installment introduces the Jarvis family, a single mother with a teenage daughter Trish and a preteen son Tommy (Corey Feldman) and their dog Gordon living happily together near Crystal Lake. Tommy viewers soon learn has a love of horror cinema and has a talent for making scary masks and props which he occasionally uses to make his sister and others jump.And Jim (Crispin Glover) and Ted two dateless geeks are the main focus of six friends renting a house beside the Jarvis place which includes Paul and his slutty girlfriend Sammy and Doug and his virginal girlfriend Sarah. Ted constantly gives Jimbo a hard time about never having a date and frequently calls him dead feck despite sharing Jim's predicament with the absence of a date himself. Most of the banter between the two always centers on poor Jim and his lack of sexual successes and his previous failures with one BJ Beatty.Once the six friends arrive at the rented house introductions are made with the Jarvis family. Tommy gets a passing glimpse at the nude Sammy through open drapes from his bedroom window before bed.On the next day, our friends and the Jarvis siblings have a chance encounter at Crystal Point that introduces more players two bicycling twins once again the slutty girl Tina and the virginal girl Terri on their way to Crystal Point with a resultant group skinny-dip. Maybe Jim and Ted 's luck has turned after all. The group nudity forces Trish to abort their fun to Tommy's mild dismay but not before their car stalls when a camper happening by fixes their car troubles. They learn his name is Rob and he is hunting bears.Rob meets the mother and Tommy's collection of masks and props. Slutty Tina is making advances on Paul. Jealous slutty Sammy plots to pull Paul's attention away from Tina. Jim is dancing *laugh*. Boastful Ted is striking out but discovers vintage porn to his lowbrow amusement. Lights go out at the Jarvises. Jim pops his cork twice. Mother's alone. Sarah gives her virtue to Doug. Trish and Tommy come home. Empty house. Jason kills bodies appear. Tommy stays Trish goes. Rob confesses. His sister Sandra was a victim of the recent Crystal Lake killings. Revealed news clippings. Rob isn't hunting bears he is hunting Jason. More killings more bodies. Tommy learns of Jason and concocts a dangerous scheme. SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS Trish and Tommy live, Jason dies similarly to the two previous installments??? leaving Tommy apparently disturbed in a final scene in the hospital with his sister. SPOILERS OVER SPOILERS OVER SPOILERS OVERThe Final Chapter may rank as the most ultra-violent of the series with Tom Savini's wizardry at the helm. There is also a great deal more character development with sympathetic qualities at work in this Chapter with slam-bang suspense when the final survivors are in the throes of their desperate plight.Another positive quality I love about The Final Chapter is it was preconceived to guarantee people jump out of their pant seats with loud deafening music stings and thunderous sound FX. I would love to see this in a theater to fully enjoy the experience. This may represent the very best of Friday The 13th and should be everyone's F13 go-to fix and should have lived up to it's boast and truly been the final chapter in the Jason Voorhees saga. Unabashedly great entertainment! "},{"Title":"great film!","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" wow this movie was really good! it was predictable, but is was great! if it would be only the title, it would be fantastic already everybody wants to know the final chapter...the acting was (believe it or not) very good and Jason was finally portrayed as the 'monster' he is without his mask, he's really monstrous, I like him that way. the ultimate hero is quite obvious from the start, but the acting in this 'chapter' is really really good.the sound was superb also, with the right boo's on the right time. the colors of the surroundings and the decor made these sounds really catching, everything you could hear, you could see (and what you couldn't see was implied by the sound). therefore the sound as well as the cinematography worked well together.I didn't suspect it at all, but the last image before the end credits was stupid.so the conclusion is that this part was one of the series' best, even though the ending is quite stupid. "},{"Title":"The final chapter... NOT!","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The part four of Friday THE 13TH series is originally called The final Chapter but it has really nothing to do with a final chapter. First because many chapters came after this one, but essentially because it ends with an open ending! Or said by other others, it was never meant to really be a final chapter; otherwise I think it couldn't have an ending like that! This sequel introduces a novelty a young boy that in the end will have an important role in the plot, but the rest is not too different from the others. A few nice deaths, the cool chilling soundtrack and some nude girls...This sequel is another one of those I had already watched when I was young, so I did enjoy reviewing it, but I must confess it hasn't the same impact it had before... "}{"Title":"Long","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The little boy Tommy Jarvis is a horror-fan and like sminks, mask and also girls.The same time comes a group of young kids to the idyllic summer camp Camp Crystal Lake. The young kids have heard about a curse that a boy Jason Voorhees has murded people around the place, but they ignore it. Later one by one disappeared and it will be worrying.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter it is not so good as the first movie and have not same exciting and horrible felling which Sean S. Cunningham did.Joseph Zito have a good directing.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is a very good movie, because of the story is good.The acting is good, but some of the actors act not so good. A young girl acts very well and have realistic moves.It is a good script, dialogs and discussions, but it is not so good script which Victor Miller made to the first Friday the 13th-movie.It is a brutal end and I will warning sensitive persons! "},{"Title":"An improvement on the third film","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Corey Feldman gets another iconic eighties role under his hat, getting the honour of slaying Jason once and for all it was originally intended to be the final chapter in the Friday series.This is an enjoyable return to slasher ville and a massive improvement on the poorly produced Part 3. There's no genius characterizations in this one. All the clichés are there. The teenage tart who hits on her friend's boyfriend right in front of her, the peeping Tom 12 year old, the horny nerd, the insecure loser who get himself some and the fragile older sister smarting internally from emotional problems.The kills are all quick, but some are creative, and most of them are getting rid of awful people you don't mind seeing killed, and in the case of the Computer Man's death you are absolutely delighted.Jason's death is suitably dramatic, with Feldman slicing and dicing with a machete to send Jason to movie oblivion, where he would stay until Part VI as it turned out.Nudity and sex scenes abound, as in every Friday film, but the kills are all sudden without a great deal of claret. An entertaining improvement on Part 3, but not really anything special. "},{"Title":"Slight step up from 3-D","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason, now transferred to a local hospital's morgue, wakes up, kills two hospital employees and heads back to Crystal Lake, where he encounters another group of people. Again it's time to start chopping up some teenagers.3-D and The Final Chapter are one of the best films in the series with their creative kills and ridiculous characters. Jason looks really good in this chapter, his hockey mask shines with blood hunger as he impales people with machetes, iron pipes and even rakes.By this point we have lost all remains of suspense and classiness from the very first films, but who cares? Jason is really out of control and gives us another pile of bodies that is the actual point in all slasher movies.The Final Chapter is an exceptional Friday -film with the fact that the people actually know who is killing them (the female survivor investigates the camp's history from newspaper articles etc.) and that one of the heroes uses Jason's own personality to make him vulnerable. Eventually Jason is defeated, but no-one will never forget him.Jason remains unseen in the next chapter, A New Beginning, and returns not before the sixth part, Jason Lives, which is probably my personal favorite Friday -movie.The Final Chapter is a slight step up from the previous movie 3-D and is by far one of the best Fridays ever made. 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The final chapter?  Hardly...","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anyone notice something strange about the title of this movie? That's right, it says the final chapter. However, an additional seven movies featuring Jason Voorhees were released after this film was made.I am unsure whether or not this was ever intended to be the last in the series, or if it was just a marketing ploy to get more kids in the theater. Whatever the case, it is one of better Friday films.As with most horror films, especially in the 80s, a cast of relative unknowns is in place, with one notable exception, Corey Feldman. Corey Feldman, best known for his roles in The Goonies, Stand by Me and Gremlins stars as Tommy Jarvis, a young boy who lives with his family in one of the cabins at Crystal Lake.Also, you might notice Crispin Glover, the actor who would go on to play George McFly, Marty's father in Back to the Future. In this film, he's one of many doomed campers to be run through by Jason.As a group of teens visiting the camp gets killed off one by one, it is Tommy who is left to save the day and stop Jason once and for all, well for now anyway. Overall, it is a typical 80s slasher film, but it's worth the rental if you're in the mood for a scary movie. "},{"Title":"Welcome Back Tom Savini","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is definitely one of the better sequels in the series. Having the Master of Gore FX Tom Savini back for all the bloody good scenes is a real step back up for the series. And having better actors is also a great improvement, especially from Part 3! We start off yet again with a recap of the first 3 films in the series, leading up to the police and emergency squad removing the bodies from the house and barn to be taken to the local morgue. Jason still lives and begins killing in the morgue before heading back out to his neck of the woods to prey on some more unsuspecting teenagers who have just moved in to the area.Lots of nudity in this one folks. Actually, this has the most nudity out of all the films in the series. A young Corey Feldman is really good in his role as Tommy Jarvis. I like the part where he's on his bed looking out his window into the house next door as one of girls are getting naked. Funny moment. So overall this was a pretty good movie. The acting was pretty good and the characters were more believable. Good for a nice late night fright flick... "},{"Title":"The Climax of the Friday series","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Who'd thunk it? Joseph Zito would be directing Friday the 13th The Final Chapter, the same man who brought you 'The Prowler from 1981. This movie is definitely if I can say so the classiest and most dressed up Friday film of them all. There is more substance with characters, the sequences are great to watch, Jason is at his most mortifying peak as far as looks go. Corey Feldman turns in a great performance as Tommy Jarvis, Kimberly Beck does a wonderful job of portraying Tommy's older sister Trish. Easily the most satisfying Friday flick of them all. I would recommend this movie to anyone who has not watched any of the films in the series yet. 10/10 no question. "},{"Title":"Good One!","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just as the series starts to decline, it comes back at us forcefully! Great work, and VERY well-done! This would have to be my second-favorite one of the series.Here, Tommy Jarvis is introduced. It's time to raise some Hell, as at long last, it looks like Jason has finally met his match. Funny thing is that it's against a little boy.I guess little kids are just more intimidating. ... Riiight... Well, this kid's certainly artistically talented, and thus tricks Jason, though I won't say how, and makes it seem that Jason can indeed be outsmarted, and quite possibly, brought to final justice. "},{"Title":"Part 4 rules!","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As far as slasher movies go, not just the Friday the 13th series, this one has always been my favorite. The filmmakers accomplish everything they set out to do. From the atmosphere to the make-up to the death scenes, it all works. Ted White is always the first Jason I think of when somebody says Friday the 13th. Mr. White set the standard for what Jason should be. You even care a little for the folks that die, a feeling that is absent from the rest of the series. The script is what you would expect from a slasher film, but most of the acting is acceptable.(You don't go into a movie like this looking for Oscar winners.) If there is anyone left that is a fan and hasn't seen this entry into the series, do yourself a favor. Pop it in your DVD or VCR players late at night, turn out the lights, and make sure the doors are locked. You are about to see Jason Voorhees at his best. This is the stuff nightmares are made of. Everything else pails in comparison. "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter?","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Really? You sure this is the last movie? Well it would have been, but the movie made so much money that they couldn't stop here, now could they? However, the final chapter or not it's still a fun movie. By this time, they have mostly given up on making Jason too scary since it was already fairly cartoony that he kept on coming back after machete hits, stabbings, and an ax in his head(most of which is documented in a nice little prologue).So, he's back and this time he's targeting a set of two cabins in the woods. Nope, no camps this time! Now, he's going after a single family and a group of horny teenage holiday makers. I guess they were trying to be original.Anyway, you can guess what happens to these likable teens.Tom Savini returns to do the special fx and make up, and boy is it a triumphant return. The FX are probably the least cut by the MPAA so they can be seen in most of their original glory on any VHS or DVD edition. And Jason's last scene? Ouch! I got the pleasure of seeing this in a theater with a bunch of screaming teenagers in 2002. I was surprised to see that it still held up so well. "},{"Title":"Better than the first 2 sequels","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jason's back...again! Boy, you just can't keep a good guy down! This film takes place the day after the events of Part 3, with Jason seemingly down for good. He is taken to a coroner's office where he escapes and wrecks havoc on another group of unsuspecting teenagers (doesn't anybody watch the news at Camp Crystal Lake?). We really don't see anything different in 1984's Friday the 13th Part 4 but we do see the return of Tom Savini's innovative gore and special effects. It features a couple of the most brutal of all Jason's murders, particularly the neck twist and the meat cleaver. If it wasn't for Savini's brilliance, I would have given this installment another 5. I also like the character of Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman) because I can somewhat identify with him. Except for what he does at the end, I don't think I could do all that. I'll give Jason's first Final Chapter a 6/10. Worth renting on DVD! "}{"Title":"Not THE FINAL CHAPTER, but it is a great sequel!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13TH PART IV THE FINAL CHAPTER (1984)starring Kimberly Beck, Corey Feldman, E. Erich Anderson, Crispin Glover, Lawrence Monoson, Barbara Howard, Peter Barton, Joan Freeman, Alan Hayes, Judie Aronson, Camilla More, Carey More, Bruce Mahler and Lisa Freeman.plot Jason Voorhees has survived the end of PART III and has set his sights on the Jarvis family and the eight horny teenagers that have rented a house next to them. Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman) is a 12-year-old horror aficionado and may be Jason's perfect match.my thoughts I don't know what it is about this 4th installment of the longest running horror series ever, but it's just great! Like the previous, this has it all Jason, the masked killer wielding a machete, Trish (Kimberly Beck), the virginal heroine, and a bunch of horny teenagers. One thing that makes this film great was that I actually cared for some of the characters. I don't know why, but I felt bad when they died. They're deaths are also gory and almost real looking, and that is because the great Tom Savini is behind the makeup effects.The climax is also fun stuff, I really enjoyed seeing Corey Feldman battle it out with Jason, it would have made a great end to the series. Oh well, it didn't, and it made way for some more great sequels, especially parts 6 and 7!***1/2 "},{"Title":"How could anyone not like this sequel?","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Far from being the Final Chapter, this fourth film in the profitable Friday The 13th series wound up making good bucks at the box office. This sequel picks right up after Part 3, with Jason being presumed dead, but he isn't of course & this time he's got plenty of victims he can prey on all of whom are staying in two cabins deep in the woods which includes, The Jarvis family & a group of Teenagers, but he also has to deal with a vengeance seeking Hitch Hiker named Rob, who's the brother of one of Jason's previous victims & who must try to protect a young girl named TRISH, her brother TOMMY & whomever else is left alive from winding up on Jason's death list. This Friday has it all, at least all the series trade marks anyways, it's filled with the usual gore, some humour and an overabundance of nudity & violence throughout, in my opinion this sequel is one of the very best in this popular & always fun series, there's plenty of suspense & good acting & directing & the atmosphere & musical score are pretty effective as well. TOM SAVINI returned to do the special effects, while CRISPIN GLOVER & LAWRENCE MONOSON provide the comedy antics (These guy's had great chemistry & were really funny, what a shame they did not do more movies together!) in terms of story the film is none to original, in fact it's really nothing more than a remake of the first film, with the same cardboard characters we usually see in films of this nature, I liked the California shooting sights though, it's much more colourful & livelier looking then the east coast locations from the first three, Director Joseph Zito, although bringing nothing new to the party, does spoof the conventions of the genre, specifically poking fun at & having fun with the sexual starved teen characters all of whom meet their (painful looking) deaths after or during a sexual act, a doctor & nurse making out near Jason's body are killed (his head sawed off) & the Nurse jabbed with a scalpel between the breasts & gutted, an unfaithful boyfriend getting a spear to the groin area & hoisted up in the air, Ted another teen is stabbed in the back of the head through a film projector watching dirty old movies, a virginal teen & his bad girl girlfriend as well as two other virginal teens who decide to give up their much vaunted virginity are killed violently for doing so, a naked girl is impaled with a blade through the boat, the banana eating hitchhiker has a blade driven through her throat, causing her to vomit up the chewed remains of the banana which could be symbolization of Fellating. If the original Friday the 13th could be described as HALLOWEEN meets MEATBALLS, the THE FINAL CHAPTER could be described as HALLOWEEN meets PORKY'S, since the film is really a teen sex comedy with all the endless sex talk, female to male nudity, lustful teens crossed with the modern day slasher with the brutal killings, suspense & atmosphere. Another thing I liked about the film & probably the reason this remains my favourite entry in the series is that the film really did intend to end the series here, however unlike most series ending films, that leave a lot of fans dissatisfied with the final results, THE FINAL CHAPTER is able to hit each nail on the head, it delivers all of it's kills (some of the best special effects & kill scenes TOM SAVINI has ever done!), nudity, suspense, great, fun, memorable characters & the portrayal of Jason (done marvellously by TED WHITE who is definitely the best stunt men to ever don the hockey mask) & Jason's hideous face (one of Savini's best works! Jason's arguably never been so ugly!) when he is finally unmasked in the final scene & his eventual violent demise at the hands of a young TOMMY JARVIS (Played by a young & talent COREY FELDMAN) & attractive cast of hot girls & guys in spades! Fans of this series should easily love this (I know I did!) despite the title several more sequels followed, the first of which was Friday THE 13TH PART V A NEW BEGINNING **** stars "},{"Title":"Good, but should have ended with this","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Friday the 13th part 4 the final chapter was good, but this should have been the last because of the title saying the final chapter. I bet when people saw this in 1984, they would of thought that yes this is the final chapter, but then in 1985, they brought out another friday the 13th movie, friday the 13th part 5 a new beginning. I was totally confused when friday the 13th part 5 a new beginning came out because of the part 4, friday the 13th part the final chapter, i thought the same, thinking that yes this is the final chapter, and then part 5 came out and Jason Vorhees was back alive and ready to kill again who ever gets in his way. I give this movie 8 out of 10, it should have been the last, but or well, looks like friday the 13th is coming out again and again with different story lines, different characters etc "},{"Title":"The most star-studded one so far!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The above statement is relative, of course, but whenever I watch old movies like these, I always watch for actors who later went on to more visible careers. I guess it would be more accurate to call this the most star-studded Friday since part 1, since Kevin Bacon's later career probably overshadows all of the semi-famous actors in this movie combined. There are some interesting connections, however. Watch for Judie Aronson, for example, who later became hugely famous for her role as Hilly in Weird Science (in which she plays the girlfriend of Robert Rusler, who you might remember getting slashed up by Freddy in Nightmare on Elm Street 2), Corey Feldman also has a pretty significant part in this film, although he looks about half the size as he did in The Goonies, which was released the year after this movie. And of course, my favorite, Crispin Glover, who later went on to costar in the massive Back to the Future trilogy, as well as the only interesting role in either of the Charlie's Angels movies. I loved his role in this movie because it fits his later iconography so well (maybe it even caused it) &#150; he's kind of the geeky guy who gets shunned by the girls and, in one of the greatest scenes in the movie, demonstrates the reason for that when he dances. WOW.At this point in the series it begins to become increasingly clear that each movie is something of a rehash of the same plot and ideas (not that you would expect anything hugely different from a series like this), especially because the movie starts off with ten minutes or so of review from the last movies, as one of the characters from Part 2 tells a story around a campfire to the latest group of Jason fodder about what happened in the last three movies. Basically you see all of the grisly murders as this guy describes them, reminding returning fans of what happened in the last three movies and informing people who jumped right to the final chapter of what Jason's all about. Sort of catches you all up without even having to watch the other three movies. It's an interesting setup this time, with a lot of kids renting out a cabin next door to a family who lives there permanently (Feldman plays the young son in this family, fascinated by the promiscuous antics of the new college kids next door). The basic message of each film having a lot of teenagers making out and getting naked and subsequently getting killed seems to take on a little bit more meaning in this movie as little Tommy (Feldman) gawks intently and wide-eyed at a girl undressing in the other house until his mother comes in and closes the curtains. Even though it's still pretty muted by the abundant killing and gore, it seems that the teens who have sex and go skinny dipping and whatnot are getting killed not only because Jason originally drowned because the people who were supposed to be watching him were making out at the time, but also because of the effect that their carelessness could have on kids like Tommy. Could it be that the Friday the 13th movies actually have a positive message?It seems even more apparent that that might be the case when you examine the target audience. I wasn't watching movies like this when they originally were released (since I was 5 years old at the time), but they're clearly geared toward teenagers much like the ones in the movies, out to have a good time with all their friends on a Friday night, and what better way than for everyone to go to a scary movie so the girls get scared and cling onto the guys? That's a pretty big goal for just about every teenage guy, to get girls to cling to him, and while I doubt the movies had much of an effect in getting them to say `You know, maybe we should wait until we're married' or something, it's still a pretty cleverly subtle message.On a aesthetic level, the film has made a huge jump from part 3. I think that for the rest of the series, there is never again as sudden and significant an improvement on the actual film quality, which seems to have been shot on genuine film, while the earlier films look like they were recorded almost with videotape on a home movie camera. The quality of the picture is much better, and there is even an extension on Jason's personality, even though I think in the end it works against the effect of the movie as a whole.In this installment, Jason does a lot of things to reveal his murders and scare his future victims at the same time. One of the bodies is nailed to a doorway (leading to the gut wrenching necessity of it later being ripped off), throws a girl through a window like a baseball, plants a body in a closet so that it will tip out when one of the kids opens it, etc. It's actually pretty amusing to picture Jason doing this, and the fact that he actually breaks into a run in this movie increases the level of campiness almost to the breaking point. There's plenty of unnecessary nudity to keep the guys happy (even some male nudity thrown in there for the girls) and lots of brutal killings in keeping with what the movies are all about. I was actually pretty impressed with this installment, but mostly for things like that actual aesthetic quality of the film itself, the performances from so many actors that I recognized from later movies, the difference in the way that Jason acted (even though the actor playing Jason, Ted White, had his name removed from the film because he wasn't proud of his performance), and the fact that the movie actually had some originality thrown in for good measure rather than just having a lot of teens go up to the lake to be rebellious and end up getting killed. The addition of a neighboring family with a young son (who ended up playing such a significant role that he stays on even for a couple more movies) was a nice touch, and while the killings were pretty much going through the motions, the movie marks a turn away from the rather rigid plotline seen in various forms the first three movies. Not a classic, and certainly not the final chapter, but this is one of the more entertaining and clever of the Friday the 13th movies. "},{"Title":"This film should have been the final chapter.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th, the Final Chapter (1984) marks the return of Tom Savini (doing what he does best) and what was originally planned to be the last appearance of that old killing machine Jason. But it was not to be. The series dragged on and on. Happily for me and the rest of the audience, the M.P.A.A. let a few things slide in this one. The gore content was surprisingly high in this film (I guess they thought this would be the last one so they let Jason go out like a hardcore G). The movie itself is pretty mundane except the final act. The only film from the series that came from the theatrical releases, the only one that I enjoyed. Sadly, the producers didn't keep their promise. Pretty soon the maniac was back for six more films.Tom Savini puts some juice in this fourth installment!!! Highly recommended if series ended here. "},{"Title":"Big improvement on one and two...","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 4 - The Final Chapter (1984) THE GOOD --Suspense is built well in this film. Long shots and takes are much appreciated and help up the atmosphere.--This is your guaranteed horror movie stuff - T&A, lots of gore - if you're a horror fan you're gonna dig it. --The final showdown is really entertaining. What happens with Tommy is deeply disturbing, as is what happens with Jason's head and eye. --I grew to like a couple of the characters here - the brother and sister worked for me. Their chemistry was good and the actors were better than usual F13 actors. --Some good dialogue between the characters, sometimes humorous or entertaining (I liked the dead f**k stuff). THE BAD --Disposable teen characters were boring. --A lot of the death settings are recycled from the old movies here...its about time they came up with a new setting aside from Camp Crystal Lake. --The F13 movies continue their guarantee of REALLY BAD LIGHTING. It's supposed to make the movie scary...it fails. Sometimes I could barely make out what was happening. --Too many fake scares. E.g. when we are supposed to believe it's Jason but its really just some random other character. The worst example of this is when the guy avenging his sister's death from part 2 slashes his own tent in half...because there was a girl in there. He even saw her go in...so why did he do it? I think he'd know it wasn't Jason. --What happened to the mum? --DUMB CHARACTERS. They really p**s me off. Yep, leave the kid alone again even though you regretted it last time. I liked Trish, but that was a stupid move. And all the teens were stupid and annoying. --Why did the boy shave his head and put lipstick on at the end? The tricking-Jason thing is SO old. RATING 6/10 DID YOU LIKE THIS MOVIE? I RECOMMEND Friday the 13th (3/10), Friday the 13th Part 2 (4/10), Jason X (4/10), Halloween 2 (1981), Urban Legend (5/10) "},{"Title":"Maybe the best in the series","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely one of the better Friday the 13th Sequels. The Atmosphere of the second half of the movie is very exciting ( thanks to the rain and darkness ), the acting is OK and the Makeup FX of Tom Savini are just great. The editing is also very good, especially in the Killing Sequences because you only see the killings long enough to be shocked, but not long enough to spot how the FX worked. The movie itself is very tense and without much humor which is for its advantage. I've just bought this in Germany on DVD, after it was banned nearly 15 years and I think it really works best when you see it for the first time. It's not a masterpiece, but better than you would expect. 2.5 out of 4 "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't see why people call these films bad. I think they are thrilling,silly,and a whole lot of good fun. This is one of the best of the series. It has great make-up thanks to the return of Tom Savini. And a whole lot of great kill scenes. This episode of the FT13th saga is quite genius. It is compare able to the greatest of all horror films Halloween. Jason isn't expectable. You never know where he is. Quite good fun. Great acting,for a horror film that is. Look for a wee little Crispin Glover,and Corey Feldman. Great Fun!4/4 "},{"Title":"One of the more successful Friday's in the series.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one actually had a rather impressive box office total for a horror movie in 1984 as it grossed over 30 million.  In fact this one, the first one, and the third one are the only ones to do that.  This one is pretty good, though not my favorite...part three is probably my favorite, but I am not a super fan of the series.  This one has quite a few deaths in it and moves along quite nicely.  It features a couple of stars I have heard of in Corey Feldman and Crispin Glover.   "},{"Title":"Not too good...","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off any Friday the 13th movie is gonna be at least decent cause you can't beat a huge spooky dude in a hockey mask killing people left and right, that's always great stuff. But this one compared to others was pretty crappy. Corey Feldman is a terrible actor and continues to be annoying in this movie, just a horrible actor. The others weren't too good as usual however on the plus side this movie has probably the most gruesome killing of Jason so that's a plus. Nothin real special here that's discovered or affects the series but it's worth seeing if you like the others just realize it's far from their best, but then again it's not the worst part 9 is. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is really an improvement over Part 3. It`s got great Special Effects. Good acting,which is rare for a Jason movie. It's not scary but its really fun. Jason is great in this. The plot is much better than 3. Tommy Jarvis is really cool! The girls are the hottest in this one. The Plot,Jason escapes from the mourge,and returns to Crystal Lake to continue his killing spree. The plot is one of the best of the series. One of the best!5/5 "},{"Title":"Better than 3, close, maybe better than 2","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Part 4 AKA The Final Chapter follows the same plot only with a slight twist. This time we have a dude looking to want to kill Jason and a family who lives on Crystal Lake, along with the 20 something's, sharing in immorality, and violently dying.The movie starts out, really, really, really slow. To make up for this they add in some humor, which is basically just a guy wondering if he is a bad lay. Funny (note sarcasm). We also treated to a lot of nudity. Boobs, butts, and pubic hairs are everywhere.The acting here is a slight improvement from Part 3. The thing that brings this one above Part 3 and almost to the level of Part 2 is when the boring ends, it ends for the rest of the movie. Not to mention one of the more disturbing endings.When Jason starts going in this one he doesn't stop until the closing credits roll. This makes for a messy movie with good make up effects.It is also very predictable, but when is the last time you saw a slasher flick that wasn't? Decent little movie, good to watch if you're in the mood for blood and mayhem on a rainy night. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":" Some teenagers are renting the house next door","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kimberly Beck is annoying as Patricia in this moderate horror flick. The supporting cast is mediocre. The costumes are snazzy. One of the fair farces in the genre, Friday The 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter drops empty frights. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best of Series","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the series, by far...a young Corey Feldman is great and the film is scary, scary, scary. Much better production values than the other Friday flicks and much more and bettter gore scenes. Tom Savini's best work. "},{"Title":"THE BEST","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth installment is far and away the best in the series. Jason is now the hockey masked juggernaut we have come to know and love. The killings are extremely grapnic and gruesome, the makeup is top-notch,  and the final battle is spectacular, right down to the final shot of the new Jason (those who have seen the movie will know what I mean). Why Paramount chose to call this episode The Final Chapter is beyond me. Jason may be dead, but not for long. This is the only JASON chapter I choose to own. "},{"Title":"My favorite in the series","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We all know that Friday the 13th The Final Chapter wasn't the final chapter, but it's still one of the best one made. Tom Savini did wonders on the script and as a make up artist. The film even has some geuine scares and Corey Feldmen as a young Tommy Jarvis was and always be Jason's best oppoent. I give it *** out ****. "},{"Title":"Yes-Finally Some Variety!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I was begging for variety and I finally got it.  Corey Feldman takes on Jason while spying on some teens that get it...again.  I just loved how Corey Feldman's character was such a horror/special effects fan.  Yes, when I was his age I had similar interests.  Anyway, the climax was interesting and the film in all was excellent and fun.  Definitly as good as the original, FRIDAY THE 13TH PART IV was not the final chapter and we had to get through that AWFUL CR*P called FRIDAY THE 13TH PART V A NEW BEGGINNING before we could get another COOL sequel!  **1/2out of****Better Acting, Better Directing, and WRITING then before!      "},{"Title":"The best in the series","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY 1 was kinda' scary, FRIDAY 2 was a lot of fun, and FRIDAY 3 was just plain cheesey! So, what do I think of FRIDAY 4? I think of it as all three of the first FRIDAY films rolled together into one big, scary slasher. It starts off with Jason being taken away to a morgue, where he suddenly comes alive (they didn't even take off his hockey mask when they put him in the body bag), kills two workers, and heads back into the woods. That's where we're introduced to a small family living next to a cabin where a bunch of teenagers are staying. Young Tommy Jarvis is obsessed with horror movies, while his older sister is more interested in the mysterious guy wondering around the woods who's supposedly hunting bears. Of course he's not he's actually after Jason. And soon the teenagers next door begin getting knocked off in various gruesome ways A guy speared through the groin, a female thrown out a window, and  another guy who gets a meat cleaver in his face. So then it's just Tommy and his older sister who are left to defeat Jason.Okay, okay, so this movie is not that original, but it has a creepy atmosphere, an exciting climax, and a great cast (Kimberly Beck, Corey Feldman, Crispin Glover). Jason looks pretty darn scary in this one as well, and of course it's not without it's cheesey momments. What's there not to like?GORE 8/10 ACTING 7/10 DIRECTION 7/10 SUSPENSE 8/10 ATMOSPHERE 9/10    "},{"Title":"*** - One of the BEST in the series","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of  ****What makes this film one of the best in the series? Well, a few things1) The acting is a little better, since the cast of teenagers features some better known actors. We even get to learn about the characters a bit, and feel sorry for some of them when they meet their fate.2) The directing provides suspense and chills.3) The expected showdown with Jason is well-handled and makes you want to applaud.This was supposed to be the last installment, of course, but it made a ton of money and the series had to go on. How they went about it in the next chapter would earn THAT film my vote as the LEAST of the series (I haven't seen Part 10 yet)... "},{"Title":"By FAR the best, others not even close...","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, let me say that I'm a huge horror movie fan.  Although these movies will never be considered good by the mainstream, any true F13 fan knows that nothing else even comes close to delivering the shocks, gore, and excitement of pt 4. Jason looks great, he RUNS which I find far more frightening than the zombified Jasons of later movies. Plus he's not bullet-proof; he's as tough as nails but not invincible.  The Savini make-up still hasn't been topped. This is the hardcore, butt-kicking Jason Voorhees that fans of the series love, great job Zito!  Too bad Ted White hated this type of thing and only did it for the money, he's the best Jason ever.  But enough about 'ol hockey mask, here's what else sets this movie apart from the others-Gore, and plenty of it.  Why watch this sort of thing without it?  Only parts one, four and (ugh) nine have any gore at all.-Production values are a big jump up from the first three.-Some (gasp!) decent acting.-The Chase scene is fantastic, as is the opening which re-caps the first three beautifully.-The shocks.  The first time you see this, turn off the lights and pump up the sound.  If you don't jump you're not human.I know about the Paramount/Newline deal, so I plea to Paramount, restore these films, put the gore back in, and re-release them!  Think of how good part 2 could've been if it wasn't cut to ribbons.  Fans of the series know what I mean.  Anyway, I'd rank them 4, 1, 2, 3.  They should've stopped here, there was absolutely no need to continue this series, the rest is c**p.  The first four Friday movies ARE the Friday movies, rent them and witness a great horror saga.  Rent the Scream movies if you can't handle real horror.  If I had to rank the remaining ones, I'd go 6, 5, 7, 8, 9. I respect fans of part 6, but it's a little too funny for me.  Let us pray that Jason X turns out better than it sounds... "}{"Title":"Is this the best one of all? Oh yeah!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let's see...FT13 IV is easily the best in the series. Aside from one of the greatest performances of Corey Feldman's career we have a solid plot, great (and by great I mean really gory) murders, and lots of nudity. And Crispin Glover's dancing.FT13 IV easily has the most solid plot of all the movies up to this point, and probably of all the films. It moves right along and doesn't leave you waiting very long for someone to die or do any of the really fun things that folks do in this series.  There are so many creative and clever murders, and some genuinely almost scary scenes. My personal favorite is Crispin Glover's dancing, can I mention this enough? It is THE highlight of the series.The climax of the film is one of the most satisfying as well, being genuinely CLIMACTIC, instead of the She's the only one left, so I guess we ought to have her kill him school of thought prevalent in the earlier entries. It is exciting and riveting, and like the rest of the film, just plain cool. "},{"Title":"Better than PART 3, but still unexcusably trashy","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, guys, I'm just not feeling anything coming from this series as it goes on. Whereas the first two installments had a personal feeling, like the filmmakers had left their personal signature proudly on their excellent work, PART 3 and this one are obviously done to make money and nothing else.There are a few good things about this sequel, though I liked seeing Crispin Glover, who is always interesting, and Corey Feldman is pretty cool until the last 20 minutes, where he annoys the hell outta me. Once again, a group of horny teenagers travel to a lake (is it even Camp Crystal Lake? we never know!) for a vacation and get killed by Jason, the supernatural killer who seems to survive everything and get stronger in every sequel. Here, he's like Superman, which is a little too much for my tastes. Sort of like how Michael Myers became a walking muscleman in HALLOWEEN 4-6. The only noteworthy acting kudos go to Glover and Feldman, everyone else can be forgotten. The final girl, Trish, does not pack a wallop and once again, there is no character development. While the horny teens are more likable this time around, they're not that much more likable. Good gore scenes, though, done by Tom Savini.FINAL CHAPTER holds several very good scenes that stand with the best of the series and does create an atmosphere that was notably missing from PART 3, but is still pretty bad. What's worse is that money forced this final installment to be evidence that horror is the most untrustworthy genre when it comes to pleasing the viewer. I still wholeheartedly recommend PART 2 as the best of the series. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies of all time!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great. I've watched this movie for like 15 years. Ever since I was a little kid in the 80s. This one has to be my personal favorite in the series. this movie has it all. Good acting, good music score, really likeable characters, good scares. I love Cory fieldmen in this movie. Tommy Jarvis rules. He really knows how to kick Jason's ass. I can't say enough how much I love this horror clasic. theres just something really cool about this movie that makes me want to watch it, watch it, and watch it again. I cant get enough of it. Man, I wish they still made horror movies like this. All I have to say is, If your going to watch only one of the friday the 13th movies. Watch this one.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the Series!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen every F13 movie except 7 and 8, and the first one I've seen a couple of times, and I must say, this one is one of the best.The Jarvis family, consisting of teenage Trish, her younger brother Tommy, and their mother, are living by Crystal Lake. Next door, six teenagers are renting. Things are at peace, especially since Jason Voohrees was killed. Well, little do they realize (but should have known, it's a Friday the 13th movie after all!) Jason is still alive, and has killed again. First, he got two at the hospital, then a hitchhiker, and now he's set his sites on his new victims.That night, the six teenagers, and two local girls they met at the lake skinny-dipping, decide to have some fun at the house. We all know what that entails. Must I remind you it's a Friday the 13th movie? And also out in the woods is a young hunter who Trish and Tommy meet on the road that day, who is supposedly out hunting bears, but is really searching for Jason, who killed his sister. You know what happens next. The houseful of teenagers is slaughtered in the well-known, one-by-one, stalk-and-slash. (Sorry for all the hyphens.) But it's not over yet, as Jason realizes there are more waiting for him next door....This movie is so good. I, personally, didn't like Tommy. I thought he was annoying, and was sort of bored with his character. As for Trish, she was great. One of the best final girls of the whole series. She was strong, smart, and just all around great to cheer for. I love the climax of this movie. My favorite scene is the very tense chase scene of Jason after Trish, leading into the neighboring house. And then the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ripoff jump out the window. But the scene was executed very well, with that well known dread music, also heard in the shock ending of the original F13. That was probably the best scene in the movie. As for Tommy's take on Ginny's (from F13 2) psychological trickery on Jason...Ginny was more convincing and a far better character than him. Actually, that scene almost ruined the movie for me. But I got over it, because Trish was still in control of the movie.Overall, this is a great movie. Make sure to see the first three before this, but don't leave this one out. I hesitated on it for a while, but it really is one of the best of the series.   "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Gusto filled part 4 has the J man shaking off the axe to the skull and heading to somewhere called Crystal Point.  I assume its a couple days after his last carnage because of a part 3 character saying what would a weekend in the country be without sex? which would tell us it was probably a Friday when that group showed up and got hacked that same night.  Then the next night is the body clean up which opens this film and the next night when most of the cast is smeared, so this may be more like Sunday the 15th.  Anywho, the camp setting is dropped in favor of two cabins in the woods, one with a mom, sister, and brother, the other with six teens who show up to party.  After Jason awakens in the morgue and rips up a couple of attendants (the hacksaw was cool) he treks back into the woods to do his usual stuff.  Maybe the strongest cast of the series is featured here, with Beck, Feldman, and Glover, aka George McFly, who gets torn up in the films grossest kill involving a corkscrew and cleaver.  But lets not forget poor Hayes, who takes a spear to the privates and is then raised into mid-air, ewwwww.  Definately best ending of any of the films, with the ugliest Jason make-up and best thrashing of him.  There's about 12 kills here, and more if you count the recap of the first 3 movies during the pre-credits moments. They replay a counselors account from part 2 of Jason's origins as they intercut moments from the other films.  So great work all around here. "},{"Title":"MONEY FOR OLD ROPE","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's not the final chapter (is this a book) much to the horror of the cynical film critics out there. But Jason's obviously killed the scriptwriter by accident. This one offers nothing new at all. Jason continues to kill teens for reasons still unknown to us. I mean this nonsense about getting revenge is ridiculous. He's not dead so he can't get revenge. And the ones that left him to drown when he was a kid are dead anyway so why kill all these innocent teens now? The only reason for watching this one is the appearance of a young (and sober) Corey Feldman. "},{"Title":"Best of the 4!","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Usually sequels are a poor version of the original, but not in this case. This movie provides everything you want in a horror movie.  The body count is particularly high, the 'B' grade sex scenes are also there.  The dialogue is particularly lame, which adds to the appeal of this genre.A very young Corey Feldman plays a great adversary for Jason, and the ending is really very very good.This movie will make you laugh, jump in fright, and leave you coming away feeling very satisfied with the whole experience.The series takes a nasty turn after this film, so some die hard horror fans will do best to leave it here, and if you are a Jason fan you will probably agree that with Number 1 this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"For FRIDAY THE 13TH and Corey Feldman fans only!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I admit that I enjoyed the first three FRIDAY THE 13TH movies and since I enjoy the first three, I expected to enjoy this one too. I didn't. The movie has better character development than the first three and the special effects seem a bit better too, but those are about the only two positive things I can say about this movie. Corey Feldman who used to be one of my favorite actors gives a decent performance, but the rest of the cast should have taken a few acting lessons before shooting began. On the second thought, this movie shouldn't have been shot anyway. "},{"Title":"Completely distasteful, yet oddly compelling","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps the most entertaining of the gruesomely misanthropic Friday the 13th franchise is this completely streamlined effort, boasting much nudity and gore. After a while, it's difficult to remember who's been killed, not that one's major motivation is concern for the characters, who are played in the standard late-20-something-teenager manner as completely stupid and sex-obsessed. Some good gore effects, if that's what stokes your furnace, but the whole enterprise leaves a very bad taste in the mouth. "},{"Title":"If You Like Watching Women Get Stabbed Have I got a Movie For You!","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'The Final Chapter' was a lie. It was nothing more than a cheap marketing ploy and it would be just as shady when Paramount tried to convince us Part IX was; 'The Final Friday'. And you should remember that going in because Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is just a scam to make money. It's not even a movie so much as it is the same garbage people already sat through three times before. And what you get for your money is a geek in a hockey mask stabbing (mostly) women. If your standards are so low and your attention span is so limited that watching teenagers get murdered every 8 minutes or so qualifies as entertainment I wish you all the best in life because you undoubtedly have a long road ahead of you. This piece of sh!t was not made for the best and brightest. "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th-The Final Chapter","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For those who have seen The Prowler, it will be of no surprise that Friday the 13th Part IV is one of the most savage entries of the series. Joseph Zito seems to be a director born to helm a Friday the 13th film as Jason resembles the psycho of his past film. Unlike past installments, Jason Voorhies seems more of an unstoppable killing machine, able to withstand great punishment despite suffering blows and wounds that'd easily finish off most human beings. He seems hellbent on eliminating anyone who stands in his way..those who live on his turf die, simple as that. A group of teens arrive at a cabin nearby Crystal Lake where 10 people were executed at the hands of Jason Voorhies. Voorhies, presumed dead, kills a nurse and coroner, escaping the hospital on his way home to take up where he left off. This time a brother of a murdered girl is preparing to meet Jason, Rob Dyer(Erich Anderson), and finds a potential love-interest along the way, Trish(Kimberly Beck), who lives with her young brother Tommy(Corey Feldman)and divorcée mom(Joan Freeman)near the cabin where the group of teens are spending the summer. While the teens meet twins from another cabin not too far from them, Jason is around somewhere ready to attack anyone in the vicinity.Zito effectively uses Manfredini's familiar musical score, and Jason seems more menacing than ever, plunging his knife into the bodies of teens who have no idea a killer is among them. Groups hook up and engage in sex and shenanigans, dying not long after. Memorable death sequences abound as Tom Savini expresses through his bloody great gore effects how he has evolved since working on Cunningham's Friday the 13th. We seen a chunky hitchhiker stabbed through the throat while eating a banana. One victim not only is stabbed in the hand with a bottle-top corkscrew, but is struck in the face with a knife. A female victim is pulled through a window, tossed off the balcony and directly into the roof of a station wagon below. One poor soul, taking a shower, gets his face crushed in. Another gets an ax driven into her chest. Even a dog is thrown threw a window. Rob's fate, as a helpless Trish watches, as he screams, He's killing me! packs a horrifying wallop. And, a painful use of a harpoon to the crotch(..the harpoon is a weapon Jason has used over and over again effectively to kill his prey in one way or another)leaves a lasting impression. But, the climax hums best as poor Trish must fend for her life, while attempting to protect Tommy, as Jason comes at her without restraint. The one portraying Jason this time, Ted White, actually has the killer moving more urgently/aggressively which ratchets up the terror for Trish as she must think fast and not let up or else. Of course the addition of Corey Feldman(..as a weird kid with awesome custom-made masks and toys who finds a way of communicating with Jason) and the great Crispin Glover( making the most of a teen victim role as the nerdy and extremely shy Jimmy who just wants to get laid)who is the very symbol of rejection(..before his exit, Jimmy does get respect from his stoner pal, Ted(Lawrence Monoson)who ridiculed him for being such a lousy lay)adds weight to this particular installment. Glover's dance deserves all the accolades reaped upon it..it's a think of beauty. Beck, as the final girl, really stands her ground against Jason, a resourceful gal who even lunges through a window, onto a balcony, landing hard to the ground just so she could escape an even more grim fate. The machete damage to Jason at the end just shows Savini's prowess as a supreme effects man. A lot of love to Judie Aronson as Samantha, for her uninhibited nature gave us lots of eye candy to digest. "},{"Title":"One of the better F13th movies.","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Having already proved his stalk 'n' slash credentials with gory horror The Prowler, director Joseph Zito decided to have another stab at the genre with the fourth in the Friday the 13th franchise, entitled The Final Chapter (shyeah right!). What he delivers is an enjoyable 'by the numbers' slasher, which ticks all of the boxes naked babes, annoying jocks, pretty heroine, POV shots, and bloody FX by Tom Savini.In this one, which picks up right where Pt.3 left off, Jason's body is taken to the morgue, where he immediately wakes up to continue his killing spree. After offing a couple of hospital staff, he heads back to his old stomping ground near Crystal Lake to take care of a load of teenagers who have just arrived for a vacation.Zito, obviously realising from the get-go that this was never going to be anything other than a money-making exercise, has fun packing in as many naked nubile females (including a couple of sexy twins) and mechanical scares as he can&#151;which is fine by me; The Final Chapter is a great fun popcorn horror that doesn't disappoint.Watch out for star-turns from a young Crispin Glover (who does some hilarious crazy dancing and gets to bed one of the twins) and an even younger Corey Feldman, who shaves his head for the final showdown with Jason.By today's standards, this movie might not be considered all that bloody, but Savini's effects, although brief, are pretty effective; however, a final 'machete-in-the-head' gag at the end of the film is a real showstopper (a rewind-and-play-again moment, if ever there was one!). "},{"Title":"Not The Final Chapter...","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is a good instalment to the Friday the 13th series, but is by no means to best. The story shows a group of teenagers go to a house in the deep forests by Camp Crystal Lake to party. There is also a nearby residence, where the Jarvis family live. This sequel is much more darker than the other movies, and desperately lacks character depth. The main heroine Tina and he brother Tommy are the only decent characters, with any depth to them. All of the other characters are just a group of teenagers intent on getting drunk, smoking, skinny dipping and have pre-marital sex, which is now the main formula for arousing Jason into a killing machine. In this sequel, Jason has very little depth either, he just hunts down all of the teenagers and kills them one by one, and basically, that is it. he does nothing else to make us feel hatred or remorse or sympathy, he basically just kills everybody, unlike the previous movie, where he battles the heroine, and shows intelligence and emotion. There is plenty of gore in this sequel, and some rather gruesome and inventive death scenes. The start of the movie is set in a morgue as well, which furthers the basic forest scene, but doesn't really expand on much, except Jason kills off a few characters in the morgue, then escapes. It may have been fun to see Jason hunting down people in the morgue, and escaping, the going back to Camp Crystal Lake. The movie focuses not only on the house full of partying teens, but also the Jarvis family who live nearby, and how these new sexually active teens have brought Jason to the neighbourhood for some ultimate terror. The script is pretty poor in this instalment, with some lame jokes and bad eighties corn. The acting is fairly decent, and the soundtrack is nothing rememberal. Overall this is a decent addition to the series, but nothing spectacular. "},{"Title":"Just another Friday, going through the motions","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Is it the final chapter? Really? The invincible Jason, pretty badly attacked, survives, providing excuse for another Friday, where we go through the motions once again, where our batch of youngsters come down to Crystal Lake, all again, being wiped off the face of the earth by our avenging psycho. Beck and her mother are running Camp Crystal Lake, with little brother Feldman and dog. Jason escaping from the hospital, taking some orderlies down, is heading back to his old stomping ground, so the scene is set for more carnage, in a less than impressive 4th outing. Amongst the batch of youngies is Crispin Glover in his most sanest role, who's friend, looking much like the guy out of The Last American Virgin keeps ridiculing him, referring to him as a d..d fu.k. But who's the one who ends up with one of the hot twins, and the other bails. There's nothing new here in this one. We just wait for each victim to be killed off, without caring about any of them, but just wondering how gory their death will be, and the shock violence factor is no more than usual. Beck is likable while Feldman is a hoot, the much watchable actor in the flick, if the best, though I did like Glover's performance also. The hot strip window scene, that has Feldman spying on our beauty, while getting his pre orgasmic jollies, where the little squirt can't get enough is the film's highpoint, which this flick doesn't have many. Friday fans will like it though. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (1984) ***","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth, and in the running for one of the best, in this ongoing slasher series. After being killed with an ax through the head at the close of Part 3, hockey-masked Jason is carted off to the town morgue. But you can't keep a crazed madman down for very long, and Jason ultimately is back on the war path, returning to the woods to stalk and chop up a new group of vacationing teens who've rented a small house across from the home of a single mom and her two kids.If this sounds like more of the same old stuff, sure it is -- but this time what stands out begins with the exceptional direction by Joseph Zito, who really tries hard to make things work. Part 4 also benefits from a better group of young actors playing the doomed teenagers, with names like Crispin Glover (who'd become famous with BACK TO THE FUTURE), Lawrence Monoson (from The Last American Virgin), Corey Feldman, and Peter Barton. The characterizations are nicely drawn, so we can like some of these people, and feel more dread for them when they meet their untimely deaths. Stuntman Ted White - who chose to go uncredited at the time of the film's release but recently has grown to appreciate the fans and his experience -- made for an intensely formidable Jason. Also, makeup guru Tom Savini returned for the first time since the original film to kill off the monster he created. Some of the death scenes staged herein are among the best of the entire franchise.If you didn't catch this entry in the theaters in 1984, you missed a very high-energy ride with complete audience participation. Yes, at the time of release it really was meant to be THE FINAL CHAPTER, which put a true end to Jason Voorhess once and forever. However, it made so much money at the box office that the franchise continued the very next year... and for some 25 years after that! *** out of **** "},{"Title":"A great final chapter...if it weren't for the 7 other sequels they made after this one.","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a real surprisingly great entry into the Friday the 13th series. It perhaps is even better than the first and it's definitely better than any of the previous sequels to the franchise. Calling this the final chapter might seem like an odd thing though, considering that 7 more sequels got made after this one.I don't even think they ever intended to make this the final entry into the Friday the 13th series, as its ending suggests. Seems like just another publicity trick to get people to the cinemas to see Jason in action for the 'last time'.I have to say that this is probably one of the finest entries into the series. For it's genre it's simply a great and effective movie. It helps that the writers did more of a better job this time and didn't made this movie as simple as the previous 3 entries, that were all more or less the same story-wise.As an horror movie it's a real good one, that knows to create the right atmosphere and tension for the movie. Jason again works out as a great horror character and he continues his horrible killing spree in this movie again with some nicely done graphic killings. For this movie Tom Savini was on board again, who also worked on the first movie from 1980 as the special makeup effects artist. The killings within this movie are more bloody and graphic again than was the case with the previous sequels.Of course acting-wise the movie doesn't impress much. As was the case with most of the Friday the 13th movies, the movie has a real B-movie look and feel over it but it benefits from its cheap look and feel.A greatly under-appreciated sequel!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"SIGH...here we go again...","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At some point in history some horror movie makers held a meeting. In this meeting they determined that the inception of silly, meaningless nudity and profanity was essential to a movie being a horror movie. This philosophy definitely shows itself in Friday the 13th The Final Chapter.This movie is a picture of the what slasher movies had become...goofy, annoying characters, random, meaningless nudity just to have nudity, and nothing creative about it. Perhaps the nudity was put in to hide the lack of creativity. Jason's new methods of murder were about as creative as the filmmakers could get. This is the installment that really shows Jason as more of a murderer/artist than just a murderer. It seems each kill focuses on originality. Too bad the scriptwriters didn't employ that into their job.Again, this movie fits the stereotype of all of the slasher flicks and after a while watching annoying teens make out, act stupid, and get hacked to death gets old. Normal movie fans finally would like some plot.While there are a couple of jumps in the movie it leaves a lot to be desired. Jason is in top form but it's a shame the rest of the cast and production team wasn't. "},{"Title":"Sigh.","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Plot summary Big man with machete kills people. Cannot be killed because he is already dead. Seeks revenge on the camp counselers who let him drown as a child. Wants to avenge his mother's death.Add Annoying kid actor (Corey Feldman) who outsmarts Jason.Gratuitous Sex, nudity, violence, bad acting.Final product Even worse than the first.This was supposed to be the last chapter but, ironically, it was followed by about a gazillion more entries. This is one of the worst. It's just Jason going around swinging a machete at people. I truly don't understand the success of these films - doesn't anyone else get bored by this crap?? "},{"Title":"For Feldman Fans","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Final Chapter.....yeah right! Although we thought it was all over after Part 3, we return to Camp Crystal Lake to find Jason as angry as ever. Even Tom Savini joined the crew to give Jason his final death. Little that he knew, this was far from the last we would see of Jason. For Corey Feldman fans, this is a nice treat. Feldman does a great job as the hero to this horror movie. The special effects are great and the gore is terrific. This should have been and could have been the last of the Friday the 13th movies, but people in Hollywood were greedy and wanted more money. A great kill scene for Jason, the special effects by Tom Savini is some of his best work. For the special effects alone, this is a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great slasher flick.**Spoilers**","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13thThe Final Chapter is a poorly underrated horror film and I find it to be the most neglected installment by fans of the Friday the 13th films.It is definitely one of the best in the series.The film begins with Jason's escape from the morgue and subsequent return to Crystal Lake,where a new group of partying teens has rented a house.Young Corey Feldman plays a monster-obsessed boy named Tommy.As for the plot it is mainly an excuse for a series of graphic murders.Knives,scalpels,hacksaws,spears,corkscrews,axes and garden harrows are utilized along with the customary machete.This is probably the best of the early sequels and definitely better than any of the subsequent sequels that followed.Whilst part 2 was arguably better because it had a tendency to make you jump more often,I enjoyed part 4 because it was faster paced and the killings were more gory and shocking.After extremely bloody The Prowler Joseph Zito manages to create another excellent slasher flick.Highly recommended.Check out especially the scene when Jason grabs the surgical hacksaw and saws off the head of the chief mortician. "}{"Title":"A Poor Quality Movie Where Everything Fits Bad Acting, Ridiculous Dialogs and Cheesy Screenplay","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The fourth part of Friday 13th, called `The Final Chapter', is amazingly bad ham actors and actresses, ridiculous dialogs and situations and a cheesy screenplay. The special effects are very poor, and the performance and direction are very amateurish. It looks like a movie made by a class of students of cinema. The first three parts of this series were reasonable, but this one is a trash. My vote is three.Title (Brazil) `Sexta-Feira 13 &#150; Capítulo Final' (`Friday 13th &#150; Final Chapter') "},{"Title":"Very Good Sequel","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th 4 (1984) *** (out of 4) Friday the 13th The Final Chapter had fans mouths watering because the director, Tom Savini and the studio promised this would be the final film in the series and that Jason would get mutilated in the end. If you've seen the film or are familiar with the series you'll know that only half of that is true. However, Tom Savini honestly believed this would be the final film in the series so he returned to the movie after he thought he'd get a chance to kill what he created.This here is without a doubt one of the best in the series and all of this is due to the screenplay, which offers up so much fun with Jason as well as the people he's wanting to kill. All slasher movies are rather simply. You get a group of kids together and watch them get killed. That works just so much because I've seen various slashers that use that formula and fall apart. Why is that? I think the key to a great slasher is the teenagers because they will be taking up a lot more time that the actual killer. In this film the screenplay offers us various teens and the thing is that all of them are downright lovable where the viewer hates seeing something bad happening to them.In the previous three films we were giving one hero and a lot of other bad people that we didn't care what happened to them. In this film everyone of the teens from the good guys to the bad guys are fun, energetic and makes for a more watchable movie since we have such a great time with them. Liking the characters so much also helps when it comes to the murders. We know this people are going to die but at the same time we also hope that certain character will be around to the end. When one of our favorite characters get picked off it's usually in a very grisly way thanks to the master Savini.Savini turns in some of his greatest work here, which is saying a lot especially if you've seen most of his filmography. Things start off with a bang when a doctor gets his throat slashed only to then have his head twisted off. Another highlight comes with a poor fat girl sitting on the side of the road trying to enjoy a banana. Every other death scene offers up something new, original and in some ways a lot more graphic that what we are used to. However, the victims of this film get it easy when it comes to graphic deaths because that there is saved for Jason himself.Even without the great gore effects, the ending to the film ranks as the greatest in slasher film history. Director Joseph Zito is right on the mark throughout the ending building up the history of the characters as well as building up Tommy to be the final hero. The suspense is also very high as Trish and Tommy run from room to room, each time thinking they've killed Jason who just keeps returning. The final chase from house to house is so remarkably well done that even the mainstream critics should have realized it. The actual slaughter of Jason is everything fans could have hoped for. "},{"Title":"Still Pretty Awful","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So this film still has five minutes of recap, an opening section of nothing but padding and is pretty lame. The acting is awful, the characters are all lowly, and the plot makes no sense. Jason isn't actually dead, escapes the morgue, and goes to kill people. These people include six teens moving into a house across from an established family with no idea that three killing sprees have taken place (four technically) about a mile away from them. There's a kid who becomes the hero (not really, there's a hilarious kids are murderers vibe at the end) and blah blah blah.It's typical fare for the series and not at all as good as the first. The gore effects are much better but the lighting is dreadful and the idea of a kid killing Jason is about as stupid as Jason being killed by a girl with psychic abilities...Oh wait, that exists? "},{"Title":"One of the lesser ones","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't mean lesser ones by of the series of of horror films, I mean this is one of the lesser efforts in film history.  While the makeup is pretty good (courtesy of mastermind Tom Savini), and the beggining flashback is entrancing, this film shouldn't have needed to be made, especially because it swings the door open to another sequel!  C- "},{"Title":"Imbecilic movie is a low point of the series.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Even by the standards of this movie series (and those standards aren't exactly high), this is an utterly imbecilic movie and one of the series' really low points. The characters are dumber-than-usual, the acting far below average and the dialogue is so ludicrous (A You have no computer, B And you have no Betty) that you can barely stand listening to it. Even the gory scenes are poorly lit and too quick, presented in a way that should disappoint every gore fan. But horror fans will also be disappointed, because the film isn't scary at all and its anonymous, irritating characters are impossible to care about. "},{"Title":"Certainly not Jason's worst episode.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This fourth installment in the incredibly popular slasher series Friday the 13th was widely announced as the final chapter. Well, I think every person with a bit of logical intellect soon knew that this wouldn't be the end of Jason Vorhees. He shall return and maybe even soon than most people thought...At the time I'm writing this review, the 11th Jason story is being shown in the theaters. In this one, he fights the other famous killer, Freddy Krueger.Anyway, back to Part 4...which surely is one of the better efforts in the whole series. And I'm not saying it's a good movie with fascinating plot twists or outstanding acting, because it's not. But it delivers what you except and it keeps you entertained for a good hour and a half. The good old formula is respected. A bunch of horny teenagers with a lack of intelligence are about to spend a vacation close to Crystal Lake. The all have such annoying personalities that you can't wait for Jason to slash them violently. And I must say our Jason uses very creative methods in this movie. I guess that's why I liked this part better than number 3. Crispin Glover is pretty good in this one too, he contributes in making this movie highly enjoyable. F13 part 4 even has a few surprising moments. When watching this film, you might start thinking some characters will survive it ( the sensitive boy, the sweet virgin girl...) Well, Jason doesn't care much for teenagers in love. The climax is very very dumb and almost spoils the entire movie. I wish they didn't do that. If it would have been the real FINAL CHAPTER, this would be terrible way to end it.  Overall a good 'sit back and enjoy' slasher with several lovely disgusting scenes. We have Tom Savini himself to thank for that by the way... "},{"Title":"Not the final chapter.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" They said this would be the last...they lied. Hey, can you blame Paramount?Their gory money-making machine churned out its biggest performance yet with this sequel, which again concerns Jason going after a group of teens oblivious to Crystal Lake's bloody heritage.Don't look for more plot than that, because your eyestrain will be futile, but this sequel does offer better and much more atmospheric direction than its most recent predecessor, which make the film unusually chilling for a fourth film in a horror series. The acting is better as well (with more nudity than you'd expect), see if you can name the faces in this movie that went on to have actual careers in the acting profession. This film also features the original's makeup artist Tom Savini in full-tilt, his effects are incredible. There were numerous non-gory scenes that ended up on the cutting floor, try to get your hands on the workprint to see most of these. They involve more character development of the teenagers (wow, character development, a first in the F13 series).Plot * out of **** Enjoyment ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"The Final (HA) Chapter","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This starts off great with a replay of parts 1-3 then picks up where part 3 ended with Jason supposedly dead. He's carted off to the morgue where he quickly comes to life, kills a few people and is off to Crystal Lake to kill more. I'm not sure it's Crystal Lake--it's never made clear. Also WHY is he killing these people? Anyways, there's a family living there now--Mrs. Jarvis (Joan Freeman), daughter Trish (Kimberly Beck) and son Tommy (Corey Feldman). The house next to them is being rented by a bunch of brainless teenagers. You can pretty much figure out what happens next.Some of the negative things about this pic The body count has been upped--6 guys and 6 girls and (in a hysterically fake scene) 1 dog; as in part 3, characters are just introduced to be killed (the hitch hiker and the twins); there's a skinny dipping scene which gives us female AND male nudity and Jason seems to know exactly where everyone will be so he can kill them (I love it when he happens to be outside the house, standing on a ledge to kill someone!) Also people scream bloody murder while being killed--and no one hears a thing. Terrible dialogue and acting too (as usual).There are some good things about the film...Tom Savini's special effects are very realistic; Joan Freeman, Peter Barton and Kimberly Beck aren't bad (I LOVE how Beck fights Jason back at the end); Feldman is OK too; the last 20 minutes or so are good (that's why I'm giving this a 3) with some real gruesome stuff when Jason is killed. I'm surprised the MPAA let some of the stuff in the picture...but I guess they thought this was it so they let it pass.There are two truly bad mistakes in the film--When Jason kills the dog notice the dog's corpse is wagging its tail as it's thrown out the window! Joan Freeman's character disappears completely from the movie--we're left to assume she's dead. They did film a scene where Beck discovers her corpse but it was cut out--director Joe Zito figures everyone knew she was dead so why bother keeping it in. (??????) This was supposed to be it for the series but it made plenty of money so Paramount continued it. For this series this isn't bad--but that's not saying much. I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"But was it the final chapter? No!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th The Final Chapter sequel number 4 in the Friday the 13th series, I have to say that I am very disappointed. The last three sequels have been pretty fun and exciting to watch, but I guess you can't win them all which each sequel, right? I love the title, because it says The Final Chapter, I mean, it's awesome that I still have like 6 more movies to watch, right? I'm trying to figure out what is the big deal with Jason Vorhees, what makes him so scary? I guess since he's just a big guy with a machete, yeah, it's a bit intimidating. I just love how we see little Corey Feldman, this was one of his first films, he's just so cute. Well the Final Chapter brings us sex, bad acting, drugs, and all the gore we could possibly want.Timmy has witnessed a horrible death and when he is sent to the hospital, Jason has escaped from the morgue killing everyone in sight. But when a group of kids, including Timmy and his older sister, Jason follows. Of course their bad behavior ensues, and Jason is going to teach them a lesson he'll never forget, but I think he'll wanna reconsider when he meets Tommy, a possible match he'll never realize existed.Friday the 13th The Final Chapter is the worst of the sequels I've seen so far, which is a disappointment, I thought this would've been fun with Corey Feldman being in it, but oh, well. I still have like 6 more movies to watch on top of this sequel. Jason is still badder than ever though which is a point for my standing, but the guy does need a little personality like Freddy Krugger, he'd just be more fun that way, otherwise he's just a mama's boy.2/10 "},{"Title":"Jesus Christmas! Holy Jesus goddamn! Holy Jesus jumping Christmas shite!","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Considered by many as the best in the series, the gore is ramped up and suspense is present throughout.It's funny, too, as Trish (Kimberly Beck) continually tries to keep her brother Tommy (Corey Feldman) from checking out naked girls.It did drag,however in the middle. There really isn't enough story in these films to sustain them when they are not running and screaming.It got better at the end as Jason ramped up the body count. Tommy was the hero, but the cost may be very high.It was good, but I imagine the uncut version is miles better. I'll have to find a copy. "}{"Title":"Friday THE 13TH - THE FINAL CHAPTER (Joseph Zito, 1984) BOMB","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one's considered by many fans to be among the best in the Jason series (huh?!) actually, it's the worst I've watched so far. All I can say is that I wasn't involved for a minute in any of it - my pet cat's antics, which was in the room with me while I was watching this, were far more enthralling. Anyhow, the best part of it was the opening montage of the various death scenes from the earlier instalments and the climactic rampage in which Jason meets his doom.But seriously, how are we supposed to fear for the characters' lives when they're so dumb (from the would-be stud morgue attendant at the beginning to the comic relief loser who finds ancient skinflicks a reason for mirth)? What's even worse, the teenagers here seem to take much more screen time than ever before, making the film all the more excruciating to watch than it already is! Conversely, how can we even root for Jason when he's an emotionless killing machine with - when we finally get to see it - a ludicrous train wreck of a face, who's unstoppable merely for the sake of the greedy film-makers not ready to put a 'good' monster down and part with a 'cash cow' formula? The finale, then, with the incredibly resourceful boy (a young Corey Feldman) apparently possessed by the spirit of the dead(?) Jason unfortunately put paid to the idea that this could really be the last chapter in the neverending, undistinguished and interchangeable saga!! Man, I've still got six more of these turds to go through - I don't know how I'll be able to stand it... "}]