[{"Title":"classic....","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" CLASSIC.........bad movie. It does all the things that critics would laugh at and more. It has bad acting, and a lame story. However, it's a lot of fun for those of you that enjoy lazy afternoon cheeseball films (such as myself).The best scene has to be the slow motion shot of Chuck Norris emerging from the swamp water with a rifle letting rounds off and keeping a stone face...hahahaha.Oh wow, how i love this movie. You really cannot argue a movie's credibility with a powerhouse lead actor such as Chuck Norris.RATING 8/10 - Because it's an entertaining bad movie...great for those times when you're bored out of your mind on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Sorely missing in action!","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was filmed back-to-back with part 2, and was originally intended to be released as the second film in the series, but Cannon executives moved it to be the first entry after realizing it was much better than the other film. It is indeed a better movie, but it still can't be called a good movie. To be sure, the production values are decent, and director Joseph Zito occasionally creates an effective moment. But for the most part, the movie is extremely dull; it takes more than halfway through the movie before Norris starts his primary mission, and the action sequences (the few that there are) are mediocre at best. Zito also shows no sense of pacing; there are a number of scenes that serve no real purpose, or are let to run on for what seems like forever. As for Norris, he is his usual stony near-mute self, though he is to be admired for doing some of the risky stunt sequences himself. "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris vehicle as tough Colonel Braddock and  followed by two sequels","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A Vietnam war vet ( Chuck Norris ) and previous POW goes back to Vietnam ten years after . When Braddock arrives is accused of war crimes by a Vietnam general ( James Hong ). Then he schemes to free some American soldiers still held prisoners in a far prison camp into Vietnam . As long as he's there , Braddock decides to head Thailand where is pursued by a former enemy who tortured him in the concentration camp where he was prisoner . He's helped by a friend gunrunner ( M. Emmet Walsh ). The two-fisted Colonel Braddock tries continuously to free the prisoners held captives suffering various tortures in charge of the camp wardens and the evil ruler.This is a routine actioner with Karate star Chuck Norris as the Vietnam veteran resulting go be one of the best roles he'd made to date , as he's nice as tough, cold, stubborn Colonel Braddock . It's a predictable, shallow and brainless film though will appeal to Chuck Norris enthusiasts because of it contains some excellent action sequences ( when Braddock shoots with his machine gun or scenes about bounds and leaps of a motorboat ) . In the wake of ¨ Uncommon courage ¨( by Ted Kotcheff ) and ¨ RamboII ¨( George Pan Cosmatos ) with Norris attempting to imitate Silver Stallone or Arnold Schwarnezzegger like an one army man . The film is the original from a trilogy , concerning the second part ( directed by Lance Hool,the first's producer )about tortures and Braddock's suffering in prisoner camp and the third part ( directed by Aaron Norris, Chuck's brother ) upon looking for his wife after downfall Saigon . In the three movies there are some nasty , ominous villains well played by Asian players  James Hong, Soon Teck Oh, and Aki Aelong who bear offensive racial stereotypes . Appropriate musical score by Jay Chattaway and adequate cinematography by cameraman Joao Fernandez . The motion picture is produced by Cannon films ( Mennahem Golan and Yoram Globus ) and professionally directed by Joseph Zito ( USA invasion , again with Norris ). The motion picture will appeal to Chuck Norris fans . "},{"Title":"Ghosts of Vietnam hell haunting Norris...","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There has been great controversy about U.S. prisoners of war (POWs) and those missing in action (MIAs) during the Vietnam War&#133;While Colonel Braddock - one of the outspoken proponents of the theory that Americans are still being held in Vietnam today - is now in Saigon at the president's request to see if there are more MIAs in Vietnam&#133; The American delegation hopes Braddock's presence would increase their ability to negotiate&#133; But General Trau (James Hong) believes that Colonel Braddock is not a prisoner of war, but a common criminal, brought to Saigon only in an attempt to embarrass his government&#133;The sexy aide of Senator Porter, Lenore Kasdorf, thinks that Braddock is the most undiplomatic man she has ever met&#133; The action begins when the Vietnam vet - not supposed to leave the hotel without an escort - assaults General Trau's residence, pays for a bullet-proof speed riverboat and blazes his way with an old war buddy called Tuck (M. Emmet Walsh) through the jungles of Saigon&#133;Norris, challenging several unpredicted attacks from his enemies, takes at last his revenge after he experiences the fear, chaos and atrocities of the Vietnam hell&#133; "},{"Title":"Finally found it, on sale too! SPOILER ALERT","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT! Further down, I will reveal what I thought was the most funny parts of this movie, including stuff from the ending!I would like to start off with introducing myself as a fan of Chuck Norris. Although (or perhaps, just because) I'm a member of Mensa and have just recieved a bachelor's degree in computer networking, I enjoy to sometimes just put the whole intellectual/elitist attitude behind me and dive into a macho B-action from the 80's starring people like Chuck Norris, Steven Segall, Charles Bronson, Dolph Lundgren or Jean-Claude Van Damme.The mid-80's was the age of bazookas, M16s and M60s, and the heroes were super-heroes who could stand how much punishment as imaginable by the director, just as long as they stayed focused on getting to the goal. 10 years later it became more popular to depict action with a somewhat deeper touch of realism, often performed by people acting as elite troopers with M4s and M249s (weapons which are successors of the classical M16 and the M60). I like both decade's action movies, but the mid-80's action has the power of nostalgia...After having heard a lot about this particular movie from several friends in my class at college - who were also into B-actions - I decided to dedicate a couple of hours trying to find it. Since the DVD version of this movie probably hasn't been printed in too many copies, there were no DivXs available anywhere. So I settled out to do what I should've done from the beginning - supporting one of my favorite action heroes by buying his stuff! I mean, Chuck doesn't seem like the gazillonare-type actor that you see in Sylvester Stallone )So finally, the day before yesterday, tuesday 2002-03-12, I found it at Mega Skivakademien, Stockholm's largest (?) record/video store in the very heart of the capital kernel. It was on sale, too! Only 99 swedish kronas (less than ten bucks) for 1 hour and 52 minutes of brainless entertainment!So I watched it, and what did I like? These are the things i remember and will carry with me until I become old and senile (or maybe turn psycho after having watched too many B-actions from the 80's)1. The sunglasses Chuck wear at the diplomatic meeting in Vietnam! Brown-to-transparent fade, and they are HUGE!2. Chuck's attack-raft... Its potons are made out of kevlar and therefore it is regarded as bullet-proof! It can take fire from an AK-47 Kalasjnikov without being punctured! Brilliant! D3. After the vietcong have sunk the attack-raft with a rocket launcher and stand laughing at their typical Pacific-Rim-fishing-boat-ish boat, Chuck surfaces with the M60 from the raft that he seems to have dismounted at swimmed up with (those things weigh in at... Like... 30 pounds!) and finished off all three of them in one sweep! Is he cool or what...4. When Chuck returns home with the POWs at the very end of the movie and enters the hotel where the diplomatic conference is held with an american MIA soldier under his right arm, the movie is abruptly ended and the aftertexts starts scrolling up. Now THAT'S a Norris movie in a nutshell... No bull to be found there! )  "},{"Title":"Quit Your Whining, Liberals--It's a Guy's Flick","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"42 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After reading all the Bin Ladens here claiming that Missing in Action is a pseudo-patriotic, racist or jingoistic film, I thought I'd weigh in M.I.A. was made for the same audience that all overdone, action-packed, unreal, B-films are, AND for the same purpose--pure entertainment. I'm no mind-reader but the people watching M.I.A aren't doing it for a serious understanding of past social and political issues or controversies. They're watching it to see guys get beaten up with karate moves or shot up by M-60s, or to see completely naked women make total asses out of themselves by dancing around or strutting their stuff. I pity those who use their review of this film to make some grand, anti-American political statement. If you know what Norris flicks are like and you can't stand them, why the Hell did you pop this one in!? "},{"Title":"Typical Chuck Norris film","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a typical Chuck Norris film and typical 80's action film. It follows a simple and commercially successful script Lots of action scenes, lots of nudity, one liners, plenty of stunts and some moments of pure fantasy.This film is great for those wanting to sit with popcorn and watch a film where you know what you're going to get. But this film sacrifices a lot of realism to achieve it. Scenes of helicopters making outrageous pick ups or so many Vietnamese henchmen with poor aims when it comes to shooting Chuck are some examples. This film is pure action based, as the movie went on, it was action sequence after action sequence and personally, I was fed up with too much.There is so much wrong with this film technically and is you want to watch a clever, powerful dramatic and original action film ,then this isn't for you. If you want to watch a predictable, satisfying, simple adrenaline fuelled kill-fest, then you'll like this. "},{"Title":"Well, if you like action flicks...","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Then I say go for it! But for those of you who want a movie with real substance and plot, run away from this film. I kind of found this movie entertaining in a brainless sense. Chuck Norris turns in a typical performance, the action is the same as we've all seen before, and it was pretty much 80's all over. A definite must-see for action addicts. "},{"Title":"Could you make a cheesier movie?","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was staying over-seas with nothing to do.  As i searched through the rented room, all i found was Missing in Action.  After popping it in I couldn't stop watching.  I have never laughed harder at a movie since watching this.  This movie was utterly ridiculous.  The first scene alone made me fall out of my chair.  This is the cheesiest and fakest movie EVER! I'm not saying it's even decent as a movie, at all, but it sure is funny  to watch. "},{"Title":"Stinker","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Chuck Norris is a terrible actor. He may be good at that karate stuff that he does, but that's all he has going for him. Well, I guess the ladies like his body (I know of a couple who do). The story stinks, the acting stinks, the special effects are decent, but pretty much everything else about this film stinks. It smacks of patriotism and tries to strike that chord in the viewer. It fails at that by being just plain blatant. Overall, a real lousy film. Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Mindless and exploitative","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My expectations for muscle movies aren't that high - but this one failed miserably to even come close to meeting those low expectations.This is a piece of exploitation, trying to build on popular sentiments over the possibility of US POWs in Vietnam, but without showing enough respect for its subject to make a decent movie.  Instead, we are offered offensive stereotypes (the weasel politician, the noble veteran, the trusty sidekick, the so-evil arch-enemies) and idiotic plotting.Even the action scenes fall flat - the hero is so heroic (if careless, walking into traps over and over again), the villains so incompetent, that there's never any suspense.  Braddock just goes through the motions, because that's what the plot calls for.Rating  forget this one - watch Rambo instead. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hilarious! There is not another word to describe this film. I remember I've seen this when I'm 15 and I could not get a ticket to another film. This weekend I rented it &#150; just to review what i already thought, 20 years ago, it was a disaster. It was a period of ufanistic productions where one hero could destroy anything that threats America or its ideal of freedom. Films like Rambo II, Red Dawn, Commando or Rocky IV looked seen to be wrote by someone at Reagan's office, but at least they had some qualities. This Braddock had none. Chuck Norris leads the scariest cast of all times (M Emmet Walsh should be punished to do a film like that - how come he had done Blood Simple later?). The screenplay does not make any sense (Braddock kills a character vital to the story &#150; a big shot Vietnam general &#150; and there are no consequences), the action scenes are primary (the sequence with the boat &#150; that should be the climax! - seems to be shot by high school students), the cinematography is awful (mixing up sequences on a bright day and others made on a numb one). So... if you want to remember how the action movies in the 80's were disastrous without its great icons (Stallone and Schwarzenneger), take a look at Braddock... I only wonder if Invasion USA is even worse...but that you can tell me. "},{"Title":"The misfortunes of war!","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You had to know that after Norris saved all the hostages from the terrorists, he would be sent back to 'Nam to save the POWs. Here he goes back to battle with an old nemesis.This is mindless, escapist, macho B-action from the 80's featuring Chuck Norris in the same vein as Steven Segall, Charles Bronson, Dolph Lundgren or Jean-Claude Van Damme. Don't think, just enjoy him as he kicks ass and takes names.James Hong makes the perfect Vietnamese bad guy. Lenore Kasdorf and Norris have good chemistry.If you like Rambo, then you will like this one. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Chuck Norris stars as Col James Braddock a Vietnam vet who goes behind Vietnam to save American P.O.Ws and wipe out his enemies in this strictly routine yet very popular bodycount flick which appeals to die hards of the genre. Not as bad as movies like this get, but not good either, watch RamboFirst Blood Part II instead. "},{"Title":"Solid Snake Chuck","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let's just hope he stays Missing in Action along with this movie. If you're going to watch this movie get ready to say to yourself, What a big copy off Rambo. This movie tries to make Chuck Norris seem like a state of the art stealth soldier. I mean how hidden can you be when your camoflaged in black and your hiding against a white building. Let's not forget to mention how this movie views people from Vietnam. You can tell that the script writer must have some hatred towards them. Another major factor was the amount of unnecessary nudity within this movie. One meet Chuck is talking to a guy, the next you see some man bring a naked women on top of the table. If you are under the age of 18, you should not watch this movie. Heck, if your under the age of 99 you should not watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Utterly atrocious, offensive to Asians, no story line.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This must rate as one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Norris is appalling and hardly says a word in the entire film. Almost laughable if it wasn't trying to be serious. Very poor. "},{"Title":"Boring, racist, brainless rubbish.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  MISSING IN ACTION is one of those God Bless America!-themed, war-mongering movies made after the Vietnam War in order to cash in on the newfound pseudo-patriotism of the average American citizen (just like what happened after the September 11th attacks).  It is your typical action vehicle, made in the wake of films like RAMBO FIRST BLOOD, with all the thoughtless racist overtones you'd expect.  Chuck Norris's performance here is pretty much the exact same one he's always delivered, but as anyone who's seen a Norris flick knows, that's NOT a good thing.  Come to think of it, Norris's character Braddock is the most shallow, underdeveloped role I have ever seen him play.  It blows my mind to think that this was a box office hit, but then again, we Americans seem to have a pension for paying top dollar for moron-entertainment.  Bottom line  MISSING IN ACTION has absolutely no value whatsoever (entertainment, artistic, or otherwise), and should be avoided at all costs. "},{"Title":"Makes Rambo look like documentary material","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this on TV and still somehow feel like I'm owed a monetary refund.Of course that may be in part because I'm a fan of the Rambo series and am offended by cheap knock-offs. Actually I'd like to see a Celebrity death match with Rambo and Braddock, though it wouldn't be much of a fight.And then there's good old Chuck Norris, who for some reason a few people find entertaining, but honestly, the greatest entertainment he gives me is the Chuck Norris Facts.This film is pretty easy to laugh at though, but I don't think it was meant to be funny. If you don't believe me, just try not to bust a gut when you see the last frame of the movie. "},{"Title":"Plenty of steak, but no sizzle","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think it's those Internet jokes that ruined me for Chuck Norris. Dude's a meme demigod, but on the movie screen, he hall all the presence of a piece of wood. I've got my own favorites among them, and really, who could live up to the really good ones, but still . . . the guy was best left silent in a Bruce Lee movie.Missing in Action, recommended as middle-shelf Norris, makes no effort to dispel that notion, letting the man stare down his enemies offer nothing but flatness in the line delivery department. It doesn't help that his character is kind of a dick, and it's a completely by-the-numbers war movie, but with all these bad guys dropping dead (by the tens) and the explosions, you'd think it'd be a little more exciting than . . . this. Somebody help me out here.5/10 "},{"Title":"Missing In Action is undoubtedly a classic.","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Col. James Braddock (Chuck) spent several years in a North Vietnamese POW camp. After escaping, he's now home, but he's a troubled man. He's invited by the American government to go back to Vietnam to investigate/talk about the phenomenon of soldiers still Missing In Action. Tensions flare, thanks to the evil General Trau (Hong). Braddock, being the badass that he is, decides to go off on his own into the jungle (actually with Tuck (Walsh), an old army buddy), and rescue any remaining POW's himself. While in the midst of their mission, they face an endless stream of baddies trying to stop them. It'll take all the firepower and skill Braddock has to defeat the enemy and save the missing men. Can he do it? This is classic Cannon all the way, and they really hit paydirt with this one. Thanks to the high-quality cinematography, the rousing, triumphant score, and the longer running time, Missing In Action has that big-screen feel. While the pace, at least for the first half of the movie, may seem a bit on the slow side to modern viewers, that's just the way things worked back then. It's a pre-ADD generation action movie. And we're all the better for it. It's ultimately a rewarding experience, and Cannon (as well as moviegoers) obviously thought so too, as this spawned two sequels to date (maybe we haven't seen the last of Braddock...?). Surely this film was at the forefront of the exploding hut/guy falling out of a guard tower/mindless shooting jungle movie back in the golden age of the 80's. Along with the Rambo series, not to mention countless Direct-To-Video items, these movies capitalized on the craze for patriotic movies with plenty of violence that were so in vogue in the Reagan 80's. To hammer the point home even more, stock footage of Reagan is actually IN Missing In Action 2. If you even THINK about communism, Braddock, Rambo, or any number of other heroes will mow you down with a machine gun that's taller than they are. So there. Take that you stupid commies.As for the cast and crew, Chuck Norris here started to take tentative steps toward his Texas-based clothing style that would manifest itself most fully during the Walker Texas Ranger years. His hair and beard are at their reddest and most impressive here, and when he wears his sunglasses, you really can't even see his face. M. Emmet Walsh is always a welcome sight to see, and he plays a similar character in Red Scorpion (1988), which was also directed by Joseph Zito. As good as Walsh is, we also felt the role could have been played by Nick Nolte. Lenore Kasdorf of L.A. Bounty (1989) fame is onboard, as well as James Hong, who's been in pretty much everything. For our purposes here, he was in the same year's Cannon vehicle, the great Ninja III (1984), and much later was in Talons Of the Eagle (1992). Willie Williams, whose entire movie career seems to have been in Vietnam (or Nam-like) Jungle movies such as Final Mission (1984), Savage Justice (1988), Saigon Commandos (1988) and, not coincidentally, P.O.W. The Escape (1986), continues his tradition with the movie at hand today.Also it has been said that none other than Van Damme appears in an uncredited role as Car Driver, but we didn't see him, so we can't necessarily confirm that that's actually true. But he's also credited with stunts, along with Aaron Norris, who would go on to direct the second sequel, Braddock, as well as Dean Ferrandini, who would go on to direct Overkill (1996). The next year after this, Zito would direct the ultimate Chuck movie, Invasion U.S.A. (1985) This is a nice trial run for that masterpiece.If there was going to be a movie version of the 80's Nintendo game Jackal, this could be it. It's a shoot-em-up where the hero must save the hostages. But here the hero is outspoken on the M.I.A. issue and is Chuck Norris. I guess those are the only two differences.Missing In Action is undoubtedly a classic and is completely worth seeing. In our eyes, however, the series would improve even more in the subsequent two outings, so watch out for those as well. "}{"Title":"Brave warrior on a path of war.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Missing in action - this's one of the most favorite and loving Chuck Norris's movies of mine. This is awesome, spectacular and reach of action movie, which You'll find interesting, if You like same genre and such themes in the movies.Actually, this is very seriously picture, which shows to us not easy days of Vietnam's war. And, as You rightly understood - Chuck Norris played here a hero, who doesn't know about the loosing, how to be afraid of something and to run out from the enemy. He fights like a warrior, he doesn't afraid to be murdered, and tries to help to the soldiers, who are missing in action - to escape from the camps of Vietnam's soldiers.It's wonderful actor's playing, nice and beautiful landscapes of forever green jungles. I find this movie very interesting, and never tire to re watch it. For the motion picture of 80's this movie looks very cool, colorful and opulent.Only 10 out of 10!. "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris kicks ass, takes names, wins Vietnam War","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don't worry if you find yourself slightly confused at the beginning of this awesome movie--I was too. It opens with a rousing action sequence in the jungles of 'Nam that is interrupted when we learn it was all a dream. Chuck Norris sits up in bed and watches TV. Then he walks to the window and... and... the exact same thing happens. We cut to another rousing action sequence, just a dream. Then he watches TV some more. At this point you might be worried that the movie is stuck in some sort of causal loop, but this is not the case. Chuck is watching Spiderman and His Amazing Friends, and a scene with The Shocker breaking out of prison inspires him to go rescue POWs in Vietnam (no, for real). It seems there is a conference in Saigon to determine whether there are still American POWs being held in the country, and Chuck has been invited to attend. He attends, and makes the American government look bad by being a dick, but it turns out he has a secret plan to sneak away from the conference for a few hours, rescue the POWs himself, and bring them back to the conference as evidence. The ensuing action is not quite as good as the Delta Force movies, but it's acceptable. I have to admit great fondness for the scene where Chuck emerges from the water with an M60 and blows the laughing soldiers away. I also admit fondness for his INCREDIBLE bulletproof raft--yes, a bulletproof f**king raft, undoubtedly the greatest movie raft until Waterworld came along (it may even give the Waterworld raft a run for its money). Chuck also gets to tear a woman's top off in order to fool the police into thinking he has been in bed with her all evening when he has actually been out assassinating Communist leaders. Regarding this being a clone of Rambo 2 while that may be the better movie, production-quality-wise, I was surprised to learn that it came later and apparently stole this plot. And while I would never diss Rambo himself, Sly Stallone's garbled voice and mopey face make him seem like he has an IQ of maybe 80. Say what you will about Chuck Norris, he can at least speak articulately. And he did his own stunts here--an impressive feat to say the least. The Rambo series may be awe-inspiring, but neither should the M.I.A. movies be dismissed so easily. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A fun film about a bitter subject.","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The subject of forgotten American soldiers left behind in Viet Nam served as a catalyst for some decent action flicks in the 1980s. This film and Rambo First Blood Part II were the most prevalent of them. The film has some good action, but not much proof of the existence of POWs was found, however.When I was about ten, these types of films really psyched me up. I really wanted the US military to stage a massive operation to go back in and get those guys. But my father who was an intelligence officer in the Air Force told me not to get too excited about things. We really never did have any concrete proof that a great number of our soldiers were being held in camps or used to harvest the rice and whatnot. Still, films like Missing In Action are a lot of fun to watch. My father did tell me that Bangkok is just as sleazy as the film makes it appear, though.Joseph Zito does a good job making Chuck Norris look his best as he fights his way in and eventually out of Viet Nam looking for POWs. Lots of bullets fly, bombs go off, and people get the crap kicked out of them. Norris was perhaps the most wooden of all action stars during the period, but it was always fun to watch him whip up on the enemy.There are two great supporting performances here, as well. M. Emmet Walsh and James Hong are two terrific character actors, and they are well used. Many people recognize Hong for being the host at the Chinese restaurant in Seinfeld when they have to wait for an entire episode to be seated.If you get the chance, take another look at this film which has been forgotten by many. Norris was in his prime, and you'll likely be satisfied with the conclusion.6 of 10 stars The Hound. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okey, first of all...those who where against the Vietnam war hate this movie, no doubt about that.  But i liked it, because i have great respect for those American servicemen lost or died in Vietnam. Chuck Norris performance in this and the following two movies is really good.  He is a fine actor, i hope we could see more of him =/One thing thats irritates me is that i can hear the same sound FX in this movie as i hear in 'Invasion USA' .. but thats just about it.  "},{"Title":"actually, the war is over","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For those of you who have not seen this film, do not waste your time. Especially if you have seen Rambo II, as Bronson seems to visit the same POW camps in Vietnam that Stallone/Rambo did in his film. They both have the same plot line Revisit Vietnam and this time we will actually win it.Very unrealistic and very idealistic. the Hero Vietnam vet is tortured by memories of his days of captivity in Vietnam. He must go back and rescue the other POW's. he does this with the help of one friend (who he looses along the way, just like Rambo) and therefore wins the war for America.For those of you who would like to fool yourself into believing that the United States actually won the Vietnam War, this would be a great film for you to see! "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Chuck Norris Mania/Vietnam War movies/Patriotic Potpourri!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Missing in Action (1984) was the first in the Col. Braddock series. Shot in the Phillipines (yes, with Filipinos playing Vietnamese). This Cannon Films Production launched the bring back the P.o.w.s genre during the mid 80's. Chuck Norris plays Col. Braddock, an unconventional officer who'll do anything to bring back the boys that were all but forgotten. Filled with mindless chop-socky and very uninspired action scenes, Missing in Action is a movie for die-hard Chuck Norris fans, lovers of Cannon Films or Grade Z action films. Watch Chuck break international law and defy the laws of logic and realism in Missing In Action!!!Terminally bad Chuck Norris film. But a masterpiece compared to it's nonsensical sequels. Chuck doesn't even dress or have the presence of an officer. I mean who would take this person seriously? Not recommended for viewing unless A.) You and your friends want to watch a bad movie or B.) You're too lazy to change the channel because you lost your remote. If I were you I would get up and change it manually.Not recommended.Filipinos don't even look like Vietnamese people. "},{"Title":"Even RAMBO Was Better","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Former `Nam veteran goes back into the jungle to save American POWs from nasty commie scum . Hey didn`t Sly Stallone .... ? Believe it or not this film managed to offend me more than RAMBOFIRST BLOOD PART 2 . Both films show the Vietnamese as being cruel , stupid incompetent communist vermin but MIA shows a Vietnamese general begging for his life like a sobbing schoolgirl . I`ve read a lot about the war in South East Asia from a myriad of American sources , everything from Jane Fonda to Soldier Of Fortune magazine and there`s many different angles as to what observers thought of the VC but they all agree on one thing - There were no cowards in the Viet Cong . I was also taken aback with seeing the concept of the Vietnamese secret police travelling to Thailand to bump off our hero like an oriental KGB , sorry but I was under the impression the Vietnamese just wanted to be left alone and wouldn`t have the inclination to bump off Americans in foreign lands , but why let reality get in the way of a film that screams America good , pinko commie scum bad .When this film was released in 1984 more than a third of the world`s population lived under a communist system . You`ve got to wonder if there`s a connection between the two  "},{"Title":"Not a particularly memorable movie...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Chuck Norris was one of the big action icons back in the 1980's, where this Missing in Action movie also first saw the light of day. But amidst movies such as Rambo First Blood Part 2 and Commando, then Missing in Action just didn't have as much impact or punch. Now having said that, I am not saying that it is a bad movie, I am merely saying that it didn't manage to stand up to Stallone's or Schwarzenegger's movies that came out in the same year.What failed to impress in this 1985 Missing in Action movie was the storyline. It was just too shallow and failed to get a grip with the audience. Colonel James Braddock was a soldier stationed in Vietnam and were in a P.O.W. camp for years, then he returns to Vietnam to look for soldiers still trapped in camps.There was too much focus on events not taking place in the jungle or in the prison camp, which lead to us sitting and watching Chuck Norris spending 10 minutes, give or take, to climb down and then up a wall of a hotel. It just felt too slow paced and too irrelevant.When the movie actually does pick up pace and brings about the gunfights in the jungle and the P.O.W. camp, it was just too late to remove the mediocrity that permeated the entire movie.Chuck Norris does a good job as Colonel James Braddock, and went on to being a memorable character, but that was not to be before the sequel later on that very same year. "},{"Title":"A pretty action-packed Norris flick.","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is not a bad action flick starring Chuck Norris as Col. Braddock, a Vietnam vet, who goes back to the country to rescue MIAs the Vietnamese government denies are being held captive.The movie starts off a little slow with the mediocre acting, but picks up steam when we get to see Norris in action, decking Communist soldiers left and right and attempts to get information from a general about the missing MIAs. Braddock going on his mission in foreign lands, dodging assassins while he tries to rescue the MIAs were pretty exciting and suspenseful.Overall, not the best action flick out there. Acting could have been better, but it's still pretty action-packed.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Utter Crap","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What an ironic name for the film. It really is 'missing in action', and acting.Chuck Norris is a complete bore throughout the film. He has one expression, remains wooden and fails big time as any kind of action star. I have no idea how this guy became famous let alone a cult icon. His martial arts sucks balls. I guess his fame comes from being in that Bruce Lee movie.Missing In Action lacks in thrills and is so contrived, its a chore to get through. I laughed so many times at ridiculous scenes, like how every bad guy misses him while firing at him, despite outnumbering him, and he just turns around and kills them straight away.I also laughed when the Asian guy and Jack Tucker take turns on the boat machine gun and repeatedly shoot the bad guys boat coming towards them and it seems to go on forever hahahahahahaha. The boat seems to be stuck in a loop repeatedly coming toward from where it started off from, just like that scene in Monty Pythons Holy Grail. I was expecting the bad guys boat to finally explode but no....Jack Tucker's boat explodes instead (no idea how) and he dies hahahahaha. So effing stupid.This film sucks, and Chuck Norris sucks. But I enjoyed the laughs. "}{"Title":"A Simplistic Revenge Fantasy","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A long time ago, I saw an essay in a book of film criticism entitled, How Hollywood Won the War in Vietnam. I started to buy the book, but to my regret I did not, and so I never got to read the essay. However, I think I am safe in saying that Missing in Action was one of the movies the essay would have discussed, along with Rambo II.People who worry about words will quibble as to whether we lost the Vietnam War. Well, we did not lose it in the sense that we were not conquered by the Viet Cong, but we lost in the sense that we failed in our mission, that we gave up, pulled out, and let the Viet Cong take control of the entire country. And that made us feel bad.But it is Hollywood's job to create a better world than the one we actually have to live in. Now, Hollywood could not make a movie showing us conquering the Viet Cong and making the country safe for democracy, because the direct contradiction to reality would have been too stark. Instead, it made a movie in which an individual soldier, Colonel James Braddock, along with a few associates, goes back to Vietnam and succeeds in freeing some American soldiers still being held in a prisoner-of-war camp.The Vietnamese government categorically denies having these prisoners, but to what end is a mystery. We simply have to assume that they just enjoy making these American prisoners of war miserable, or that they know that we know they have the prisoners, and that they just enjoy frustrating American efforts to get them back. In either event, they are mean and spiteful.But what is important is that they give Braddock a mission that he can carry out. The first part of Braddock's mission is to appear at a diplomatic function and display his contempt, as when he refuses to shake hands with a Vietnamese general. This ostensibly is directed toward the general, but it is really a put-down of American politicians who think that diplomacy is the way to get things done.The second part of his mission is to personally kill the general and a high-ranking officer who is shown through a flashback to be cruel and evil. This allows him some personal revenge before he sets out to kill a bunch of generic bad guys.The third part of his mission is to sneak into the jungle and free the American prisoners. Braddock and his few associates kill over ten times their number in doing so, proving that the American soldier is a vastly superior to his Vietnamese counterpart. You see, it was embarrassing that the world's greatest superpower was unable to defeat such a puny country. This movie essentially declares that it must have been a bunch of spineless politicians back home that caused America to lose the war, probably the same sort that are busy being polite at diplomatic functions, because it is clear that men like Braddock would have won the war given the chance to do so.This movie allows us some imaginary revenge against an enemy that humiliated us, and that makes us feel good. Of course, we would have felt a whole lot better if the movie had actually been entertaining instead of dull and plodding. "},{"Title":"Don't count this one as MIA","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At first view, I must say I was disappointed at this one. It wasn't because of the quality. I was expecting much more action. Competing with the Rambo First Blood 2 film at the same time, this one comes up of course, much more realistic. Norris plays legendary Colonel Braddock who works with government officials, as being informed, MIA's are still out there. He enlists his old friends help, a likable aging codger, Tuck (M Emmet Walsh- Blood Simple) and the two go back to the jungle to free the MIA'S. Of course sounding Ramboish, this film, surprisingly takes itself really seriously, while not always being exciting, but what formulates is not a bad quality pick drama, with some naked titties, an asset at least. Too the film really works the government side of it, Norris remembering one now Asian official, as an old torture which is the standout moment of this film. Although I must say I'm not in love with this film, it is worth a watch, not just for Norris fans. Also it's good to see where the series started, although that trashy second one was a prequel, which makes this MIA quality stuff, but just happened to disappoint in the action quota, mostly until the trip back to those diseased charlie filled jungles. "},{"Title":"You're crazy, Braddock.","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) was a POW during the Vietnam war. He escaped ten years ago and has tried repeatedly to get the government to go back in looking for other POWs. Finally, he gets fed up with the cowardly politicians and decides to go back in and get them himself!This is not a bad movie. Get real, haters. Yes, it has something of a cheese factor but even the best action films do. It just adds flavor. It's a great action movie tailored to Chuck's strengths -- namely being the strong, silent hero who kicks ass and can't be bothered to take names. I'm not surprised certain types hate this so much. No doubt it reminds them of their inadequacies. Some people derisively refer to movies like this and Rambo as revisionist fantasies. Well, so what? What is fantasy without wish-fulfillment? That's what this is -- a movie for Americans who wish we could have gone back in and gotten our boys out. If you're an American, put your petty politics and misplaced sympathies aside and tell me what's wrong with that? There's awesome fist-pumping action as well as lots of drama but there are some lighter moments with foxy Lenore Kasdorf and sidekick M. Emmet Walsh. Despite the serious nature of the story, neither of these seem out of place. It's one of Chuck's best movies. If you're a fan of his and haven't seen this one yet, you're in for a treat. Followed by a prequel and sequel. Children of the '80s -- this is the only time you're ever going to catch Chuck Norris watching Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends so cherish that memory. "},{"Title":"Missing In Action","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Chuck's first main franchise and one of his classic actioners. Only two years after the release of 'First Blood' you can see where this idea main have spawned from eh. In fact a script by James Cameron intended for the Rambo franchise was the inspiration for this very film so there. But since then this film itself has been copied many times, the ever popular one man army with a big gun.The mission, Chuck only just got back from Nam where he was held prisoner by some nasty Vietnamese. Once back in the States he realises there are still US POW's MIA back in Nam, so what does he do?. Well he packs up and goes back into the danger zone to find them of course. Isn't there a chance he might get killed or recaptured you say? pfft! Chuck Norris laughs in the face of danger, he tweaks the nipples of fear, he curses politely at those who stand against him.So I'll leave the extremely obvious Rambo similarities aside and just give my views on the action. Well it takes time to get there that's for damn sure, a long time. There is much build up and deliberation as Chuck works out what he's gonna do and how he will do it. Takes him ages to find his old army buddy for a start, not sure why that guy was such a big secret with the locals but there you go.Once we do hit the action its...well OK I guess. Dare I say its identical to 'Delta Force' in the sense that you never see any blood, violence, squib hits (not many) etc...I've mentioned before how Chuck's films tend to be like A-Team episodes haven't I, well its deja vu again. Now I'm not saying its bad because its not, its reasonable fun watching Norris run around gunning men down, but its hella tame.What I love about this film is the horrendous editing and feeble accuracy by everyone involved shooting a gun. So many times you get a shot of someone firing a machine gun (bad guys), just standing there and firing continuously at an enemy yet they never hit a thing!. You don't see any bullet hits, no sound of bullet hits, no ricochets nothing, they just stand there firing blankly and never running out of ammo, its quite amusing. All the while the other person is doing the exact same thing haha both firing continuously at each other yet nothing is happening around them, doesn't matter how close they are or how well hidden they are, classic.It really is a low rent Rambo, gotta say it, Rambo minus any blood, violence and real tension. Norris just waltzes in and terminates everyone without even bothering to aim much, whilst the enemy couldn't hit a barn door right in front of their face, glorious!. Bottom line that's what you watch it for, the classic hokey action which so many films homage and have spoofed ('Hot Shots 2').Chuck wins the day, was it ever in question? no, he doesn't even get a scratch bless him. The explosions are grand, chop-socky fighting and the action sequences are as corny as a corn on the cob...but its still fun to watch I can't deny. The minute I saw Chuck rise from beneath the murky river waters brandishing his huge M60 machine gun clad in those classic army fatigues with head band...I knew it had all been worth while.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Norris Film!, That's Exciting And Well Made!,","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great Norris film that's exciting and well made. It's somewhat similar to Rambo, however it's nowhere near as good, but still it's an exciting little flick, with exciting action and good performances!. The main problem i had with this was, it really didn't have a main villain, and James Hong is absolutely wasted, however it makes up for it, with a fantastic performance From Chuck Norris and lots of exciting action!. It did take a little while to going, however it was never boring, and the setting was great, plus Chuck Norris and M. Emmet Walsh have very good chemistry together. A lot of people found this to be dull, while i admit it starts off a little dull, it soon turns into action packed, and becomes a really enjoyable film!. This is a great Norris film, and i highly recommend it!. The Direction is very good. Joseph Zito does a very good job here, with good angles, good shots, and keeping the film at a very good pace for the most part. There is a tiny bit of gore. We get a couple knives in the chest and some gunshot wounds. The Acting is great!. Chuck Norris is Fantastic as always, and is fantastic here, he is very likable, aggressive, kicks that ass, had good chemistry M . Emmet Walsh, and while he does not have a whole lot of dialog, he still was tons of fun to watch! (Norris rules!). M. Emmet Walsh is very good here, he had very good chemistry with Norris and did his job very well. David Tress is annoying as The Senator, and did not have much to do. Lenore Kasdorf is good in her screen time. James Hong is always excellent, but is sadly waste here, and it kinda made me mad. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Another Norris Film With A Weak Script","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A good flag waving idea, poorly executed. The film almost has the opposite effect of what is intended. It intends to be a justified indictment of the M.I.A. issue, but approaches it in exploitative fashion. Norris is a one man army with seemingly limitless resources, who returns to Vietnam, actually the Philippines, to free M.I.A.s. A couple of old VC foes resurface. Some good action, suspense, and tension is offset by a weak script, like most of Norris' movies. The film moves quickly from scene to scene, changing locations frequently, which helps. Highlights include the raft scenes and an escape scene near the end. The film contains the famous preposterous Norris pose of rising out of the water, firing with weapon in hand. Enjoy it for what it is instead of what it tries to be. Contrary to what some think, Rambo was made after this movie, not before. Jean-Claude Van Damme did stunt work on this film. M. Emmet Walsh lends able support, but why on earth would he wear a Hawaiian shirt when entering a hostile country to rescue M.I.A.s? I'll see you in Hell! ** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"What are all off you talking about","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am not happy with the reviews of this film.i can't believe so many of you just don't get it..... It's funny all of you take it so serious.I am a big fan of funny action films and thats what this is, it's action packed with real silly moments it's a good film enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Bad but some merit can be found...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Chuck Norris stars in Missing In Action, but to answer a question presented by Tim Cox Why did this thing spawn two sequals? Well the answer to that is because it MADE money. Unfortunately Missing In Action is a bad movie from start to finish, the politics are laughable and surprisingly rascist and that alone recommends it, that and some of the action is competent. However this is a movie best left forgotten since it boasts a laughable premise as well as the obvious, that Rambo First Blood Part II did it ten times better.Still for die hard Norris fans, Missing In Action is worth a look.** (Out Of Four)  "},{"Title":"M.I.A. spells B.A.D.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hard to believe this kind of movie could have such success ! I saw this as a kid and was appalled. I remember one scene when  somebody shoots a machine-gun at Norris for two minutes and not  a single bullet approaches him ! Worse for an action movie, the  pace is snail-like and there's not an ounce of tension. "},{"Title":"The Return to Vietnam","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Colonel James Braddock is an American officer who was a POW for 7 years in Vietnam. Braddock has returned to Vietnam with a purpose and a mission, to find and rescue interned American POW's which the Vietnamese government denies exists. Braddock will find the truth even if it costs him his freedom and his life.A simply action film that has charm to it. Not the best acted or the best story I've ever seen, simplistic and perhaps clichéd in many aspects but its an enjoyable film. If your nostalgic about 80's films and action films with an simplistic story but a film that holds charm. The acting is sub par, the story clichéd, the direction semi mediocre, but where this film gets its charm is in Chuck Norris and the action itself. A good portion of this film attempts to imitate, Rambo First Blood Part II, and even its producers have admitted this, but as i said their is a certain charm to this film that will grow on the viewer with repeated viewings. Though first time viewers may find this film cheesy, older generation film goers may watch with a glint of nostalgia and fin themselves enjoying the film. "}{"Title":"Strange mix, not all bad.","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Here he goes again, this time to Vietnam. The scenes (beginning and end) in the jungle are quite simple, moderately enjoyable action scenes with some explosions (one big 'un) and shooting, though Chuck's emerging from the water is pretty cool (including the preceding laughter from the enemy). The scenes in Saigon and Bangkok (shot in the Philipines) are more fun and atmospheric. And in this one (after having seen 'Invasion U.S.A.' just before) it becomes more clear that the makers didn't mean for this kind of action flick to be taken too seriously, but still it mixes badly with that weird and serious undertone. In that respect it is a little more awkward to watch than 'I. U.S.A.', but also as a whole it is not as good. Finally, there was a part for one of my personal favorites M. Emmett 'Man of the year' Walsh, but it didn't amount to much, unfortunately.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"P.O.W  Rescue Mission","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Joseph Zito directed this rousing(if far-fetched) action film that stars Chuck Norris as Col. Braddock, former North Vietnamese P.O.W. who had escaped, but has since been contacted about going back to Vietnam to investigate claims that it is still holding Americans. Once there, he meets old nemesis General Trau(played by James Wong) who is indeed holding P.O.W.s, so Braddock goes into Thailand to enlist the aid of old friend Tuck(played by M Emmett Walsh) to assist him in his efforts to lead a rescue mission, and expose Trau as a liar... Effective film isn't particularly believable of course, but a lot of fun, with a great ending. A true crowd-pleaser. "},{"Title":"Trash action with an endearing Chuck Norris","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There were two main prevailing themes in 1980's Hollywood action cinema. One was the still prominent cold war, and secondly was the repositioning of the Vietnam war, where the domination of American warfare was scarred by its defeat. Missing in Action takes the latter theme, with Chuck Norris's Col. James Braddock, only a year out of a POW camp. Taken to Vietnam to either apologise for his war crimes during the war, or to get an apology for being held prisoner (it's not ultimately clear - unless I had already lost interest within the first reel), Braddock leaves his guarded hotel to get information from General Trau (James Hong) about other soldiers missing-in-action. Their presence is inevitably denied as unfounded.Action cinema certainly took liberties with the Vietnam defeat, giving the war an almost revisionist interpretation. By stating within the context of the film (the basic plot would be retraced a year later in Rambo First Blood Part 2 (1985)), that Vietnam still hold many Vietnam vets imprisoned, Hollywood cinema is essentially stating that their defeat is justified as this race is barbaric and inhumane. Braddock eventually teams up with ex-soldier friend - and comic sidekick - Jack Tucker (M. Emmet Walsh) in Singapore. They somehow have thousands of dollars to spend on high-end military equipment, designed specifically for the needs of their eventual plan.Without humour, and with no tongue in any way near the cheek, the one- man army of Norris saves a bunch of POW's, bringing the inhumanity of the Vietnam government into disrepute. Missing in Action is a generic piece of action cinema, with a low-rent action hero. This prisoner-of- war rescue was so ubiquitous to the war film elements, and a way in which to recover America's damaged collective consciousness. Gung-ho had to return. As with all the action stars of the decade, the hard body was an important component to their raison-d'etre, and Norris can be horrifically spotted aimlessly walking around bland rooms, his shirt either open or completely off, revealing his gorilla-like torso.It dawned on me whilst watching this trash-action, that Chuck Norris was an action hero out-of-place. He appeared to me to be more of a 1970's television hero, such as Lee Majors or Gil Gerard. Then I remembered that he ending his career in the world of television, with the long running series, Walker Texas Ranger (1993 - 2001). Fundamentally Chuck Norris has become a bigger cult than his acting output, but aside from the gratuitous chest-baring, I found his presence in this throw away action film quite endearing. Norris seems to take these cinematic films of explosions very seriously, a relic of the '70's next to the wisecracking, tongue-in-check machismo of the bigger (both in box-office and girth) '80's stars of the genre.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"We categorically deny.....that there's any substance to this story","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the first of Missing in Action series movies made by Golan-Globus production. Golan- Globus made pretty good B movies in the '80s, that were aimed to entertain its audiences. One thing that jumps out when I see this movie is that it's beautifully shot. There's not a bad scene in this movie, and the credit goes to director Joseph Zeto.There's not much going for the story if you look at it now, but back then MIA was a hot media topic, and this movie merged the MIA subject with Rambo type story.I'm not sure what's missing from this Missing In Action movie, but it's rather one dimensional. Maybe it's because it has shooting, and fighting and not much else going on in the story. It's also an early Chuck Norris classic, and the scene that he appears from the water shooting his rifle is one of the well known scene in cinema history.If you love war movies, or looking for Chuck Norris action, you came to the right place. If you're looking for this type of entertainment, it's a good movie for you. "},{"Title":"hear the Chucksauras roar","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" MISSING IN ACTION and MISSING IN ACTION THE BEGINNING Just in time for his big screen comeback, these two Chuck Norris favorites arrive on blu-ray disc. Coming from the less than believed producers Golan-Globus, the Cannon logo never looked more gloriously cheesy than it does in high definition, these 80's gems are a part of the whole lets go back and win the Vietnam conflict wish fulfillment fantasies of the Reagan/Bush era. On that scale of things, these two pictures come on the short end, not living up to the high mark leveled by Sly Stallone with Rambo First Blood Part II or Gene Hackman and his all-star crew in the much needed on blu-ray Uncommon Valor.As it is, these are the film the legend that is Chuck Norris is probably best known for. The first picture is by far the better of the two, which producers Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus knew, because actually these two pictures where shot in reverse order, but once the mini-moguls saw the flicks, they new that they had one turkey and one half way decent programmer on their hands.Here starring as Col. James Braddock, the role he was born to play, Chuck leads a rescue mission for MIAs still keep prisoner in Vietnam years after the war. Aided by a bullet proof raft, a never ending supply of ammo and a better than this movie deserves partner in character actor M. Emmet Walsh. This works pretty nicely as guilty pleasure escapist entertainment that still holds up fairly well. Hear the Chucksaurus roar.MIA 2 on the other hand is whole different beast. Cheap and shoddy looking, it feels like a real bad TV episode from the era. With Chuck easily out acting, yes you read that right, most of the rest of the cast. This movie is just a sloppy, silly mess with a storyline so absurd that it almost has to be seen to be believed. Although, it must be said that at times the flick goes so far over the edge as to be comically, making it often so bad that it is funny, if not exactly good. A twice over infinity of internet jokes were born right here. "},{"Title":"Chuck Norris begins affiliation with GOLAN/GLOBUS...and strikes a hit. SOME SPOILERS","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  MISSING IN ACTION was a propaganda style action adventure that revolved around a lone action hero who goes behind enemy lines to save american P.O.W.'s in VIETNAM. This was one of the most imitated movies of the 1980's and spawned a slew of would be imitator films trying to cash in on it's success. The film however, struck a chord with Vietnam vets and was a huge success for CANNON FILMS. Whether you like this movie or not, it is a action classic. Following this film, Norris began a association with Cannon films that would last many years and give them several box office hits. (Cannon produced low budget action fare in the 1980's). Chuck played the action hero of few words...which is good because his acting was...well, it left a lot to be desired. However, whenever I watched a Norris movie in the 1980's I wasn't looking for Shakespeare prose flowing from his lips, I was looking for high kicks and gunplay. This film spawned two sequels. "},{"Title":"A good mindless action film","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a decent action film.  Sure it lacks logic and interesting characters but its fun to watch because you dont have to think for a second. The action scene's in this film are very good.  The car chase along the docks is cool and the ending battle in Vietnam is cool too.  Chuck Norris gives a decent performance though his best will always be in CODE OF SILENCE.  In all, a recommended movie for a night when you wanna watch something where you dont have to think.  3.5/5 "},{"Title":"One of the best and well known re-invasion of Vietnam films.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When Chuck Norris comes up out of the water with the m-60 machine gun in tow and fires it in slow motion it almost single handedly heals all of America's wounds from the real war. M. Emmet Walsh delivers an unforgettable side-kick performance, and the film offers a riveting glimpse into Bangkok's seedy underbelly.    "},{"Title":"oh my god its damn good","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  this film kicks so much ass its all about chuck norris who goes back into vietnam and takes on the viet cong all by himself and WINS outnumber like a million billion commies to one ass kickin' dude .Thank god for this true story adaptation, cause without chuck norris vietnam would be ruled by dirty pinkos.it starts off with him having a dream about kicking ass in vietnam, then he takes that dream and makes it a reality and goes back to 'nam to kick all the commie ass he can find .seriously buy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Stupid and worst of all, not exciting","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) is an American special forces who escaped from a Vietnamese POW camp. Now he goes back to Vietnam to investigate other American MIA with Senator Porter. He confronts Gen. Trau (James Hong) and gets the coordinates of a prison camp. From Thailand, Braddock gets the help of Tuck (M. Emmet Walsh) to go back into Vietnam and rescue the POWs singlehandedly.There are so many things wrong with this movie. The most glaring is everything in Saigon. Basically he dressed in black and becomes invisible. He's the only white guy who's able to sneak around in Saigon and take on all opponents. And they deliberately make killing as the last resort which makes no sense. Once Trau tells him the location, Braddock had to kill Trau, but the movie only allows him to kill Trau after Trau shoots first.If there is any salvation, it is the mind numbing action. It starts with some good mind numbing Vietnam war action. After that, they're few and far between. And when the action happens, it's not filmed in an exciting way. Even as an 80's action movie, this is poorly filmed. This isn't even Rambo. "}{"Title":"Just another bad Chuck Norris movie","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Missing in action  is along with Delta force  and  The Lone wolf McQuade the most famous movie with Chuck Norris as the main hero. Unlike the other two movies it's hard to call this one a good action movie. It has bad acting and a lame story. If you're looking for a REALLY good movie with the same story as Missing in action  watch Rambo 2  (with Sylvester Stallone) or Uncommon valor  (with Gene Hackman).This movie is actually the second in the series . The first two movies were made at the same time . When the producers saw the flicks , they knew that this one was obviously better. They decided to release the number 2 as number 1 . Wise decision . Missing in action 2 is heavy and bad prison drama with little action. After some time they made  Missing in action 3  which is better than MIA 2  , but it is also a bad movie . If you're going to watch one movie from this series make sure to watch  Missing in action . It's definitively the best of the series and it's always good to see M. Emmett Walsh in a movie .Chuck Norris plan is very simple &#x96; go to Vietnam , kill the bad guys and save the good guys . He's got a stone face all the time no matter what happens. He wears huge brown sunglasses. He don't likes to shake hands with communists . He drinks straight from the bottle. He's raft is bulletproof (LOL ) . Not to mention he can negotiate like no one (LOL) .The action happens mostly in the second half of the movie. Unfortunately it takes ages before the action will start . Even then it's hard to call MIA a fun bad movie , because the action scenes are dull and primitive. Along the way there are some laughable moments and a lovely cheesy ending. Still , the movie is too boring and takes itself a way too seriously . Movies like American ninja or Action Jackson are also trash , but an enjoyable ones. I can't recommend this movie to anyone . Neither lover of good movies or lover of so bad , it's fun movies will be satisfied with this one.I give it 3/10. Watch out for Jean Claude Van Damme (Kickboxer) as the truck driver. "},{"Title":"Brainless and comical Rambo rip-off sporting a dull and cringing performance from Norris. Entertaining nonetheless","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The War's Not Over Until the Last Man Comes Home! A typical action/war film from the Cannon Group, notorious for producing low-budget and brainless action films during the 1980's - without a doubt one of the best decades for trash like this, including the Death Wish sequels and countless Chuck Norris films on a similar calibre to this including The Delta Force and Invasion USA, as well war films such as the excellent 1988 Michael Dudikoff film Platoon Leader (directed by Chuck Norris's brother Aaron). Norris is Colonel James Braddock, an ex-special forces Vietnam War Veteran who spent years in a Vietnamese Prisoner of War Camp before eventually escaping (As depicted in the prequel which I'll talk about in a minute). He accompanies a investigation team of American diplomats to Ho Chinh Minh City for the POW delegations convention to lay the issue to rest once and for all. The Vietnamese government of course, depicted as the villains and evil, deny any evidence of there being any US servicemen still being held captive in the country. The lack of evidence puts things in their favour, with only Braddock's word against there's. Present at the delegations happens to be a guard who tortured Braddock while he was in captivity - I see you've come up in the world, Braddock sarcastically remarks to him at a dinner party before being threatened by the cretin. The Vietnamese government is calling Braddock a war criminal, insisting that he was held prisoner in the country because of his war crimes. Braddock has had enough... and after holding the Vietnamese general at knife point, he discovers the location of a camp down country holding American POW's. Braddock is now on a one-man mission to save them, and after arming up in Bangkok and recruiting his old-army buddy Tucker (M. Emmet Walsh - Airport '77, Blade Runner), they head upriver into Vietnam on a battle raft to bring the boys home...This is an absolutely god-awful film with cringing dialogue and unrealistic and lazy action sequences. However, what saves it is it's pure entertainment ability, that had me laughing all through and in fairness, there are worse ways to spend an hour and forty minutes than watching Chuck Norris rising up out of the river with an M-60 Machine Gun at his waist blasting away a whole platoon of Vietnamese soldiers without so much as breaking a sweat. It's very enjoyable... for me it's something of a guilty pleasure because I laugh all through it, be it at Chuck Norris's horrible acting and blunt dialogue, or the action scenes which sports the typical drop-your-rifle-when-shot-and-throw-your-hands-in-the-air-as-you-jump deaths of the villains. The ending is brilliant, and needless to say, always has me in stitches. This received horrendous reviews when it was released, called a Rambo rip-off and what not. Which is what it is, as the storyline is very similar to the first Rambo sequel. Although Rambo First Blood Part II wasn't released until a year later, the storyline for it had been in circulation for a few years and the Cannon Group was inspired by it to ride the success of Rambo and quickly churned out Missing in Action - which explains the quick editing and the 'lazy' action scenes. It's prequel Missing in Action 2 - The Beginning was originally intended to be the first movie, with Missing in Action to be the sequel. But when the producers realised that this was in fact the better film, they released this one first and marketed the other one as a 'prequel'. Which explains the often times confusing relations between the first two films when you watch them (In a flash back, Braddock is tortured by the Vietnamese soldier who he meets at the delegations - however, there is no sign of that character in the prequel! And also, the camps in the two films look totally different. But this could be written off as being two different camps Braddock had inhabited during his 'internment'). Worth watching back-to-back with it's prequel (That worked out well I think - a prequel always screams more originality than a sequel). I wouldn't recommend Braddock Missing in Action III where Braddock returns to Vietnam to rescue his wife and subsequently rescue a load of orphans. Pretty low-key, and even weaker than it's two predecessors. Missing in Action  Directed by Joseph Zito, the director of The Prowler (1981) and Friday the 13th The Final Chapter (1984), and also starring James Hong and Lenore Kasdorf. "},{"Title":"For those who found Rambo 4 too cerebral...","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Chuck Norris should have played GI Joe. I say that not because of his toughness or soldierly instincts, but for the fact he is around 8 inches tall in real life.Put another way and trying to tiptoe around stereotypes - Missing in Action is set in SE Asia, where there aren't too many Yao Ming's, and Chuck seems at best the same height as most of them.He is tough though, there's no denying that. Even his face looks like a cutting board that has been used for a lifetime of carving roasts. In one scene Chuck uses a Kevlar boat that is able to stop bullets, even that makes it only the second toughest thing in the film. Chuck is tuff.The Vietnam war is over. Chuck (his name is Braddock but he's still Chuck to me OK) is now back in tha worl', a worl' he is not right for any longer. Chuck wiles away the days drinkin' and reminiscin'. He knows that the US forces left men behind, but has almost moved on... that is until the entire concept of missing US soldiers is thoroughly debunked, this leads to an infuriated Chuck delivering the longest dialogue filled speech of his cinematic career This is Braddock... I'll go. Now in Vietnam, Chuck finds that he is little more than a patsy meant to deflect interest and stop any talk of a cover up. The Vietnamese (lead by James Hong in a we need an Asian actor - any Asian actor role) continue to debunk the myth and in turn accuse Chuck of perpetrating war crimes against their people.Later that night Chuck takes a knife and a quick walk. At the conclusion of his night out he knows exactly where the POWs are being held and off he goes! First though he must convince the US representatives that he wont be heading off to do anything silly, in another example of the genius of Chuck he manages to fool them by cleverly saying I'm not going to free them. But guess what? He must have had his fingers crossed because that is exactly what he then goes on to do. The brilliant mind behind the mullet.So Chuck goes to Thailand where he looks like he permanently lives in his own cigarette commercial, he renews acquaintances with another ex-serviceman so he has someone to talk to - or at least grunt at periodically - and off they go.Chuck proves he is the master of the last second turnaround, narrowly avoiding numerous punches and thrusts, he dons a headband for the finale to prove he is serious now and shoots a bunch of Vietnamese soldiers, who are patrolling constantly for some reason despite the fact that the war has apparently been over for 8 years.Look I don't know how well Missing in Action came across in the 80s when it was released, obviously well enough to justify at least two sequels I know of. As an action film it is OK, as a work of cinema it is pretty dodgy. In my eyes this is little more than a Van-Damme movie with Chuckles on the poster, it sets very low expectations and then meets them.For that I will begrudgingly admit that the film somehow works.Final Rating - 5.5 / 10. Seems clichéd now. But if you like Rambo you wont be too upset here by the Chuckster's work. "},{"Title":"Banal action flick","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Banal action flick from director Joseph Zito that capitulates from early on as it tries to take itself seriously. I guess if I'm really honest, I must say films such as Platoon and Saving Private Ryan have really spoiled these sort of flicks for me. Perhaps that is an unfair comparison, especially since this pic predates both. Well&#x85;whatever; it is still a very ordinary movie. And they actually filmed sequels!!There has to have been some better Chuck Norris action pics than this&#x85;&#x85;right?Sunday, January 9, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Bad Rambo rip-off","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Replace Stallone with Chuck Norris who doesn't even try to act. Checked. Make all action scenes stupid and clumsy. Checked. Make all Asian people evil, prostitutes or casualties. Checked. Give all bad guys one personality - evil jerk. Checked. Write script that doesn't have any unexpected twists so every one who is not total idiot can see what is going to happen. Checked.There is naked Asian women in movie for those who are too shy or something to watch porn. In porn you see them more than few seconds at the time so that is no good reason to watch this movie.This is one reason for all those Chuck Norris jokes. There is no sense of danger because Norris doesn't want to act. He just does absolute minimum to walk through this movie. Bad movie fans might enjoy this but I won't give points from bad movie entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Missing in Action","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" MISSING IN ACTION ultimately marked Chuck Norris as an action hero and proved Joseph Zito could direct outside the slasher genre. Norris, in his minimalist acting style(..often earning him the scorn from many a critic often claiming he had nothing but nonperformances)is quite a formidable adversary towards the Vietnamese enemy, more of a symbol of the Great American Soldier than an actual character, larger-than-life, certainly a more realistic example than Stallone's Rambo. Norris is a haunted soldier, motivated to find and rescue missing POWs from a Vietnamese compound, who'll do whatever it takes, and that includes killing everyone that challenges him, to save those men. James Hong, in a limited amount of screen time, always could provide a memorable Asian villain, in this one a leader of the new Vietnam a decade after the conflict had ended, accusing Norris of abusing innocent citizens, war crimes he didn't commit. Hong, as Tran, only fuels his desire to save those men from captivity. The film follows Norris' journey to find them. Lots of action, including Norris choking the life out of Vietnamese soldiers, including jungle warfare, lots of ammunition fired from machine guns, exploding guard posts.It's essentially Norris against the enemy, tapping into the scorn that was continuing to permeate after so many American lives were lost in a conflict that went on far too long including a cost that left emotional scars, gaping wounds that continued to bleed. Norris is a hero that those scorned soldiers could root for, and MISSING IN ACTION would provide a victory they didn't receive during their tours in Vietnam. As you'd often see in 80's action films, the enemy can fire rounds upon rounds of ammunition, never hitting Norris, yet his Braddock can blow away a vast number of Vietnamese with limited gunfire. Zito's direction places emphasis on the threat to Braddock's life, and he always points out that there are dangerous individuals all around. But, you always had faith that Braddock would be successful because he was a cool customer that fully understood his mission, and his survival in Vietnam before this movie's current plot provides us with an idea of his skills as a soldier, his courage and intelligence. Braddock's a one man army with eyes in the back of his head, who can combat those that threaten his life, and is a dedicated professional with a goal he plans to see through no matter what it takes. Braddock's dogged determination is unwavering and those that stand in his way are mincemeat. I'm pretty sure these types of films infuriate the activists who cried out in unison against the returning soldiers, because MISSING IN ACTION is a pro-military movie painting the Vietnamese enemy as completely villainous, worthy of execution(..while also recognizing that innocents often get caught in the crossfire, such as one scene where an attempt to blow Braddock to smithereens results in locals being seriously injured). M Emmet Walsh shines in another memorable supporting role as Braddock's dependable old army buddy, Tucker, who smuggles goods in and out of Thailand..his connections really help equip Braddock with what he needs, in order to combat the enemy, along with transportation in and out of those Vietnam jungles.Some tense action sequences include Braddock's quietly moving from his guarded hotel room to Tran's palace to retrieve the whereabouts of the POW camp, and his return..while rather unrealistic, it's still quite thrilling. Also, Braddock's return to 'Nam, infiltrating the camp, methodical in his approach to slipping in without their noticing, and the result as he eliminates the enemy while getting those imprisoned out is quite an action-packed, suspenseful finale. Most notable for Norris rising from the water to blast three laughing Vietnamese who gleefully(..and briefly)enjoy their handiwork of toppling over Tucker's Kevlar-equipped raft. "},{"Title":"It's just an action movie, people!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've been reading lots of reviews complaining about how Missing in Action lacks good plot and acting, about how braindead and stupid it is.  Come on, people!  It's an ACTION MOVIE.  Not even a good action movie - it's a CHUCK NORRIS MOVIE for crying out loud!  If you wanted an intelligent motion picture that would stir deep thoughts within you, why in the heck did you watch a Chuck Norris movie?This movie tells the story of a Vietnam vet who returns to 'Nam to rescue American M.I.A.s.  He turns out to be one-man army, dispatching his numerous Vietnamese enemies with knives and machine guns until he accomplishes his goal.  Thought-provoking?  No.  Entertaining?  Yes.I roll my eyes when I read reviews condemning this movie for being patriotic.  God forbid we should have any patriotic movies!  Would you be happier if the hero was a Viet Cong and the villains Americans?  And please don't call this movie racist, because it isn't.  While it certainly is politically incorrect by today's standards, it is absurd to say that it is racist.  If you want a politically correct action flick, watch The Sum of All Fears, in which the villains were changed from Arabs to Neo-Nazis so as not to offend any muslims.  You know what you're going to get if you watch a Reagan-era action movie.All Missing in Action is intended to be is a fun action movie.  If you are a fan of what I call the running through the jungle with a machine gun genre, this is a must-see.  If you are an overly sensitive liberal, it's best that you stay away from action movies altogether. "},{"Title":"dude!!!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  okay, this has to be chuck's best movie or maybe his second best movie, cos 'invasion usa' kicked. 'the war is not over until the last man comes home'. damn right. i mean i wasn't there so i dont know but i'm guessing that m.i.a is about as colse to the real nam as you can get. apocalypse now didn't make a whole lot of sense and i don't even want to talk about full metal jacket.the only thing i will say is don't ever watch 'missing in action 2', that movie sucks so bad, it doesn't even make any sense, i mean how can it even be part 2, i think the idea is that maybe he goes back in time to try and save his buddies or something but you don't even get to see the time machine. weak.anyway i give missing in action my fullest 10 because chuck is god. "},{"Title":"Better than Rambo","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Better than Rambo!  This is the best movie Chuck Norris ever made by far. Missing In Action doesn't take itself too seriously, just good hot fun!  It's got none of that PC moralizing the other Viet Nam pretenders wallow in. Too bad parts two and three couldn't match the original. "},{"Title":"Fun but disappointing Norris film","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie with high expectations because of hearing about missing in action so much but it turns out to be an average Chuck Norris movie. At first glance at the cover you'd think this was some Vietnam war movie but its not hardly since it takes place many years after the war. Chuck Norris stars as a war veteran who was missing in action and just got back to America. Chuck knows that they are still holding POWs in Saigon but he can't prove it. And when he's invited to Vietnam for negotiations, he tries to gather guns, supplies and old friends to help him rescue the POWs. There's hardly any martial arts in Missing in Action which is disappointing because that's one of the main reasons you see a Chuck Norris action movie anyway. Just a lot of shooting instead. There's entertaining moments in Missing in Action but not enough to keep your eyeballs glued to the screen. Acting is decent and isn't really bad. It's neither a good nor bad movie just not a very interesting movie. The Second one is better but i'm warning you that the quality is terrible on the second. "}{"Title":"Average Vietnam action film.","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Missing in Action starts as haunted prisoner of war for seven years Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) flies to Saigon with two American diplomatic aides including Senator Porter (David Tress) to talk with the Vietnamese Government about possible prisoners of war still being illegally held in Vietnam despite the war being long over. While the Vietnamese officials state that no prisoners of war are being held Colonel Braddock know's different, Braddock sneaks out of his hotel to question (well, more like threaten with a big knife actually) General Trau (James Hong) about prisoner of war whereabouts & gets all the answers he needs. Braddock head back into Vietnam to single handedly rescue the remaining prisoners of war still being held, armed with machine guns, grenades & speed boats Braddock embarks on a one man war to save his fellow American soldiers that the world has forgotten about...Directed by Joseph Zito for the notorious Cannon Group this all American patriotic Vietnam action film is basically a rip-off of Rambo First Blood Part II (1985), while Missing in Action may seem like it was made first the script for Rambo First Blood Part II had been floating around since 1983 & when it was being shot the boy's at Cannon quickly set-up & filmed this average cash-in that is watchable enough I suppose on a mindless level but won't go down as any sort of classic. At one hour & forty minutes it's a little on the longish side & there's really not much plot here, the character's are paper thin with Braddock given no real reason as to why he wants to risk his own life trying to save some prisoners of war who might not even still be alive anyway rather than just get on with his own life back in the US. All the Vietnamese are seen as evil torturers & liars while the American character's are seen as heroic, patriotic & brave who are fighting some great evil. You know that sort of pro American 'we're right & everyone else is wrong' attitude I'm on about, don't you?Even the action is rather average & feels lazy, there are some cheap looking shoot-outs & rather wimpy explosions (just check that grenade going off when the Vietnamese truck hits the other one at the end & dislodges it) set nowhere in particular, it just looks like some random stretch of jungle. There's an OK car chase at a dock involving a lorry & Chuck does his Spider-Man impression by climbing up & down the front of a hotel. There's a bit of nudity but nothing lasting. This was actually shot at the same time as Missing in Action 2 The Beginning (1985) but Cannon decided that this was the better film & released it first which is why the sequel is actually a prequel (if you know what I mean). Apparently shot between August & October of 1984 Missing in Action was released theatrically in the US on the 16th November, only one month after it had been filmed. No wonder there's a rushed & rather dull feel to the action scenes.Filmed in the Philippines on a supposed budget of about $2,550,000 it looks alright but nothing special, the mixture of Vietnam action & politics just don't come off here. The acting is average, Chuck Norris can't act & is pretty bad here.Missing in Action is an OK way to pass an hour & forty minutes but the lacklustre action scenes & a frighteningly wooden performance by Norris means it's nothing special & there are much better film that cover this subject like Rambo First Blood Part II. Followed by Missing in Action 2 The Beginning & Braddock Missing in Action III (1988) while amazingly a remake scheduled for 2011 is currently in production. "},{"Title":"The Chuck'ster goes back to Nam","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The one and only Chuck Norris stars in this daft yet nonetheless enjoyable action outing as Colonel James Braddock, a former POW in Vietnam who is determined to prove that the Vietnamese Government are still holding fellow American servicemen against their will. When Braddock is invited to a conference in Vietnam, he uses the opportunity to not only speak out about his beliefs, but additionally arms up and sets off on an all out rescue mission of his own! Yes, realistic this is most definitely not, but frankly who the hell cares when the film is such fun? Followed by two sequels although the original film is in my opinion, still the best; for those seeking a spot of mindless mayhem, you should definitely check this out. "},{"Title":"a laugh a minute action romp which was well made yet....","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have a question. I don't carry a gun and a knife because something ain't right. This film is fine yet in the middle of the movie he kills james hong and in some versions at the end james hong is in the room when chuck busts open the door with proof of POW's for the there are no POW's in vietnam scene. Yet what happens to chuck and friends when they get captured to cover this up? an interesting question yet a fine film. "},{"Title":"Missing in action&#133; no way.","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was having myself a Chuck Norris double-feature, where I followed the surprisingly above-average Code of Silence (1985), with the very low rent action schlock of Missing in Action. Whoa&#133; it's a big step-down. I couldn't wipe the smirk of my face throughout the whole viewing, but hey it was surely entertaining in its holds-no-barred approach of exploitative violence, outlandish action pieces and obvious political propaganda. Yeah its dumb. After being missing in action for seven years Chuck's American colonel escapes back to America. No one believes Chuck's warnings of remaining MIA American soldiers still being kept in Vietnamese POW camps, well not in the manner he goes about it. So Chuck packs heavy artillery, and lets the government officials do the talking, so he can sneak about and he get living proof. And along the way hand out some of his own personal poetic justice.Director Joseph Zito never lets up on its gritty comic booking styling, but even with this raw, sordid and blistering punch. The story never leaves its conventional framework, but its how immensely overwrought the main context feels and pushy it becomes. You can only take it as junk, especially with a lacking script, which only adds to the messy continuity and never makes too much of the other players in the story. Norris' patriotic character is defined, but the rest of the cast feel like nothing more than forgettable stepping stones for the story to progress along. A lively M. Emmet Walsh is the only one to make much of a dent, and the rapport with Norris always diverts. The bad guys here come across half-baked. James Hong's snake-like part was to small, and Ernie Ortega's character needed more weight. The stunning Lenore Kasdorf gets little to do. Now Norris&#133; other than that mush above his lips. Unbuttoned shirt and denim jeans. A beer in the hand. Trademark qualities are here, which it wouldn't feel right without them. Quite a one-note performance, but just watch him move like a panther and be in awe of his lethal abilities. You can't put this man down.The organic atmosphere prominently sticks out with its details. Rough, edgy photography vividly frames the densely lush riverside scenery, and jungles (Philippines' locations) to the sleazy, dirt-ridden streets of Bangkok. Some moments are filled with dark, shadowy lighting. The music score is the usual generic electronic blare-up. Sound fx comes through loud, and clear. You would like it to, with the constant spray of bullets, explosions and fist-smacking abound. Some action pieces come off nicely, and some not so, but still you get a laugh. Even with its outlandish dashes of explosions, mayhem and Norris. The pace did have a stalling problem leaving some dull passages.As for the sequels to follow, they're even worse (that's got to be telling you something) as they can't match the sheer boldness, and tacky audaciousness of this 80s time capsule. "},{"Title":"Fun, gimmicky 'MIA'","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Chuck Norris is a Vietnam vet who must pull off a daring one-man rescue mission and prove to the government that there are missing vets alive.  Fun actioner is full of gimmick, but at least it's better than the two sequels that followed.  My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"my comments are straight from the heart","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You know, If Chuck was such a bad actor, then why did he make so many good films? I am a fan and yes, his acting style is different, but it isn't bad. Not everyone has the same acting methods. I personally would like to see a movie where Braddock (Norris) and Rambo (Stallone) get together for some type of mission. Call me crazy or whatever, but I would like to see it. Since Hollywood is doing so many re-makes of every other oldschool t.v. show, why don't they do something like this. If they are that good, they can come up with something I'm sure. Norris and Stallone both have had lengthy acting careers and have both made some intense movies. It would be good to see the two of them join up and make a film like that. They both have made movies about Vietnam and all were good. I would pay to go see a movie like this as long as it was done right. "},{"Title":"Missing in Action!","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of the most exciting Chuck Norris films is Missing in Action! It stars Chuck Norris, David Hong, Lenore Kasdorf, and M. Emmet Walsh! Norris is very different in this film. He is very serious and he acts very good. The other actors are good in the film as well. The action is just non-stop. The action is quite rough and action like this isn't seen often in movies especially in this day and age in My opinion. There are many other great scenes of Norris fighting shooting up the bad guys! The music by Jay Chattaway is great. The direction by Joseph Zito is very good. If you like Chuck Norris and the cast member and want to see some great action then I strongly recommend that you watch Missing in Action! "},{"Title":"See part 2 before you see part 1","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I heard both movie where filmed together, but they mixed up the releases and put 1 as 2 and vis versa; that was what the video store clerk told me.  So watch 2 before you see 1.  This film is not bad.  I love the Karate, and Chuck finely has a high budget for some great stunts.  The story is interesting, and the action just rocks.  If you want to watch a movie with a pizza, and beer this would be it.  Very 80's and I chant USA to this one with my friends, we do that because we remember thats what the crowd chanted at wrestling for the American good guy, when he fought the forces of evil. "},{"Title":"A must see Chuck Classic","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  People talk about the Star wars Trilogy or what will soon be the Star Wars 6-ology. The Missing in Action trillogy is one of the best groups of movies ever made, even better than the Godfather trilogy. These movies are much more believable and leave the viewer in an almost catatonic state once they are over. Missing in Action is perhaps the strongest one, playing on the haunting of Braddock from his past years in Vietman. This movie could be the best teaching aid available for the classroom on the Vietnam era. What accuracy, what drama.....and that scene where Chuck rises out of the river and guns down the three Vietnamese rocket launching anti-American soldiers, i just had to go and salute the flag! Bravo chuck! "},{"Title":"Missing in Action","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Appalling shoot 'em up war picture with the always cardboard Norris as a commando rescuing U.S. war prisoners from Vietnam. Would you believe this spawned two sequels? I can't. "}{"Title":"What's with all this anti liberal stuff?","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm a liberal, but I enjoyed this movie. Well I enjoyed laughing at it.It really is just b level action flick, if you don't want to think you will have a great time. It was on TV while I was eating lunch at a holiday party and the sound was off. Me and my cousin started watching it and laughing at the horrible effects, then we started dubbing in our own lines, it was great because the rest of the party was boring. So it's a fun movie to make fun of. I mean even trying to enjoy as eye candy is kind of hard. It isn't even that good as a mindless action flick which is hard to do. Well, in summary if You want to make fun of a movie here's a perfect target. "},{"Title":"Braddock hits back...","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Col.James Braddock(Chuck Norris) goes back to Vietnam to rescue POWS still being held in Vietnam in this Reagan era action flick which features a big body count, lots of jingoism and gratuitous stupidity. Missing In Action is a movie that I actually saw in theaters and I indeed loved how a few months later, MIA 2 was released. Of course I always liked the second one better and basically consider this the lesser of the two. Although there is some fun to be had, there are also many slow spots that derail some the overall enjoyment.However nothing speaks more for the Reagan years as much as this. (Red Dawn and RamboFirst Blood Part 2 edge out MIA as defining the Reagan years.) Plus the action is slick and while MIA is somewhat dated, nostalgia factor makes this, a fun Rambo clone.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Awesome! The is THE Chuck Norris movie!","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" No matter what you think of Chuck Norris, this is the movie the legend and 'facts' are based on! Of course it is a bad, stupid action movie. But besides that you see just how tough Chuck is. He doesn't drink beer out of a glass - the bottle only, He can take out a whole unit of a foreign army by putting on black clothes, and he sure as $hit doesn't shake hands with commie vietnamese generals, - he's tough, he's hardcore to the bone, he's Chuck Norris.The plot is great for an action movie - Its the early 1980s, and POWs are still being held in viet nam. Chuck knows this becuz he just got out of one. So he heads back on an official US diplomatic thing, but he has an agenda of his own - to singlehandly break out POWs that are still being held. Go Chuck Go! "},{"Title":"Decent Fun","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Missing in Action (1984) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Box office hit has Chuck Norris playing Col. James Braddock, a former POW who returns to Vietnam to take part in a conference between Americans and the evil Vietnamese government. Their government claims that the have no American soldiers but Norris disagrees and goes out on a one man war to bring our troops home. To be honest, this film is incredibly bad from the opening sequence to the very end but at the same time it's so goofy and over the top that you can't help but be entertained by what you're watching. The story is so incredibly stupid and the rescue mission is made so simple that once again, you just have to sit back and laugh. The action scenes are also fairly simple and cheap but they do have their charm. All of the performances are also bad but again, this adds to the charm. The scenes with Norris being shown as a haunted former POW are silly but it goes with everything else in the film. Director Zito also made The Prowler and Friday the 13th 4 but none of those films charms are on display here. This film will never be compared to the great war films out there but it does remain a mildly entertaining popcorn flick, which I'm sure is all it was trying to be to begin with. "}]