[{"Title":"What if they gave a parody and nobody came?","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"109 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Trapped in a hellish copyright limbo for over a decade, Thom Eberhardt's Night Of The Comet is a film whose reputation is due for a serious rehabilitation. Generally--and wrongly--categorized with typical 80s teen horror films, Comet is in fact a smart, skillful parody of the low-budget sci-fi horror classics of the 50s, 60s and 70s--and a wry commentary on teen culture in the 1980s as well. For those familiar with the original films, the parody clues are all over the place--not least of which is that the early part of the film takes place in the back of LA's classically offbeat El Rey movie theatre, which is showing low-budget B horror movies. Most of the scary scenes are preceded (subtly or otherwise) by the famous red light warning used commonly in the 60s and 70s. And the apocalyptic plot, settings and dialog, especially among the scientists, are straight out of the 50s. Catherine Mary Stewart is by far the centerpiece of the movie as Reggie, the only teenage girl in Los Angeles who's both a lowly-paid theatre usher and an expert with assault weapons. She is most definitely *not* a Valley Girl. A pre-Voyager Robert Beltran is Hector date night in the barrio Gomez, the classic b-movie hero, and far more engaging here than his stoic, dry-as-bones role for the McTrek franchise. Kelli Maroney brings the totally 80s camp value as Valley Girl Samantha, who realizes with horror that her pool of potential Izod-clad boyfriends has just shrunk dramatically. Geoffrey Lewis sheds his mostly Western image here as the deliciously megalomaniacal leader of the researchers, whose taste for superscience soon gives way to a craving for hot buttered gray matter. Eberhardt is a canny director who doesn't miss a trick--the scares are rare, but when they come, they'll get you. The gore is minimal, but the atmosphere of malevolence gets progressively thicker until the climax. The tightrope between comedy and fright is skillfully toed--undead droog stockboys, anyone? The effects may not be the digitized visual pablum people take for granted these days, but in a way they're more engaging for their rawness. Anyone who thinks this was a low-budget movie has never tried to completely empty out downtown Los Angeles at 7 am for a film shoot. Thom Eberhardt should be hailed for his brilliantly sharp, funny script and his deft execution as director. Veteran sci-fi/indie/horror actress Mary Woronov is Night Of The Comet's direct physical and spiritual link to the golden days of the genre. She's passing the baton here to a new generation of camp sci-fi/horror fans. That nobody has thus far picked up that baton is a tragedy. To address a distressingly common misperception the comet in question is *not* Halley's comet. Both in-film plot elements and the film's tagline suggest this comet only appeared once before, when it wiped out the dinosaurs. Halley's comet, on the other hand, has had more comebacks than Cher.Night Of The Comet works pretty well the way a lot of people view it--as a simple 80s cheesy sci-fi comedy. But as with Rocky Horror, if you've seen the original material it's spoofing, the results are a hundred times more rewarding. A future DVD release is a must. "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem from the 80's","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"68 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a lot worth forgetting about the 80's but one of the few things that decade of big hair and keyboard-drowned-music had was some of the best horror and sci-fi comedies of any time. There have been funny scary movies before and scary funny movies since, but some of the best examples of those perfectly balanced action, horror, and science fiction comedies were made in the 80's. I'm thinking of other good ones like Fright Night, American Werewolf in London, Big Trouble in Little China and on maybe a level or two below films like Return of The Living Dead and Toxic Avenger. Some people use the term spoof when referring to a lot of these movies but that's the wrong word in my opinion. Naked Gun and Airplane were spoofs, movies like Night of the Comet and Fright Night were genuine horror films that had a nice mixture of scares, drama, and tongue-in-cheek laughs. All of these elements of different genres are what made these movies unique.While classic might be a little too strong of a word to describe Night of the Comet, I agree with most other folks here that it is a great low-budget 80's movie (maybe not low-budget, but definitely not big-budget). There was a vast amount of post-apocalyptic, low-budget horror films in the 80's but this is one that stands apart due to writer-director Thom Eberhardt's sharp, don't-take-it-all-too-seriously slant. Just the idea alone of two valley girls being among the small group of survivors of a world ending disaster is pretty cool. It took a familiar science fiction idea and made it somewhat original. But more importantly it was perfect for the times. Take Dawn of the Dead, mix in Valley Girl and Fast Times at Ridgemont High and you've got an excellent foundation for scares, action, drama and of course laughs.The acting all around is very good for this type of flick and while it certainly isn't perfect, the entertaining and fun spirit of the movie make up for any flaws. It also can't be said enough that the presence of Catherine Mary Stewart definitely helps to elevate the movie. She was one of the most beautiful and under-appreciated actresses of the 80's and despite being in a few bigger movies and shows (The Last Starfighter, Nighthawks, Mischief, Weekend at Bernie's, Days of Our Lives, etc...), she just never really became the household name she seemed destined to be. Although no doubt she has plenty of fans like me. Unlike many lead actresses of the day in this genre, she was actually a very capable actress. Both she and Kelli Maroney give knock-out performances as two teenage girls just trying to cope with brain-eating zombies and the end of the world.If curiosity about this movie has led you here, then I would pay little attention to the few negative reviews and trust the fact that the large majority of comments here are positive about this film. Maybe Night of the Comet isn't a forgotten classic by the normal standards, but it was certainly a cut above the typical low-budget horror/post-apocalyptic movies of the 80's and deserves to be seen by many. What it doesn't deserve is its current state of obscurity, its too-low rating on IMDb, and to not be available on DVD. That's the real shame of it all. "},{"Title":"Girls just want to have fun....even when surrounded by walking dead","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"59 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've seen any film such as The Day After, The Stand, Armageddon, Independence Day, or even the recent extravaganza The Day After Tomorrow, the end of the world would seem to be pretty serious business for us to have to deal with sometime down the road. Film directors one and all want us to believe it's all doom and gloom what with asteroids zooming around haphazardly in space, aliens needing to ravage us and the planet, global warming screwing up the weather or some deadly virus escaping some government lab infecting mankind with a super flu. Thom Eberhardt doesn't quite find it such a dreary proposition, and in fact finds quite a bit of humor in the situation by way of telling the story of two of the survivors, teenagers Reggie Belmont (Catherine Mary Stuart) and her sister Sam (Kelli Maroney).Somewhere out there in the final frontier where no man has gone before, is a comet zipping around with nothing better to do but to pay all of us here on earth a quick friendly visit. No, it doesn't exactly have earth's name on it, but it does want to take a cue from Top Gun and do a major fly by just so it can get up close and personal. Of course since we're a partying kind of planet, we decide to have one big planet wide comet festival just to welcome it into our solar system. There are comet tee shirts, comet hats, people have comet barbecues, and everything is just one big comet celebration. One of these comet parties is being held by Doris Belmont, wicked step monster to Reggie and Sam. Reggie and Sam's father is off doing army duty, and it's left up to Doris to keep the two girls safe and out of trouble, or as in Doris's case be a first class bitch while screwing the next door neighbor on the side. After an argument with Doris, Reggie ends up in a projection room at a local theater, and Sam ends up&#133;.well more about that in a moment. Eventually the comet does pass overhead, and being the grateful kind of comet that knows how to treat its host, it leaves us all a present by turning the vast majority of the human population into orange pixie dust.Of course, if you happen to be one of the very lucky few, like Reggie and Sam, you may have survived. It turns out if you were in a dwelling of some sort completely encased by steel, then you also woke up the next morning to see the dawn's early light. Reggie, having spent the night in the theater projection room which just happens to be steel lined, does survive. Sam, who found herself somehow spending the night in a trash dumpster survives also. However, if you were only partially protected by a steel enclosure, then you only get to survive temporarily which also means you get to play zombie for a while before you disintegrate into a pile of dust bunnies. Then there are those scientists who were aware of the danger but instead of warning us all to momentarily hop into our Kenmore refrigerators, they built themselves a huge enclosure to protect themselves with. So not only are they extremely selfish scientists, they are also straight out of the Fred MacMurray School of Absent Minded Professors because although I'm sure they wear their seat belts and lock their car doors, they somehow forget to close the vents on their Comet Proof Bomb Shelter. What that means is they need to track down Sam, Reggie and other survivors who may pop up here and there in order to find a cure before they have to begin their own auditions for George Romero.If it all sounds kind of goofy and wacky it certainly is all of that. Early in the film, you may have a bit of trouble buying into the proceedings but you'll eventually be seduced by the perkiness and charm of Stuart and Mulroney, and the witty dialog that inhabits Eberhardt's script. For instance, when Reggie returns with an arsenal to fight off zombies, Reggie complains that, `Dad would have gotten us Uzis'. And what are two teenage girls to do when faced with the apocalypse? They play D.J. on the only radio station still broadcasting, they vie for the affection of the only guy available, and they lift their spirits by going shopping at the mall to the music of Girls Just Want to Have Fun. As for special effects, they aren't much to speak of but we don't care because it's the script carrying the film anyway. It's obvious that Eberhardt was working from a somewhat miniscule budget, and although there are a few scary moments when Zombies pop out of nowhere, it's the whole premise of two Valley Girls trying to survive in a desolate Los Angels while being chase around by monsters and evil scientists that will win you over. It's obvious from the narration in the opening moments that this is a B movie, but Eberhardt keeps things on track by never taking himself seriously or asking us to which is a major requirement in a film of this nature.Night of the Comet is not currently available on VHS or DVD. You may catch it on Cable at some point if you don't own it. Your only other alternative is to purchase it on Ebay at your own risk. I was lucky enough to have taped it some years ago, and am glad of having done so.It takes an offbeat sense of humor to make a film like Night of the Comets and have it succeed as well as it does. It takes a quirky sense of humor for someone watching it to appreciate the film for what it is a cheesy plot-hole ridden B movie, with a lot of odd but good natured humor and with two lead actresses that are good enough to take us along for the ride. I bought it, hook, line, sinker, cheap special effects and everything else that went with it. And if I can buy into all this I have no choice but to give you my grade which for Night of the Comet is a B. Now excuse me for a second while I go check out the vents on my comet shelter. "},{"Title":"Totally awesome, for sure!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, it's a B-movie.  Yes, it's a zombie-ish movie.  Yes, it's about the end of the world.  But it's the mid-eighties, so everything is totally awesome, for sure!This is one of my favorite horror flicks.  There's something about two teenage valley girls from L.A. being the only survivors (well, there are a few others) of an unexpected mass-extinction flyby of a comet, that makes you love this film.  It's fun, has a few jumps, and tons of one-liners.  It's one of those films that if you watch it more than once, you'll be quoting lines from it.  It's all just good fun.  Sadly, I think I've seen this film more than any other film in my life.  This used to be my guilty pleasure I watched this almost every other day for a year when I was a kid and I used to know every line.  I just recently watched it after a decade-long absence and I still love it every bit as much. "},{"Title":"Classic zombie film","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think night of the comet is a classic zombie film that doesn't take the genre or itself too seriously. Its the ultimate fantasy film asking the question most people have asked themselves, namely what would it be like to be the last people alive on earth.Reggie and Samantha are two bickering teenage sisters only united in the passionate hatred of their stepmother Doris, who has an equal hatred for the girls. The Comet is big news and everyone is getting ready for the big event, except for Reggie and Samantha who have other things on their mind... The next day comes, and mixed with all the revellers party hats is a mysterious sand. No one seems to be around....The premise of the film is good and whilst the acting is not the best it is still perfect for this kind of film. The characters DO have development and aren't just cardboard sketches. The zombies aren't the biggest part of the film but when they make their appearance they do please.This film is always missed off from the classical zombie flic list usually due to its 'hollywood teenager' aimed audience. Most zombie fans ignore it on the basis that it doesn't seem to be a zombie film whilst the non-zombie fans miss out because they don't like the science fiction element. I'd love to see this film transfered and cleaned up for DVD release especially now that more and more films of this genre are making their appearance on DVD.Don't expect a brilliant script or brilliant actors. I'd say this one is similar to the film 'dead heat' in terms of its zombie load (expect to jump once at least) and 'my best friend is a vampire' for its fantasy element. "},{"Title":"An EotW classic complete with explanations.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am horribly fascinated with EotW films. This particular endeavor may very well have been the cause. I was 12 when I first viewed it. It impressed upon my mind the possibility that all could be lost....and then....it could actually get worse. But what distinguishes it as one of the worthy few among films of it's kind is simple. They had a believable reason for the calamity. Moreover, they explained how and why the heroes were spared. Instead of obsessing over the hidden mechanism by which people were elected to survive or die, the viewer could relax and enjoy the rest of the story. Although it's fashion sense is long lost, I believe that lovers of this genre will appreciate it's adventurous spirit. "},{"Title":"End of the World Fantasy with Some Laughs","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I originally saw this movie in the theater, and I LOVED it!  I had often fantasized about the end of the world where only myself a few others had survived.  Well, I'm 16 years older now, and not quite as misanthropic, but I still got a kick out of watching this again the other night.  Sure, the soundtrack was atrocious, and some of the acting was sub-par, but the sheer aplomb that Samantha has carries the film, I thought.Plus, it was fun to see Robert Beltran (ST Voyager's second in command), so much younger!Quite a few laughs, and a pretty good plot twist or two to keep you guessing makes this an easy movie to enjoy.My rating 7  "},{"Title":"It's valley girls vs. zombies and evil scientists tonight on Schlock Wars!!","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cheesy, but enjoyable satire is like the poor man's version of 28 Days Later (2002) with a big chunk of '80's vibe for flavor!Comet eliminates the worlds population, leaving surviving sisters to fend against a group of demented scientists.While many peg Night of the Comet as a zombie picture, and granted two or three zombies do show up along the way, this film really has much more in common with the old B sci-fi movies of the 1950s. In fact, one could make a good case that the film is meant to be a comical parody of those old schlock films, after all it does have a nice comic book feel! From any view, this is an entertaining film even with its silly moments. It manages to stir up a few chills along with the laughs.The films cast is only decent, but their performances do hold their own. The special FX, mostly the zombies, are pretty decent. The music score is composed mainly of electronic tunes that perfect that great '80's feel!For those seeking a bit of fun humor with their horror, Night of the Comet isn't a bad choice.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Camp 80s fare","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my guilty pleasures. A camp, 80s sci-fi caper that's dated but still enjoyable. The opening is wonderful and contrasts with the subdued but somewhat haunting ending. Back in 1984 this would have been even better because it would not have been regarded as camp. Today it seems we can all sneer our postmodern noses at such works but make assertions that its kitsch quality is now rather endearing. Catherine Mary Stewart steals the film with her Ripleyesque action moves and feminine charm, while Zoe Kelli Simon provides a number of dumb blonde comedic moments. The film lags somewhat after the brilliant opening but never loses its heart. The only downside is the fact it seems like a TV film/80s MTV video with its fuzzy camera-work. Watch it with popcorn at home, preferably late at night. "},{"Title":"It's, like, the end of the world and I don't have anything to wear!","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet is a truly fun and engaging little genre effort of the 80's, but surely some of its hardcore fans are slightly overestimating the value and significance of this film. I've encountered reviews stating that Night of the Comet is a quintessential gem of 80's horror and that it's easily one of the most intelligent tributes/parodies to older B-movies ever made. Okay, the script is quite clever and writer/director Thom Eberhardt definitely knows a lot about all the post-apocalyptic classics of the 50's and 60's, but I honestly doubt it ever was his intention to direct the ULTIMATE homage. Night of the Comet is more like a miniature-tribute! All the obligatory story lines and sub plots to create an end-of-the-world epic are present, but Eberhardt's only disposed of a limited budget and thus the elaboration is only small-scaled and rather cheesy. There are mutated zombies, crazed scientists and hostile groups of survivors on the rampage, but all just in small doses. The movie opens during a bright summer evening, when the entire world is preparing to see a mesmerizing and once-in-a-lifetime ecological phenomenon, namely the passing of a comet. Two high-school teenagers who missed out on the event (sisters, moreover, what are the odds?) wake up the next morning and slowly realize that the comet's radiation killed every human being in L.A, only leaving behind small piles of red dust. They entrench themselves in an abandoned radio station, meet up with another sole (and male) survivor, battle the occasional mutated zombie and &#150; of course &#150; go shopping without credit cards. Things get slightly more dangerous when a bunch of dying scientists, who predicted the extinction of the human race, try to abduct the survivors to steal their still uncontaminated blood. The tone of Night of the Comet is continuously light-headed, still director Ebarhardt manages to maintain a more or less sinister atmosphere which never allow you to forget that the whole of mankind just got wiped out. The girls, although mostly concerned about fashion trends and pop music, understand the seriousness of the situation and deal with it the best way they possibly can. There are still a handful of creepy sequences (the confrontation in the mall) and well-developed Sci-Fi ideas (the diabolical scientists), but the emphasis largely lies on the two girls and their typically 80's pop-culture life-styles. I've never heard this many campy pop-songs in one movie, not even in a musical, and the special & make-up effects are kept to a minimum. The acting performances of Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney are more adequate than you'd expect, as it certainly isn't easy for young actresses to portray teenage character that are stereotypical, ignorant, fashionable and yet likable at the same time. Night of the Comet certainly isn't brilliant, probably even a bit overrated by its fans, but still worth a peek in case you have a weakness for 80's cinema. "}{"Title":"A Totally Fun Time","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am still so in love with this movie! I was in the 7th grade when I saw it at a matinée on a Saturday afternoon in early December 1984. I didn't have any friends and went by myself. Great film-making is when a movie TRULY lets you escape and makes you WANT to be a part of it. That happened with me in the theater when I saw this. I SO wanted to be Kelli Maroney. Some may say I am putting a little too much into this film. But isn't that the point of a good movie, to let you escape? NIGHT OF THE COMET accomplished that, and still does. You probably know what its about. Two popular teenage girls are left in Los Angeles, California after a comet comes and destroys everyone. Or so we THINK they're alone. Adventure, horror, and hijinx follow. I highly recommend this movie particularly if you are in desperate need to escape your own problems for awhile. Kelli Maroney is incredible as the cheerleading sister and B movie queen Mary Woronov is sweet as a guilt plagued scientist. A 10. "},{"Title":"It's the end of the world as we know it -- and it's like so totally rad, y'know?!","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tough, smart Los Angeles resident Regina (smoking hot brunette Catherine Mary Stewart of The Last Starfighter) and her flighty younger sister Samantha (adorably bubbly blonde sprite Kelli Maroney of Fast Times at Ridgemont High) are amongst a small handful of folks left alive after the bulk of the planet's population are turned into red dust by a passing comet. Other survivors include Eating Raoul 's Robert Beltran as a hunky nice guy truck driver, your standard assortment of hostile rot-faced, sunken-eyed zombies, a vicious gang of nihilistic punk psycho stock boys, and a team of evil mad scientists who include the ever-twitchy Geoffrey Lewis and ravishing femme fatale supreme Mary Woronov.Writer/director Thom Eberhardt takes an unpromisingly generic sci-fi/horror end-of-the-world premise and gives it a marvelously clever, witty and inspired tongue-in-cheek hip'n'flip 80's makeover the characters are refreshingly humane and engaging, the witty dialogue frequently hits the sidesplitting snappy spot (Hey, I'm sorry if the end of the world makes me nervous), the New Wave rock soundtrack seriously smokes, and in the film's single most delightful sequence Regina and Samantha joyfully ransack a swank department store for all the gnarly fashionable clothes they can get their eager little adolescent hands on (appropriately enough, Girls Just Wanna Have Fun plays on the soundtrack during this simply spectacular sequence which speaks volumes about the shallow materialistic culture of the 80's. Instead of stockpiling essential things like food and water these girls amass a large array of trendy apparel). Better still, there's a wonderfully natural and appealing breezy'n'easy chemistry between Stewart and Maroney; their sweet, lively and often amusing rapport keeps the picture fun and bouncy throughout. Furthermore, the eerie shots of the empty and abandoned desolate city streets are quite striking and the ferocious zombies deliver several truly creepy and startling moments. Popping up in cool cameos are Michael (Forbidden World, Valley Girl) Bowen as an early victim, Ivan E. Roth as the terrifying leader of the psycho stock boys, and Sharon Farrell as the girls' bitchy stepmom. Arthur Albert's crisp, handsome cinematography (the use of funky dusky red filters is especially impressive and effective), David Richard Campbell's nifty spacey synthesizer score, and David Miller's neat make-up f/x are all on the money excellent. A total blast. "},{"Title":"Cheesy 80's Sci Fi Fun","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you grew up in the 80's, you'll enjoy this film. We have the cheesy 80's fashions, in all their glory. We have the cheesy cliché-ridden dialog. We have the character stereotypes in all their glory. Let's not forget the music, which (except for Girls Just Wanna Have Fun) sounds like songs you know, but isn't. Knock off music has never sounded so appropriate. We have girls who are hot, and yet, deadly. I can't offhand think of any other movie featuring a main character female in a cheerleader outfit blowing the crap out of a car with an automatic weapon. We have zombie dudes with wraparound sunglasses. Perhaps they wore their sunglasses at night. We also have the standard end of the world story. SO what's different? What's different is, this movie doesn't take itself seriously. It doesn't try to give us a deep meaning. It is there for us to chuckle through. Oh and who can forget the secret government group dressed in Devo-like jumpsuits. I especially love the fact that a sect of stockboys who survived have plans of conquest. We all know that the stockboy is an untapped supervillian wannabe. I'll never look at stockboys the same way again, knowing that if the end of the world approaches, they will all be vying for world domination. "},{"Title":"Night of the Comet","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cheerleader Samantha(the gorgeous Kelli Maroney)and her older sister, cinema employee/ arcade wiz Regina(the delightful Catherine Mary Stewart)find themselves in a bit of a difficult situation..the entire civilization as they knew it was wiped out by an apocalyptic comet hinted at as the possible reason behind the extinction of the dinosaurs. All that remains of their friends, neighbors, and city dwellers is dust marking the clothes they wore before the comet disintegrated them. Those that didn't receive immediate exposure to the radioactive comet(..and weren't lucky enough to have been inside a metallic structure like Regina and Sam)are slowly dying by a plague slowly turning them into zombies. Regina and Samantha make it for a radio station believing the voice across their radio is a survivor find that it was a recording but do meet Hector(Robert Beltran). Hector is a kind truck driver who was in the back of his truck trailer with a female hitcher when the comet came across the sky. Trying to reach out for other possible survivors across the air waves are heard by scientists(including cult fave Mary Woronov and character actor Geoffrey Lewis)slowly dying from the plague. The scientists believe(well not Woronov who has accepted her fate as the plague has accelerated causing loss of memory)that blood from those not effected by the comet can create a serum. This is probably false hope stemming from desperation as the scientists are losing their memory and becoming not only for irritable but dangerous as their plague is taking over. Certain peril often comes Reg and Sam's way as they pursue some sort of life outside of the apocalyptic situation probing a mall. In that mall is a pack of dying,nearly turning(into zombies), and insane gang of thugs who wish to kill Reg and Sam. They will square off in a gun fight. Also, Reg will have to deal with the scientists wanting to extract blood from her while they believe Sam(due to her scratching around the neck because of bad nerves)has received the plague. Hector will return to San Diego for a short spell to try and see if his mother was a victim. Returning he'll have to rescue Reg from possible doom as those scientists also plan to extract blood from a couple of healthy kids found.Irresistible genre mixer combining elements of zombies, Valley Girl satire, apocalyptic sci-fi and counter-culture humor. It all works surprisingly well as this film is quite entertaining. But, the female leads are so wonderful to watch that they overcome some of the film's shortcomings. There's nothing funnier than seeing Sam firing off a semi-automatic at a car as her target for practice. To explain how these girls are able to escape some scruffy situations is that their father was a Vietnam vet who finally figured out that his children were girls. Not gory at all as zombie films often are. The film plays up the apocalyptic angle more and is successful at that. I think the 80's nostalgia factor is what makes the film so easy to like because the females are a product of yuppie consumerism. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good B Movie","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe first big surprise is how well Regina can act here. But she did equally well in The Last Starfighter that nobody saw with those great original Tron effects they rave about now. She was much weaker in Weekend At Bernies. Samantha is a lot shakier acting wise as is the awful Beltran who wrecked Voyager. The effects will surprise you for this old a movie. The sky effects are carried about halfway down to the ground where you can clearly see the normal light that has been changed on the lens. What makes the movie so entertaining is two brain dead valley girls on the loose in LA. They run into zombies but generally kick their butts. The ones in the department store are especially creepy. Geoffrey Lewis, an old Clint Eastwood movie actor, does very well here. He provides some needed acting support to the other weak actors. Woronov as the scientist medical officer Audrey, who senses what is coming, and does what anyone with a brain would have done in that reality also gives a great little performance. It is shot well, usually the camera focuses on a couple blocks to give that abandoned look; this was way before CGI like you see in I Am Legend. In the original, The Omega Man, there are actually shots where you can see people and traffic way off in the distance. There is none of that here; very well done for a low budget movie.The humor is what saves the movie. The two girls play off of each other well. Each one exasperates the other just as much. I love when they give the evil nurses, who were bleeding out the poor kids, telling them they were going to Santa; the girls give them a taste of their own medicine, leaving a note taped on them Going To See Santa. It was not meant to be taken the least bit seriously. It is firmly tongue in cheek; if you accept it for what it was meant to be you will enjoy it. As I said, the worst actor is Robert Beltran who stinks it up here like he did on Voyager. He is not on the screen all the time. I have it on Blu Ray; it is a hidden gem from the 80s. "},{"Title":"Tame and messy when it should be spunky and fun","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 18 year-old Reggie (Catherine Mary Stewart), is a Valley girl working in the local movie theatre when the rest of the world are out partying, waiting for the arrival of a passing comet. Reggie has a party of her own with goofy projectionist Larry (Breaking Bad's Michael Bowen) and ends up missing the event entirely. After Larry is attacked by a zombie- like creature and dragged away, Reggie emerges into the world the next morning to find everyone vanished. All that remains are piles of clothes and red dust. She travels home to pick up her adorable sister Samantha (Kelli Maroney), and heads to a local radio station in search for fellow survivors, only to find lovable idiot Hector (Robert Beltran).What is clearly aiming for pastiche of 1950's apocalyptic sci-fi movies, is actually an uneasy mix of many things. With the early introduction of the 'zombies', who can talk and use weapons, we are in horror territory. But this seems quickly forgotten once Hector goes to search for his mother and the girls head out for some very 80's retail therapy, even dancing around to Cyndi Lauper. Then it feels like we are in a John Hughes movie, with light humour and a cheesy soundtrack replacing the end-of-the-world atmosphere. It then switches again when the survivors are tracked down by a group of researchers who may or may not be up to any good. We are then in kiddie-friendly sci-fi mode, with men in white suits and big buttons that make science-y sounds.Night of the Comet really isn't that bad, it just suffers from a disarming lack of follow-through that withhold's the film's potential, and shifts between genres too gleefully. The result is a film that's isn't funny enough to be labelled an out-and-out comedy, too bloodless to be called a horror, and takes too long to get to the shady scientist types that it would be misleading to name it science fiction. The performances are all decent, especially Star Trek Voyager's Beltran and Chopping Mall's (1986) Maroney, who both would have benefited the film by having more screen-time. Geoffrey Lewis also shows up near the end as the big-bad head of the shady researchers, but it's too little, too late, and Night of the Comet is tame and messy when it should be spunky and fun.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Beware the comet!","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hey, I'm sorry if the end of the world makes me a little nervous.A lot of 80's movies just have this unique combination of camp and seriousness that I've never seen in flicks from any other era. Sometimes that combination results in a pretty good movie, sometimes it results in something that's hilariously (and enjoyably) bad, and occasionally the result is an unwatchable mess. I'd say that Night of the Comet is somewhere between the latter two categories. It certainly isn't good, but it had some moments that kept it from being a complete waste of my time. The story is amazingly cheesy. A comet approaches the earth (it's implied that the last time it came through, it was responsible for wiping out the dinosaurs). As our planet passes through the comet's tail, the people exposed to it are instantly turned to red dust, or turned into zombies, or they'll eventually turn into red dust. Unless they happen to be enclosed in a steel building as it goes by, like our protagonists are. A pair of teenage sisters find themselves seemingly all alone in Los Angeles the next morning, but they eventually meet both allies and enemies in this empty new world.Let's see, there are also evil scientists who want the blood of one of the girls for a vaccine to save themselves (we know they're evil because they wear dark glasses ALL THE TIME), a gang of evil, gun-toting zombies (we know they're evil because they wear dark glasses ALL THE TIME), a random trucker who joins up with the sisters, a bunch of guns and dynamite that comes from somewhere, the obligatory arcade scenes that legally had to be in any movies featuring teenagers in the 80's, and the required cheesy 80's soundtrack. There's your movie.I didn't think Night of the Comet was that bad, though it never ascended to the heights of campiness that I hoped to see. The girls are cute in that spandex and heavy makeup kind of way, and once they get their hands on some weapons, the movie virtually turns into Rambo by way of Jem.  If you happen to catch this on TV and would like a reminder of how random 80's movies could be, give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Smart and funny parody of 50's Sci-Fi garbage","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this again on HDTV and I have to say that it looks pretty damn good for a movie made in 1984 on a low budget. The empty LA scenes were great, as were all of the characters with their superficial lives. It even has one pretty scary scene where a kid starts terrorizing Hector in his parent's house when he goes to track them down.It also had some good character development when the daughters are at odds with their cheating step-mom. The development of Hector was also pretty good. Although the rest of the characters had very little development, that can be expected and forgiven in a film like this. All in all, a very entertaining and fun movie. "},{"Title":"Yea!","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a fantastically entertaining movie. It has it all, end of the world situation, zombies, dumb blondes, and rip offs from other movies. I don't understand why people would even try to entertain themselves with crap like Norbert and Licence to Wed when there is classic stuff like Night of the Comet out there. And its actually a decently made film, well compared to a lot of other crap. Of course this is an incredibly typical 80s movie, future historians would gain incredible insights to the fashion, culture and stupidity of 1980s America when viewing this. I've seen a lot of bad movies, many many bad movies, trust me Night of the Comet is entertaining, and there are much much worse movies out there. "},{"Title":"Valley Girls Deal With The End","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of lower budget films have had a tendency to fly under the radar screens of moviegoers throughout time. NIGHT OF THE COMET, released in late 1984, is just such a film. It is a weird combination of Valley Girl lingo and 1980s fashions and music, stitched with the tried-and-true end of the world scenario that has been a staple of science fiction ever since The Bomb was invented. And while the Valley Girl lingo, the fashions, and the music do date this movie, other aspects of the story give enough ambiance to cover those flaws.The whole premise of the film involves a very large comet that is about to make a fairly close encounter with our planet; and the whole wide world, or, in this film's case, Los Angeles, is about to partake in its passage. But the last time a comet of this magnitude came this close to Earth was sixty-five million years ago, and that event put the dinosaurs out of business.And then the next morning, the Los Angeles skyline is enveloped in this orange haze not untypical of the city's infamous smog. But as two Valley Girl sisters (Catherine Mary Stewart; Kelli Maroney) soon find out, everything and everyone they've ever known has turned into piles of dust, the result of being directly exposed to the comet's light. Maroney and Stewart are fortunate in having been forced to miss the event; they're still intact. But those who were only partially exposed have either gone psychotic (witness the deranged security guards the two of them encounter in an abandoned shopping mall), or have turned into zombies. And to top it off, unhinged scientists (Mary Woronov; Geoffrey Lewis) now want them to be used as guinea pigs for an antidote to the comet's rays.Clearly this film is a product of the 1980s in all the areas mentioned before. But working on what, even for 1980s Hollywood, was a fairly parlous budget of $3 million, writer/director Thom Eberhardt, who had served as a production assistant on Steven Spielberg's 1968 short film AMBLIN while both were students at Cal State Long Beach, manages to get a lot out of the premise he lays out. The scenes of Stewart and Maroney venturing through a deserted Downtown Los Angeles while trying to avoid the zombies have the eerie feel of the 1971 science fiction thriller THE OMEGA MAN, as well as that film's source material, Richard Matheson's classic 1954 novel I Am Legend. Also, the shots of the orange-colored L.A. skyline have the feel of Spielberg's science fiction-oriented 1971 Name Of The Game TV project L.A. 2017. Stewart and Maroney are quite good in slightly campy roles; and Robert Beltran has a great role as perhaps the last Hispanic truck driver left in Los Angeles.No one will mistake this film for other space rock films like METEOR, DEEP IMPACT, or even the overblown Armageddon. But NIGHT OF THE COMET is a consistently interesting midnight cult film that should be seen, if not for the obvious 80s Valley Girl comedy, then for its end-of-the-world scenario and the chilling depiction of a deserted L.A. "}{"Title":"Chakotay, Kayla Brady#1, and Kelli Maroney save the world from zombies!!!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hey, you can complain about it all you want folks, but this is classic 80s!!! Those of you who feel nostalgic when you hear synth music, see super fluffy layered hair with LOTS of Aqua net, and skintight SV's or Jordache, this is for you.Robert Beltran is our Ponchlike hero, we who are Trekkers have come to know him as Chakotay from ST Voyager, but some of you 80s buffs might remember him as RAOUL from a little picture from around the same year called Eating Raoul with the great Mary Waronov, who is also briefly in this movie as a mad scientist/zombie gone good with a conscience. Her part I wish had been larger, and that her interaction with Beltran had been more detailed... they are great on screen together, and she fits right in with this 80s camp.Catherine Mary Stewart who used to be Kayla Brady on Days of our Lives shines as the tough chick, while cute Kelly Maroney of Ryan's Hope is her naive cheerleader sister. Sorry if some of you think it is awful, but if you grew up during the time this film was made, I believe you will really enjoy it. The music is really nostalgic... there's one slow song that is really reminiscent of the Frank Stallone days when he was on top with Staying Alive... Anyone remember Moody Girl? This song will remind you of that, and this movie will make you long for days before the world lost all it's creativity and started copying everything great from that time.Enjoy, Children of the 80s, this one's for you.PS... Had to edit this upon just watching it again... How funny and predictive is it that Kelly says Beam me up Scotty... As The future Chakotay is listening! ) "},{"Title":"WARNING  Watch in steel-encased enclosures!","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet is about two females (Catherine Mary Stewart and Keli Maroney) left stranded on an Earth virtually annihilated of all life by a passing comet. It is, for the 80s styled, relatively low-budget sci-fi/horror that it is, a remarkably good movie. I'm even loathe to use the term 'cheesy', as it seems to strike an amazing sense of balance of when to take itself seriously and when not to.There is a little fore-story, mainly to establish the comets coming, and the character of the girls, sisters. They are under the domain of a wicked step-mother, and a father who is deployed with the military. Through separate events, they find themselves saved from disintegration by being enclosed in steel structures. It is quickly established there are a few who were only partially effected by the comet and have turned into lunatic zombies with some cognitive abilities.In an attempt to establish communication, they head to a radio station, where they meet Hector, the requisite handsome male for the movie. All of these scenes are interspersed with shots of a scientific facility and their crew preparing for something. The two groups come to meet after the scientist rescue the girls from stylish mall-zombies, and quickly the nature of their plot unfolds. The butt-kicking commences and shortly the movie concludes.All of this is held together with a script that is only mildly hokey, a quick chase down the romantic lane, make up and effect that know their limitations and use them well, and use of isolated scene shots effectively.There is plenty of errors in this movie for those ready to dissect those sort of things. Empty streets that should be filled with crashed cars, for one example. However, budget and artistic notions found better imagery with what the director is given.All in all, a fun movie, equal parts camp, sci-fi and horror, and that will leave you feeling good at the end of watching it. Definitely recommended. 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Creepiness, intelligence, and silliness when you don't expect it. It's got a rhythm like free jazz.","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My score 7/10 for the writing, period humor, and terrific casting! I just got done viewing my copy of NotC (again). This is the first time I've watched it since last year's So-Cal wildfires, and I'd forgotten how red the sky  was. It's weird how so cheap an effect is really effective to those who've seen the  actual thing (a sky that looks post-apocalyptic). NotC is full of that sort of thing. Creepiness, intelligence, and silliness when you  don't expect it. It's got a rhythm like free jazz, and for some people that's a  problem. For me, it's fun. I like a movie that keeps me on my toes, and NotC does that. The tone of the flick changes with the situations, and that's a good  thing. No one ever said comedy had to be monotone. In fact horror and comedy both rely on our fears, and it's really difficult to walk a successful line between  the two while giving screen time to each. Some people wrote complaints in their reviews without really understanding concepts, and then claimed their own misunderstandings as plot errors. For example, one person complained about the movie's disastrous title comet being  a thinly veiled reference to Halley's Comet arriving in 1986. Sorry writer, the  movie clearly states this is a comet that has been away for 65,000,000,000 years and even has a bit of dialog about how harmless Halley's Comet is. This  isn't to say NotC is error free, but it helps to pay attention if you don't want to be  confused. I've read several reviews where people complained about plot holes and inconsistencies, and I'm a little baffled. Didn't these people realize they  were watching an early 80's B-grade farce about two valley girl sisters who  manage to survive the apocalypse? What were they expecting? (Dialog spoiler this paragraph only.) NotC is meant to be ridiculous. It's meant to  have a few good creep outs, and lots of silliness. How else can you explain the  dialog of two brainy nurses who - due to slight mental incapacity - are unable to  remember if they were instructed to draw 30 or 300cc's of blood a day from some less-than-willing donors. The problem being that if they draw 300, they'll  just expire altogether. If the movie were intended to be serious, they'd have  notes. As it stands, they have silly, well-written dialog for a wholly unlikely  situation. (All clear!) I'm not sure if the movie's available, but I can recommend it to fans of sci-fi  comedy for a night of relaxed humor. Sci-fi fans in general will notice themes  repeated in newer films, and even some TV series. People who were in their teens and early 20s in the mid-eighties will probably receive it better. Please  don't expect it to be more than it is. Just enjoy the silly weirdness of it all.  "},{"Title":"Bad???  No, just a off center.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another critic called this movie a disgrace but I belive they were wrong. The whole movie was supposed to be off center, sort of like Eating Raoul. If you liked one you would like the other.  Catherine Mary Stewart did a good job in this movie and was fun to watch.  The lines about the Uzi's was great. Also Mary Woronov was good in this.  Hope to see more of both of these actresses. This is not BEN HUR but it is a fun watch so I give it a 7.0  "},{"Title":"Two hot gals battle for survival.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" They don't make them like this anymore. Some would say that is good, but me I like this one. A comet goes over earth...anyone who directly watches it dies by totally drying up, anyone indoors becomes a lunatic who craves human blood, and anyone lucky enough to be in some sort of metal shelter survives.Two really attractive girls survive (one is even a cheerleader, hehe) and they have to fight some of the lunatics to survive. They run into a truck driver also lucky enough to survive in this one too. There is also an institution where there are apparent survivors to the comet, but looks are deceiving as they too are slowly becoming bloodthirsty. Best to turn off your brain for this one cause there are a few flaws. Like how do people in an underground facility get infected just cause they left air vents open, but someone in a metal movie projector hut not get infected cause that hut is not air tight. Like I said just turn off your brain for some mindless fun. "},{"Title":"major possibilities not taken as far as it should've","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  night of the comet is an 80s sci-fi comedy about a comet that has wipe out much of human existence, and turned some of the few survivors that exist into flesh eating zombies. the movie focuses on two valley girl sisters who must wrestle with their new existence as one of the last few people on earth, meanwhile battling scattered zombies along the way.end of the world movies are always fun stories to work with because the possibilities are really endless. what does the last person (or last people) on earth do with their time? how do they cope with the isolation? is the whole disaster really over? and how do you repopulate the world? the new zealand movie, 'the quiet earth' seemed to go into more detail about the psychological factors of being the last of human civilization. however, even though it could've, night of the comet never went into much exploration of those questions. so, while the movie is slightly entertaining (with some parallels to dawn of the dead), night of the comet seemed to ignore much of it, making it less interesting of a movie than it could've been.it may've been in part because things were too scattered. we have a situation dealing with two sisters and two children and another man they meet along the way (forming the patrairchial family, no less). the sisters spend most of their time looting the mall (because really, who cares at this point?) and having fun with the freedom to do whatever. meanwhile, the man that they meet, goes back to his hometown to look for his family, making him potential prey to the flesh eaters. these two stories never present anything too intriguing at all.even knowing that the effects of the comet were part of some experiment gone wrong and that the scientists become involved in looking for survivors and performing tests. but even they are out of the picture soon (and quickly) enough with little explanation.in fact, the movie just seemed to go on as though 'oh well, a comet hit, let's have fun. the end.' what's the fun in that? given the time period and the story, there may've been more fun to be had with this movie if they would have made it into a stupid comedy, or if the sisters themselves were much funnier to begin with.   "},{"Title":"Lame...but I watched it anyway.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's a problem I have with movies that come on television, when there is nothing else to watch. I somehow get sucked into really bad movies.But this one was fairly watchable. The concept of being the only ones left on Earth after a comet, then finding out zombies are around makes me laugh. And that's why I gave this movie a 2, instead of 1. The story was stupid...but in that way that makes you laugh (too stupid >funny).I think I only watched it because the guy from Star Trek was the lead. I was surprised to see him as a younger guy...and he was the only funny character anyway. "},{"Title":"a favorite campy B-movie","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The earth passes through the tail of an unnamed comet. It's been 65 million years since the last time when the dinosaurs died off. There is a party atmosphere. Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart) working at the movie theater spends the night in the projection booth with a co-worker. Her cheerleader sister Samantha (Kelli Maroney) gets into a fistfight with stepmother Doris and hides out in the lawn storage shed. The comet turns most people into dust and the rest into brutal zombies of varying abilities. The steel protected both girls. They drive to a radio station which is still broadcasting but it's all automated and they run into truck driver Hector (Robert Beltran). Then a secret underground military base makes contact with the trio. This is a terrific end-of-the-world B-movie. The lines are fun. Samantha is funny. Regina has attitude. I loved CMS. It's LA without people around. There is something very compelling about an empty large city. It works as a fun apocalyptic movie but also so campy when needed. "},{"Title":"Last Girls On Earth?","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Night Of The Comet way back in 1985, on a bad Betamax copy. I remember liking it back then. Now I got my hands on the newly released Bluray edition and well, the movie has dated a bit. Sure, Night Of The Comet was has a bit of tongue in cheek and it kind of never takes itself too seriously, but even at that, it does contain some truly creepy moments. The movie deals with a comet passing near Earth's orbit and scientists predicting a dazzling spectacle of lights and a meteor shower. SInce it's a once in a lifetime event, most of the residents in L.A. gather outside the streets to catch a perfect view of this comet passing by. It later appears that all that were exposed to the comet's radiation disintegrate, turning humans into dusty red clay. Only two girls seem to survive, Regina and Sammantha, both of them were miraculously hidden from the radiation. When they become aware that everybody around them is dead, they desperately try to communicate with other possible survivors. The empty streets of L.A., the automatic gardening devices, clocks, street lights, etc., seem to function normally, giving us a glimpse that machines can go on their own without humans. It is these scenes that I found the creepiest, reminding me of movies like The Omegan Man and 28 Days Later, which I think borrowed heavily from this picture.The girls then find and befriend a truck driver and for a moment it appears that they are the only survivors. One thing that is never fully explained is that, some of the people that didn't die, turned into Zombies. Unlike the Zombies in George Romero films (slow and dumb) or in 28 Days Later (fast and furious), these zombies actually speak and think. It is never specified why they didn't disintegrate and why they necessarily have to turn into zombies. To make matters worse, a team of scientists also survive, but they too have been exposed to the comet and need contaminated free survivors in order to make a serum that can save them. Maybe if the movie had a more serious tone (like those scenes of empty LA, that are truly creepy)it would've been a far more interesting movie, yet Night Of The Comet manages to entertain. Those of us who grew up during the 80's will surely find the soundtrack of electronic and new wave music very appealing (yet it also severely dates the movie).I enjoyed Night Of The Comet, but I'll be the first to admit it's not Oscar material. "},{"Title":"Gradient filter apocalypse","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When most of humanity is turned into a pile of dust and laundry from a comet, the blissfully unaware valley girl Regina spent the night hooking up in a cinema projection booth and playing arcade games. It doesn't take long before she's attacked by a zombie and joins her sister, who spent the night in a metal shed (whatever works, I guess) at a radio station where they assume there will be help. They meet up with another survivor and hit the empty streets of southern California. They make a few stops to try on clothes and run around the mall. Really, what else is there to do during the apocalypse? It's the main character's nonchalant attitude toward humanity's end that gives this film its charm. Red gradient filters on the camera lens to make the sky red, add to the hokey feel. A last act with evil scientists spoil much of the fun and never fully works, but what preceded it is one of the more entertaining horror comedy entries of the 80s. "}{"Title":"Girls just wanna have fun (even while the world's ending)","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Night of the Comet' often gets hailed as a 'classic eighties zombie film.' And it is... even though it is a bit 'light' on the zombie side. In fact, I think I only saw about four of the undead (and two of them were in a dream!). However, if you can forgive the lack of blasting flesh-eaters' brains out then you'll find quite an enjoyable cult classic.Yes, it was made in the eighties, therefore you have to put up with the obligatory big hair and bushy eyebrows. Basically... a freak comet turns 99% of the world's population to piles of dust and clothes, leaving only two gun-totting (and yet slightly dappy) sisters to fend for themselves in a world (not very full of) zombie and rapists (or people who want to just simply do strange things with your precious blood).Luckily for our two lycra-clad heroines, help is on hand by lovable trucker, played by Star Trek Voyager's 'Chakotay' (probably his only other career-defining performance to date!). So... the three of them have to generally have to fight for their lives for the best part of the movie. And, for the record, the 'best parts' are the first and third acts. The middle segment is kind of taken up with the three of them hanging around a deserted radio station, which is a slight drop in pace when compared to the rest of the film.This film is pure cheese. There will be plenty of people out there who will only see it as outdated and silly. And it is. But that doesn't mean that it isn't a fun watch at the same time! So, if you want to spend an hour and a half of your time with a couple of girls whose hobbies include playing arcades, casual sex and Uzis, then give this one a go. You may just spot a zombie in there somewhere. "},{"Title":"The burden of civilization is upon us","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two valley girl sisters (Catherine Mary Stewart, Kelli Maroney) wake up to find that a passing comet has wiped out most of the life on Earth. All that's left where people used to be are piles of red dust. Oh, except for some zombielike mutants, a truck driver named Hector, and some shady scientist types up to no good.Catherine Mary Stewart is one of the prettiest women ever. Kelli Maroney is super cute and likable. Both girls are lots of fun and believable as sisters. Mary Woronov and Geoffrey Lewis are great as two of the bad scientists. Robert Beltran (who?) plays Hector and oddly receives top billing. Perhaps it wasn't odd in 1984 but now it seems strange he would be billed above Stewart, Woronov, or Lewis. I'll concede Maroney since this is the biggest thing she ever did. Anyway, Beltran's good like the rest of this terrific cast. Funny script with lots of memorable lines. Post-apocalyptic movies have never been more pleasant. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Entertaining And Funny SCI-FI/Horror/Comedy Cult Classic.","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night Of The Comet is a terrific,entertaining and funny SCI-FI/Horror/Comedy Cult Classic that is filled with wonderful direction,a great cast,a fantastic score and soundtrack and amazing special make-up effects. All of those elements make Night Of The Comet a fun movie and one of the most memorable genre films of the 1980s.Set in Southern California,Night Of The Comet tells the story about the whole world waiting for a Comet to arrive. When the Comet arrives it changes the world and turns the world into an empty and deserted apocalyptic wasteland turning people into dust or into Zombies. Now with the whole world ruined the fate of the earth is in the hands Valley Girl sisters Reggie(Catherine Mary Stuart)and Sam(Kelli Maroney)who have to fight Zombies while trying to survive. What do you get when you combine George A.Romero's Night Of The Living Dead and Dawn Of The Dead with End Of The World Science Fiction and a Teen Comedy? You would get Night Of The Comet,a great and fun low budget movie that did some decent business at the Box Office and earned good reviews from film critics and has become a Cult classic since it's 1984 release and is one of the most entertaining and memorable genre films of the 1980s. I think that one of the reasons Night Of The Comet has a Cult following is because it's a movie of many different genres,it's an over the top SCI-FI film,Horror movie,an offbeat Teen Comedy,an end-of-the-world doomsday flick and Action film in the movie 95 minute running time and with the mixture of all of those genres Night Of The Comet has a wild and irreverent B-movie style to the point where you can't take the movie serious and you will have a fun time watching the film. The Comedy in Night Of The Comet is funny and over the top because of the characters and the bizarre and wacky things the characters have to go through but there is also moments where NOTC can be intentionally funny or unintentionally funny but it all depends on how you look at the film. And while NOTC is a SCI-FI/Horror film the movie isn't scary scary or thought-provoking but the film has a couple a jump scare moments that get to viewers and make them jump out of their seats. And while the NOTC is a Zombie movie there isn't any blood or gore but I think the movie works well without the gore because without the gore the movie has much lighter feel and tone. Also,NOTC effectively gives you an atmosphere and realistic feeling of the end of the world where you see no one on the streets and there are so many empty spaces and you will feel just as isolated and alone as the main characters do. One of the main things that makes NOTC so watchable and memorable is that the movie is a true product of the 1980s and 1984 with bright and vibrant neon colors that are either in the background or foreground in the clothes or photography and they just come off the screen,an 80s movie montage(montages were huge in 80s films),big hair and light music soundtrack. When you watch NOTC you are transported back to the 198s which is one of the things I like about NOTC and it's the stylish and colorful look that gives the film it's greatness and offbeat charm. The two main characters Reggie and Sam are fantastic characters mainly because when you see the two of them you wouldn't think of two teenage Valley girls as heroes you would think that Reggie and Sam would be dating boys or shopping at the mall not as the last hope for mankind. But as the movie goes on we begin to not only see them as heroes but characters with great depth and emotion growing closer together as sisters and see them develop from typical Teenage girls to trying to save the world and the two rise to the challenge even though they broth probably don't want to. Reggie and Sam are our guides in the film because almost everything in the film is seen from their perspectives and you will relate to the two of them as well as laugh with them because some of the things they see is funny,suspenseful and insane. You will love Reggie and Sam as soon as they come on the screen. The ending of Night Of The Comet is wonderful and a great conclusion to the film because there is shocks,suspense and romance that will put a smile on viewers faces. A Fantastic ending. The cast is great. Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney is amazing and fun as Reggie and Sam,with Stewart and Maroney bringing great chemistry and scenes together. Robert Beltari is great as Hector,a truck driver that joins Reggie and Sam. Mary Woronov and Geoffrey Lewis are delightful as Audrey and Carter,two mysterious scientists.The direction by Thom Eberhardt is wonderful,with Eberhardt bringing a slick visual style to the film using below and overhead shots making the movie nice to look at. Good direction,Eberhardt.The score by David Richard Campbell is good,effective and matches the tone of the movie. There is also great songs on the soundtrack by Chris Farren & Amy Holland(Learn To Love Again),Chris Farren(Whole Is Celebratin')and Tami Holbrook(Girls Just Want To Have Fun). Good songs.The Special Make-up Effects by David B. Miller and William Snyder are impressive,realistic and well done and add to the film. Great effects,Miiler and Snyder.In final word,if you're a fan of SCI-FI,Horror or Genre films in general,I highly suggest you see Night Of The Comet,a terrific,entertaining and funny Cult Classic that you will never forget. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A charming part of horror cinema history","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's another perfect example of a movie I grew up on and spent many summer days watching while on vacation at my father's house. A combination of Night of the Living Dead, The Omega Man, and Valley Girl makes this quirky film an essential addition to any fan's 1980's genre collection.Everyone is celebrating the return of a comet that hasn't buzzed by the Earth in 65 million years. The last time it swung by, the dinosaurs went extinct. How can it come as a surprise that this time around it incinerates humans and leaves survivors mutated and ravenous for human flesh? Two Los Angeles valley girls (Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney) join forces with a truck driver (Robert Beltran) as they run for their lives from the walking dead and scientists intent on draining their blood in an attempt to find a cure for the zombie outbreak.Night of the Comet perfectly captures the tone of the 1980s in every way. The feeling of paranoia about the world coming to an end is one element. I remember reading about the planets aligning and how this could cause the apocalypse. It seems like every day the papers or television would feature stories about impending nuclear Armageddon.It was a scary time for kids and the fact that two valley girls in a big city like L.A. could survive gave many a teenager hope they could as well. In what other time period besides the 1980s would we see two high school girls raid a shopping mall and try on clothes while listening to Girls Just Wanna Have Fun on a jam box. Keep in mind, this is right after discovering the world had come to an end? However, the best part comes when they wield semi-automatic rifles dressed to the nines against mutated delivery boys. These are just a few of the reasons why Night of the Comet is such a charming part of horror cinema history.On top of all that, we also get the usual Don't Trust the Older Generation message. There's nothing adolescents distrust and hate more than authority figures telling them what to do. Night of the Comet's examples of these suspicious characters come in the form of a group of scientists willing to kill survivors in search of an antidote for themselves.The film is rated PG-13 for violence, language, adult situations, and gore. Night of the Comet is tame in comparison to most zombie and horror films. This is the type of movie designed for the masses. You could watch it with people who don't frequently watch scary movies. It's perfect for helping get lightweights into the Halloween spirit without completely freaking them out. "},{"Title":"Expecting a bad movie, but disappointed... in a good way.","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the trailer for this and thought it was going to be awful... in a good way. So I selected this for our weekly bad movie night and I have to say we were very disappointed; this movie was very well done. It had an interesting story, its characters were well developed, I understood their motivations and the girls in the film behaved like actual human beings and not just screen candy. I have to say the advertisements were a bit misleading; it made it seem like the whole thing would be a big shopping montage and teenage girls loose on the town, but this turned out to be a reasonably well thought out movie. The abundance of 80s gold in this movie more than makes up for its lack of so-bad-it's-good qualities, so I would recommend it as a movie for bad movie nights and regular movie nights as well. ) "},{"Title":"The most endearingly comedic zombie apocalypse film I've seen.","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love zombie movies; mostly on the serious side, but after looking here on IMDb for something a little funny yet scary at the same time, I decided to give this film a try and needless to say I was very surprised.How anyone can come up with the concept of two materialistic, air-headed valley girls(well at least one of them) set against the back drop of post-apocalyptic Los Angeles is beyond me, but with a well-written script and above-average acting, it surprisingly worked, even on a meager budget. That speaks volumes about the quality of this film despite the fact that it was made in the '80s, especially at a time when films were made with heart and soul unlike today's films were special effects and MTV-style editing has replaced story and character development. I simply fell in love with it, didn't like it the first time that much, but a second viewing of this film made it very pleasurable. Only gripe was that they're wasn't enough zombie killing action. That's due to the fact that the film was made on a meager budget. With a bigger one, it could've made the action much more satisfying But despite that one criticism I enjoyed the film. And hopefully they'll be a sequel at some point in the future, but keep the digital effects at a minimum and focus on practical effects and more of what made the first film such a classic.A rare gem of the '80s, Night of The Comet is one of the funniest zombie movies I ever had the pleasure of watching. Not many directors can come up with a recipe of impressive film making like this one, but Eberhardt made it possible, even, again, on a meager budget. With everyone on board including the two lovely leads Catherine Mary Stuart and Kellie Maroney, with a serious yet sensual femme-fatale like performance from veteran actress Mary Woronov, as well as the sinister Ivan E. Roth, Night of The Comet is simply a blast to watch. I loved it. I can see why it's such a beloved classic; the concept is simply genius. "},{"Title":"This engaging B movie is, like, so totally awesome!","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thom Eberhardts' Night of the Comet answers the burning question of just what might happen if humanity were to be mostly wiped out and what you had left were a pair of valley girls! Eberhardt, who also wrote the script, does a nice job of both parodying and paying homage to vintage sci-fi features and making commentary on California life circa the mid-1980s. The visual design is excellent, the pop soundtrack irresistible, and the fashions appealing. The story takes place at Christmastime, when an unnamed comet is having a rendezvous with Earth and many people gather outside to watch the phenomenon. This proves to be their undoing as the next day nothing's left of them but red dust! Sisters Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart) and Samantha (Kelli Maroney) try to deal with their isolation the best they can, while arguing over Hector (Robert Beltran), a hunky loner who turns up. Soon all three are located by a group of scientists who will NOT have the kids' best interests at heart. This is really a model low-budget genre movie for the era, as it possesses smarts and cheesy elements alike, and is never less than entertaining. The sexy leading ladies are a good match and prove to be very watchable throughout while the supporting cast includes such familiar and well-loved old pros as Mary Woronov and Geoffrey Lewis, with Michael Bowen in a brief, funny bit as Larry. The highlight of this thing definitely has to be the entire sequence in the mall; with pleasant echoes of Dawn of the Dead, we get to see our main characters simply be typical teenage girls for a while, until they're menaced by ghoulish stock boys out for a good time. The sense of humour present is wonderful from beginning to end. It's particularly a hoot when Hector is menaced by an undead boy and quips There goes the neighbourhood! Things never get too, too serious, and Eberhardt does maintain a feeling of fun, generating some effective shocks and bringing out the horror element in little bits and pieces. Of course, this might leave some genre fans wanting plenty of good zombie action less than completely satisfied. Still, the rewards here definitely outweigh any liabilities. It's certainly impressive the way the filmmakers were able to empty so many sections of Los Angeles, and it creates a perfect end of the world type feeling. Overall, this is very enjoyable. The producers are Andrew Lane and Wayne Crawford, who'd previously had success with another '80s favourite, Valley Girl. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Apocaliptic Playground","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I and certain other people I knew were the last people on earth what would we do? This question is something that would cross our minds every once in a while due to our subconscious fear of everything that we know and are comfortable with is gone in an instant. However there is a positive side to this scenario because though this if you and others are still around it gives you the freedom to do anything without any restrictions. This is one of my favorite post apocalyptic films because it breaks conventions and it's on the light hearted angle of this scenario. The only other light hearted apocalyptic film I can think of is Seeking a Friend for the End of the World though that film is pre apocalyptic but close enough.I really love the post apocalyptic world, I like the isolated moodiness they set up in the first half of the film which is a little eerie and unsettling at first, from just seeing most of the populous vaporized to dust with nothing left but clothing everywhere, you hear and see the technology we built still working showing that it will survive, and the sky which is orange red like being on Mars. However despite this it's not doom and gloom, what I love is this world that it's not the cliché depressive ruined look but we see that despite most of the human populous wiped out, everything we're comfortable with and need to survive is intact. There is power, water, food, shopping malls, video games, movies, just everything it feels like someplace that I could live in because literally the city would be my playground.The zombies are handled well, the make up work on them is good if nothing totally impressive. The impressive one for me are the zombie cops, there is just always something about evil in the guise of an authority figure that creeps me out. I also like that their not the cliché stupid zombies but depending on how much they've decayed some possess some intelligence, which gives them a small edge. The music is great to me this film is one of my favorite movie soundtracks ever. There is action which is good/decent, my favorite battle was in the department store where Sam and Reg are having a shootout with a gang of zombie creeps, though the only thing that's weird about it is they don't kill them. I find that a little funny but it makes sense on a character standpoint their inexperienced. The humor is really good even though it's not always ha ha funny.However what really drives this film are the three characters themselves whom I think are a blast because their all handled correctly. There isn't a great amount of depth to them but you do get to know them enough to actually care and sometimes I find characters I don't know too much about more interesting than one I know too well. There's good chemistry between them from the sisterly relationship of Reg and Sam down to the romance between Reg and Hector, and they all develop a little bit, it might be a small amount of time but that's all that's need for changes.Catherine Mary Stewart I remember was one of the first actress I had a crush on when I was a kid cause I saw The Last Starfighter an underrated 80's gem I still love. It's a shame she didn't have more but anyway I thought she was hot both physically and mentally. I really love her character Regina, she has charisma, energy, capable of kicking some butt, and one thing I can relate to her on is her love of video games like we see in the first half she's playing one of my favorite video games Tempest I really like the running joke they have on the initials of one different player that pays off in the end.Keli Maroney is good also a shame she didn't have more (though liked her in Chopping Mall as well), anyway I like her character she's a bit of a ditz but she's not stupid, she's almost a show stealer because she has some really good lines my favorite moment is in the radio station as she is playing around with it she then delivers a certain monologue on the radio mike that cracks me up.Robert Beltran was also good I like that he's a bit of an urban cowboy, has some charisma, a bit of a wisecracker, and tough. This film I also felt was one of the times where young people were portrayed honestly. These characters were not stereotypical pretty boys and girls, the girls are valley girls but weren't on the popular side, none of them talked with some irritating tone to their voice which comedy and even drama shows tend to do which I always found weird. I like the fact that even though their living in a post apocalyptic world their not sad about it at all, their actually happy and content; because back in the past all three of them you sense haven't really had it good. Samatha and Regina had to put up with an abusive cheating step mom, their dad was hardly home anymore, Regina had relationships that went nowhere likewise for Hector, you sense each of them wanted something anything more out of life. The world their in now gives them that chance because not just do they have everything but their with the right people. If I, my girlfriend and friends we're still around then I'd be fine.Overall Night of the Comet is a blast.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Teenage girls take on zombies, mad scientists, and empty shopping malls","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet is an interesting mid-80s movie about a comet that makes a close fly-by of the Earth and turns 99% of the inhabitants of the planet into pink dust. There are a few survivors, however a couple of teenage girls who slept through the comet's appearance, a teenage boy who missed it because he was 'makin it' with a girl in his van, and a handful of evil scientists who selfishly kept the apocalyptic aftereffects of the comet to themselves. The day after the comet's appearance, most of humanity is nothing more than a pink dusty memory laying next to their clothes, some semi-survivors who turned into zombies, and the previously mentioned humans too, of course. Once the girls realize that LA is pretty much deserted with the exception of a few zombies stumbling around, they decide to make the best of their situation and do some looking around. They go to the last remaining radio station still on the air and take over the programming themselves, then go shopping of course. Hey it's all free now, yeah? Unlike a lot of mid 80s teen monster flicks, there's no nudity and few frightening scenes in this movie. It's intended to be fun, and it succeeds at that. The acting is solid and the mid 80s pop music (such as Cyndi Lauper's Girls Just Want to have Fun) brings back memories. Overall I enjoyed it. Six stars. "},{"Title":"80's Zombie Flick","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comet flies by earth and turn most people to dust. Most of the survivors turn into zombies. The other survivors must fend off the zombies to survive the aftermath.This is an amuzing 80's movie. Its pretty cool that its a truck driver that has to help repopulate the earth. Chicks with guns is very hot! How many valley girls know how to shoot an uzi??Robert Beltans' performance is outstanding!Catherine Mary Stewart,Kelli Maroney,Sharon Farrell, and Mary Woronov are hot!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "}{"Title":"Goofy... really really goofy","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit I am a little confused about how to rate this film. In my system, movies that are so bad you can laugh at them are under 4, making them worth watching for comedic factor alone, while simply failed movies are 6. This would be oscillating between 3 and 6, but with nothing in between. That's why I feel a little bad for rating it 5/10, because this is not completely boring and it is also a little funny.The plot is simple the world ends (for ridiculous reasons not worth mentioning) with most people disappearing while people that accidentally spent their night in a metal case survive. Some are in between, in which case they disintegrate slowly and behave like aggressive zombies. The survivors in our film are two adolescent girls. They are as cute as they are clueless, so 80's aerobic music and automatic guns don't help at all. There are also some scientist guys that seem to be part of another movie until they meet up at the end.After the first 15 minutes you feel the heroin is dumber than a doorknob, but she smarts up considerably (at least in a relative sense) when her sister enters the scene. Any science is absent from the movie. The scary parts are few and not really scary. What brought out a sense of terror in me was the soundtrack, which is all 80's dance music. Thankfully for Robert Beltran, his role was small so the exposure was minimal. The girls were cute and there were some semi dressed scenes, but the 70's were over and the prude period had already started in the States so nothing of importance.Bottom line The goofiness factor here is off the scale. The movie is both below average and completely funny. The hair of the girls alone is 10% of the entire footage. I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone, but it might make a nice MysT3k film. "},{"Title":"One of the campy horror classics of the 80's","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Imagine Jeff Spicoli and the gang from Fast Times at Ridgemont High mixed with the old zombie/plague movie The Last Man on Earth starring Vincent Price and you have Night of the Comet. Part of what makes this movie worth watching today is intentional, part of it isn't. The intentional part of what makes it worthwhile is that this movie knows it's pure cheese and isn't afraid to have some fun with the scenario. It knows it's Airplane, not Airport. The good part that wasn't intentional is the nostalgia. The 80's fashions, the big hair, the collars, the rolled-up coat sleeves, they're all here. Plus, there's all the 80's music when our heroines are camping out at the automated radio station. It's a perfect little time capsule of 80's pop culture. Of course, if you're too young to remember the 80's, then this part won't be as much fun for you as those of us who remember this movie in its first run.One other thing worth mentioning about this movie. It is unique in that it predates Buffy the Vampire Slayer by eight years as a horror film in which the teenage girls aren't just eye candy sitting around huddled in terror waiting to be devoured or chopped to bits by the villain. Instead, Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart) decides to use her wits plus the weapons training her dad gave her before he ran off to Central America and fight for her survival. If you remember this movie, you know it's worth seeing a second time. If you're too young to remember, I strongly advise that you check it out anyway. "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's Sci-fi horror comedy cult classic!","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comet passes by the Earth eliminating and wiping out most of the human population including mutating some. Two valley girl sisters (Kelli Mahoney and Catherine Mary Stewart) have survived somehow only to wake up finding everyone in L.A. is gone and have it all for themselves. Somehow there are some ravage mutant zombies that are out for blood and also a survivor (Robert Beltran) helps them battle them out.Exciting 80's cult Sci-fi horror gem that has been a favorite since the 80's with a following. It's a post-apocalyptic comedy thriller with laughs, mild gore, zombies abound and of course fine acting that made the movie such a cult classic. If you want a fun piece of 80's Sci-fi/horror then seek this one out, it's a fun romp.Also recommended Dawn of the Dead (1978 and 2004), The Omega Man, Akira, Re-Animator, Day of the Dead (1985), 28 Days Later, 28 Weeks Later, Return of the Living Dead Trilogy, The Blob (1988), Grindhouse, Heavy Metal, Lifeforce, Maximum Overdrive, Resident Evil Trilogy, I Am Legend, Night of the Creeps, Let Sleeping Corpses Lie (a.k.a. Living Dead at The Manchester Morgue), Mad Max Trilogy, Fist of the North Star (1986), Shaun of the Dead, From Dusk Till Dawn, Demons, Cemetery Man, Resident Evil Degeneration, Doomsday, Night of the Living Dead (1968 and 1990), Diary of the Dead, Land of the Dead, The Stuff, Killer Klowns from Outer Space and Terminator 2. "},{"Title":"A Cheese Encased Pig in a Blanket","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably one of the best B movies from the 80's. I recall that this was one of the staples of HBO, back when there was only one HBO channel. This movie definitely rings of the tone of 'just for the fun of it.' Compared to other zombie movies, this one is much less graphic, and far more campy. There is a mall scene that is reminiscent of and pays homage to The Omega Man, a classic zombie, post apocalyptic, lone survivor type of film.As a B movie, there isn't much to speak of in terms of cinematography or sound, and even the soundtrack is lame. The acting is pretty good. The plot is typical for a zombie flick, and may even have influenced Resident Evil to a small degree. The plot here is that a pair of sisters end up being some of the only survivors of Haley's Comet, as its tail brushes through the Earth's atmosphere.Nothing substantially totally awesome here, but it is a fun little romp, and certainly a fun way to spend 90 minutes of your time. "},{"Title":"Uhhhhh","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you decide to watch this relatively obscure movie because the plot description sounds awesome, like some kind of feminist-themed Dawn of the Dead, you are going to be sorely disappointed--it doesn't live up to its concept (except in the dialogue, which is consistently funny). But if you want to experience a serious mind-trip without buying LSD, I can't recommend it enough. I thought I knew what I was getting into with this movie, but nothing could have prepared me for how weird it was.First of all, there are 80s movies... and there are 80s movies. And then there is this movie. I don't think the director was simply trying to conform to the styles of the day, I think he realized how hideous 80's pop culture was and decided to preserve it on film for posterity, perhaps as a warning. It is not an exaggeration to say the outfits and hairstyles of Samantha and Regina are more unnerving than the zombies. Same with the godawful synth music which never seems to synthesize with the action on screen. Same with the interior decorations and the slang and the dance scene; it's all too much to handle and may require insulin for some viewers.But beyond that, the core weirdness lies in what actually happens. Sam and Regina, permanently sarcastic teen sisters, are the only apparent survivors of a passing comet that has instantly turned everyone on Earth into red dust (okay), except for some zombies who have been PARTIALLY exposed and are SLOWLY turning into dust. They (Sam and Regina) take refuge in a radio station where they encounter a handsome young trucker named Hector. Hector hangs out with them for approximately five minutes until they decide to go shopping, at which point he disappears for most of the movie. Inside the shopping mall, the girls are attacked by the lamest post-apocalyptic gang ever, consisting of skinny teenage guys wearing black trench coats, hats, and sunglasses. These guys are also in the process of turning to dust, but unlike the other exposed victims, they are not brainless zombies (consistency is not a strength in this film). The leader of these guys, unthreateningly named Willy, ties the girls up and says, Let's play a game. It's called scary noises. Before Willy and his accomplices can make noises, however, the girls are rescued by a group of scientists who are also turning into dust because they left the vents to their underground bunker open.Then some stuff happens that I don't remember until we eventually cut back to Hector, who is now cruising around town in a convertible while dressed as Santa Claus, complete with beard. He hops out of his car and starts putting various pieces of trash into a bag, then runs into the radio station, bag full of garbage in hand, and shouts, Regina! Sam! Merry Christmas! Here he meets one of the scientists, who has been waiting for him (it's unclear how she knows who he is or why he'd be here) and informs him of the other scientists' evil plan to kill the girls as part of an experiment to find a cure for their own decomposition. So he shows up at the scientists' secret fortress, now dressed as a cowboy and blasting country music from his convertible. At this point I stopped trying to make any sense whatsoever out of this movie. I won't reveal more except to say that there are more Santa Claus references and an ending that is unexpectedly hilarious. I really can't do it justice with a review, the movie is so surreal and insane that it must be seen with your own eyes. If you can stomach the 80's ambiance, the insanity, along with the cool red-tinted shots of Los Angeles, is really quite delightful. If you'd prefer a zombie movie that is surreal, insane and actually GOOD, the original Dawn of the Dead is still unbeatable. 6/10 "},{"Title":"An engaging and entertaining sci-fi movie.","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the comet that wiped out the dinosaurs returns to destroy most of mankind,a sprinkling of survivors (including zombies,scientists and two spunky teenage girls) battle for survival.Writer/Director Thom Eberhardt's engaging tale borrows themes from several other movies but still succeeds in delivering a hugely entertaining yarn.Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney as the two resourceful teenagers are terrific and deliver a good poke in the eye to male chauvinism.Who needs butch, gun-toting heroes when you've got these girls on your side?.The movie delivers some great dialogue and one liners and also boasts the talents of Geoffrey Lewis (a Clint Eastwood regular)and Mary Woronov as sinister scientists with dubious intentions and Ivan Roth (who steals the whole show as Willy in the film's best sequence).Low on gore,high on fun and with a cleverly constructed conclusion,Night of the Comet pushes all the right buttons.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hector and Valley Girls at the End of the World","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an example of a B-movie transcending its limitations, like The Terminator or The Hidden or Tremors - it's not quite up to that level, but the filmmakers surpassed their goal of providing standard entertainment. If you're into the whole 'end of the world' and empty cities scenario (such as The Omega Man), have we got a little picture for you, the writer/director seems to be saying. Of course, it strains credibility that two sisters both happen to be in safe places in different parts of the city when everyone else gets wiped away - what are the odds, right? But you have to let it go and embrace the playful tone of what should be a very grim scene. By this point, there had been many movies about mankind almost becoming extinct, usually low budget sci-fi pictures - a very early one was Five from '51 - concentrating on the dire efforts of the few survivors; these were very serious in tone - hey, Armageddon can do that to you.So this film is very aware of such a film history and manages to convey all those aspects of survival in a fun way. The two girls, nicely played by Stewart and Maroney, though typical valley girls, also happen to be well-trained in military skills, thanks to a military dad (also gone like everyone else). They meet another survivor, a young trucker (Beltran, a few years before his gig on the Trek Voyager series), who also turns out to be level-headed when it counts. Together, they manage to thwart the sinister designs of a secret government installation which had prepared for the disaster. In-between, they contend against zombie-like predators who haven't dissolved into dust yet. The movie had to have been low budget, but they used what funds they had very well, complete with shots of an empty L.A. This has good action scenes, and a clever plot & dialogue, always laced with some carefree humor. As part of the older set, Lewis & Woronov contribute fine performances. "},{"Title":"This is a better movie than the title suggests.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best zombie/post apocalyptic movies ever made? This film achieves more than its relatively low budget should ever have provided. If the project had been given to any other director then I doubt that the film would have been this good. The zombies are few and far between, but that only serves to add to the level of suspense and the sense of impending doom. The title is in the style of the B Movies of the 50's, but that is quite obviously deliberate and can therefore be excused.The concept behind the movie is both thought-provoking and terrifying. What would any of us do if everyone disappeared over night and the only people left behind were out to kill us? The choice of the type of disaster is perfect because it creates an inescapable Apocalypse, but at the same time it leaves everything in good repair. This makes the film far better than other post-apocalyptic films which all start with a disaster that turns the world into a messy and dangerous place. The great thing about Night of The Comet is that right from the beginning it is quite obvious that if the central characters can survive for long enough, they will have everything they need to start all over again. Even the zombies have a shelf life and as the film progresses it becomes quite obvious that eventually the world will be a safe place once more (unlike the Night of The Living Dead saga where it is the case that the zombies will be around for a very long time).The really great thing with Night Of The Comet is that it plays to the child in all of us. (I can't be the only person to have imagined what it would be like to be let loose in a city without anyone to stop me from going on an endless shopping trip without the need for any cash). Well, in Night Of The Comet, there are some truly excellent scenes of deserted shops, and the two central characters take full advantage of the freedom of being able to take whatever they want (without having to worry about being shot for looting). However, the one thing the characters forget is that the world is populated by some very nasty zombies, but that just adds to the suspense.Over all, this movie is a monument to the fact that film companies do not need huge budgets to make truly fantastic horror films. If you try and imagine a hybrid of Day of The Triffids meets 28 Days Later then you're on the right track. "},{"Title":"What a blast.","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not to be a sentimentalist, but I loved this movie. I'm shocked by some previous low scorers! It's so clever and comical. Many would like to relegate this film to B Movie stardom, but the confusing element is that it's just plain good. From the spooky think tank to the campy dialogue, Night of the Comet walked a very fine line and walked it very well. I've followed Eberhardt since this flick, thinking there must be a method to his madness. But, this is the only one. A great sci-fi film. Well done. Genuine chills combined with sincere affection have helped Night of the Comet skirt the bargain bins and stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"It's a Fun Cheesy Zombie 80's Movie","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, the 80's produced many cheesy horror films but the thing about those cheesy horror films is that they were fun to watch and you just love them. Night of the Comet is one of those cheesy 80's horror films that I love and I say cheesy in a good way. Movies like these are still produced today but instead of cheesy I use crappy because that is exactly what they are. Many of today's crappy horror films, they do not have the heart and the fun like the cheesy horror movies of the 80's.Night of the Comet is a simple story. A comet is expected to fly over the earth and just about everyone in the world went outside to see it. The comet fly's over the earth and basically turns almost all human life into dust that were outside. A lot of the people in doors turned into dust but many that were exposed indoors survived but sooner or later will turn into ugly zombie like creatures who eyes hurt. Now comes in the two Vally Girl sister survivors. They both survive I believe being enclosed in metal in different places. I love the scene where Samantha was talking to her sister Regina in the house telling her what she is going to do today and Regina takes her outside and says look ..look there is no one out there. I love that scene.This movie is fun and just does not get the respect it deserves. They need to seriously release this on DVD. "}{"Title":"Clueless meets Buffy, the Vampire Slayer","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw Night of the Comet when it first came out and I was in graduate school. At the time I loved it because it offered something different that the typical girl-killed-by-monster theme. Truly, this film is much better than the IMDb rating implies. I just bought a DVD of it on eBay and the film was as good as I remembered it being when I first saw it years ago. This is a Buffy, the Vampire Slayer kind of film but, of course, it came out years before Buffy. It has the same kind of kick-butt take charge female characters. I give it a nine out of ten!So, why isn't there a legitimate US DVD release of this film? Lots of much lesser films have been released on DVD. My suggestion, check out eBay or Yahoo shops for a low-priced DVD import. Thanks Hong Kong; thanks video pirates! "},{"Title":"Campy movie, lots of fun, wish I could find a good DVD of it","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't keep a large video collection, just the movies I like to watch over again once in awhile. For some reason Night of the Comet has visited my VCR every once in awhile since the 80's. Just the right blend of camp, zombies, guns, music, cars and girls I guess.The pacing is great and doesn't get bogged down as a lot of zombie movies do. (28 days) and it has a decent storyline that keeps moving along unlike Day of the Dead. (loved Dawn though).The great job on the editing and music turn what could have been a mediocre film into something that's entertaining even after repeat viewings.  "},{"Title":"Valley Girls, Zombies and a Comet","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is what all true low budget B movies aspire to be....campy fun!Starting with a great premise (the world as we know it is over and few teens from Southern California are left to inherit the earth, or as the scripts says, The Burden of Civilization is Upon Us!) continuing with bitch slapping a step parent and the best scene in the whole movie, taking over a shopping mall.  Who could ask for anything more fitting from the mid 1980's??The cast is perfect.  Some of you may recognize our two favorite valley girls (Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney) from the 80's daytime soap landscape.  And then there's indie faves Robert Beltran and Mary Woronov (Eating Raoul) as the hero and rebel scientist respectively.One day this classic, currently out of print even on VHS, will find it's way onto DVD.  It took a LONG time to come down in price on VHS (from $89 to $19 back in 1991) so here's hoping for the DVD version!  In the meantime, keep an eye out for the premium cable channels running it in the wee small hours on the weekends where it pops up now and then.  If you think the movie is hard to find, wait until you try locating the soundtrack.  In very limited release it was issued on vinyl and perhaps cassette.  It features Amy Holland who also sang the vocal theme to St. Elmo's Fire the next year.  "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fans of 1950's and 1960's sci-fi should really enjoy this movie. I found it humorous with enough action and suspense to hold interest. The ending was great!   Likeable characters, a clever script, very good screenplay, and a decent soundtrack make The Night Of The Comet one of my favorite movies of the 1980's.I hope it comes out soon on DVD as this is definitely one I want for my collection.        "},{"Title":"this movie is great!!!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw the movie last year and i liked it. Does anyone know how much it made in the box office?  I looked in so many movie stores for it and no movie stores have it.  It has been on digital cable a lot and i know someone that has the movie so i use theres.  Does anyone know if this is going to go on dvd? "},{"Title":"Not to be confused with Year of the Comet. Seriously.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  HBO lists Night of the Comet as a parody of 50s sci-fi, but this movie aspires to so much more. Postapocolyptic zombies, pretty teenage girls who kick ass, engaging visuals, and overtly clever screenwriting make for a real gem of a movie. Kelli Maroney (aka Zoe Kelli Simon) is remarkably cute and shows off greater acting chops than one would expect from her scream queen reputation. Catherine Mary Stewart is so beautiful and genuinely engaging to watch, its a wonder she never became an 80s household name. And Geoffrey Lewis plays a zombie and doesn't wear any makeup in the role! Just kidding. No, really.There's gunplay, sardonic commentary on the disenfranchisement of suburban youth, a hidden underground scientific laboratory and lots of desolate Los Angeles locations. Oh, and the bloodlusting, postapocalyptic zombies, did we forget about them? They wear crazy wraparound sunglasses, Van's checkered shoes and bolo ties. It's okay. Everyone wore funny things back then.For good or bad, Night of the Comet is squarely dated, both artistically and politically, in the early eighties, so it fits nicely between The Omega Man and 28 Days Later, (the latter of which all but plagiarizes from Comet. ) Director/ writer Thom Eberhardt is obviously smart and innovative, but ham fisted in excecution a few times, like the scene of the girls shopping and having fun set to the tune of, wait for it...Girls Just Wanna Have Fun.The movie's flaws are in its huge plot holes and ever-changing tone hip and dry to clever and campy with ten shades of intensity throughout.  Whatever. It's, like totally rad to watch. "},{"Title":"More brai...uh, blood!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a great camp-horror flick.  With a capable cast and no huge stars, it's acting and story driven.  There are no Nobody is that dumb! scenes, and no james Bond-like stunts that stretch believability.  This is a film that fans of small screwball films (Buckaroo Banzai, High Risk, Big Trouble In Little China, etc.) will love.For those under 35, forget Star Drek (deliberate spelling) when thinking of Robert Beltran.  He was gaining celebrity before this film appeared.Beltran and his castmate Mary Woronov, plus her husband, director Paul Bartel, appear in the dark comedy Eating Raoul, made in 1980.  It takes cannibalism to a new level and is worth watching. ^_^  Find it if you can, it's as enjoyable at NOTC.  "},{"Title":"a good bad movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remembered this movie fondly from my teenage years in the eighties and a friend of mine tracked it down for me so we could screen it at a science fiction convention. Now that it's over 15 years old, it could be considered a classic... okay a young classic.Some parts of this movie are just baaaad. The clothes, the music, the dialogue, the sets, a lot of the acting... hmmm that's most of the movie, come to think about it. But I give it a 7 anyway cause I love watching this dopey thing! Don't take it seriously and you'll have fun.I have one question though When Hector runs away from the pre-teen zombie in his house, why does he run down the street to get away? Instead of going to his truck, which is parked right out front? After all, he's heading back to LA, it's his truck, it would just make sense, right??? Whatever.I love this movie. It's goofy fun. But if you were born after 1980, you probably just won't get it. "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem of dark comedy","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 1980's was, among other things, a period of pre-apocalyptic dread, given the escalating arms race, the endurance of the Cold War, nuclear accidents and the knowledge that someone, somewhere, might accidentally press a button and (whoops!) annihilate the entire human race.  The big and small screens capitalized on this, giving us Mad Max, Dead-End Drive-In, Cherry 2000, and innumerable other B-movies that inevitably popped up at our already endangered drive-in's.  Night of the Comet, released at the peak of the Reagan Era, poked fun at all this end-of-the-world hysteria by giving us a non-nuclear end to the whole mess a comet whose elliptical orbit was so wide it had last grazed our atmosphere at the beginning of the Ice Age, two very unlikely survivors Valley Girls who just happen to have had arms training via their absentee military dad, a plague of half-dead cannibalistic comet victims, and a sinister government think-tank with their own uses for the survivors' untainted blood. It's the stuff drive-ins were built for, and, not so coincidentally, where I was when I first saw it.  Watching our heroines argue over the last living boy and battle comet-zombies while plundering a shopping mall, for instance, actually added some realism to the picture.  After all, what were white, middle-class California girls supposed to do when there was nothing on TV anymore? Unlike other drive-in fare of the time, Night of the Comet is remarkably lacking in plot flaws.  Automated equipment on timers keep the lights working and sprinklers sprinkling, so our heroines don't have droughts or blackouts to worry about...at least, not within the timeline of the film. A refreshing change from those fast-car end-of-time epics that always left me wondering...where are they getting gas??? Great fun, especially if you were a teen in the 80s.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film with excellent performances by the leads, Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very enjoyable film with excellent performances by the leads, Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney.  At times the film can be downright chilling. The ending is very amusing and enjoyable.  Robert Beltran, later of Star Trek, Voyager is the official star but he actually doesn't have that many lines.  Fun film.   "}{"Title":"Imagine yourself waking up to an empty world","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a story of siblings working together after the strangest day of their lives unravels. To wake up and to see that you may be the last person alive on the planet, trippy. Of all the movies I seen in the 1980's this one made me think.  "},{"Title":"Best tongue-in-cheek sci-fi action comedy sleeper of the 80's","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With performances and dialogue well above the average for the genre, Night of the Comet provides almost everything one looks for in this kind of film--action, laughs and hot babes being terrorized by the post-apocalyptic undead. Catherine Mary Stewart, in particular, displayed a wonderful versatility in her performance. And watch for Star Trek Voyager's Robert Beltran as Hector.Though a little short on visual effects, bad or otherwise, this fun little time capsule from the 80's is still a worthwhile addition to any sci-fi fan's video library. "},{"Title":"This isn't date-night in the barrio, Hec-tor.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best movie I've ever seen. I played it at a party once, and the entire room was laughing. They loved it! Just like me.  Yes, it is a super camp film, but, you know, it's much different from a lot of B films in that you don't have to suffer through a lot of bad sets and make-up and emotionless robot actors. In fact, I thought it was a pretty high quality B movie, if that makes sense, and I thought the acting was quite good. I mean, come on! We've got, as previously and numerously mentioned, Chakotay from Voyager (NOT Erik Estrada from C.H.i P.s!), Maggie (aka Mags) from Last Star Fighter, and Cindy from Fast Times at Ridgemont High as the main cast, and all of the marvelously obscure supporting actors (from eating raoul and Rock and Roll High School)- you know, supporting them, how can you resist the magnetic attraction?I LOVE that the world has, essentially, stopped existing for these girls, so they run to the malls. I love that they debate what to keep based on what will stay in fashion longer and that the conflict over who gets to date Hector is mainly due to sibling rivalry than to global re-population. Yet, at the same time, Samantha can do a good job crying because, like, for real, the world has ended.Someone brought up a great point when they credited the dialogue as a main component of greatness. The hilarious one-liners and humorous dynamic in dialogue is just one more thing that adds to that high-quality aspect that makes the movie appealing. Now, don't get me wrong, It's not Titanic/Castaway/PerfectStorm high quality, but for a light hearted film about zombie-fighting Valley Girls, it's better than you'd think.And let's just get this straight- it is NOT Halle's Comet (it's stated in the narrative that it hasn't visited earth since the dinosaurs disappeared and Halle's is the most regularly visiting comet in the sky- so...) and Doris is her STEP mom. That's why they hate her. That bugged me, sorry.Anyway, I watch this movie when I'm sick, sad, bored- everything. I'll slide it in my VCR and watch it for 15 minutes, take off for a while, then watch a little more later when I'm folding my laundry. I find it endlessly amusing.To counter previous points concerning general audience appeal, I am but a film novice and was in elementary school during the 80's, and I still love this movie, SO- I think anyone who appreciates decent plot elements, has a healthy suspension of dis-belief, and an imagination would love this movie. Go, rent, love.some of my favorite quotes/moments, not listed on the IMDb page (these are more fun to say and hear, than write and read, BUT they're still my favorites)Like, I'm 18 okay. I can watch the comet wherever I want to watch the comet.You'd be worth a lot more than fifteen bucks- everybody knows that.TV's real- TV's very real!Let's play a game, it's called scary noises (click) ooooh, wasn't that a scary noise. "},{"Title":"How anyone can not like this film is beyond me (possible spoilers)","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its got cheerleaders! Its got guns! Its got cheerleaders with guns! Its got zombies! Its got continuity errors! Its got Chakote! Its got hidden wisdom! Its got a twist at the end!Anyone who says they don't like this film because of the acting, or the sets, or the plot has clearly missed the point. While I can't claim to know the minds of the producers, I don't think they were setting out to make a serious treatise on what would happen in a post-apocalyptic world. Instead we get a wonderful collection of excellent moments tied in to one story. (The bit where Samantha holds up a dog lead and says 'Muffy?' was the point where I fell in love with the film. And it only got better from there on out).The basic plot is everyone is dead - killed by a mysterious comet. The only ones that survived are either half zombies or good guys. Our heroes (Regina and Samantha Belmont) are left to take on the world and make a new life. To do this they have to fight zombie bag boys, evil government agents and rescue two cute kids from inside an underground lab.This does not do justice to the wonder of the film though. The little comic touches, the sibling rivalry, the machine gun battles and the ending where you learn just why jay-walking is wrong In the 'less than serious' category of movies, this is my favourite ever. 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"Fun Flick! Needs to be on DVD!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Comet is yet another of those films that you find at old non-chain video stores.  Its nothing special, but its droll, good natured humor is worth a trillion There's Something About Mary's.  Its nice to see Robert Beltran do something different from his standard Star Trek Voyager schtick.  A lot of great one-liners including my favorite I don't know, my parents told me not to breath anything from strangers...  For those that have not seen it--think Valley Girl meets The Omega Man.  Lotsa fun.I'd love to see this jewel on DVD someday!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Daddy would have gotten us Uzis.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All of you who said this movie was dumb, unrealistic, or not scary, that is the point of a B-movie, as others have pointed out.  What made this movie great was that it knew it was cheesy.  A valley-girl cheerleader and her movie-theater-employee sister running around with machine guns, raiding the mall and saving the world while hiding out as radio DJ's, is not supposed to be taken seriously.  Of course it is ridiculous that people would be instantly incinerated, yet plant life, clothes, and the electric company would be untouched.  A lot of Academy-Award winning movies are not realistic either.  This is supposed to be entertaining, and make you think about what you would do if you were one of the few people left in the world.  This film was a classic 80's comedy.  And I for one found the zombies pretty creepy, except for the junior zombie that breaks into Hector's mom's house, that was just hilarious.  Catherine Mary Stewart (Regina) is great as the older sister, I was always surprised that she didn't become a bigger star after this one.  If you grew up in the 80's, and you never saw this movie, see it now!  It is an 80's classic!  To this day I can't jaywalk without hearing the line, The future of civilization is on us, we do not CROSS against the LIGHT!!  "},{"Title":"Underrated 80s film","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I agree with one of the comments when said that if you didnt get the film and didnt think it was funny, then you probably didnt grow up during that time. I just watched it again the other night and introduced the movie to a friend and he liked it as well. This successfully blends horror and comedy and wit the way the current show Buffy the Vampire slayer does. Also Nice to see Beltran with something to do unlike Star trek Voyager. Sure the film is alittle cheesy but a good cheesy. I'd love to have this on DVD to add to my collection.  "},{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that Night of the Comet was one of the greatest odd ball films of the 80's. No I changed my mind. The Best Odd Ball Film Ever. It was funny, exciting, and damn entertaining. Two thumbs up lots of holiday fun! "},{"Title":"One of the best black comedies ever!!!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie.  In addition to having one of the best shopping scenes ever (Pretty Woman eat your heart out), it has a great deal of fun spoofing the paranoia which surrounds any unusual natural occurrence.A great fun romp for an evening when you want a brainless roller coaster ride.  This is a great satire.  I'd rank it right up there with Heathers. "},{"Title":"cheesy but fun 80's post-apocalypse movie","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, 2 glaring corrections1. 'Liquid Sky' is NOT an Aussie movie...it's an American film.2. 'Liquid Sky' was released two years before NOTC, and has no thematic resemblance to the NOTC.  I think the poster below me is thinking of a different movie, about a man who wakes up in Sydney to find himself seemingly the last man alive.  Can't remember the name of it though.Don't believe anyone who tells you NOTC is a disgrace...it isn't, it wasn't meant to be the uberartistic art-fag opus that many people for some reason seem to think everything should be. It's simply a cheesy 80's movie that centers around 2 valley girl sisters who decide shopping and listening to Cindy Lauper tunes will cheer them up after a comet turns the majority of the population into red ferrous-oxide dust, and turns most everyone left who isn't immune into flesh-hungry zombies...and any movie with zombies ain't completely bad.  Face it people, we need more zombie movies, and this one's a toot.   Not perfect by any means, but I'm proud to have it in my collection. "}{"Title":"Turn off your brain and enjoy","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not much depth to this adolescent-oriented take on the Oh my God, where did all the people go? subgenre of science fiction.  In the same vein as Liquid Sky, an Aussie film that was made a few years later.The difference is that NotC piles cliche on cliche -- uniformed paramilitary scientists, insane and violent Punk Rockers, plucky heroine, and her slightly annoying, but still endearing, kid sister who has a knack for getting into trouble.  All of which would be very tedious, if the movie took itself seriously.  This is the only lighthearted look at the end of the world that I can think of, off the top of my head.Good for an '80's nostalgia film fest ... the music and clothes alone make it worthwhile in that respect.*** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Comet that wiped out dinosaurs wipes out humanity!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On first glance, this film seems to have been made to capitalize on the success of Valley Girl with an end-of-the-world twist.  Who knew the end of the world could be funny?  And its the kind of funny you get when you are in shock and laugh hysterically because you just chopped off your finger, not because its REALLY funny.  The casting is what ultimately makes the film. Besides the two young starlets Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney, we have Sharon Farrell from It's Alive; Mary Woronov (who brings her I Hate Men style of acting to a new level here); Robert Beltran (of Eating Raoul); and Geoffrey Lewis (of Lust In The Dust and many other films).  The dialogue is a bit twisted at times, which adds to the eerieness of the whole thing. One of the best bits is by L.A. poet Ivan Roth as the stockboy Willy who becomes some sort of psychotic new wave villain a memorable sequence.  The effects are low budget but effective, like the Rolls Royce parked in the middle of the street playing Christmas music... Its also one of Mary Woronov's best films, and her fans will be pleased. "},{"Title":"The Best B Movie ever","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever I see someone slam this movie I laugh because they obviously don't get it. HELLO?! This is NOT supposed to be art. It is an intentionally campy film. A story about a comet that disintegrates 95% of the population leaving the burden of civilization on 2 Valley girls??? If u went in expecting anything other than what u got (an entertaining, funny, homage to classic B-horror films) than that is your fault! From the opening credits with the monotone narrative you should know you're in for a heavy dose of fromage. Yet what sets this apart from countless other B-movies(that are JUSTIFIABLY ridiculed) Is the funny and equal parts witty and dopey script. Of course, in the wrong hands it may have been worse off. Fortunately this film actually found genuine talent! The beautiful Catherine Mary Stewart makes Regina a strong, intelligent and capable heroine, while Kelli Maroney gives flighty little sis Samantha sympathy and genuine humor. The film is littered with comedic moments and spooky undertones. Anyone looking for 90 minutes of mindless fun. THIS is the pick! "},{"Title":"This was a great picture, very well done.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A good story about the end of the world as seen in through the eyes of 80s teenagers.  A great script acted out by newcomers in the acting profession that do a tremendous job.  Just enough F/X and stunts to make it all work perfect.I especially like the scene at the radio station, where the girl states that finals are canceled and the drinking age is eight. "},{"Title":"Should be called Night of the Living Dead Vally Girls","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a funny silly movie that seems like an excellent satire on movies you are familiar with. But it continues to surprise you and the movie seems fresh, not cliched.  "},{"Title":"A very cool, very neat film","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Comet captures the 80's teeny bopper spirit perfectly, while also constructing a surprisingly effective sci-fi/horror plot. I first saw it right around the beginning of my own adolescence, so I really got into it. It's a surprisingly smart film, if you give it a chance.  Watch The Omega Man if you want to see the main inspiration for this film. All in all, Night of the Comet is a winner.  "},{"Title":"This movie was a trip!!!!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say this was a bit far out but highly entertaining. The cast works well together and the story was at the time a unique concept. I find it very interesting if you see it and then think about what would happen next. The low budget sci-fi really is not bad in this one. I have to say I love this movie and actually bought a copy for my personal collection. Enjoy it !!!! "},{"Title":"Movie rocked","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie and have been looking for the soundtrack for ever and can not find it.  I was in Turkey when I saw this movie and it was during a religious holiday that everybody stayed inside for like an hour.  While driving around the city there was no one around and all I could think about was the movie.  It was great. "},{"Title":"Only the strange remain","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  It has everything, humor, drama, references to uzi's and the end of the world.  You can't really take it seriously though if you want to enjoy it, as there are plot holes the size of a semi throughout. If you're looking for a weird quirky film that has a lot of humor and a few surprises, this would be an excellent choice.    "},{"Title":"Interesting Story For A Sci-Fi Film","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot was great but it could have been better.  The idea of having a city or a planet wiped out because of the comet and survivors try to stay alive is great for a Sci-Fi film.  I guess if you like that sort of story. Anyway, I give it an 8.0 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Just a Goofy, Fun Movie","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't take it seriously.  NotC displays the same goofy weirdness of director/writer Thom Eberhardt's Parker Lewis Can't Lose TV series.  Riding on the wave of Valley Girl-speak type movies, NotC also parodies horror, science fiction, and apocalypse-type movies. The main characters are likable, a young Roger Beltran (pre-Voyager) is likable, and generally everybody just seems to be having fun.  And that's all girls wanna do, right? "},{"Title":"Aspect Ratio","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The DVD release is in 185.1 Letterbox but in actuality the movie was shot 133.1 Full Screen. How do I know?..............the director told me so. All the past cable broadcasts were in the original full screen format. If you own the retail DVD you need only compare it to your retail VHS or a broadcast saved to VHS.Don't get me wrong, I love the movie as indicated by my rating above but when the studios LTBX the original they are taking away, not adding and are in a sense re-directing the film. All movies should be released in the master ratio and if the viewer wants it to fit their TV screen it can be done with the remote. "},{"Title":"Life as we know it&#133;","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has been 65 million years since a comet last visited the Earth, and people worldwide are celebrating the event. Regina Belmont spends in the evening with her boyfriend in the cinema, and she wakes up the next day. She finds the city of Los Angeles to be deserted, with piles red dust and clothing on the ground. She also encounters a zombie, that doesn't to snack on her man. She heads back home to find out her younger sister Samantha has also survived, and they also encounter a drifter too. While they might think they're the only ones alive, in an underground complex a group of scientists have been infected and see their unaffected blood as a cure for stopping their slow progression into zombies.Now it's easy to see why this is a real cult favourite amongst fans, but while this unusually hip low-budget film has a likable quirky essence, clever winks to old school Sci-fi / Valley Girl drama and zesty imagination within its limited groundwork. I felt as if I was brought up short, after expecting something a little more. I liked it, but wasn't entirely wrapped up by it all. It seemed to lull about too often, and sadly I found it slightly boring. Maybe this was because I never really felt any real sense of threat and desperation. Everything about it comes across trivial, and rather measured. The film's well-handled images is what I thought was its strongest point. A cast really livens up the show, and brings the most fun out the concept. Kelli Maroney is superbly diverting and brings cheekiness to her cute bubble-head cheerleader Samantha, but Catherine Mary Stewart as her sister Regina was consistently hard-boiled, but due to that quite square. Robert Beltran is fine, and Geoffrey Lewis and Mary Woronov are pretty amusing. Sharon Farrell is deliciously narky in her cameo part. The script flows with self-knowing humour and randomness, which comes across naturally staged. Thom Eberheardt's resourceful, bright and fluid direction keeps a zippy pace and admirably holds a post-apocalyptic atmospheric tenor of effective tint lighting and forlorn locations to cover the film's shortcomings. It's quite a spectacle, done very well and Arthur Albert's cinematography covers the basics superbly. David Richard Campbell treats us with a funky, perceptive and surreal music score. Fun and spirited 80's gruel. "},{"Title":"Deserves a cult following","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This takes place in the late 1990s. A comet passes through Earth's orbit. It reduces most people to dust or turns them into flesh-eating zombies. The only ones not affected are two Valley Girl sisters (Catherine Mary Stewart, Kelli Meroney) who meet Hector (Robert Beltram). They band together to find other survivors. And then there's the evil think tank of scientists (Mary Woronow among them)...This is dated of course (the dialogue and the clothes give it away) but it's LOTS of fun! It's a smart satire with great dialogue (there are some hysterically funny lines), unusual characters, good direction, a solid soundtrack and a good cast of actors giving their all. Stewart and Meroney especially are a delight throwing off one liners with ease--their shopping spree to the tune of Girls Just Wanna Have Fun is a highlight. Beltran and Woronov are as good as possible--but they just play the straight men basically.This was marketed as a teen sci-fi film (which it isn't) and predictably bombed. It found its audience on cable but disappeared. That is strange--this has all the earmarkings of a cult classic but never made it. With its DVD release coming soon maybe that will change.Silly but fast, fun and colorful. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know we are not supposed to knock other posts on the board, but I just can't understand people who seem so angry about this being a bad movie. I know we are not supposed to knock other posts on the board, but I just can't understand people who seem so angry about this being a bad movie.It is a hysterical movie that perfectly captures 1984. (BTW the week this came out - the following films were also in the top twelve Nightmare on Elm Street, Terminator, and Silent Night-Deadly Night) I guess we had a better appetite for scares back then.Anyway, this film is just absolutely funny. I agree that it starts to drift during the whole underground scientist scenes, but it is without a doubt a fun movie.If anything else, one has to give it credit for not taking itself so seriously.Again, not to knock the people who ripped this film to shreds, but maybe you should just lighten up before you get a rash. "},{"Title":"Not a great 80's horror!!!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet (1984) was an OK movie in the horror genre but average in most respects really.The plot is simply about a comet that wipes out pretty much everybody!! 2 sisters and a mysterious trucker form a team to try and understand what has happened and get rid of the zombies that start to appear! I lost interest in this movie about halfway through, there wasn't enough gore, excitement or scares for my liking, there was potential but it feels flat and i hated the scene where the 2 sisters were in the shopping mall trying on clothes and shoes whilst Cyndi Laupers Girls just wanna have fun was playing.Sometimes it comes across as a chick flick rather than a genuine horror movie, there's hundreds of great 80's horror movies and this wasn't one of them. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Night of the Living Valley Girls","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comet is due to pass close by the earth, a comet which has not been seen since the time of the dinosaurs...and no one seems very worried about the fact that the dinosaurs all died shortly after the comet passed by the first time. Nope, in L.A. it's just another excuse for tailgate parties and barbecues as news reports promise a light show to rival the 4th of July. People swarm into the streets for a look at the comet, and come morning, there is nothing left of the crowds but red dust. The comet has burned everyone in the world away...well, almost everyone. Among the survivors are pretty Reggie, her cheerleader sister Sam and a lot of half-burned and totally insane people who are now flesh eating zombies. This is a teenage Dawn of the Dead, as the sisters load up on automatic weapons and go shopping at the abandoned malls, whilst Cyndi Lauper's Girls Just Wanna Have Fun plays in the background. The Eating Raoul team of Robert Beltran and Mary Woronov show up as well. Beltran is truck driver Hector who just may be the last good looking guy on earth and quickly becomes a source of conflict between the two sisters. Woronov is one of a team of scientists who were exposed to the comet and are slowly changing into zombies themselves. Desperate to find a cure, the scientists plan to use the sisters as guinea pigs. But Woronov turns traitor, killing a fellow scientist before he can kill Sam. Now it's up to Hector and Sam to save Reggie and the other survivors at the Top Secret Military Base in the desert. Will they make it in time before the scientists turn into zombies? There are a few genuine scares in this film, but it's mostly a light hearted, superficial, harmless teen film with lots of Valley Girl lingo, cool clothes, big hair, idiotic one-liners and a happy ending where everyone gets a guy. It looked a lot better when it was originally released and is only slightly silly nowadays. Still, it's nowhere near as excruciating as Burial Ground was. Fans of zombie flicks and 80s pop culture will enjoy this one. Hardcore zombie fans will probably roll their eyes in disgust. I give it a 6 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Eighties over-hyped","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie, but in the end I just couldn't.The film has no real direction and despite certain comedic attempts most jokes falls flat. The idea behind the movie seems very farsical, but somehow the script doesn't fill the shoes well. Jokes or various 'ha-ha' nudges are mostly weak. Additionally the movie progresses slowly with little or no scary moments, whilst dramatic scenes are laughable. In the end we have a movie, where the director has no real clue of what genre he is trying to fill.I must say that the film ends at a very high note and I gave the movie two extra stars for the absurd 'future of the human race' outro. The best sold idea in a movie, that gets caught up in the undertow of its hype. "},{"Title":"witty comment on 1980's America","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Night of the Comet was a witty comment on the America of the 1980's. I remember seeing the movie right after it came out and I thought whole thing was a hoot. Smug, pretentious know-it-all smart alecs get wasted, while mindless self-centered children survive and then prevail. You would just have to be unaware of American social structure not to get it. I saw it because I loved Mary Woronov. The final joke of the movie was that everyone thought it would be a star vehicle for Mary Elizabeth Stuart; and instead, it was Robert Beltran who went on to hit it big with Star Trek Voyager. I'll bet this movie was prominent on his resume when he auditioned for Roddenberry. "},{"Title":"I don't get why this is so highly regarded, I really don't.","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet starts as the world prepares for a once in a lifetime event, the passing of a 65 million plus year old comet. Instead of watching the light show Regina Belmont (Catherine Mary Stewart) decides to spend the night with cinema projectionist Larry Dupree (Michael Bowen) in his booth... They awake the next morning & as Larry attempts to leave the cinema he is attacked & killed by a zombie, the same zombie attacks Regina but she manages to escape where upon she discovers that almost everyone on the entire planet has been turned into red dust. Almost everyone because by some amazing coincidence the only other person to survive happens to be her sister Samantha (Kelli Maroney), they desperately search for more survivors & meet up with a long distance trucker named Hector Gomez (Robert Beltran). Meanwhile an evil bunch of scientists need human blood to develop a serum to save themselves from turning into dust & they're on the look out for unwilling donors...Written & directed by Thom Eberhardt I found Night of the Comet a pretty rubbish viewing experience, I'm surprised at the amount of positive comments on IMDb about it because I just thought it was boring crap that never lived up to it's potential. The script starts off 100 miles an hour with the obliteration of the entire population of Earth & a zombie attack but then it goes absolutely nowhere & then eventually introduces the sinister blood stealing scientists towards the end of the film because by that time the slim story has run it's course. There are plot holes too, if these scientists want blood why shoot the three or four gang members & save the two sisters when the guys would have provided more blood for their experiments, killing them just seemed a totally bizarre & an almost suicidal thing to do considering they need blood to develop a cure, it just doesn't make sense I mean if your going to die & you need to experiment on human blood would rather have five or six donors providing blood or just two? I'm not having the fact that the two sisters survived independently of each other, I mean what are the odds on that? When Hector confronts the female scientist for the first time she never mentions Samantha or where she was or where the underground facility was where they took Regina before she committed suicide so how did Hector know these things? I also thought after the first twenty odd minutes the film slows down to a snails pace & became incredibly boring & dull to watch, after hearing so many good things about it Night of the Comet comes across to me as nothing more than an overrated boring piece of crap.Director Eberhardt does a really good job, I liked the look of the film with it's red tinted sky & he manages to create a really cool atmosphere of isolation. Unfortunately there are far too many shots of empty streets, there are constant montage's of empty streets, deserted roads & abandoned buildings & it gets extremely repetitive & dull. OK we get it there's no one else about so there's no need to keep ramming it down our throats by constantly showing roads without cars on them. The zombies are totally wasted, there are two zombie attacks in the entire film & that's two individual zombies as well although there are a couple of effective nightmare scenes. Night of the Comet pays homage, or rips-off whichever you prefer, several other much better films including the obligatory end of the world shopping spree in a mall lifted from Dawn of the Dead (1978). Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any.Technically Night of the Comet is pretty good, the special effects are decent enough & the production crew were obviously very good at closing streets off. The acting was alright expect for Maroney as Samantha the air-head blonde who became highly irritating.Night of the Comet was a big disappointment for me, I had hoped for so much more. Persoanlly I found this film dull, boring, uneventful & the puke inducing sequence where the sisters go shopping to the tune of 'Girls Just Wanna Have Fun' is probably the worst moment in the film. Really bad & I just don't get why so many people like this, I'm sure I'll get slaughtered for saying it so let the abuse begin I can take it... "}{"Title":"back to 50's and 60's sci-fi","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A package deal delivered me this flick, never seen it before but came across it a many times just seen it on Blu Ray I must say that it wasn't really my thing. People say it's horror but I can't agree on that part. Sure, there are a few zombies walking around and they were really well done but some zombies doesn't make a horror. I should say that this is a a bit of a throw back to the fifties and sixties sci-fi flicks. And people knowing me do know that that era isn't my thing. And it do shows that it was being made in the eighties, the hair, Jesus and the spandex and other clothing and the score. But overall there isn't that much action going on, only some lame situations. But it do has it fan base, but not for me.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Appealing zombie flick","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet is one of those very '80s movies that creates an eerie alien atmosphere out of desolate streets and an unnatural color palette. I really dig that searing orange sky lighting Los Angeles. To Live and Die in L.A. also does this to great effect. It's a modest effect but such a cool look.In all honesty, I came to this movie mostly for Catherine Mary Stewart (I mean really, don't we all?). She's got a good rapport with Kelli Maroney; valley-girl but tough. That's what I really like about this movie it's post-apocalyptic, but still maintains a sense of fun; good balance between funny and serious. It doesn't pretend to be anything more than a cheesy spin on the zombie genre, and it wears that on its sleeve.Fun movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"Catherine Mary Stewart, fashion and zombies.","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comet turns most of the life on Earth into red dust, leaving two young women to fight the wicked types who have survived.This off beat 80's scifi has a premise that harks back to The Last Man on Earth (1964) and it's tone is reminiscent of Lifeforce (1985) mixed with Dawn of the Dead (1978) and the Blob (1988 remake) to name a few. Director/writer Thom Eberhardt creates a visually eye-catching B- film with an eerie atmosphere on a neon-primary coloured backdrop. It has tongue-in-cheek humour and zombie-like effects spread throughout.The two female leads, cheerleader kitted Samantha (Kelli Maroney) and Regina Reggie Belmont (Catherine Mary Stewart) assisted by survivor Hector (Robert Beltran) take on nomads, dodgy scientists and alien infected zombies.The notable Stewart as Reggie keeps the energy high and Eberhardt throws in a consumerism subtext for good measure. Night of the Comet while not as pacy as it could be has enough going on including 1980's fashion to keep it entertaining. "},{"Title":"Entertainment Or Death","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A B-movie cheapie that found its audience on cable television, Night Of The Comet not only survives but thrives both as an amiable genre mash-up as well as testament to the fact that cinematic smarts can trump a low budget, especially when combined with a sense of humor.The end of the world has come in the form of a mysterious comet that turns people either into red dust or nasty walking corpses (zombie- ish, if not actual zombies), depending on their level of exposure. Army-brat sisters Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart) and Samantha (Kelli Maroney) are apparent lone survivors left to fend for themselves in a deserted and dangerous Los Angeles.One doesn't expect much from a film like this going in, one of Night Of The Comet's secret weapons. Another is the genre- twisting Consider it Planet Terror meets Thelma And Louise with a John Hughes rewrite in there somewhere. Director Thom Eberhardt employs a formula exemplified by a graffito we see in an alley during an early brawl Entertainment Or Death. There's a lot of death in this movie, an entire city's population at the very least, yet it's entertainingly delivered, with tongue always in cheek. Yes, you have a good deal of suspense, and some scares, but mostly you have mordant moments like when Regina is trying to tell Samantha what happened to their wicked stepmother by shaking a dusty blouse she scoops off the lawnI'll show you Doris! Here's Doris!If you can't laugh at something like that, you are watching the wrong movie.Both Stewart and Maroney are superb in giving you a rooting interest. Reg is the older, hyper-competitive teen, who can't bear the idea of someone else cutting into her list of top video game scores. Sam is a Valley Girl who still wears her pep-club togs and cuts a dance move after knocking down an armed adversary. While Robert Beltran is first-billed for contractual reasons, he actually plays a character more interesting for the rivalry he prompts in Reg and Sam as the last man on Earth than what he brings to the table himself. (He does have a funny scene trying to outrun a kid who has been turned feral by the comet.)Great support is given by Geoffrey Lewis as a menacing scientist and Mary Woronov as his conscience-ridden assistant. My favorite character is a leering ex-stock boy named Willy (Ivan E. Roth) who takes over a mall with his goons and sees the comet as his ticket to the capitalist dream Now we own the store! The American way!The movie suffers from a weak resolution of the scientist situation, the only time the plot seems labored. One also wishes at times for more chances for Reg and Sam to use their automatic weapons, especially when Sam squints like Clint Eastwood discharging her MAC- 10. There are times L. A. seems a little too desolate. But overall, the film makes the right choices keeping things light.There's a wonderful visual style to the movie that marks Night Of The Comet as a product of the 1980s, but in a very fun way, with bright pastels and neons in evidence. I even love the light-pop score, which exudes a kind of cheerful counterpoint to the stalkings and standoffs.Some reviewers here call Night Of The Comet cheesy, and perhaps it is, as long as you are thinking Brie and not Velveeta. At least for me, it brightened many nights on cable back in the 1980s, and still works today. "},{"Title":"Another 1980s Drive-In Classic! )","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror movies like this are what attracted so many teen boys, like myself, to the Dusk-Till-Dawn Drive-Ins back in the 1980s. Most of these movies were out-right awful; many were so-so; but, others, including this one, were actually very good and memorable.I really loved the drive-in movies when I was a teen (too bad for the teens nowadays!?!?). Studios were producing B-Movies ten-at-a-time to flood the drive-ins, and, we teens loved it! These movies, no matter how good or bad, are what we went to see...all night and into the morning.The drive-in, like the mall, the video arcade, and, the recreational center, was a social institution, and, YOU HAD TO BE THERE OR BE SQUARE!This is a really good movie that I saw at the Riverdale Drive-In in West Springfield, Massachusetts, in 1984 with my friends in my 1974 Datsun B-210...hee-hee!Even the cheesy 1980s music in this movie is good! Compared to most of the garbage played in movies now...it's great! It almost all sounds like Sammy Hagar, Patty Smyth, and/or Journey, and, brings back a lot of good memories.And...last, but, certainly not least, these movies always had hot chicks (usually called 'Scream Queens' back in the day) who teenage boys lusted after. This movie has Cindy the Cheerleader (Kelli Maroney) from Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982); and, the ever-and-still-beautiful Catherine Mary Stewart.I love how it's said in this movie, about one hour in, by the glasses-wearing dork-freak who's in control of all of this disaster (like in Wayward Pines)...It's ironic! Of all the great minds of the world, all the great intellects, who should survive!?!? His meaning being - two idiot hot chicks!?!? And, it's a government cover-up like in The Crazies (2010)...and, how many other books and movies!?!? Only here, the hot chicks, survive (The Meek).I had a very happy life as a child and a teen, and, these movies are a big part of my happiness. As a teen, I loved these 'Dime-A-Dozen' B-Movies...and, I guess I still do...or, I'm having a mid-life crisis!?!? Nope! I doubt it! These movies should all be brought back to drive-ins (if there are any left) so that my own teenage Son (and, the Sons of guys my age) can see them all night and into the morning with his friends, just as his Daddy did when he was a teen! The drive-in movies were a great time in America during the 1980s; just as they were in the 1950s, 1960s, and, 1970s! )I give this movie seven stars because it's a movie that I once liked...and, seeing it again after 31 years, brought me back to a time in my life when all I had to worry about in the world was having enough money for gasoline for my car so I could bring my girlfriend out on a date...likely to a drive-in movie!MEMORIES - are all we have when we're old!GOOD MEMORIES - are sometimes hard to come by!DRIVE-IN MOVIE MEMORIES - are the best for someone who was a teenage boy in the 1980s! "},{"Title":"Worthwhile B 80s Horror Flick","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Been on an 80s horror kick as of late and actually watched this on my computer the other night. Never saw it in the 80s, so it was a nice surprise and fit right in with the stuff I've been injecting directly into my eyeballs lately.Love the concept. World's excited for a comet, comet comes and kills them all. That's not a spoiler by the way, that's just the beginning. The survivors have their run of the town. First are scared, then have fun. Then get scared again when the bad stuff starts a-happening.First half is definitely better than the second half and the concept definitely is much more fun than the full execution of said concept, but overall this flick's pretty fun and definitely worth a watch for anyone who loves those B-horror movies like me.I will say if ever there was a horror film from the 80s that deserved a remake, this could be the one. There are areas that could be improved-- specifically what the survivors do and who the enemies are-- and would make this a pretty damn good current horror flick. "},{"Title":"This movie was one of the best highlights of the 80's","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What if. A Comet came bringing death with it ? and those who it didn't kill outright were turned into zombie like creatures Creatures with a taste or a craving for human blood What if you were behind steel walls and you and four other people were the last normal people on earth as far as you know ? And the comet zombies are hunting you for your blood. The Night of the Comet gave us those questions and answered them with a style and a flair for the comedy. Kelli maroney stole the show with her portrayal of Samantha a not too bright yet spirited teenager. Cathrine Mary Stewert shines as Reggie Sam's big sister. Both are deadly having been trained from an early age by their Green Beret father to handle themselves. Geofferey Lewis a gem who shines no matter what he plays in. Not only steals his scenes but chews the scenery with a glee. The movie was one of those movies that I watched over and over again as a Teen. And now having discovered it again. I find it one of the most fun movies to watch. Comet never takes itself too seriously. Which explains it's enduring charm. Watch it and you'll find a new film that you might watch again. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's!","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film just reeks of the 80's and I had a lot of fun watching it. The film follows the story of a group of people who are the only people left alive following the arrival of a comet to earth which simply turned people to dust. The film tells the story of the survivors journey and how they adapt to life following the event. The film has some good comedic moments in there too and a great 80's soundtrack through out. The special effects have not aged well and the main effect used was a red tint throughout the film showing the comet dust I'd imagine but although the film isn't perfect it's a lot of fun. The main performances are done well enough but there are a few ''wooden'' actors in the films running time overall they were fine. It's a film that doesn't take itself too seriously with some laughs thrown in I'd recommend this to fans of 80's films for sure. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Much-Loved 1980s Apocalyptic Film","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comet wipes out most of life on Earth, leaving two Valley Girls (Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney) to fight the evil types who survive.This came from producer Wayne Crawford, who also co-wrote and co-produced the film Valley Girl (as well as being the primary creative force behind Barracuda). I like to think Crawford had some important contributions to Comet, but who knows? This was directed by Thom Eberhardt, who went on to make Captain Ron (1992).Many people love this film, and Stewart and Maroney are always big hits on the convention circuit. I liked it, too, though perhaps not as much as some people. The film was funny, quirky and entertaining, though it never quite escalates from good to cult classic, and I am curious to see if this will get some new eyes looking on it with the amazing Scream Factory release.I will say the script is more clever than it first appears, though, once you begin to connect the dots on subtle jokes (such as when the comet struck and who has been playing the arcade game). "},{"Title":"Top Ten Notations from Night of the Comet","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1. All reviews of Night of the Comet should begin and end with Totally 80s!! 2. Rebuilding civilization the right way by waiting for the traffic signal so you can safely cross the street, but then immediately playing football in the entire street is probably the main definition of hypocrisy.3. Zombies weren't even hot in 1984, but, heck, why not throw them in a completely unrelated Comet Attack film? 4. Playing video games might just save your life! Not really and not even in this movie, but it looked cool.5. Rent just went down! Party on! 6. When scientists know something will hurt them, but still do a literal half-ass experiment&#x85;be somewhere else.7. It took me the entire movie to realize that was Chakotay! 8. So&#x85;it wasn't the comet that wiped out the Valley Girl Syndrome? 9. Stephen King probably watched this and said, Well, that's a good start&#x85;but what happens after page 3? 10. I love the 80s. Which screenplay writer ever HAS to put in dilemmas such as What happens when the electricity goes out? The gas dries up? Or when drinking water is scarce? Let's just have a par-tee, people! "}{"Title":"Quite Enjoyable","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comet is heading for earth and the tail will pass close enough to cause an amazing light show. Everybody on earth wants to be outside to see it. Regina (played by Catherine Mary Stewart) also wants to see the spectacular light show but she has been persuaded by her boyfriend, Larry (Michael Bowen) to stay with him in a theater projection room for a night of sex. Meanwhile, Regina's younger teenage sister, Samantha (Kelli Maroney) is spending the night in a lawn storage shed because she just had a fight with their stepmother Doris (Sharon Farrell). Little do either of them suspect that staying in rooms made of steel is the only thing that will save them from becoming red calcium dust or turning into zombie-like creatures. Additionally, not far from where they are is a secret lab where scientists have sealed themselves up pending the comet's passing. Unfortunately, they forgot to close the ventilation ducts and as a result they are deteriorating into zombie-like creatures as well. To counter this condition they desperately need the blood of survivors and they don't care what happens to the people they get it from. At any rate, rather than reveal the entire plot I will just say that this film is both fun and entertaining. Even though the plot is a little thin (like many of the movies made during this period) it was well directed (Thom E. Eberhardt) and all of the supporting actors played their parts in an excellent manner. As a matter of fact, Mary Woronov, who played the part of one of the scientists named Audrey, was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress. Likewise, good performances were also displayed by Mary Catherine Stewart, Kelli Maroney and Robert Beltran, who played another survivor named Hector. Again, even though there isn't much depth to it, this is an entertaining movie and I think most people will find it quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Valley Girls Meet the Zombies","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better low-budget horror flicks of the 1980s. Two sisters (Stewart, Maroney) wake up to find a passing comet has turned most of mankind to dust. They run into a couple of zombies and several other survivors, including a trucker (Beltran) who teams up with them. Long before 28 DAYS LATER, we are treated to scenes of deserted urban streets. something some of us might actually wish were the case.The girls go clothes shopping and run into some very bad guys. Meanwhile, some sinister government types seek to round up all survivors and run tests on them. Fairly lighthearted for a zombie movie. Stewart was quite a looker in her day, if not the most convincing actress in the universe. Maroney is cute as a button and the movie's comic relief. Being the 1980s, this movie has probably the worst soundtrack in history. Worth a look to see what can be done with $3 million and a sense of humor. A side note for movie buffs the head of the government crew is played by rubber-faced character actor Geoffrey Lewis, best known for a bunch of Clint Eastwood movies and the gravedigger in Salem's Lot. Coincidentally, right after I rewatched this film,I caught an ancient episode of LAW & ORDER CI, in which Lewis played a killer of homeless men. "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is a very under rated film only because people have taken it out of context. 1. It was meant to be a teen movie that appealed to younger audiences (of that time). 2. It wasn't exactly a zombie movie. So a lot of people were annoyed that there were a lack of zombies in this film thinking that it was just another zombie film. However this was more of a End of the world premise. 3. What flies under the radar is that unlike other films with zombies in it, the characters had more than 1 enemy. In most movies that are zombie based back then usually there was only 1 enemy (the zombies). But in this movie a team of scientists slowly turning into zombies were also the enemy. Though in more modern day movies with zombies in it like Resident Evil there is more than 1 group of enemies. But back in the 80 this dynamic was rare. 4. It was almost a self-parody of the 80s by the 80s in that it was both humorous and scary at the same time. A lot of people love darker, or I should say cliché' scary movies in which the characters, story, and other elements are overly dark and menacing oozing with negative attitude... are those who want things to be unrealistic. However I found Night of the Comet to be just as how some teens might have acted back in the 80s. Now a days, everyone in a scary movie has some connection to a dark past and are cliché' James Bond turned Emo type characters. Or even if they are everyday people they all have the same fake-cliché-dark attitudes like in the remake of Dawn of the Dead 2004. I like it better when the characters act more like people would in real life (for their age and generational groups). I'm not saying all teens in the 80s acted like the girls in Night of the Comet but they did capture the spirit of how most kids would in their demographic. This gave it a sort of realism. In today's horror movies, you mostly get a bunch of Emo, Grunge, or Goth attitudes even in the plain clothed characters. I don't mind a couple edgy characters but when all the characters act like that it takes away from the realism. OR it's like if you have that 1 main character that is Cliché' to the max like in The girl with the dragon tattoo it's overly stereotypical and ever so used up. Even though the girls in the movie Night of the comet were sort of cliché' they actually depicted what a lot of girls in 1984 acted like and was more realistic. Also in today's movies they portray scared people as always getting tons of tattoos, scares, piercings, etc etc etc. and I have to tell you I know a lot of people in real life that are very emotionally scared and they don't look like rejects that shop at Hot Topic. I myself have been through a lot in my life, a lot of stuff that as emotionally scared me that I'm in therapy for BUT you don't see me running out and shaving my eye brows. ha ha ha I miss the older movies, yes they could be a bit CAMPY but they had a better range of characters and they were more true to real people for that day and age. They also knew how to hold a camera steady back then and not shake it violently to compensate for the lack of scary stuff like in todays films, that seem to lean on quick jerky camera movements and poorly lit shots to compensate for the lack of imagination. Or lean heavily on cartoon looking CGI as a crutch. "},{"Title":"Original 80's post-apocalyptic mixture","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I Saw Night Of The Comet for the first time on TV in my early teens. I had mixed feelings about it back then, but something stuck with me nonetheless. So hard even, that I really came to wanting to re-watch it badly over the last few years. Now I finally have, and I appreciate the movie a lot more now it's an offbeat/oddball mixture of things and genres, but it works. Very - and I do mean VERY - wrong 80's fashion-statements and hairdo's and even worse music. A bit of zombie-action. Evil government scientists. And - above all - it manages to capture that desolate 'end of the world and there's not a living soul in sight anymore'-feeling very well. Fans of this movie will praise it to high heavens. More soberly put, that means it's not the best horror/sci-fi/comedy ever made, but it's damn enjoyable 80's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good, Mindless 80's Fun.","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For reasons unknown, two valley girls survive a blast from an impending comet only to find the world they know has been transformed overnight into a post-apocalyptic zombie-infested wasteland. Together, the two hook up with a wholesome trucker, fight off the living dead, go on a shopping spree to the tune of Cyndi Lauper's Girls Just Wanna Have Fun all while evading who else but a band of evil scientists.Dawn of the Dead it sure isn't, but those seeking a brilliantly cheesy zombie romp (which incidentally doesn't feature many zombies) will find much to rave about with Night of the Comet. Director Thom Eberhardt apparently didn't take things seriously enough to turn in an effective or particularly scary film, but instead, focuses on lampooning the b-movies it so closely resembles. With tongue planted firmly in cheek (or so it would seem) the director guides the cast through silly scenario after silly scenario with little regard to logic. That's not to say the film is stupid, though; on the contrary, it's quite witty in its extreme characterizations and hammy dialog. It also helps the film's credibility to have two leads in Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney, who, in spite of being too old to play teenagers, carry the film with a bubbly sensibility that suits the material at hand perfectly.Sure, there's not much in the way of blood or even sense (Red dust? Zombies? Which is it?) but beneath the tacky clothing, dated soundtrack and cheesy special effects is a fun little b-movie that knows its a b-movie. There's no social commentary to be found amidst the silliness, and that's a good thing. The film plays like an arcade game come to life and should be treated as such. Spend a night with Night of the Comet and you'll be guaranteed a delightfully schlocky good time. "},{"Title":"The true message of this movie, not just a B movie.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First to those who love it as I do, the movie is on DVD. I bought it not too long ago. Keep asking you'll find it. If they discontinued it, they'll put it out again if there are enough people asking about it.I like using movies as a metaphor to make a point. This movie is an excellent one to show that you never know who in this world will be the one to save mankind from extinction. Therefore, it also helps express that all human life is precious. It's also a movie about making logical deductions. What I'm about to write is not to be interpreted as a goof. I believe the script writers provided the deductions according to each character's life style, education and training. In fact, I think it may make an interesting reference for a paper/thesis.The Think Tank people say they made the mistake of leaving the ventilators operating, so they were exposed to the comet. Regina deduces that steel is what protected Her, Sam and Hector. However, as an objective observer, I see that neither the truck, the storage shed nor the projection booth provide a complete seal to keep out the effects of the comet. Now, the Project Chief, Dr. Carter, says that the disintegration factor varies and that some project personnel will have greater needs than others. This tells me that regardless of the equal exposure, the effect varies form person to person. The Dr. knows this, or at least he suspects it. My logical deduction is that DNA is the primary factor which determines if the comet will kill an individual. It is also a factor which determines how fast a person with insufficient DNA will expire to nothing but calcium dust. I believe the survivors had the necessary DNA which prevented the comet from affecting them. Even though the Think Tank people thought themselves superior, their DNA was inferior and they were doomed. The moral of this story, if you think yourself superior, you may end up with egg on your face. History is riddled with real examples of those who thought themselves superior and were beaten. Hitler and Napoleon are the two most famous but do not neglect to see others not just in history, but also in the present. Does anyone you know or admire think himself or herself superior?I've read some of the negative reviews of this movie and I feel they didn't pay attention or just lacked in interest. For example, one individual says that the comet burned people where they stood. Incorrect! Why? Because some people died slowly. Plus no one says anything about burning but they do talk about the disintegration factor. So it must be an internal affect on the body, like DNA. Another said the scientists should have captured the bad guys in the store. Wrong! Why? Because they were already suffering from the effects of the comets. So, their blood was contaminated. These, and many others should remember this movie and all other movies they dislike, are just, to say the least, ENTERTAINMENT!FYI Other B movies have a lesson of some sort. Tremors is a movie about making plans. Long term, short term and immediate action. There's always some sort of We need to come up with a plan!. Also there's Return of the Living Dead. It's a metaphor about the danger of improper storage/disposal of hazardous waste and the importance of following a waste stream. If you don't, then you can end up with some sort of undesirable or dangerous mutation. Just because it's identified as a B movie doesn't mean it's worthless. "},{"Title":"Classic Remake","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have read many reviews of NOTC and I agree it was a great 80's campy horror film in the same vein as Fright Night. What I'm surprised by is that no one has mentioned that NOTC and many other later movies are remakes (or at the very least homages) to Omega Man. OM was a classic 70's sci-fi flick by Charlton Heston, who also was is Planet of the Apes and Soylent Green around the same time. OM was a sci-fi EOTW movie, where Charlton Heston survived world exposure to germ warfare that killed everyone or left the survivors as flesh eating zombie creatures of the night. Anyone who enjoys NOTC should give Omega Man a try, but don't expect laughs from the more serious OM. "},{"Title":"Kelli Maroney Steals the Film (and that is a good thing)","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet is one of the better entries in the 'end of the world' sub-genre and one of 1984's most memorable films. If you judge these things solely on the basis of how effectively they connect with a viewer watching it alone, then the film would be worthy of a 10; you quickly get sucked into the story and have no problems identifying with the three sympathetic characters. Although not exactly high-budget, the production design is very professional and the outdoor shots quite effective (they really do creep you out-at least if you get into the story). Unlike similar films from this the era like Eating Raoul and Terror Vision (both also featured Mary Woronov), Night of the Comet is played relatively straight for its first hour, with no major self- parody elements working against the viewer identification process. Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney play two sisters who wakeup the morning after a major comet event to find themselves alone in Los Angeles. Everyone who viewed the comet was turned into dust. This type of thing has been done before (The Day of the Triffids and Five for example) but never before has it featured armed and dangerous Valley Girls (Frank Zappa's daughter had just released a song that made the nation aware of that strange phenomenon). Stewart is fine as a character which Linda Hamilton pretty much appropriated for the second Terminator movie; but Maroney really steals the whole film-running around in her Pep Squad uniform and shifting back and forth between airhead and vulnerable (but weapons trained) little sister. Although the first two thirds are excellent, Night of the Comet stumbles badly with the introduction of a big government research facility that hopes to use the girls for experimental purposes. The wheels pretty much fall off at this point and since the plot has nowhere interesting to go they have to play the self-parody card at the end. But if you are prepared for a somewhat disappointing final 30 minutes, you should find Night of the Comet a very entertaining film. Like my mother is like a total space cadetShe like makes me do the dishes andClean the cat boxI am sure That's like grossBarf out! Oh my God Then again, what do I know? I'm only a Val. "},{"Title":"Doris' party","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like this movie. The music is great and it has just the right combination of scary and funny. But every time I watch it I become more convinced that I see Dennis Quaid in the beginning although he is not listed in the credits. Does anyone else see Dennis Quaid as one of the party goers outside of the Belmont home? Okay - warning here comes a spoiler............ did you know that the little boy survivor, I think his name is Bryan, is the real life son of Sharon Ferrell who plays Doris? Wouldn't it be great if there was a sequel showing them meeting up with other survivors and then having to wage a war to see who would be in control of the new civilization? "},{"Title":"Love this 80's B- Movie!","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't get enough of this movie, I went as far as searching Ebay for the best possible VHS tape I could get a hold of. (It's CBS/FOX those are the best!) Then spent many hours restoring the video, and formatting to 16/9. Also would like to add that davisdvd.com published an article on there website about the possible release of COMET to DVD this spring March 6, 07. MGM owns the rights and wants to make an Anamorphic Transfer with 2.0 Dolby Digital Audio. No word yet on bonus material. If they got Stewart, Maroney, and Beltran to do some commentary on this DVD, it would be the cherry on the sundae. Just have to wait and see. It would be a real crime if they released it bare bones...but beggars can't be choosers I guess. "}{"Title":"Could use a few more zombies, but lots of campy 80s fun anyway","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie a couple of times on the Sci-Fi channel when I was a teenager and became obsessed with it. I bought a used VHS copy and it was well worth it. The zombies are cool and fairly scary, but there aren't enough of them. The movie is unconventional in its pacing; the main characters have several long conversations and moments of quiet reflection, which would perhaps be realistic for survivors of the apocalypse (as opposed to the rapid-fire careless behavior, fighting, and fornicating that are the hallmark of most action/horror movies). It is my opinion that the director wanted to focus on the characters' isolation and the juxtaposition of 'normal' life with horror. All the actors--with the exception of the fat scientist with the glasses and the young girl in the pink bathrobe--are fun and give good performances. I think what really attracted me to this film was the resourcefulness of Regina, who doesn't let a little thing like the end of the world as she knows it get her down. The zombie stockboys are outstanding, especially the lead, Dick Rude. The music in this movie is so bad that it is kind of hilarious. There is only one 'real' song in it, the ubiquitous Girls Just Wanna Have Fun' by Cindy Lauper. Most of the rest is standard 80s pop crap--the kind of stuff you might have heard playing late at night on your older brother's radio in 1984--and synth-heavy soundtrack filler. The 'Eyes on You' song in the department store worked well for the scene, but I don't think anyone was too sorry when the stockboy 'turned it off.'Those who enjoy this movie might like to read an interview with the director, which may be found here http//www.fast-rewind.com/ "},{"Title":"Awesome Zombie Move","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For some reason, I find the Zombie movie to be my favorite type of horror movie. This one is totally great, because it shows L.A. completely dead after the comet zooms over.Like the other reviewer here, this is totally a great movie because of the one-liners, the game Tempest is a key factor in character development, but my favorite scene is when they go to the mall and the Zombie security mall guys say, Let's play a game called scary noises then attempt a game of Russian Roulette with the ladies.*click* Now that was a scary noise.Totally recommended, dude. "},{"Title":"The car didn't know the difference.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that a lot of people wish for the end of the world just so that all deadlines would be off. There wouldn't be anything to worry about like in this movie about sisters Regina and Samatha. Regina is a arcade loving movie theater worker who gets trapped in the theater during a comet that turns everyone but her into a pile of dust.Then along comes Hector and they hang out at the radio station for a long time. I loved the part where Samatha was on the radio saying all the new rules for the dead world but the best part is where they go shopping with no credit card because no one is there.It is probably the best 'end of the world' movie I have ever seen and I definitely would get a gun and go shopping if the world really did end. "},{"Title":"A great movie for its time","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best of its genre! The acting is quite good and for me it serves as a time capsule since I worked in LA at the time this was filmed and spent many lunch hours sitting in the Security Pacific Plaza where the film's final scenes were shot. This is the type of film I always imagined really well financially backed college students might make. The makeup effects were well done, the plot line was creative and had enough twists in it to keep the viewer interested. Mary Woronov was a well known name having worked with Andy Warhol in his films and brought a certain New York City air of sophistication to what was truly a Valley Production. In its' own funny and entertaining way I believe this one to be a true cult classic. I know many fans of this film and give it three thumbs up! Yeah, I said three! If you want to know what the true meaning was of being a Valley Girl, or Guy for that matter, pick this one up. It's way cool and totally awesome. "},{"Title":"Fantastic soundtrack!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw it again last night for about the 50th time and it seems fresh every time I see it. Though it won't be too long before I know the script better than the actors (any copies of the script floating around?). The only thing missing is the soundtrack CD that should have been released. The DVD is a must, but how about a CD...the music is great and the songs/artists too obscure to obtain the music. For those of you that agree with me, shout it out! For those of you in the know, let the rest of us know where we can get a copy of the soundtrack. It's the only soundtrack missing from my library that would make it complete. "},{"Title":"Application for Cult Classic","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Night of the Comet brings about the right balance of bizarre situations, slap stick and cleverness to make it a cult classic. A clean cinematic production, NOTC makes for an uncommon attraction, which prods you to watch it once more. NOTC borrows from a few of the low budget sci-fi/horror films of the past (... Living Dead), and integrates those sub-plots nicely into the main plot. Alas, I could not score it a 10 (unforgetable), but I agree with those who have commented before me that it should be a DVD in the making. I would buy it.I never thought watching people cross the street could be so strangely funny. I put in right up there with Repo Man in my strange but more than watchable category. "},{"Title":"This is a CLASSIC movie of the 80's","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie that has everything creepy zombie-like people, sex, cheerleaders, a shopping montage, gun play, great 80's hairstyles courtesy of the two leads, and Robert Beltran looking very hot! He is probably best known now as Chakotay from Star Trek Voyager. Anyway, both lead actresses are very good in this film, but my personal favorite is Catherine Mary Stuart, who is beautiful, funny, and kicks butt. If you enjoy her work here you should be sure to check out another classic 80's film The Last Starfighter with her and Lance Guest. One thing about Catherine Mary Stuart, she exudes a sweetness that you can't find with everyone...and, as is mentioned in Night of the Comet, she has great hair. All in all, though, this film is clever, fun, and it doesn't take itself too seriously, which is important when you're dealing with a comet that reduces people to dust. Check this out, you won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"God I loved this movie! )","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was wicked! From the 80's style gang zombies, to the government agents, to the bad acting and awful directing. It was, in a better sense of the word, amazing! Ranks right up there with Army of Darkness! If you haven't seen this movie, GO SEE IT!!! You'll regret that you haven't seen it early! There are just some situations in this movie that I would LOVE to do! Having an entire city to myself would be so much fun! Especially doing so with a super hot girl! The only problem I had with this movie was the physics, however, since it was released in 1984, AND it's just a fun B-movie, I guess I can forgive this ) MUST SEE!! "},{"Title":"Music","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie and I just loved it. I have had tried to get it on DVD. But my boyfriend manage to get it on an old master tape for us. At least that is some thing. But I am having trouble getting the sound track for it. The one I would love to have the most of all the the last song that they play. I hope that the is someone out there that will know if I can get the sound track for this movie. If so please let me know where I will be able to get hold of one. I would like to get my hand on the complete sound track but if not just the last song will do for know. Did anybody noticed that there were some obverse mistake in the movie that the makers did not noticed at the time of making this? Like when Reg and Hector was taking in the rest room, he had his jacket on. And when the three of them came running into recording booth, he did not have his jacket. "},{"Title":"End Of The World Fun!","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What an amusing little gem of a film! Budgetary constraints being overlooked, this cinematic effort is genuinely entertaining. Catherine Mary Stewart is simply captivating; she brings so much depth to her characters. This amazing actress should have had a lot more work in the 80's! CMS was the strong woman prototype way before Sigourney Weaver's ALIEN. This and her work in Nightflyers should have made her the poster girl for Science Fiction films for the past two decades, alas it wasn't meant to be.The story is quite enthralling. I really enjoyed the survival aspect of the group. Imagine migrating to an automated radio station at the end of the world, just because it represents the remainder of civilization.Night Of The Comet is definitely a keeper in your post-apocalyptic film library. I'm anxiously awaiting a potential DVD release. "}{"Title":"Teenagers win the world.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a great show.I actually wore out my copy years ago.It was like an 80's version of American Graffiti, with a surprise ending.Watch this only if your young at heart. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Spirit!The Stores Are Open!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like Duh! This is soooo one of my favorite movies!First of all you have Samantha, who slapped her stepmom back!I was rollin!Reggie was cool & dominant,and resourceful!Hector was your classic minority-saves-the-day guy.I love the fact that to cheer Sam up,Reggie took her to where else?THE MALL!God,I love the 80's! The mall Girls just Wanna have Fun sequence was my fave. IT WAS AN ENTHRALLING MOVIE! ;) "},{"Title":"Oh My God!!! The world is left with 2 gorgeous Valley Girls who survived!!!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember watching this film and I was aware of the two actresses from there days on being on soaps, but I thought it was cool. I mean Kelli in those cheerleading Valley Girl outfits was awesome. She didn't play this part as an empty headed Valley Girl. She was someone that just didn't like playing second best to her older sister Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart). I liked the part when Regina came home and found Samantha, which Samantha didn't realize they everyone was taken from the face of the earth. Or better yet when they went to the radio station and Samantha took over the airwaves that was funny. I liked when she responded back to I wasn't expecting a phone call you know. I didn't take notes or something. And my favorite when they were at the department store and all the action that was going on. I still laugh when I think of Samantha throwing a television set and ran for her life when the stock boys was aiming at her and she told them they were a bunch of wimps. They couldn't hit at anything and used her advantage to beat up one of their accomplices. But it was a good campy film for the 80s. "},{"Title":"one of my all time favorites","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film, although not perfect by any means and a B sci fi film, is one of my all time favorites.  I loved it when I was a teen girl partly because the girls reacted exactly the way I would have-- going to the mall, trying to figure out what's going on, etc.  It's a fun film that I watch whenever I am lying on the couch with the flu-- it just makes me feel better because it's funny & silly but still offers something that I can appreciate (even though I'm not a teen girl who would run to the mall right away anymore). I don't really know why this film didn't get more attention because it does deserve the kind of fan base that a lot of 80's teen movies have... "},{"Title":"Big Hair and Bullets","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite B movies of all time. I first saw this one as a little kid, and since then have rented it at least a dozen times. This is one of those magic films that fall into the It dosen't have to be art to be good category.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Totally 80's)  The soundtrack isn't that bad either.  Haven't you ever wondered what it would be like  being one of the only people left on earth? I'd run to the mall too!!!  Could you imagine having the whole world to yourself???  This movie is fun to watch! "},{"Title":"Great fun!!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this wonderful gem on T.V as part of a number of films introduced by the the cult director Alex Cox(repo man etc).I don't know why it's not better known and why some people are critical of the acting I just don't understand,pick your favorite actor and try to imagine how they could play the part better than Kelli Maroney!!. I read that she was under contract to do this film but really wanted to a Woody Allen film instead but she still turns in a great performance.The dialogue is good and the film is exciting and scary in places.Why films like Four Weddings ' and Pretty Woman are so popular compared to this is beyond me!! "},{"Title":"My #1 Guilty Pleasure...","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of B movies, I have to say that Night of the Comet is at the top of my list. It's bad, it's silly, it's entirely charming. I mean, you have to lower your expectations when you hear that a movie is about Valley Girls who are the few survivors of a deadly comet swipe (and who have to fend of zombies!). I was 20 when I first saw Night of the Comet. I felt it really captured West Coast pop culture well. And I had quite a crush on Catherine Mary Stewart. Now, nostalgia has its grip on my soul, and so I turn to this movie for comfort, hoping desperately that slim jeans, diagonal placket blouses, and short boots will come back in style. Yeah, it's pathetic, but there ya go. If you're looking for the film, here's a warning The out of print VHS versions were poorly recorded in extended play mode (eek!).  Let's hope that Night of the Comet gets released on DVD.  "},{"Title":"The epitome of b-movies Excellent!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gently add a dose of horror into a mix of sci-fi with a sprinkle of laughs and romance. Leave to set then serve yourself a b-movie by the name of Night of the Comet (1984). A film which blurb should be- At the end of the world, there's only one thing to do....Shopping! or See Chakotay before the tattoo! If you don't like this movie....I'll stick my tongue in my cheek!  "},{"Title":"The Best B-Movie of the 80's?","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Comet takes me back to my teenage years. It's schlocky fun that never takes itself seriously. Valley girls, zombies, red dust, bad hair, bad music (I wish the soundtrack was available also)...it's all in the film! Makes for a perfect night of B-movie fun...rent it with Maximum Overdrive and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Classic Sci-Fi B-movie!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the tradition of Repo Man, The Road Warrior and I Was A Teenage Frankenstein comes Night of the Comet.  There is no overarching social criticism here, unless the message be one of dystopia (utopia gone wrong), common to many science fiction films set in a post-apocalyptic wasteland. This film owes a tremendous debt to Richard Matheson's work, particularly the I Am Legend tale, which inspired movies such as The Last Man On Earth and The Omega Man.  Matheson is never mentioned in the script or the credits of this movie, but his influence is undeniable, right down to stealing a few key scenes.   Does this lack of originality make Night of the Comet a bad film?  Yes--tremendously bad.  But the film is bad in a way that only a lover of cult classic films can appreciate.  It is so bad that it is camp, and that fact alone will please anyone who wants to watch it late at night just for kicks. The film is also noteworthy for starring Robert Beltran, who is probably best known as Chakotay on Star Trek's Voyager.  This is a role he probably wants to forget.  And whatever happened to Catherine Mary Stewart?  She never quite lived up to the potential that she shows in this movie.  Geoffrey Lewis, a veteran of Clint Eastwood films, makes a good villain. This film rates two stars for its late-night cult potential. Surely, anyone who can sit through anything as formulaic as Scream or Friday the Thirteenth can survive this movie.  "},{"Title":"Campy Fun","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Night of the Comet is a guilty pleasure of mine.  If you have sssen the night of the living dead movies or any of the 1950s alien movies then you have seen the premise of this movie before.  That is not meant as a criticism.  The acting is bad to the point is funny and some of the lines are unbelievable!  For a guilty pleasure, you can't do much better than night of the comet.  "},{"Title":"A Night that Rocks!!!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is everything that the 80's was about.  I love the fact that the girls are so good with guns, especially Samantha Belmont.  It is a very entertaining sci-fi flick that is sure to give you enjoyment and make you feel like you are right back in 1984.  The soundtrack is great, I wish it was available. "},{"Title":"Overlooked, but likeable movie","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Generally forgotten, early 80's, sci-fi movie concerning two valley girls and their quest to survive after a comet wipes out most of the earth's population.  This is actually a very decent movie, which despite a low budget offers up some good performances and an amusing plot. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to kill an afternoon with friends, this B-flick is the movie to watch.  Ever wonder what would happen if you were the last people on earth. Throw in some zombies and evil scientists, and you have a film that's sooo over-dramatic it makes Killer Tomatoes seem trite.  I laughed, I cried, I've taken over the local mall. "},{"Title":"One of the most quotable movies ever!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a fun, cheesey, campy homage to all the bmovie horror and sci-fi films ever made. It also has some of the best oneliners ever put in a movie. I haven't seen the movie in years, but I still remember many of the lines. It seems like many of the negative reviews focus on it being a bad sci-fi movie. It is and it knows it! That's the whole point. This isn't Plan 9 From Outerspace where Ed Wood thought he was making a great movie. This is a tongue in cheek spoof on all those movies. The reason as one review stated it's cliche after cliche is because it is making fun of those themes that are common to this genre of movie. If it wasn't a cliche then there would be nothing to get. If you liked Earth Girls are Easy or Little Shop of Horrors (either version) then you should give this a shot.  "},{"Title":"A Great B!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found Night of the Comet to be one of the very best B-Horror films of the 80's I have ever seen! The film has zombies, plot twists, great effects, good actors, and a creative story.The movie is very 80's in most respects, including the many many 80's songs played in the film. I enjoyed The plot twists and surprises that come near the end of the film. The movie may not seem very realistic but it's still a great flick to turn off your brain and enjoy anyway. I strongly recommend Night of the Comet to anyone that enjoys B-Horror. "},{"Title":"A terrific, funny, odd-ball film (with two very cute girls)","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading the previous comments, I suspect those who didn't get it are just too young! I grew up on the sci-fi flicks of the '50s, to which this one is largely a homage. (But I also like different films, like Buckaroo Banzai, Demolition Man, The Last Wave, and Rocky Horror...) Great casting, and they all play it straight (no look how cute I'm being). Terrific dialogue (lots of quotes in this one) is enhanced by generally low-key delivery. I went to see this with my 12-year-old when it first came out and I bought a copy at the first opportunity. "},{"Title":"Chakotay!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in theaters, and it was actually a creepy movie, especially in the later scenes with the blood extraction. Yes, there was humor, and it was campy, but you never quite knew where the movie was going til the last 30 minutes.Robert Beltran, who is Star Trek Voyager's Chakotay, plays the hunk in this movie. It's odd to see that Beltran has changed very little in 14 years. "},{"Title":"Sorry Anon of Glasgow, but this ain't that bad","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Complete nonsense I agree, but for all that still a lot of fun if the pub has just shut. Worth seeing just for the gag about the Mercedes in the closing sequences. The whole thing is just hammed up to the nines, and you have to grin. Neat pulp cinema. "}{"Title":"simple fun","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very intriguing idea is well explored in this sci-fi flick.  A comet (not sure if it was Haleys) wipes out everybody who's standing on the streets to get a peek.  Unless you spent the night inside a steel structure, you're a gonner.  Two sisters manage to do that and try to adjust to being nearly the only survivors to whats happened.  Director Eberhardt has a terrificly photographed scene the morning after; the streets are empty, all is quiet, machines are the only things still operating, and the sky is covered in a red haze.  Along the way the sisters encounter a surviving truck driver, some unscrupulous scientists who want their blood, and psychotic zombies who are slowly dying.  Film has a great mood and a cool soundtrack and a scene teenage girls will savor a mall where everything is FREE!  Stewart and Maroney are cuties and the ending shot has a good gag, so if you want mindless fun, check this out. "},{"Title":"Entertaining hybrid movie","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Using my personal 'Oh no.  Don't do that!' scale this film rates pretty  well.  Obviously conceived as a lowest-common-denominator horror/SF/post-apocalypse/look-at-the-cute-girls movie, and loosely based upon 'The Day of the Triffids', it somehow manages to rise above its station.  If you're not a compulsive inconsistency finder, this is a harmless and satisfying way of spending an hour and a half.  "},{"Title":"Like totally cool B movie dude.....","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film originally at 2am on a saturday morning here in the UK and i watched bleary eyed till the end even remember to whack a video in after the first 5mins grabbed me and record it.  Crazy film lots of mistakes lots of laughing, lots of cringing at the clothes and music, i have a very bad copy of it still on extended play video in my living room i dig out when im bored, hope it makes it to dvd soon.  "},{"Title":"seems like the perfect Christmas gift this year","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My summary is just a quote from this movie. Sure it's a cheezy B movie but hey, all things are not great. This is a kind of movie that would make you think what would you do in that situation? It's full of a few glitches for example... how come the power is still on? and calcium dust isn't orange. It's still a good movie and I like it! You have to be in the mood to watch a 80's movie like this so you can take it in and appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Night of the Comet","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Effective B-movie entertainment that features zombies, evil scientists and comedy. It has the right touch for its low budget fare.  "},{"Title":"Now come on guys... this film wasn't that bad...","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Boy, Night of the Comet sure took a serious beating here.  While I agree with one of the other posters that it is possible that many of the younger fans were incapable of appreciating some of the more interesting aspects of this film, I see this as a failure on the part of the film rather than on the part of the viewers.  Night of the Comet was a cute and fun look at the Apocalypse, whose fundamental premise seems to be that God does, indeed, have a sense of humor (look who he left to repopulate the planet).  Overall, I think that the film was fun and can be appreciated by those who may not have seen every sci-fi film from the 50s onward, but the problem is that much of this film relies on a prior understanding of the genre.  Unlike Scream (for example) this film does not really provide enough insight into its own self-consciousness to be a particularly good film for a general audience... this is its primary failing. With that said, I should point out that I like NOTC quite a bit, but I have noticed radically different reactions to the film based on age, film knowledge and life experience.  It is a cute movie that probably deserves better than it got, but it was also a bit too smug for its own good. "},{"Title":"Lively, sloppy Valley girl sci-fi...","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney are exceptionally cute as cynical California siblings from the Valley who survive the nuclear holocaust and spend the rest of the movie fending off radioactive mutants. Mary Woronov, always a great presence in B-flicks like this, is unfortunately stuck in the draggy sub-plot about brain-dead scientists, and the film's sloppy continuity and muddy cinematography are poor, yet the two girls are wisecracking fun. The movie, lively and silly, adopts a rather enjoyable slant on the marauding zombie genre, sending up the precarious scenario--the end of civilization as we know it--in such a campy, overtly-dumb fashion that it couldn't possibly be disturbing (except perhaps to science-fiction devotees, who will most likely just laugh it off). ** from **** "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the only time I ever walked out on a movie.  Years later, I saw it in the cable listings and thought, Maybe I should give it another try. Suffice to say that I was right the first time.  This ranks second only to Godzilla 1998 as the worst movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Had me engrossed until the last part.","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a curious flick to me. On the one hand I found it a surprisingly good end of the world flick that had a touch of camp value that worked well. On the other hand the last 20 minutes are handled so shabbily that it takes all the enjoyment out of what I liked in the first place. Let me break it down.THE GOOD The film starts out with an ominous foreboding tone of the return of Haleys Comet and how it is going to do something different this time. Basically wipe out all life on earth, except for those in Steel enforced bunkers. Once the comet comes and goes, everybody on earth is reduced to red calcium dust. With the exception of the for mentioned steel bunker survivors and those people that didn't dissolve into dust, at least not right away, and our now deranged blood thirsty cannibal zombies, or something like that. Two valley girls and one truck driver seem to be that last humans alive in LA. They get some guns and take over a radio station then make contact with a survivor think tank group out in the dessert. This group needs the survivors because they have been infected by the comet and have to make a serum.That is the set up and believe it or not, it works in this movie. The girls go shopping get into some mischief with cannibals and have a good time.THE BAD Once the movie centers on the Survivor Think Tank It derails rather quickly. You see it is made very clear that this Think Tank has only a few days and is already turning cannibal. The girls rebel and blow up a few trucks and shoot one cannibal and then the movie has them back in LA, dressed up and trying to go back to normalcy. In short, the movie ends WAY to easy and you are left with a real bad taste in your mouth. Seriously! This movie needed at least another half hour movie and maybe it could have been salvaged! I have seen this movie a number of times and always get angry at the cheap way this movie ends! I think that if the producers of this movie had concentrated on better ending I would give this movie a much better rating.In conclusion. If you got an hour and a half to kill, you may want to give this movie a chance. Just be ready for a real let down at the end. "},{"Title":"You were born with an asshole, Doris, you don't need Chuck.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The disadvantage of having a long movie queue is that you forget why you put a movie on there in the first place. this is one of those that I just can't remember. Maybe it was on a list of zombie movies someone recommended.This must be Houston with all the big hair. Oh, it's the eighties. Well, the comet has come and everyone outside seems to have disappeared, except for some who were only partially exposed. they are the zombies (or infecteds to purists).Regina (Catherine Mary Stewart), her sister Sam (Kelli Maroney), and a trucker, Hector (Robert Beltran), are apparently alone except for some scientists in the desert they reached by phone.They decide to do what all teen girls do - the go to the mall. They find four others there, but they have evil on their mind. Things get interesting when the scientists show, including B-Queen Mary Woronov and Geoffrey Lewis.OK, just a couple of zombies, no tatas, and no gore. Cute look at an eighties horror spoof. "}{"Title":"Excellent low budget sci-fi comedy nostalgia flick","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was made in 1984 and has gotten better with age! I mean that. Granted the budget is low, and the actors are not that famous (what ever happened to the oh so adorable Zoe?? I mean, let's face it - how can you watch this movie and not take your eye off of her? )Zoe Kelli Simon ....  Samantha 'Sam' Belmont (as Kelli Maroney)Robert Beltran as Hector 'Hec' Gomez, truck driver later stars in a major sci-fi TV program called Voyager. He was excellent in that.Watch this, order a pizza, and have lots of good fun. 9/10-Zafoid  "},{"Title":"Some people just don't get it!!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those people who do not understand what a B movie is will naturally dislike a movie like Night of the Comet. They just don't get it! You can't really compare them to first run movies, they are in a class all there own.As far as B movies go Night of the Comet is one of the best ever! For those who don't watch B movies will not recognize some of the great B actors and actresses you see in B movies like the great Mary Woronov.She is a B movie goddess, and if you look up her bio on IMDB you will see a list of some of the greatest B movies of all time like Rock 'n' Roll High School Eating Raoul and Death Race 2000-(My Favorite)These movies are not intended to be taken seriously there are only intended for you to enjoy, relax, kick back and have a good time!  "},{"Title":"Like watching paint dry","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was quite possibly the most boring movie I have ever seen. The premise is interesting but the movie fails to deliver anything but yawns.  If that weren't bad enough, the music is horrible!  Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"A real piece of sh*t flick!","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes. A rating of 1/10 is MORE than what this film deserves. If I could give a zero to the film, I would.The background score is non-existent, the gore is close to nil, the acting is a joke and the script is a disaster.Full Plot(Why Do I Even Bother?) The Earth is passing through the tail of a rogue comet, an event which has not occurred in 65 million years, the last time coinciding with the extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs. On the night of the comet's passage, large crowds gather to watch and celebrate the event.18 year old Regina Reggie Belmont (Catherine Mary Stewart) is an employee at a movie theater in southern California. Annoyed that her #6 high score on the arcade game Tempest was beaten by someone with the initials DMK, she decides to have sex with her boyfriend, the theater projectionist, in the steel lined projection booth. Meanwhile, Reggie's 16 year old sister Samantha Sam (Kelli Maroney) argues with their stepmother, and she gets slapped in the face.The next morning, a reddish haze covers everything. There is also not one sign of life, only small piles of red dust and empty clothes. Reggie and her boyfriend wake up, unaware that anything strange has happened. Her boyfriend steps outside behind the theater and is immediately killed by a zombie. When Reggie comes looking for her boyfriend, she finds the zombie eating him. The zombie tries to attack, but she escapes. Finding herself in an empty world, Reggie goes home to find her sister. Sam had spent the night in a metal yard shed after the fight and is also all right.After figuring out what has happened, they hear a radio disc jockey and race to the station, only to find it is automated and just a recording. They do find another survivor there, Hector Gomez (Robert Beltran), who spent the night in the back of his steel semi truck. When Sam interrupts the recorded show and makes an announcement, the broadcast is heard by government researchers in an underground think tank. They call the station, telling the survivors that a rescue team is on the way. The scientists note that the zombies, though less exposed to the comet, will soon disintegrate into dust themselves. Reggie tells Hector that, as military brats, she and Sam were taught how to use firearms by their father. Hector then leaves to see if any of his family survived, while Reggie and Sam go foraging at a local mall. After a surprise firefight with some zombie ex-stock boys, the girls are taken prisoner but are saved by the rescue team from the think tank.Reggie is immediately taken back to their base. Audrey White (Mary Woronov), a dying, disillusioned scientist, offers to remain behind with Sam to wait for Hector. Another scientist who stays with them believes Sam has been exposed and should be executed. However, Audrey realizes that Sam is actually healthy. After purportedly euthanizing Sam, she then kills the other scientist. When Hector returns, Audrey provides enough information for him and Sam to try to rescue Reggie. Audrey then gives herself a lethal injection.The researchers had suspected and prepared for the comet's effects, but inadvertently left their ventilation system open during the comet's passage allowing the comet's deadly dust to permeate their base. Meanwhile, Reggie has become suspicious, escapes, and discovers that the dying scientists have hunted down healthy survivors and rendered them brain-dead, so they can harvest their untainted blood to look for a cure.Hector and Sam find Reggie, along with a young boy and a young girl Reggie has rescued. Some of the researchers are killed in the escape, while the rest presumably perish from the comet's after-effects.Eventually, rain washes away the red dust and the world is left in a pristine condition. The group becomes a conventional family unit, except for Sam who feels left out. When she ignores Reggie's warning and crosses a deserted street against the still-operating signal light, she is almost run over by a sports car driven by Danny Mason Keener, a teenager her own age. After apologizing, he invites her to go for a ride. As they drive off, the car is shown sporting the initials DMK on the vanity plate.Verdict hunt down and burn every existing copy of this film. "},{"Title":"Night of the Comet; Day of the Dustbuster.","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Imagine the horror of being stuck with 80s fashion, style, and music for the rest of your life that's the fate facing teenage sisters Regina and Samantha (Catherine Mary Stewart and blonde cutie Kelli Maroney) when civilisation comes to a standstill after a passing comet turns most of the human race into orange dust.Amazingly, Regina and Sam have survived desiccation thanks to the fact they were both surrounded by steel when the Earth passed through the comet's tail, but that doesn't mean that they are no longer in danger those who were partially exposed to the cosmic rays are slowly disintegrating, becoming bloodthirsty zombies in the process.A very effective low-budget sci-fi/horror gem, Night of the Comet is a real treat for fans of post-apocalyptic fantasy. Probably inspired by 70s TV movie 'Where Have All The People Gone, with which it shares a lot of similarities, director Thom Eberhardt's enjoyable end of the world B-movie is a quirky, tongue-in-cheek effort that deliberately piles on the clichés, but also delivers some smart dialogue, solid performances from its great cast (including B-movie regular Mary Woronov, and craggy faced Geoffry Lewis), and even a decent shock or two.Special effects are limited to red and orange filters for the sky, and basic sunken-eye zombie make-up, but Eberhardt more than makes up for this with his spirited direction and some beautiful and very eerie shots of a completely deserted Los Angeles.If you think you can stomach the overload of neon colours, big hair, and dreadful clothing that pervade the movie, then you could do a lot worse than to give Night of the Comet a whirl. "},{"Title":"Post-apocalypse, with a smile","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Last Man on Earth gets an eighties update for this delightful little flick. Night of the Comet mixes Sci-Fi with horror and comedy, while finding time to take a swipe at American life, pop culture and, of course, the B-movie classics of the 1950's. The film isn't very coherent, and constantly switches tones to suit whatever mood the plot takes on; but it doesn't matter, because this type of post-apocalyptic plot is always fascinating, and Night of the Comet always makes the best of it. The film does carry a very jokey tone throughout, and even though the plot follows the serious theme of everyone on the planet being wiped out; it does it with a smile on its face. The main body of the plot follows two sisters; Samantha and Regina Belmont, who wake up one morning to find to that last night's comet has turned almost everyone into dust. However, they soon find out that they aren't the only ones left; as they meet a truck driver, some scientists holed up in an underground lab and, unfortunately for them, a bunch of zombies!The film has a very cheap feel throughout; so cheap, in fact, that at some points it actually reverts to animation to show certain things. It doesn't matter, though, because watching this film gives you same impression that the B-movie classics of the fifties do; you really feel like the filmmakers have made the best of the low budget. The script is well written and while, at times, it feels as though it's suffering from a lack of ideas, generally the story moves well and the parodies that the film presents come across well. The acting is nothing to write home, but all the cast deliver decent performances and obviously enjoyed themselves. Catherine Mary Stewart gives a portrayal of your typical eighties teen flick female lead, while Kelli Maroney (Chopping Mall) is the typical bimbo cheerleader, in the role of her sister. The style of the film is very much eighties; and the tacky soundtrack does well in instilling this with the audience. Overall, Night of the Comet is well worth seeing. While it's not always coherent, the film makes up for it with its vitality and the way it captures the eighties. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Pretty decent teenage flick for its time.","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Guess this movie never reaches its full potential but along the ride you wont be bored really and the movie does have some good moments in it.It's a movie aimed toward teenage, in which a couple of teens have to survive after a deadly comet has disintegrated all Earth's inhabitants. Those who were not immediately disintegrated but were still exposed to the comet turn into killer zombies first. The movie of course has a pretty lame concept but the movie itself also isn't a serious one. The movie is more of a comedy than a straight-forward horror zombie flick or science-fiction movie. And this is perhaps were the movie made a mistake. The movie isn't really an horror or a science-fiction, though all of these elements could had surely spiced up the overall movie. It would at least made the movie more spectacular and memorable to watch.Seems like it was the budget that was the foremost reason for the movie to not go all the way with its concept. Seeing all of these big desolated places in this movie also make that obvious. I mean basically all we see are empty streets, one empty car and a bunch of clothes lying around. The movie leaves a lot to the imagination and is being creative at times but it just can't conceal its obviously low budget. When you watch this movie expecting a bunch of post-apocalyptic zombie action you will get severely disappointed by this movie.The movie tries hard to be original with its whole concept and characters which makes it all the more odd that the movie also decides at the same time to be a parody of some of these other similar type of movies. But as a comedy the movie also doesn't even go all the way. The movie is not really one that tries hard to make you laugh but it's more one that gets a comedy with its undertones and overall style and characters, without ever becoming a ridicules one but not exactly an hilarious one either.A decent and entertaining enough movie, that could had worked out better though and more interesting.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One Word  Awful","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This had to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Poorly written. Poorly acted. Poorly edited.   "},{"Title":"The story of mayonnaise curdling would have been better.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was bad. This movie was horrible. The acting was bad. The setting was unrealistic. The story was absurd A comet that appears once in eons is set to appear one night. Most of the world's population decided to watch this comet. Then, the next morning everyone but a select few of people has been turned to dust from the comet's radiation. People's clothes are still intact, there are plants which are still alive, but the people were turned to dust. No bones, nothing. Thats ridiculous. How can radiation incinerate people but leave their clothes and other biological substances intact?Even better, the comet mutated some people into zombie flesh eating monsters. Their makeup would not have even looked frightening to a newborn child. The Insane Clown Posse scare me more...and they're supposed to look stupid.Then there were the survivors. People who had been surrounded by steel when the comet passed were spared from zombie-dom and death. How can steel block a comet's radiation that supposedly incinerates people in their tracks?Equally insulting is the 60's horror music playing in the background through parts of the movie, or the 80's hair rock which serves no purpose in the film and makes you want to shoot your television.The stupidest part of the movie, however, are the characters it focuses on two Valley Girls and Chakotay from Star Trek Voyager. These three characters were totally unrealistic. Who would go looting the day after an apocalypse with flesh eating mutants running everywhere? There were four 5 minute horror scenes in the entire movie, and most of them were dreams. In between these scenes is unsophisticated dialog which makes South Park seem intelligent. The silence in between the elementary dialog was painful. I could have made a better movie with four monkeys and a bag of Cheetos. Don't see this movie, ever. "},{"Title":"Bad Film","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a bad film, I hate this film, Hannah, please don't kill me. This film, should not be available to get because it is a disgrace to the film community!!!!!!!!!  "}]