[{"Title":"A sleazy ball of fun!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Crimes of Passion is definitely my secret, guilty pleasure. Available uncut in this country, few films have managed to capture a sleazy, seedy feel without resorting to a sense of grottiness. This film is classy and well made, much the same as Ken Russell's later film, Whore (1991). It has the same sense of light-heartedness, and is actually well written.Much of the dialogue is clever, witty, and bitingly effective. The performances are top notch - particularly Perkins as the maniacal priest whom is captivated by the street-smart, fashion-designer-cum-hooker Turner. The sexual scenes are bold, but not sexually explicit.It is truly amazing to see Kathleen Turner in this film, as opposed to her performance as a fat, frumpy, conservative and highly religious middle-aged mother in the Virgin Suicides (1999). I cannot think of a character performance so diametrically opposite to the one in Crimes of Passion. I recommend you rent both films, and watch them back to back. It is sure to make your head spin, and perhaps even generate a sense of appreciation for the diversity of Turner's acting ability! "},{"Title":"so weird but so good","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  My favorite weird movie of all time, and I say that because of the numerous things that just do not belong and dont make sense.  Like why is Turner a hooker? Shes a fashion designer during the day, why does she degrade herself at night?  Does she get a thrill off of it, its never really explained.  Whats with that dopey music video featuring a family of weirdos jumping into a pool dressed in wedding attire?  You'll have no idea what it means, but again thats one of the charms of the film for me, silly scenes that make no sense.  Another would be Perkins stabbing a blow up doll with a vibrator, with tons o' blood gushing about.  Another you squint at but then laugh at loud to.  Though there are moments of confusion, there are plenty of terrific scenes, most surprisingly shot unbroken, without cuts.  One has Laughlin and Potts discussing their probs in bed for about 10 minutes without breaking the shot.  Very professional actors make it look impressive.  Most of the plot deals with Laughlins character, a struggling home securities guy stuck in a stale marriage.  He gets involved with Turner, though she has her own problems, like constant harrassment from Perkins demented street preacher.  The three are very strong from start to finish, especially Kathleen, in my favorite performance of hers ever.  She has a ton of great one-liners that inject humor at the right moments, without it looking out of place.  If your unfamiliar with the films history, you may be unaware of the different versions available.  Back in 84 it was too graphic for an R rating, so they released an R, Unrated, and X rated version.  I've only seen the R and Unrated, and there are considerable changes made.  The R does not contain shots of Turners face during a rather intimate moment at the beginning of the film.  And they also totally threw out a hardcore scene involving a cop and Turner engaged in nasty nookie.  As well as Turner and Laughlins first love scene, where several positions shown only in shadow were taken out.  But in terms of the story, those scenes are not crucial, so no harm done.  Either way you go, this will be one of the more stranger film experiences you'll ever have.  I mean where else are you gonna see someone actually killed at the end of a movie with a vibrator?(!!) And I cant forget the terrific sexy saxaphone score by Rick Wakeman, which he reworked from previous material.   "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and highly entertaining.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's no surprise that Ken Russell's ambitious psychosexual drama Crimes of Passion was not well received upon its initial release back in 1984. But to be fair, based on the heavy edits required to achieve an 'R' rating, it's hard to imagine the film having the same sort of effect as the un-rated director's cut. Explicitness is key to a film of this nature -- necessary for provoking audience reaction, but also for providing a raw layer of intensity to which the viewer can connect with. For example, the explicit dialogue in the bedroom confessional scene between Bobby & Amy Grady (equally fine performances from John Laughlin and Annie Potts) effectively captures the real disconnect present within so many relationships. On one hand there's a need and/or desire for sex as a means of fulfillment and expression of love, but on the other hand there are responsibilities associated with family life that may impede that desire, or in the case of the character of Amy Grady, a general lack of sexual desire is just part of her persona. Meanwhile this leaves her husband Bobby feeling discontented. The film asks then, just how important is sex? Is it an essential part of being happy? In stark contrast to the dynamic between Bobby & Amy Grady, is the character of China Blue/Joanna Crane -- played with absolute gusto by Kathleen Turner (giving one of the finest performances of her career). While her motives remain for the most part unclear, the character of China Blue appears to be using sex as a control mechanism. But what is it that she is trying to control? Through the use of some fairly explicit sex scenes it seems apparent that she enjoys the sex itself while also enjoying the anonymity and emotional disconnect involved with being a girl for hire. But is this feeling the result of her actual disdain for having that emotional connection, or is it a result of having been scarred by a past relationship? The power play argument is reinforced by seeing the Joanna Crane side of the character -- a highly successful undergarment designer with a cool car and a great apartment; someone who seems to have it all, yet wants to take her power one step further. This theory is drawn into question (of course!) when her path crosses with Bobby Grady; someone who seems to be able to offer her the entire package she secretly longs for. To complicate things further, there's the character of Rev. Peter Shayne (an Oscar worthy performance from Anthony Perkins); a man so distraught and shamed by his own inner demons that he seeks his own redemption through the course of offering to redeem China Blue. Throw in an enjoyably hypnotic yet cheesy & dated synthesizer score, and the usual striking visual imagery and religious allegory that Ken Russell is well known for, and the result is a thought provoking and highly entertaining film. Best recommended to those who don't mind being left with a lot of unanswered questions at the end, or who aren't easily offended &#150; an 8/10, this film is destined to become a major classic and deserves repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"A lurid fantasy porno movie - and a masterpiece","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ken Russell's masterpiece has cult movie written all over it. A lurid, extreme sex-and-violence fantasy porno-movie, it is also a brilliant satire on the American way of sex, (the 'home life' scenes could have come out of Desperate Housewives). In the bravest and best performance of her career, Kathleen Turner plays the mystery woman who is Joanna, prim fashion designer by day and China Blue, the fantasy hooker to end all fantasy hookers, by night. In an alternative universe her performance would have won her the Oscar for Best Actress. Her nemesis is Anthony Perkin's psychopathic preacher with the razor-sharp dildo (Save me from the foul-mouthed kooze with the motor-driven ass). His is the kind of performance that goes beyond mere acting into some kind of crazy stratosphere all it's own; (the ending is lifted directly from Psycho).The film has it's downside. Rick Wakeman's score is over-emphatic and Tom Cruise lookalike John Laughlin may have Cruise's good looks but none of his talent. It's a terrible piece of acting but in a movie this OTT it actually works. Barry Sandler's script is brilliant. "},{"Title":"I Know I Am Going To Take Some Heat For This, BUT * * * * out of 4.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Click on my name for a list of over 500 reviews! This review is for the unrated version.Fashion designer (Kathleen Turner) lives a double life at night posing as a $50 hooker. She is stalked and terrorized by a psycho preacher (Anthony Perkins) while a married man (John Laughlin) slowly falls in love with her. Amid all the sleaze, kink, (which is all very necessary to the plot of the film) and talk lies an intelligent, thoughtful film. You are never able to take your eyes off of Turner who is absolutely spellbinding. Perkins plays crazy like no one else can. And Laughlin and Annie Potts turn in frank, honest performances. Director Ken Russell is able to create colorful characterizations and generate memorable dialogue. The very 80's score falls perfectly into place in the film and the ending is among one of the most shocking in cinema history. A masterpiece in every respect and one of the most under rated films of all time.Unrated; Extreme Sexual & Violent Content, Nudity, Profanity, Adult Themes and Nudity. "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Thank God for Ken Russell.  No other director could have made  this one. This is not one of his best films, but it is certainly a fun one to watch. Kathleen Turner really goes the limit as an actress in her role as China Blue. She looks great and gives more to the film than it really deserves. While there are some serious jabs made at relationships and sexuality --- this movie is really just raunchy fun.  Anthony Perkins almost steals the show in a send-up of his Psycho performance.  Great use of color and set design considering the small budget.  Rick Wakeman's score is suitably cheezy and very dated.  An adult film worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful dirty little movie","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"   I just loved this movie! I liked the music, language, the acting and the overall sleazy, grubby and dirty ambiance it created. Watching this film is like being caught masturbating - you just feel guilty about having a good time. A true guilty pleasure! China Blue is the type of woman ALL men want to experience but would never take home to mother. Kathleen Turner is first class and I think this is her BEST acting - ever. (Possible spoilers) Talking of mother, Anthony Perkins is outstanding as the perverted spiritual savior, with the interesting and somewhat unusual dildo and collection of sexual paraphernalia. This may be your only chance to see an &#145;auto suck' in a mainstream movie. Loved the nude dancing and &#145;wet' tissues.Ken Russell, one of my favorites, brings another first rate piece of entertainment to the masses. Well done Ken! Most critics panned this movie. Well, they had to be PC! It's like Martha Steward panning McDonalds. So, it's not sirloin steak but someone is buying the 5 billion sold so far.    Watch the unrated DVD if you can. Widescreen, nice and sharp. "},{"Title":"One of the Best and Classiest Pre-AIDS Erotic-Thriller of the 80's","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The thirty year-old hard-worker Bobby Grady (John Laughlin) is married with two children with the frigid Amy Grady (Annie Potts) and their marriage is in crisis. Bobby is invited to work in the night shift for the owner of a fashion designer studio that believes that his talented designer Joanna Crane (Kathleen Turner), who is very introspective, is selling his designs to competitors. Bobby accepts the job to make money and please Amy with a bathtub and follows Joanna after hours.He discovers that she has a double life, working as a fifty-dollar hooker called China Blue in the red light district and practicing kinky sex with her clients to satisfy their fantasies. Bobby becomes obsessed by China Blue and when the true thief is found, he has sex with her and they have a crush on each other. Meanwhile the insane preacher Rev. Peter Shayne (Anthony Perkins) decides to save Joanna's soul and stalks her everywhere.Crimes of Passion is one of the best and classiest pre-AIDS erotic-thriller of the 80's and among my favorite cult-movies ever. A youngster that sees this film in 2012 probably will not understand the behavior (and the beauty) of Kathleen Turner. But in 1981, the mesmerizing Kathleen Turner made her debut in the cinema industry with Lawrence Kasdan's film-noir Body Heat and this sexy actress became one of the most desirable women of the world. Crimes of Passion is her fifth movie and she is very sensual, sexy and gorgeous in the hands of the director Ken Russell. Anthony Perkins in the role of a mad preacher and the music score of Rick Wakeman complete this little masterpiece of the eroticism. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Crimes de Paixão (Crimes of Passion) "},{"Title":"You will believe that a man can be impaled on a vibrator.","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Or, you won't. This exploration of gender and sexuality has a similar problem to some people, it's not sure which way it wants to go. It's got genre confusion. Is it a drama? Is it a satire? Certainly, images of a man as hp or human penis, slowly rising as his friend hums Thus Spoke Zoroaster and then spitting milk out of his mouth as his wife sits in horror surrounded by harsh scenes of family strife seems to scream satire, but the performances are all over the map. Annie Potts is deadly serious and Anthony Perkins is psycho. Kathleen Turner is the bright spot. She sells such odd scenes as her prostitute dressed in a nun's habit jumping on her bed while singing Onward Christian Soldier! Strangely, even with these three off the wall things mentioned, it's the straightness of the movie as a whole that makes it too dramatic. But the ending is priceless, John Laughlin does another one of his weepy monologues about how he needed his woman to tell him that everything would be alright, it's OK to be scared, then, he looks at the camera with a smile and says that they f**ked like animals. Classic.P.S. One of my favorite scenes ended up on the cutting room floor. Bruce Davidson analyzes this girl in a bar, makes an animal noise, and asks her if she likes the Bee Gees all while laughing. It's hilarious and it hits on an interesting point. Isn't it all just a game? If you say the right thing, you get a prize. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sleazy trash flick from Ken Russell!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What a great slice of sleaze this is! Ken Russell certainly has a style of his own and it's on overdrive in Crimes of Passion, as the movie is as much about the bizarre way that Russell tells his story as it is about the story itself. Crimes of Passion is unlikely to appeal to all tastes, but for everyone who likes trashy and sleazy thrillers, you really can't go wrong with this one! The film is very surreal and at times, even takes on something of a fantasy feel. The way that Russell uses lighting and the rock theme tune (which often feels slightly out of place) help to keep things surreal; and the heavy amount of sex makes this more than your average Hollywood thriller! A double life is the basis for the plot; and here we focus on China Blue; shameless hooker by night and sportswear designer by day. A street preacher meets her and decides he wants to save her soul; around the same time, a man is hired to spy on her by the sportswear business she works for. He later meets her as China Blue and is shown a good time...but soon the preacher starts to get out of control.This might not be particularly intelligent stuff, but Crimes of Passion appealed to me because it's not quite like any other thriller I've seen, and director Ken Russell seems more interested in making the film as bizarre as possible than telling a story - and that is no bad thing as it ensures that Crimes of Passion is original, and that's the sort of thing that gives a film a cult following! Crimes of Passion has an interesting cast, which is lead by Kathleen Turner, who is just great in her double role. John Laughlin falls into the background a little bit as his role is the least interesting of the three central ones - but he's not bad. The third central role is taken up by Anthony Perkins, and it suits him like a glove! Perkins wasn't so maniacal since Psycho and Russell definitely picked the right man for the job with this piece of casting! While the film isn't exactly plot heavy, what story we do have flows well and there's always enough going on outside of the plot anyway - if there's one thing this film isn't, it's boring! Overall, Crimes of Passion is a great trash flick and it gets high recommendations from me! "}{"Title":"A relatively fun movie, perhaps for all the wrong reasons.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Turner Oh, a man of words... He makes up in diction what he lacks in dick. Or I never forget a face... Especially when I've sat on it. (also Turner) These are the kinds of lines we get to hear in this movie. It's yet more sexual lunacy from the most sex-obsessed director of the last three decades (not counting Russ Meyer). Russell presents a bizarre combination between wacky sexual-situation comedy, family drama, and psycho-thriller. The movie goes in all sorts of directions, and seems to be about a lot of things - with sex (what else?) being the unifying theme in all the issues. There is both intentional and unintentional humour, though with Russell you can't always tell which is which, but most of the film is a sort of eccentric drama.The characters of Turner and Perkins are absurd and over-the-top, respectively; Turner is a career woman who works as a prostitute during the night, while Perkins is a deranged wanna-be minister with mania written all over his face. At the beginning, Perkins so overdoes his part (as is typical of this incompetent over-actor) that you can't help but laugh. Turner, though playing a far-fetched character, is quite convincing, and very charismatic, as usual. Turner's character is the writer's idea of what a woman, who has been emotionally hurt by a failed relationshit, might do to deal with her disappointment in male-kind (i.e. mankind) she turns to fulfilling (male) fantasies as a prostitute. That'll happen... The idea that Turner - who has sex all the time with various men - would suddenly get emotionally aroused with a customer (Laughlin) just because he feels for her or whatever, is preposterous, though not annoying. In fact, nothing seems to be annoying in the film, in spite of it being Russell's.Well, almost; Russell took one or two themes from Dvorak's New World Symphony and milked them for all they're worth. These melodies are played over and over and over, in varying styles. Strange, because this music doesn't in any way suit this film. Some dialog sounds unnatural, some is silly/comical and loaded with sexual word-play, and some is right out of a TV soap-opera.Perhaps the funniest moment was when Turner, while rummaging through Perkins's bag, finds a powerful-looking metal dildo and asks him whether it's a cruise-missile. "},{"Title":"This a cult classic if ever there was one","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Simply put, I love this movie! The dialog is natural, and at times downright hilarious.All the characters are screwed up to some degree, but probably a lot like most Americans are, truth be known.Bobby is trying desperately to make everyone believe that his life is a bowl of cherries and it's not.His wife has been hiding a secret of her own, and is probably manic depressive.The preacher is fighting his own war and he's losing it minute by minute.Bobby's best friend wants everyone to think that he's happy and secure in his new single life. He's not.His ex-wife is pretending that her life is rosy, but she's unhappy with it just the same.And finally, there's Joanna. She's had a rough life (we were married for better or for worse...I got the worse part), and is struggling to get back on track, but her answer to her problems is to be a hooker. She can pretend to love without all the trappings of a longterm relationship, which terrifies her.The performances are simply incredible, from the smallest to the lead, and every single actor is cast to perfection. Ken Russell....well, lets just say that I find this his best film, by far. Barry Sandler should have won an Oscar for this film, or at least a nomination. His dialog is classic drama (and comedy) from start to finish.Crimes Of Passion is not for everyone. The squeamish need not apply. However, the film is the best movie I have ever seen about the real America. Every character in the film is playing games, and that's exactly what men and women all over this country do everyday. Like American Beauty, what we see may not be what's real.I loved China Blue and Bobby. They're tough, but they have a heart. They're sexy, but vulnerable.Bobby's final words in Crimes Of Passion are among the best I've ever heard spoken in a movie, and it was a perfect way to end the film.I truly don't understand why John Laughlin didn't become a huge star after this movie, but he should have. Perhaps he had a bad agent, or something, for he is a terrific actor here. "},{"Title":"Maybe not among Ken Russell's best but still a very good film","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ken Russell as has been said many times before always was an interesting and unique director, though also understandably controversial. Crimes of Passion is not quite Women in Love and The Devils among his best but it is certainly much better than Lisztomania and Gothic. Crimes of Passion may not be perfect, with the score rather repetitive and excessively utilised and Annie Potts' deadly serious performance at odds with the rest of the performances(which are campier and broader), she is a talented actress who wasn't able to play to her strengths. To a lesser extent also the scene with the vibrator and the blow-up doll didn't make much sense and reminiscent of the irrelevant excesses that Russell could be prone to, though admittedly it did have some entertainment value. Crimes of Passion does look great though, very stylishly filmed with some garishness that meshed perfectly within the atmosphere. The scene with the couple in bed in conversation is shot cleverly too with a several-minute non-break shot. The satire is very witty and the funny moments are enough to make you laugh-out-loud, while with the story Crimes of Passion is not plot-heavy but it does keep one's attention and is paced well, never what you can deem as dull. As well as funny parts, there are also some poignant parts like the woman with the terminally ill husband and some shocking ones with the scene with the cop. The ending is a shocker too, though also may be a head-scratcher for some. The sex scenes are very lurid but also very sensual as well, and Russell directs with not that much restraint- here adopting the pulls no punches approach- but there is nothing really distasteful either. Kathleen Turner gives one of her best performances, she is very sexy and her performance is daring and even with the theatrical style of acting here(in general not just with her) she manages to make China sympathetic. Anthony Perkins evokes Norman Bates and brilliantly, insanely psychopathic that it's scary as well as somewhat campy. John Laughlin's role is smaller and he is not as experienced or as good as Turner and Perkins but he acquits himself well. In conclusion, a very good film, not for everybody and Russell personally has done better but it's easy to see why it's won over people here and it does deserve its deemed cult classic status. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Confused+decadent+trashy+Ken Russel = AWESOME","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Kathleen Turner plays a smoking sex-bomb of an NYC street hooker who goes by the name of China Blue (the total package, as one john remarks). An unhappily married man develops a fascination with her after he eavesdrops on an encounter she has with an issue-ridden, demented preacher-type (Perkins) whose self-declared mission is to save China.In the wrong hands, this material could have been made into a boring thriller, with the preacher stalking his way towards a predictable finale. Or an overwrought marital drama, weighed down by absurd dialogue and the characters' utterly improbable decision-making. Or some lurid, booby C-grade sleaze-fest where the hooker plot is just an excuse to parade last month's centerfold in a half dozen sexy outfits. Luckily, we got Ken Russel, who somehow manages to not only balance all three in the same total package, but lets them breathe with the genres' best and most outrageous excesses! Take the Preacher's weapon of salvation and the filthy sayings that get past his filter when he is praying, or the embarrassingly cheesy yet hilarious marriage bed conversations. Or pretty much anything that comes out of China Blue's mouth when she is in character. And he does it all with a wink and a nod to you - the audience savvy enough to know not to take any of it seriously!It should be noted that this is a fun movie. If there is any takeaway here for thought, it's probably about men's fears and anxieties relating to sex, the feminine, and marriage. But try not to think too much about it, otherwise you run the risk of taking it a bit too seriously and you'll miss out on the real fun - all the I can't believe he/she just said/did that! bits (comprising a good half the movie), Kathleen Turner's passionate and, um, rousing performance (who could possibly deliver lines like that if they weren't having fun on the set!?), and the lurid, swanky atmosphere that is the magic of Ken Russell's creation.*** I also watched the scenes that were cut from the film - I had assumed they were cut because they were too racy or explicit, but the opposite is in fact true. The cut scenes were mostly from the domestic side of things lots of wife-talk, an extended scene of the BBQ party, etc. They all deserved to be cut mercilessly because they either added nothing of value to the story or muddled the characters and plot to the point where the film would have been seriously flawed if were they allowed to stay in. In them, the confusion over this film's fate is visible, and I am very glad Russell did not choose to go there for the final version, instead maximizing on the glammy, schlocky sex schtick. "},{"Title":"True Twisted Art","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Back in the 80's there was a lot of controversy surrounding this film. I remember hearing about a battle with the MPAA regarding the rating. MPAA wanted to give it an X rating so Russell had to edit it down in order to achieve an R rating.I was sixteen and a friend and I snuck into the theatre to see this. I wanted to know what the buzz was about. I was mesmerized and this film continues to exist in my top ten favorite films of all time (as is Tommy, another Ken Russell masterpiece). Tony Perkins has perfected the art of playing psychotic maniacs and his performance here is no exception. Turner, in her finest performance ever, sizzles up the screen as China Blue, a whore by night, fashion designer by day. She parades around in this satin blue dress in the red light district performing fantasies for kinky clients. The dialogue is incredibly witty and Turner and Perkins play so perfectly off each other. Perkins with his portable pedestal, bible and doctor bag full of sex toys (there is one in particular that will make your jaw drop).This is one of those love/hate films. You either love it or you hate it. I attempted to turn so many people onto this film. Some were so offended by the meshing of religion and sex that they couldn't get through the whole thing. Others, like me, loved it and can watch it repeatedly and continue to be amused by the script, the performances, the art direction.This film is indeed a piece of art. But art is subjective. So enter with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Two great actors camp up the sleaze","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I love films where everyone seems to be having a good time, especially the director.  Kathy Turner vamps up Madonna, while Tony Perkins parodies his Psycho role while Russell tells us of a hooker whose heart is cold and made of gold at the same time--because her customers love it.  Tony's preacher has obviously spent too much time amongst the slime bags of the combat zone and has allowed them to totally push him over the edge.  The obvious point of this film is that the typical marriage is no better or worse than moral degeneracyForget the R rated version, and rent the unrated. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This kinky and trashy Ken Russell exercise is actually a forerunner to Blue Velvet.  They are similar in more ways than you might expect.  They are both about nice middle class guys who enter worlds filled with sex, drugs, hookers, crazy people, and neon lights.  Blue Velvet is a much better film, but this movie is a lot funnier.  Anthony Perkins plays a drugged out street preacher whose personal mission is to save prostitutes, especially China Blue, played with gusto by Kathleen Turner.  It's extremely rare that two respected actors like these would want to do a rather sleazy film like this (although Turner tried to get out of it after Romancing the Stone was released).  The story has to do with a surveillance expert (John Laughlin) who is hired to spy on Turner but instead becomes involved with her.  He is also having problems with his marriage.  This movie is anything but boring.  "},{"Title":"Worth watching for Kathleen Turner's performance","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"   From director Ken Russell, who never met an excess he didn't like, Crimes of Passion is the story of Joanna Crane - a fashion designer by day, a kinky prostitute named China Blue by night. China finds herself being stalked by a maniacal street preacher (Anthony Perkins) who wants to save her soul; she has also caught the eye of a private investigator (John Laughlin) whose marriage is on the rocks.Crimes of Passion has its share of problems. The dialogue is often excruciatingly bad, and the subplot involving Laughlin and his wife (Annie Potts) is barely watchable. (Don't be surprised if you find yourself getting drowsy; even Potts seems to be struggling to stay awake during her scenes.) But as long as Turner is on screen, the film shines. This is easily the best performance of her career, and it almost makes you forget that this is the same woman that starred in Peggy Sue Got Married and Romancing the Stone. Nothing against those films or her performance in them, but when you see what she does to a cop, you'll get the idea.** 1/2 (on a scale of zero to five)  "},{"Title":"MST3K Should Come Out of Retirement For This Movie.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Let me start with this - I remember when I was about 12 years old, this movie came out...and it was a big scandal that there were several versions of it that were made in the end. I can remember watching the review of it on Siskel & Ebert...although for the life of me I cannot remember what they said about it in the review.So, here were are 21 years later, and I'm perusing through movies to rent on Netflix when I come across CRIMES OF PASSION...and it's the UNRATED version! WOW! Instantly, the memory of the naughty movie from my childhood came flooding back to me and I knew I had to rent it.So, I have no idea if this movie was intended to be hilarious or not. It certainly seems to have a certain purposefully funny air about it. The soundtrack, even by 1980's standards, is terrible and hilarious. It sounds like someone on the crew said Hey, my cousin Derek has a Casio, man - I can save you a bunch in the music budget! The movie's plot is incredibly bizarre and is never fully explained. Kathleen Turner plays a fashion designer by day, hooker by night, who gives various explanations for her behavior to different men throughout the movie. She also seems to have a variety of accents that she uses while in her hooker get-up, depending upon the client she's with. Apparently she also has access to the costume department from a large female-impersonator show...she seems to have different outfits and accessories for nearly every sexual encounter she has.Anthony Perkins is at his crazy-best, playing a deranged priest who alternately spends his time snorting...drugs?...something, anyway, and watching the nudie shows, fantasizing about killing the nudie dancers, and preaching on the street. Apparently he's got it into his head that he needs to 'save' Turner from herself.Now we've also got the second storyline to contend with, which is much more serious and depressing. We've got a couple with a let's stay together for the kids type marriage (Annie Potts and John Laughlin). Laughlin is trying to put the spark back in the marriage, but Potts, running about the house wearing something that resembles a hospital gown, does not appear interested anymore.So, Laughlin ends up taking a 'night surveillance' job for a fashion designer (who Turner works for) tailing Turner because her boss (who has TERRIBLE FASHION SENSE, even for the 80's, for a FASHION DESIGN KING) suspects she's selling patterns to his competition. Laughlin discovers that she's actually hooking during the evenings and does not reveal this to her boss. Instead, he pays for sex with her - in a hilarious scene that ends with him running to the bathroom and exclaiming wildly over her Ivory soap, and then for whatever reason, he pursues a relationship with her.This movie reminds me of any number of 'romance' stories I wrote in junior high - the characters know each other for far too little time to have the kinds of relationships that they end up having. The movie can't decide what it wants to be - comedy, drama, soft-core porn (I say 'soft core' because although there is a high kinkiness quotient, the scenes are pretty tame by today's standards), or romantic thriller. I was totally confounded and confused.I'd like to write an open letter to Joel Hodgeson and Mike Nelson of Mystery Science Theather 3000 fame and ask them to bring the show out of retirement and do a Crimes of Passion showing MST3K style. I think I would laugh so hard I'd pop a vessel.Crimes of Passion was definitely NOT what I expected - but it is worth a watch if you enjoy bizarre movies. For the most part, it makes very little sense and the storyline goes ALL OVER the place. It was like John Waters and David Lynch gave birth to a love child in movie form. Campy, strange, hilarious, and at times, almost Shakesperean in dialog, Crimes of Passion goes all over the map and then some.Overall, I'm very glad I watched it; there definitely is NOT another movie like it out there. "},{"Title":"Goodbye, China Blue","Date":"12 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is the film which demonstrated what a great actress Turner is and why she should still be a bigger star today than perhaps she is. She has such a wonderful voice and figure in this film - it's as if the part was written especially for her; perhaps it was! It also shows you how good Perkins was in a role where he could let himself go as over the top as Russell would like him to. He (Perkins) must have loved it. The musical score is supposedly written by Rick Wakeman, but is, of course, derived from Dvorak's New World Symphony. Wakeman does a great job and the music adds to the gloss of the film. The saxophone playing in the lovemaking scene is sensual in the extreme. Anthony Perkins has several monologues that serve as a narrative for the audience. Not for the wowserish, nor is it pornographic (using clever imagery to allude to what is occurring), it is full of very witty, memorable one-liners.This is easily Kathleen's best film work and really no other American actress has ever shown such intimacy and duality in the sexuality of her character, it is compelling, enthralling and heart breaking. Plus you feel a connection to her because of her vulnerability that she develops as the movie unfolds. Finally her comedic timing is hilarious, yes there are plenty of laugh out scenes in this film too. Perkins is simply brilliant in this role, it seems to be a far cousin of the disturbed mind of Norman Bates, but having grown up in major crimes of the soul and the good manners. Once more, let' s remind the ineffable statement of Nicholas Machiaveli The half of the sin is the scandal.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Director Ken Russell shows that it is not possible to separate sex and religion !!!!","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It is no secret that since the beginning of civilization sex and religion have always been able to maintain a unique love hate relationship with each other. The story of Adam and Eve is also viewed in the same context. Wherever there is religion, sex is likely to be found and vice versa. No religion has been able to free itself from the influence of sex. This has always been a trend and it would continue to be so in near future too. Crimes of Passion might turn out to be mild for many viewers according to today's standards but it was viewed as an absolutely shocking controversial film upon its initial release in 1984. Words would fail to describe actress Kathleen Turner's impeccable performances as 'China Blue'- an expensive hooker who is also leading a double life. Apart from some kinky sex scenes, China blue's character allows viewers to get a glimpse of tough lives faced by hookers. The religious side is presented by actor Anthony Perkins as a crazy priest whose only obsession seems to rescue china blue from damnation at all costs. He is able to succeed to a very large extent but a sudden event completely changes the course of action. Director Ken Russell has been honest with his depiction of people with dual identities. They have been presented as they are in real life without any embellishment. 'Crimes of Passion' has a lot of hilarious lines which denounce hypocrisy, falsehood and dishonesty. They are absolutely essential for viewers' comprehension in order to give them better ideas about a marriage which is on the verge of collapse due to lack of sex and how mean are societies to create and promote fallen women like China Blue for their selfish interests ? "},{"Title":"Provocative every step of the way.","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Crimes of Passion, an incredibly bizarre, sexually charged drama, provides interesting material with which inimitable filmmaker Ken Russell can work. It's as stylish as anything he's done, and maintains a gritty, fairly sleazy atmosphere and a deliberate pace. Kathleen Turner is striking in the role of China Blue, a lady with a double life by day she's a fashion designer (real name Joanna Crane), by night she's a hooker. She fascinates two men, one of them an ordinary guy named Bobby Grady (John Laughlin), the other a fanatical, so-called preacher named Peter Shayne (Anthony Perkins) who claims to be out to save her. Bobby was hired by Joannas' boss to tail her, and she presents the young man with a fresh view of the world; his relationship with his uptight wife Amy (Annie Potts) has soured after years of marriage, and he's happy to meet somebody who doesn't have any hangups about being intimate. The movie is never quite as outrageous as some viewers may expect, but that doesn't mean that there isn't some explicit imagery here and there. Its few sex scenes are done in a surprisingly tasteful manner, but its dialogue is quite kinky, witty, and delicious; it's amazing to hear ever reliable Perkins, extremely well cast in one of his typical nutty roles, utter lots of obscenities. He's just fantastic as always, and the lovely Turner delivers a multi dimensional performance worthy of some respect. Laughlin and Potts are both fine, and the cast also features people such as Bruce Davison, Stephen Lee, Norman Burton, Peggy Feury, and Gerald S. O'Loughlin, but it's the two leads that truly command your attention. Working from a screenplay by producer Barry Sandler, Russell injects the film with plenty of humour; just the idea of Perkins carrying erotic paraphernalia around with him is a hoot. (There's a vibrator, in particular, that will prove to be a very important prop later on.) It may require a bit of patience on the part of some viewers due to its unhurried nature, and of course some may find the subject matter a turn off. Those who don't will be amused by the sordid story and all of the trappings of the milieu. In the end, this isn't something that can be easily forgotten. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very funny, intentionally or not","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" First of all, if you are going to watch this movie, you'd better get the uncut version. Crimes of Passion is pure 80's entertainment, thanks to Anthony Perkins mainly, who was given some of the most hilarious (bad) lines ever. Characters are so over-the-top and absurd, dialogue is so unnatural and bad/funny, the acting is exaggerated and sometimes awful (intentionally maybe?), the music is so out of place that the whole thing is a Camp Masterpiece. Anthony Perkins seems to be spoofing his own classic demented persona, even the ending looks like some sort of Psycho parody. The preacher's maniacal performance, sniffing drugs in sleazy sex booths, reminded me of Dennis Hopper in Blue Velvet. This is funny stuff, and it looks like a De Palma film. The sexual content is surprising for a mainstream movie with famous actors, and it only adds to the quirkiness. The point seems to be going everywhere, and the plot, crazy and unlikely as it is, is all over the place&#x96; the movie can't decide whether it's a satire, thriller, comedy, love story or marital drama, the common element being sexuality and what it represents for different individuals. For the housewife, sex is something dirty and unpleasant, a conjugal duty; for the husband, it's the best way to express love and respect; for China Blue, it's a means to avoid emotional attachment; for the preacher it's a destructive impulse, a source of guilt and self-hatred. Despite some hard-core scenes, the movies remains light-hearted, and it's very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Wild!  Pure Ken Russell","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" First, just make sure you see the UNRATED version of this film. The theatrical version isn't the same movie, there's just way too much cut out of it (and I'm not referring to sex scenes). If you're a fan of Ken Russell, Kathleen Turner, or Anthony Perkins this is a must see. Turner, Perkins and Anne Potts all give remarkable performances. The film is plenty weird... if you're familiar with Russell's work you'll know what I mean, but well worth the viewing. I'll be thinking about it for a long, long time. I won't bore you with plot details, you can look at the summaries section for that, but I thought the movie was fun, shocking, frightening, sexy, intelligent, stupid, trippy, deep, sleazy, happy, and sad all at the same time. In other words, highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Excellent erotic Thriller, that's very suspenseful and well made, with a great story, and incredible performances!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent erotic Thriller, that's very suspenseful and well made, with a great story, and incredible performances!. All the characters are excellent, and the finale is wonderfully strange and suspenseful, plus Kathleen Turner and Anthony Perkins are simply incredible in this!. It's full of sex, sex talk and other stuff, so it may not be for everyone, however I found it to be pretty much great on all levels, and this may be the weirdest character I have seen Anthony Perkins play as he was just so incredibly bizarre but amazing as the supposed Reverend, plus you are able to care and feel for Turner's and John Laughlin's characters, plus it's extremely well made and written as well. I really loved the score as well and I thought Laughlin and Turner had pretty good chemistry as well, plus be sure to get the unrated version. This wasn't very well received by critics, and I thought the ending was well done, as well, plus the scenes with Turner and Perkins were fascinating to watch, especially the scenes at Turner's hotel room at night. This is an excellent erotic thriller, that's very suspenseful and well made, with a great story, and incredible performances, and I say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is excellent!. Ken Russell does an excellent! Kob here with awesome camera work, great lighting(especially the hotel room scenes), awesome angles, and lots of other great shots as well, plus he kept the film at a very engrossing pace. The Acting is incredible!. Kathleen Turner is incredible here, she is gorgeous, very sexy, and totally unpredictable throughout, and you will feel for her character, she's somewhat strong, but still vulnerable and all talk(a lot of the time) playing China Blue, but as herself(Joanna), she's vulnerable, lonely and just ordinary, she was just awesome as both, she deserves more credit for her performance here! (Turner Rules!!). Anthony Perkins is amazing as always and is incredible here, he managed to do the impossible he managed to out do himself in a crazy type role,he was absolutely fascinating but scary at the same time as the supposed Reverend, this is one of his best performances as I loved his role here! (Perkins Rules!!!!!!!!). John Laughlin is great as the lead, he was goofy but very likable, and a guy I could relate too, he had awesome chemistry with Turner, and just did a great job overall, I really liked him. Annie Potts is very good as the wife, I had a hard time relating to her, but she still did a good job. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"For those sick of a bad relationship...","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ken Russell has always tried to shock people, but he outdid himself with this one. The story concerns two people.  Joanna Crane, a fashion designer by day and a hooker by night.  The other is Bobby O'Grady, a husband in a dissafactory marriage.  Through corporate espionage they meet each other and fall in love. No more spoilers here...that should be enough to get one to view it. This film is best seen under the director's cut which would certainly be rate NC-17. Most directors' cuts are designated as such. Get prepared for a vulgar, frank discussion of sex and marriage.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece ! With K. Turner, John Laughlin, Louise Sorel and A. Perkins","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Dark movie, director Ken Russell turns the headlights on and off, and he uses loud colors. He creates a very disturbing and gloomy atmosphere and tells the story of China Blue, a prostitute by night and a hard working business-women by day in gross pictures and provoking dialogue.A steamy Kathleen Turner shows everything (including talent). With her as leading lady Ken Russell portrays and embodies human abysms and loneliness in a way you never saw before. Brilliant work, wonderful actors, a story full of suspense. Crimes of Passion is what Basic instinct and Eyes wide Shut tried to be (and failed) a provocative masterpiece ! This movie sails close to the wind and is a cocktail of elegant sex and brilliant character study of 4 very different persons China Blue the whore (Kathleen Turner), the crazy priest (Anthony Perkins) who wants to rescue her, family-lowing Bobby Grady (John Laughlin), wo is China Blue's suitor, because he and his wife don't have sex any more and Amy (Annie Potts), Bobby's frigid wife.    Kathleen Turner and Anthony Perkins are brilliant, but it is John Laughlin who steals the show as Bobby Grady. This part is one of the most likeable and most versatile characters in movie history and John Laughlin is just brilliant. Unfortunately his acting career went somewhere...but not to the A-list of movie-stardom.I want to mention Louise Sorel's small part of Claudia in a scene, where she and her husband want China Blue for a love triangle. She is just great in it. Look for her sitting in a big limousine.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Crimes of Passion is easily Ken Russell's best film. Its also one of the best films of the 80s, they dont make them like they use to!!! Crimes of Passion centres around Joanne (Kathleen Turner) who is a fashion designer by day and a kinky hooker by night who speciality is role play! She becomes the object of affection by a love sick client (John Laughlin) and an object of obssession by a deranged priest (Aanthony Perkins). This film is a trash classic. Its campy dialogue also makes for a bit of comedy! Kathleen Turner is great in her role and Anthony Perkins once more convincing as a psychopath. Its interesting how at times this film sounds and has a feel of a stage show which surprisingly works well. Its also interesting to see Louise Sorrel, who plays Vivian Alamein in Days of our Lives as one of Turner's clients! Dont miss out on this classic!  "},{"Title":"Fascinating, offbeat.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is, to be sure, not the easiest film to categorize campy at times (with an often inappropriate - but always intentionally so - comic music score), at other times serious and emotionally complex and altogether fascinating and intriguing. Anthony Perkins is wackier than ever as a totally demented preacher, Laughlin (especially) and Turner are also very good in their roles. It's an explicitly sexual and kinky movie, definitely not for everyone, but if you're tired of the same old stuff, this is refreshingly non-mainstream fare.    (***)  "},{"Title":"Great dark film!","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" (SPOILERS!!!)Its a great movie, its a hell of a good satire to the nowadays couples relationships, the film is surrealistic, and prime example of Ken Russell's proclivity for examining bizarre sexual underworlds, Crimes of Passion fails to generate resonance from its sensationalist subject matter, more concerned with taboo than insight. Its Kathleen Turner best role ever, she does a great job as China Blue, and the guy, i never saw a movie with him, but he do a good role too, the most impressive role its form Anthony Perkins as a fanatic perverted priest...the guy is sick of it all! Ken Russel used strong colors, to make a surrealistic scenario which is make a vision of an decadence prostitution world.. The soundtrack is incredible great, a genial touch of Rick Wakeman!! "}{"Title":"Half way thru, I knew it was a Ken Russell","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is one that I saved on my TiVo because it sounded interesting, but I didn't bother to watch it for months. Now that I did, I was drawn into the plot, and as I saw some of the interactions of the characters, I recognized the quirky style of Ken Russell. This is one of the reasons that he is one of my favorite directors. I had to come here to IMDb to verify that he is the director and now, after reading other reviews, I will NOT save the version that I have from TV, but will buy the best original cut. It is truly about how most people interact (except for Perkins character ;-) I could see this as a very erotic stimulus for many people in the romantic scenes, as it is for me. "},{"Title":"How to mess up a marriage and save one's life","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Being a highly paid and very successful fashion designer isn't the life that Joanna Crane, Kathleen Turner, hoped it would be in her having no time to develop any lasting and fulfilling relationships with her many clients. It's when Joanna went native and became the free soul and anything goes hooker China Blue that her drab and boring life suddenly changed overnight. Out on the streets and turning tricks Joanna, or China Blue, could now live out her fantasies in real life with people she's very at home with. Not the stiffs and square heads that she deals with at her day job.It's almost by accident that China Blue runs into surveillance expert Bobby Grady, John Laughlin, who's been hired by her boss to spy on her in him feeling that Joanna aka China Blue is passing off company secrets to rival firms. Meanwhile Bobby is undergoing a life change in that his wife Amy, Annie Potts, is not responding to his love making efforts in bed. Having faked it for over 10 years Amy finally admits that Bobby just can't turn her on not because he lacks the proper equipment but that she herself is a cold fish when it comes to him trying to make love to her.It's when Bobby runs into China Blue that his sex life is revitalized to the point when he just can't spend as much as an evening away from her. The hot and heavy action between Bobby and China Blue doesn't go unnoticed from street corner preacher Rev. Peter Shayne, Anthony Perkins, who been after China in trying to save her soul from a life of sin and degradation. It's in the crazed Rev. Shayne's attempt to save China Blue that leads him into the very degenerate lifestyle that he's trying to get her out of! This triple X, Bobby China Blue & Rev. Shayne, relationship comes to a shocking conclusion when the three end up in the same place, China/Joanna's apartment, for the films utterly shocking and totally unexpected climax!***SPOILERS***Dispite the very good performances by both John Laughlin and Kathleen Turner I have to say that it was the neurotic and constantly sweating Anthony Perkins who ended up stealing the show. As nutty and obnoxious as ever Perkins made every scene that he was in count with him never breaking a sweat by him never once acting as if he were a normal person. To top off his earth shattering and mind bending interpretation of a deranged religious nut Perkins even had the time to revive his famous role of Norman Bates that will blow your mind! Just like he did to the very unsuspecting audiences watching him in the film Psycho some 25 years earlier! "},{"Title":"No Delta coffee, but plenty of TWA tea","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was told to see this movie just because of one of the sex scenes.  Wow. It turned out to be a really great movie on top of that. I love it when Kathleen Turner is over the top, and this is definitely over the top. It got me to go out and rent other Ken Russell films, but none of them compared (although I never saw The Devils, which I now want to rent).Make sure you get the unrated version (red box) as opposed to the rated (blue box) version, or you will miss some crucial jaw-droppers. "},{"Title":"  A GREAT FILM OF ANTHONY PERKINS !","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you are an Anthony Perkins fan, you will enjoy the great acting talents that he performed in this picture along with Kathleen Turner( China Doll Blue)  It took a great deal of talent for Perkins to play (Rev. Peter Shayne).  It is a film that cannot be taken seriously and has a great deal of laughs and is a great escape from reality.  Perkins preached and preached about sex and sin and tried so hard to convert China Blue, but failed very badly as a preacher! Kathleen Turner went wild trying to please all her men customers, she had a different hat for every occasion. "},{"Title":"Has the crummy, dim-bulb ambiance of a porny picture...","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Kathleen Turner is admirable playing a prim fashion designer by day and a kinky hooker named China Blue by night. This determinedly-weird sex-odyssey from outré filmmaker Ken Russell does indeed have the force behind its salacious convictions--it is almost embarrassingly sordid and one genuinely feels for the performers on-screen--yet as a psycho-drama it comes out half-baked. The subplots, one involving family man John Laughlin with sexless wife Annie Potts and the other, sillier one concerning Anthony Perkins as a sidewalk preacher, only take time away from Turner's intriguing impersonation. Last minute editing revisions forced upon Russell leave the final act feeling choppy, however there's some amusing satire here (big city business and stifling suburbia) that gnaws at you in both good and bad ways. The screenwriter, Barry Sandler, has many targets and a lot of interesting things to stay, but the deadened look and feel of the movie makes it seem like a repugnant gag. Yesterday's kink is today's old news. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Suspending your disbelief is the only option.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Suspending your disbelief is the only option if you're not going to be disappointed by this movie. There are so many implausible events, baffling motives and unanswered questions that in the end you just have to accept that some things are never going to be explained - and go with the flow.I enjoyed Kathleen Turner's performance as Joanna Crane and China Blue - though I never quite worked out why she found it so essential to have this mysterious alter ego, nor why an apparently well-balanced, sane individual so readily placed herself in danger. On a more mundane level, it wasn't clear how the demented priest managed either to identify China Blue's address or get to it (there was no evidence that he had a car, for example). And why didn't she simply call a constable - perhaps the nice young man she handcuffed to her bed - at the first sign of trouble?Other puzzling events in the film included China Blue's abortive journey on her way to a threesome. Abortive, because the female half of the couple alleges that the ears of a prostitute should be no go areas for tongues (something to do with germs). Why ears I'm not sure. Perhaps she mistakenly thought she heard someone saying that some prostitutes' clients liked to stick it in her ear.  "},{"Title":"WHAT A HOOT!!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you're in the mood to laugh at a truly bad movie (bad in the way only Ken Russell at his worst can be), you must try this one.  It succeeds in making you feel like you just landed in a .25 porn-booth, and you can just about smell the urine on the floor.  Kathleen Turner struts around in a blond wig, getting her kicks from pretending to be a two-bit hooker (she really has a good solid job in the clothing industry and has been hurt so badly by men that this is the only way she can connect), and Tony Perkins plays a hysterical priest who is out to maybe murderer her (yet another movie that ends with Tony Perkins in drag).  Annie Potts shows up and is not allowed to provide an ounce of her usual wit, which is reason enough to hate this movie. The kinky will love the sex scenes, so rent the UNrated version in the RED box so you can see Turner give a cop a taste of his billy club (I had to pause the VCR until we stopped laughing). "},{"Title":"What would Rosalind Russell say?","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A few yrs ago, I remember reading an essay by a feminist film theorist who briefly mentioned Rosalind Russell. This theorist wrote that the 'strength' of the 'strong women' that Rozzie R. played lay partly in their ability to stand by their man (even when he wasn't worth it).I thought of this essay after watching 'Crimes of Passion'.Kathleen Turner exudes the same strength and style as Russell in her portrayal of prostitute China Blue. She's the object of affection for two men the loony priest played by Anthony Perkins, and a bland whitebread boy who's marriage is slowly fading. And she won't let either of them have a piece of her until ...I won't give away the ending - but I will say that this is ultimately Bland Whitebread Boy's fantasy. No matter how hard Ken Russell tries, he can't disguise the fact that this movie is basically a 1940s melodrama for the MTV generation. Except its retrogressive class and gender politics make those old black-and-white films look revolutionary by comparison. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Crimes of Passion is a film that is disappointing on most counts. Where should I start from? The plot? It is despairingly simplistic and full of gaps. The direction? Reminds a cheap B-movie. The acting? John Laughlin is utterly terrible in his role as well-intentioned-husband-of-a-frozen-wife Bobby, Annie Pots is unconvincing as frozen-wife Amy, and it is only Kathleen Turner (above average), and Antony Perkins (excellent) which get passable acting marks. More specifically, Antony Perkins gives a great performance as the pervert reverend Peter Shayne, while Turner manages to portray the roles of sexy China Blue and frail Joanna Crane satisfactorily.Unfortunately, the performances of Turner and Perkins alone are insufficient to help get the film a grade higher than 4/10. Watch it if you want to see Turner in some sensational scenes (although even on this count the film can be easily matched by its competition-Basic Instinct for example), otherwise avoid. "},{"Title":"Like A Brian DePalma Movie","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ken Russell directed this weird ( Not very ) erotic thriller and if I hadn't known that I would have staked my life that the director was Brian DePalma . Absolutely everything about CRIMES OF PASSION screams DePalma , from the gaudy cinematography that is lit a little too brightly , to the domestic storyline that turns into a stalk and slash plot , to even the title this screams  Depalma , DePalma , Depalma Unfortunately since Brian DePalma is increasingly seen as a poor mans Hitchcock over the years Russell should have tried emulating a style of his own . Sure an erotic thriller in the style of TOMMY or BILLION DOLLAR BRAIN would have been bizarre with a capital B but at least it would have been a unique cinematic experience . Stories about prostitutes living a dangerous double life and being stalked by a religious maniac were an all too common sight in the 1980s video market . Oh and Anthony Perkins plays the same role he played in almost every movie he made in the 1980s . Yawn The only thing of any real note to CRIMES OF PASSION is the controversy it caused . I guess the studio were the happiest people to hear this since no publicity is bad publicity , but as for the controversial sex scenes ... What controversial sex scenes ? There aren't any and the only controversy I can think of is of China Blue dominating an on duty policeman with a truncheon . Needless to say he didn't come quietly HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA "}{"Title":"Accept no imitations... Brian DePalma does it better","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It is easy to see that this movie was produced in the drug induced 80's, as someone was on the best stuff to even consider producing, let alone releasing this movie. I believe the intent was to mimic Brian DePalma's thrillers, Body Double and Dressed To Kill, but this falls woefully short in almost every way. The highly caricatured performances by all the principal actors makes this movie unbearable to watch, as does the complete lack of relevance in so many scenes. I could go through those scenes one by one, but I don't want this review to become a spoiler. Just believe me, there were many. I will admit Kathleen Turner's quips with her tricks are indeed good, they alone are no reason to watch this movie. There is no compelling story told here. This movie is a chaotic display of different images and scenes loosely bound by sexual activity and some perverse form of the struggle of 'good' against 'evil' or 'sin' and 'salvation', if you prefer. "}]