[{"Title":"Brilliant adaption of a classic novel.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"247 out of 297 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Despite what one reviewer states here, 1984 is an extremely important literary work. It explains to the reader what the ultimate facist state would be like. This story is never more important than now, with the world in crisis. It is an absolute must that people read or see 1984. Other films have been made about fascism. One of the most notable examples being Pier Pasolini's Salo. But the problem is hardly anyone is going to see that except for weirdo's or film buffs. This is because of the graphic nature of the film. Besides, Salo was explaining the inherently depraved, decadent nature of fascism. Orwell's 1984 explains the mechanisms that invoke totalitarianism. John Hurt is excellent as the main character. I am quite a fan. The film is also very well made. The bleakness of the book is perfectly captured by the director. You feel sympathy for the characters even though they seem far away because they appear so weary, yet willing to hope. Transcendence is hinted at when there is a scene where Hurt looks out and sees a wilderness instead of a prison. Hurt's character, Winston looks like he is about half dead! You really hope that Winston and Julia can pull off a passionate love affair. Although you know that it is doomed and is more of an act of rebellion against big brother than anything else. The setting is a land that is half destroyed because of the constant wars. The wars being yet another method of control. They tell us in psychology that in war, depression and other similar disorders actually go down! Interesting eh?  The start where everyone sits watching the screens and begins to scream at images of the enemy. This is a great moment in the film that shows a kind of utter conformity through extreme social norms. The most effective form of brainwashing.  The problem with the film, like the book, is that people will find it too bleak and horrific to really appreciate it. It is depressing but this is the horror of totalitarianism. The material is not intended to be a walk in the park. One of the most striking and horrific instances of 1984 is the 2+2 does not equal 4 scene. The torture and brainwashing too achieve utter obedience. Richard 'my voice competes with Orson Welles' Burton, who normally pontificates and chews up the scenery is remarkably restrained here. This restraint is the key to a very good performance. These torture scenes are horrific and Hurt really shines. This guy should have got an Oscar! The scenes had me gasping...When I originally read the book it took a while for me to get over the rats. EWWWWWWW! Looking at the overall rating of 1984 I am just totally surprised that this film has such a low rating. Maybe people would rate the novel exactly the same way because of the material. This brings me too my other quibble. The film does not TOTALLY cover all of the novels themes. In fact, although Suzanna Hamilton puts on a good performance, her character is not completely captured. Viewers must remember that literature and cinema are two completely different mediums. There is no such thing as a 100 percent adaption. Therefore you must rate the film on the usual cinematic features. But the main thing is how well the overall message of the story was transmitted. This film powerfully demonstrates Orwell's message!What is weird is one of the reviewers here states that they did not like the nudity. Well, I'm guessing the director was going for a Adam and Eve state with their being naked out in the woods. This is obviously the complete opposite of the unnatural state they have to live in. It does not cheapen the film and points more to the reviewers own repressed desires. Reaction formation perhaps? Besides no one is going to get this for naked bodies when porn is so freely available from your local video store!   Consider how relevant this story is. How propaganda and public relations has never been more prevalent. How public relations has overtaken journalism, causing journalism to become more and more watered down. How the political economy of the media is now being hugely influenced by being based in a monopoly economy. A few now control the flow of information for the general population in western nations. This is not conspiracy theory, this is fact. True investigative journalism is at an all time low and the media itself is in a shocking state of affairs. Like everything in our capitalist system, it is controlled by money. Ever read Michel Foucault? Dominant hegemonies, discourse analysis, bla bla bla. I don't want to get all crusty and academic here. But Rupert Murdoch is rubbing his hands together. Time and time again, the United States has been shown to be patently false about why they engaged in conflict with Iraq. Just read John Pilger! Yet many Americans supported the conflict. Even believing chemical weapons were used on American troops, when no such event took place! Why? Because they were manipulated by a sophisticated propaganda machine.    Knowledge is power. That is why in 1984 language is being systematically destroyed. This denial of language is the denial of thought itself. Reality is then more easily shaped by the oppressor. Remember dictators, such as Pol Pot destroy the educated first. This is why the film and book are so important, they are still very RELEVANT! In fact I think the progression of western society will become a mixture of Aldous Huxley's Brave New World and 1984. Either way we are being manipulated and controlled and these books show you how. America has the 'Patriot Act' that was rushed through congress although human rights groups had many serious doubts about the act. In New Zealand we have a Government that is similary becoming too involved in the regulation of peoples lives. BIG BROTHER IS STILL ALIVE! I give this film a 10 and think the last scene with Hurt looking so haunted in the bar/coffee place was awesome! GREAT, GREAT BOOK! GREAT, GREAT FILM! I have had a bit of a rant here...But hey I really like the book and this version of the film! So why not? This is a film for rebels!  "},{"Title":"Comments on Comments","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"169 out of 196 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really have only one thing to comment on. Most of the other reviewers have stated just about everything about this wonderfully gritty, dark, foreboding movie that still remains an eerie parallel to our lives today, especially in the last 2 years...But I'm confused by the number of people who have commented that claim to be put off by the gratuitous nudity by the two characters of Winston and Julia. Given the fact that everything in this society--waking up, food, habits, desires, work, workers, even the underwear and overalls--is so uniform, has it occurred to viewers that being nude was the only link to identity that these characters had? Everything in their world depends, thrives on sameness. Without clothes, everyone is unique. The two lovers were already in dire conditions by committing the sin of feeling for another human being, let alone carnally but in the heart. And they had to deceive and pretend and go through the motions of the dutiful cogs in the Big Brother wheel. But their only shared peace and comfort was their sacred time alone, and in love. They had finally found their own identities through loving each other. Their nudity was merely symbolic of that. In that sense, their union and expressions of that union only becomes more fragile, beautiful and honest, in such a heartless, cold, indifferent world.May that be truly said of us, and all of us...OK, that out of the way...one of the most gritty, realistic, honest translations ever to grace the screen. Wouldn't have changed a thing. Highly, highly recommended, along with the original 1955 version of Animal Farm. Perfect double-feature for a somber, thoughtful evening's viewing. "},{"Title":"One of the great screen adaptations","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"115 out of 140 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Merely a few days after finishing my read of George Orwell's fantastic 1948 novel Nineteen Eighty-Four, I was immediately keen on looking to rent the modern film version, 1984 - filmed, appropriately enough, not only during the actual YEAR of 1984, but also during the exact same short span of months that the story took place in. This, to me, is a prime example of perfect, and unbelievably well-timed, brilliance. A picture based on such complex, prophetic, and well-known material could have turned out to be a complete disaster (which it certainly had potential for, judging from the horrendous-looking DVD cover); thankfully, however, I was not disappointed.1984 is probably one of the most, if not THE most, masterful transitions from book to movie I have ever seen. Easily, its most impressive aspect was its phenomenal accuracy, attention to detail, etc. In other words, this film was FAITHFUL, in every sense of the word, to its source material. One can't give such a statement about films these days.Amazing casting, terrific musical score, and mind-blowing sets, cinematography, and direction, 1984 is surely a unique treasure, and one that still retains the same timeless messages even decades since its release. "},{"Title":"We shall meet in the place where there is no darkness...","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"124 out of 158 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Michael Radford's utterly superlative film of Orwell's famed novel may well be the greatest cinematic adaptation of a major literary source ever -- and it stands out as one of the most memorable British films of the past thirty years.  Full credit is due to cinematographer Roger Deakins who shoots everything in grainy, washed-out, desaturated colors adding to the picture's atmosphere of wistful yet austere, dream-like strangeness.  The modern London settings -- with their cobblestone streets, shabby, dilapidated buildings, desolate fields, rubble-strewn alleyways, and forbidding, blackened Gothic-Victorian façades and hints of minimalist fascist architecture -- resemble a Depression-era housing project after the Luftwaffe.  And Dominic Muldowney's score, with its martial clarion calls, bombastic church-organ blasts, and swelling choral leitmotiv of `Oceania, 'tis for thee,' has a mixture of Wagnerian grandeur and Bach-like religiosity about it.  All the while, the bizarre, mantra-like drones of the much-maligned Eurythmics soundtrack rises and falls, weaving in and out of the narrative like so many subconscious banshee wails.Radford treats the book's premise not as a sci-fi flight of fantasy or grim prophecy but rather as the world of 1948 seen through a glass darkly -- a kind of medieval morality play for the post-totalitarian age.  There is less emphasis on the novel's musty, well-worn-and-endlessly-picked-over polemical import and more focus on the stark human element, and indeed, the actors bear such uncanny resemblance to Orwell's descriptions they practically seem born for their roles.With his quiet, brooding eloquence and haunted eyes peeking out of a gaunt, cadaverous frame like a tubercular, ashen-faced Egon Schiele figure, John Hurt is ideally cast as Winston Smith.  As Julia, Suzanna Hamilton (first seen as a lovelorn dairymaid in Polanski's TESS and as the paralyzed daughter in BRIMSTONE AND TREACLE) has a serene, arresting presence &#150; and she appears as mysteriously stirring and beguiling to us as she does to Hurt.  She brings a captivating freshness and warmth to her role, a little reminiscent of a young Harriet Andersson.  Her pale, wiry, broad-hipped body has a simple, unaffected, almost archetypal beauty, and in the film's more intimate moments, she radiates all the tactile sensual grace of a Munch or Degas nude.As O'Brien, the Jesuitical inquisitor of infinite patience, Richard Burton delivers a superbly perspicacious swan-song performance &#150; he becomes almost a kind of an oracular Thanatos to Hamilton's Eros.  In an exquisite, maliciously Swiftian twist of irony, Burton's famous voice, with its rich, mellifluous Welsh inflections and descending cadences of Shakespearean sonnets and Dylan Thomas poetry, becomes a cruel herald of the willful, systematic destruction of the human spirit -- of `the worst thing in the world' that waits in Room 101&#133; in the fated `place where there is no darkness.'  When O'Brien tells Winston, `you are thinking that my face is old and tired&#133;and that while I talk of power I am unable to prevent the decay of my own body,' Burton's sagging, weary face speaks volumes.In the lesser roles, Gregor Fisher's Parsons literally resembles a sweaty frog, James Walker's Syme is the classic image of a squirrelly, mealy-mouthed hack-intellectual, while Andrew Wilde cuts the most chilling figure as the bespectacled, unblinking &#145;company man,' Tillotson.  The late Cyril Cusack plays Mr. Charrington, the kindly Cockney landlord who is not all that he appears to be, with an understated sentimental charm punctuated by slight flickers of calculating menace (watch closely for the way Cusack's facial expression changes whenever Hurt is not looking at him).  Phyllis Logan (the star of Radford's début feature, ANOTHER TIME, ANOTHER PLACE, and a supporting player in Mike Leigh's SECRETS AND LIES) provides one of the film's most clever unacknowledged ironies as the Telescreen Announcer, her strident, hectoring voice suggests a more shrill caricature of Margaret Thatcher.If anything, this film makes a unique and compelling case for some of the oldest cinematic devices in the book that nearly all contemporary filmmakers have since abandoned slow dissolves, fades, blackouts, shock-cuts, slow motion, flashbacks, montage.  The high-contrast photography, alternately harsh and low-key lighting, and iconic close-up shots evoke the abstract, transcendental purity of Bresson or Dreyer.  There is even one extraordinary sequence when Winston, bruised and battered, is seen having his head shorn in a holding cell that is clearly meant to recall Falconetti's famous haircutting scene in Dreyer's LA PASSION DE JEANNE D'ARC (1928). Similarly, Burton is filmed in oppressive, looming low-angle with Expressionist shadows defining the lines of his craggy visage à la Eugène Silvain's Bishop Cauchon sans the warts.  And the idyllic barley fields of the &#145;Golden Country,' where Winston and Julia have their first tryst is a possible homage to the titular peasant paradise of Dovzhenko's EARTH (1926).What makes the film so powerful is not merely its fidelity to its source but its vivid sense of realism.  NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR is such an impassioned and richly textured work that the visuals almost seem to seep into the pores of your skin, intoxicating you with dread and longing.  And Radford is so adept at obscuring the boundaries that separate the ameliorative persistence of reverie from the glaring harshness of waking reality, that the film's seamless perfection becomes almost frightening.  "},{"Title":"Faithful adaptation - maybe too much?","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"97 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell's literary masterpiece 1984 is presented with amazing accuracy and detail in this version filmed during the very months of the author's vision. The casting, set design, and atmosphere are all right on the mark for how I envisioned them during reading the book. This film is dark and uncompromising, and follows many of the dialogs verbatim from the book.The flaw in the film, for me, is that I felt like I only enjoyed and understood this movie BECAUSE I had read the book already. There is a theory I once heard and agree with the closer an adaptation is to the source, the more necessary it is to read the source. A good adaptation is faithful to the essentials of a story but makes necessary changes so that it not only becomes cinematic, yet also becomes something that a viewer unfamiliar with the source material can understand. I think if I were ignorant of the story, there are too many things that would confuse me in this film which the book seems to go out of its way to explain.For example Who/Where exactly is Oceania? How did the countries go from their current political state to the envisioned one? Why do the people gather in mass and scream passionate hateful exclamations at the screen? What exactly does Winston actually do? Who are the proles? I praise movies that can effectively tell a story without means of voice-over, a much overused device in films. In this case though, I think a little may have helped, not necessarily wall-to-wall, but sparingly used. The movie is effective by being more ambiguous than the book, but I tend to think maybe it is too ambiguous.In summary, read the book if you haven't (either before or after seeing the film) to get a complete overview of the author's vision. With that as a foundation, this really is a good cinematic portrayal, and of a story that is still relevant and not impossible to come to pass. Obviously 1984 is long since gone bye-bye, but 2084 or 2054? Oppression can always come as long as people desire self-centered power and the masses don't pay close attention. "},{"Title":"Trust no government.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"136 out of 204 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So you feel like renting a movie. After a slow drive to the video store in which you try to avoid the police from extorting you, you enter a video store with enough security cameras to see parts of you that you've never seen. You would rent some porno but today you'll be paying in credit card and you sure don't want that census taker knowing you've seen all 50 volumes of clamlappers. So instead you rent 1984. The zit face behind the counter scan your card and instantly your personal information and spending history is all over the internet. When you get back home you pop in the tape, you would have a joint, but the government has decided that pot isn't in your best intrest. Neither is beer, cigarettes, fatty foods, caffine, red meat, abortions, pornography,flag burning, sex in general or any of the other things you use to enjoy. You sit down to watch your movie and relax the rest of the night when storm trooper-like police bust down your door and carry you away. Seems renting 1984 set off an alarm in all local police computers and got you on the thought police's wanted list. You should know better then to oppose your government in any way, shape, or form. You would fight back but all those gun laws eventually equled up to a ban on the second amendment.      Sound like an impossible world? Sounds fictional? Watch it then take a look at the world around you. Your half way there. Enjoy what freedoms you have left before they're gone. I'm sure one day this movie will be considered illegal. "},{"Title":"Accurate and powerful rendering of a timely piece of work","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"82 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the opening shot of Nineteen Eighty Four the viewer is plunged right into the hellhole of Oceania and the ultimate totalitarian nightmare.  Whilst the year 1984 may be long past us, the essential themes of George Orwell's best known work still remain as timely and as relevant as ever.Winston Smith (John Hurt) is a drone worker in the Bureau of Information, and his job is to edit the news in accordance with the needs of the governing Party (which is in continual, seemingly endless war with Eurasia and other opposing states).  He must also refer to the dictionary of Newsspeak, which is the government's language for the distribution of information.He lives in a world where there is no escape from the authority of the government who regiment the every thought and deed of their subjects.  The Party is steadily working on a way to outlaw the concept of the family and the idea of conception.  This is done to eradicate Thoughtcrime and guarantee the worker's total devotion to the Party and its leader, Big Brother.Winston abides by this (recording his increasingly ambiguous thoughts about society in a hidden, handwritten diary) until he encounters Julia (Suzanna Hamilton), a strange young women with rebellious ideas, to whom he develops a powerful attraction.  But their passionate, forbidden relationship cannot escape the all-seeing eyes of Big Brother.....Screenwriter Jonathan Gems has a done a terrific job with the script.  He successfully translates Orwell's ideas to the screen with great clarity.  Micheal Radford directs with subtlety around the greasy sets and crumbling locations (the picture was filmed in and around the very area in which Orwell set his novel).The performances from the chief principals are very strong.  John Hurt is excellent as Winston, bringing a subtle and considerate approach to the character.  Particularly disturbing is his final scenes, as he becomes gaunt and disfigured through government torture.  Suzanna Hamilton is gentle and quirky as Julia and Rab C Nesbitt actor Gregor Fisher appears as Winston's ill-fated friend, Parsons.Veteran actor Richard Burton lends a cold charisma to government enforcer O'Brien and he too excels in the film's final moments, as he coolly and sadistically tortures Winston, subjecting him to severe physical pain to subdue him, casually pulling a tooth out of his rotting mouth, then exposing him to the horrors of Room 101, all the while exhorting obedience to the Party and love to Big Brother. The strong relevance of the concepts of Nineteen Eighty Four should not be underestimated.  Whilst the term Big Brother is now synonymous with the ridiculous reality TV shows of the same name, others like the Two Minutes Hate (in which the workers are coerced, through a two-minute broadcast, into hating the enemies of the state); the idea of a government waging a perpetual war to advocate peace (especially relevant in the aftermath of September 11) as well as the editing of news and the abuse of language in order to suit the needs of government and disguise its true agendas are ideas that are chillingly present in today's society.All of this is powerful and thought-provoking stuff, and helps to make Nineteen Eighty Four an accurate and powerful rendering of a still very timely piece of work. "},{"Title":"A labor of love","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"59 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am frankly mystified by the comments of those who seem to find this film disappointing or inadequate, and even more by those who claim to prefer the 1956 version, which I consider to be inferior in every respect to the later version, except for some top quality performances by Donald Pleasence and Michael Redgrave in supporting roles.  In my opinion, this later version of Nineteen Eighty Four is one of the best literary adaptations I've seen.The film was obviously a labor of love for director Michael Radford, who also co-wrote the screenplay.  As noted in the end credits, the film was photographed in and around London during the period April-June 1984, the exact time and setting imagined by the author.  If this were a big-budget Hollywood bomb, I might consider that a publicity stunt, but in the case of this little-known, little-seen British film, it's fairly obviously a form of homage.The look of the film is extraordinary in its evocation of the world Orwell created, down to the tiniest detail.  Although that world was obviously very different from the real world of 1984, a deliberate choice was made to stick with the Orwellian vision in every way, anachronistic technology and all, and I firmly believe it was the right choice, as opposed to the updating we sometimes see in adaptations of classic futuristic stories.  Thus, we are treated to the baroque and slightly disorienting sight of black rotary-dial telephones, pneumatic document-delivery systems, old-fashioned safety razors, tube radios, etc., all of which were already obsolete at the time of filming.  And of course, the omnipresent black-and-white telescreens with rounded picture tubes.As Winston Smith, the story's protagonist, John Hurt is an inspired piece of casting; absolutely the perfect choice.  Not only does he fit the author's description of Smith to a T, but with the haircut he's given, he even bears a striking resemblance to Orwell himself.  And there is no actor alive better than Hurt at evoking victimization in all its infinite gradations and variations.  Suzanna Hamilton, relatively little-known here in the US, also does a fine job as Julia.  The film also contains the final film appearance of Richard Burton, in one of his most fascinating and disturbing performances as O'Brien.  And the great Cyril Cusack does a classic turn as Charrington, the pawnshop proprietor.Right from the opening scene, in which we look in on a screening of a short propaganda film, brilliantly conceived and executed by Radford, during the daily two minutes hate, climaxing in Dominic Muldowney's memorable, genuinely stirring national anthem of Oceania played behind the gigantic image of Big Brother, we are catapulted headlong into Orwell's nightmare vision.  While not a particularly long novel (my copy is 256 pages), it is nevertheless dense with ideas, and it would be impossible for a standard-length film to include them all, even if the audience could stand all the endless talking heads it would require.  Given the inherent limitations, I think the film largely succeeds in preserving a good portion of the ideological meat of the novel.  It is certainly extremely faithful in the material it does include.  Even the incidental music by Eurythmics feels entirely appropriate, and doesn't in any way break the mood.  In fact, it even enhances it.While I thought the 1956 version did a fairly good job for the time, it had a number of flaws in my estimation that made it far less successful an adaptation.  For one thing, although the world it portrays is grim, it's not nearly grim enough.  Also, Edmond O'Brien may have done a creditable job as Smith, but physically he's all wrong for the part.  The portly, even chubby O'Brien bears little resemblance to the slight, emaciated, chronically exhausted, varicose-ulcerated Smith described in the novel.  Neither is the 1956 version as faithful to the book; some of the material is softened, and there are odd, unexplainable alterations O'Brien becomes O'Connor, and I don't think that Goldstein, the possibly imaginary leader of the possibly fictitious Resistance, is even mentioned.  At 90 minutes, it runs a good 23 minutes shorter than the later version, which necessitates the trimming of even more of the novel, for all you literary purists.  In all, for me, the 1984 version of Nineteen Eighty Four is the definitive version; a remarkably vivid and memorable film. "},{"Title":"One of the great screen adaptations","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"75 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Merely a few days after finishing my read of George Orwell's fantastic 1948 novel Nineteen Eighty-Four, I was immediately keen on looking to rent the modern film version, 1984 - filmed, appropriately enough, not only during the actual YEAR of 1984, but also during the exact same short span of months that the story took place in. This, to me, is a prime example of perfect, and unbelievably well-timed, brilliance. A picture based on such complex, prophetic, and well-known material could have turned out to be a complete disaster (which it certainly had potential for, judging from the horrendous-looking DVD cover); thankfully, however, I was not disappointed.1984 is probably one of the most, if not THE most, masterful transitions from book to movie I have ever seen. Easily, its most impressive aspect was its phenomenal accuracy, attention to detail, etc. In other words, this film was FAITHFUL, in every sense of the word, to its source material. One can't give such a statement about films these days.Amazing casting, terrific musical score, and mind-blowing sets, cinematography, and direction, 1984 is surely a unique treasure, and one that still retains the same timeless messages even decades since its release. "},{"Title":"I went ahead and did it just the same......","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Couple of pointsDoesn't give it a 'nice' Hollywood ending, which is a bonus. It was filmed at exactly the same period in April 1984 that the book was set in. etc......This is a truly evocative film. For me there is a big test of the film's quality Nineteen Eighty-Four is my favourite book by my favourite author, and this version does that book great justice. Michael Radford did a very fine job on something that could have gone terribly wrong. Yes, there are some points to pick at(Newspeak isn't explained much, and the central plank of the book which O'Brien gives to Smith in his office is hardly mentioned at all), but these are minor things.Fans of Orwell's work have much to be thankful for in this interpretation. Graham Greene can lay claim (with Orwell) to be English fictions greatest writer, and there has not been a truly excellent version of any of his novels. (The Third Man does not count, as Greene wrote the screenplay first, and the novel second).On the whole I think Radford has done an excellent job with a fairly un-filmable book, and I give it 9/10 "}{"Title":"Who Controls the Past Controls the Future, Who Controls the Present Controls the Past","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1984, Oceania is an omnipresent state ruled by the Big Brother with a totalitarian society and in permanent war, presently against Eurasia, with intention of keeping the proletariat without education and without possibility of capital accumulation. People from the upper classes follow the Ingsoc philosophy and are under permanent surveillance of Big Brother through the telescreen &#x96; a monitor that is television and also spies the life of each individual. However, the proletariat is free of the control of the state. The Party has just released the 10th edition of the Newspeak Dictionary, with the intention of reducing the words to make people limited to express any feeling against the Party. In the Minitrue (Ministry of Truth in Newspeak), the bureaucrat Winston Smith (John Hurt) rewrites history to permit the party to control the future and is quite indifferent to his society. Winston is approached by the party member O'Brien (Richard Burton) that gives a copy of the new released dictionary to him. When Winston meets the brother Julia (Suzanna Hamilton), they commit sexcrime and fall in love for each other. But they are captured by the fearful Thought Police and Winston is interrogated and brainwashed by O'Brien that explains the logic of the party to keep the power. But in the end, the human spirit of Winston prevails. When I was a teenager, George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four and Animal Farm and Aldous Huxley's Brave New World were my favorite novels. George Orwell wrote this novel in 1948, inverting the last two digits in the title, and the novel was released on 8 June 1949. The story takes place between April and June 1984. I read the book in Portuguese, where the new words of the Newspeak were perfectly translated.The film 1984 is a magnificent transposition of the novel to the cinema, with a remarkable screenplay by Michael Radford and top-notches performances of John Hurt and Richard Burton in his last work. The awesome direction of Michael Radford gives a perfect idea of this novel about a dystopian society and the political theories of this society subdue by the powerful, feared and omnipresent Big Brother and is so careful that 1984 was filmed between April and June 1984 in London, in the same period and location George Orwell wrote in his novel. I saw this depressing film in the movie theater for the first time in 1984, and since then, I have seen at least three times on VHS (last time on 24 April 2003) and now I have just watched on DVD. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) 1984 "},{"Title":"A Directorial Success But Not A Narrative One","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell's 1984 is one of the most celebrated novels of the 20th Century . We have words like  Orwellian  that have come in to everyday modern usage . Indeed there's at least two television shows BIG BROTHER and ROOM 101 who take their concepts from 1984 . It seems logical that if someone was going to make a film adaptation of the novel then 1984 would be the perfect year to release it . Unfortunately Michael Radford's interpretation of Orwell is an irritating clash between the good and the bad Radford's visuals are superb and the tone sets the dark , gloomy , downbeat feel of the novel perfectly . Orwell used Stalin's Soviet Union for much of the novel's inspiration as well as 1940s Britain . The film's set design is drab and retro and full of urban decay and squalor that Ingsoc has brought to Airstrip One , you can almost smell the rats and rubble and exploding rocket bombs . All this is helped in no small part by Roger Deakins bleak cinematography . Radford also makes good use of the newscreens giving war reports on the crusade against Eurasia . Even the much criticised soundtrack by the Eurythmics seem perfectly suited to the film . John Hurt seems born to play the role of Winston Smith the middle aged hero of the novel . Unfortunately Hurt isn't given enough material to make the role as memorable as the one played by Peter Cushing in the 1954 BBC version because Radford the screenwriter is no Nigel Kneale . The problem with the film is the storytelling Many people would consider the novel unfilmable . Nigel Kneale managed to carry it off 30 years earlier but Kneale was something of a genius where scriptwriting was concerned . Radford isn't . From the opening scene we see Winston , Julia and O'Brien at the public hate meeting . However both Julie and O'Brien are then quickly forgotten until much later in the film . The screenplay really does meander greatly at some points giving us flashbacks to Winston visiting a prostitute and Winston as a child . What's to do with the plot ? Nothing absolutely nothing but seem to be included for some reason known only to he editor . Likewise Winston proclaims to Julia that he loves corruption and wants the whole world to be corrupt . What's his motivation for this ? he's done nothing on screen that suggests he believes this . Perhaps the editor has taken out an important scene whilst keeping meaningless ones ? Strangely for a film containing so much full frontal nudity it seems strange that the classic line  You're only a rebel from the waist down  is missing Certainly the scenes in Room 101 could have done with a bit of trimming . Unfortunately those of us who saw the 1954 BBC version will be disappointed by it . The scene with Andre Morrell as O Brien giving a soliloquy on the aims and method of the party is a piece of unforgettable television . There's nothing really wrong with Richard Burton in the same role as such but probably needed a proper introductory scene in order to make the character work properly . If you've no knowledge of the novel you might have a problem knowing who his character is supposed to be In short this is a slightly disappointing film version of a legendary novel written by one of the 20th Century's most important figures . Certainly it can't be faulted by the visual look which is highly impressive but unless you've read the book you'll probably be confused and bored long before the final scene . Despite the very low production values I was utterly transfixed by Rudolph Cartier/ Nigel Kneale's BBC version which sadly wasn't the case here "},{"Title":"one of the best adaptations of a novel ever","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...right up there with Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange and Cronenberg's Naked Lunch. In my estimation, a novel-made-film oughtn't be judged by its adherence to details, but rather its communication of the original spirit of the book. The film Nineteen Eighty Four flawlessly communicates the despair and hopelessness of the novel. All of the darker sides of human nature are perfectly, and thoroughly disturbingly, captured in this film. John Hurt does a marvelous job of portraying Winston Smith, the ordinary man stuck in a relentlessly dystopic society. Just when Smith is finally able to see some hope of salvation and liberation, in his forbidden love affair with Julia, that hope is smashed to bits by the cruel reality of a world bent on control and dominance.The dreariness of the set and cinematography further solidifies the paranoia of what might happen (and appears to be happening) to the world if we're not very careful of who we let in charge of it. Granted, the film is a horrible downer, to say the least. But that's the point. There are few films that chill me to the bone as 1984 does.  "},{"Title":"The book is much, much better.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had high hopes for this movie, because I enjoyed the book so much. However, I don't think I would have understood the premise of the movie if I hadn't already read the book. The movie is a noble attempt to show the despair of people trying to break the bonds of overpowering government rule, but the book portrays the suffering much more thoroughly. The corrupt government officials have comfortable, almost luxurious lives, while the common people struggle to obtain the bare necessities for survival. Perhaps most people feel this way toward their leaders and rulers regardless of whether or not they are actually oppressed or repressed. Orwell's dystopia seems as if it could exist in many places in our modern world. It has been several years since I've read the book, but one hears references to Big Brother, the Thought Police, and Newspeak frequently in the media and casual conversation. Probably many people using these terms don't realize where the terms came from. I strongly recommend that you read the book. "},{"Title":"one of the best novel-to-screen adaptions ever made, for the best novel ever written","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nineteen Eighty-Four (1984) is, in my opinion, one of the best novel-to-screen adaptions ever made, for the best novel ever written (and don't get philosophized with me about the other book, because I don't believe in god ;) ).If you've read the book, you already know that you should expect a very depressing movie. And indeed, this is one of the  most depressing movies I've ever seen (yes, it's even more depressing than Dead Ringers). I guess that might explain why this astonishing gem is so underrated. So underrated that, as far as I know, it hasn't been released on DVD (only on VHS and LaserDisc).Another reason (apart from being a very non-commercial and non-mainstream movie) is that the book is quite hard to get. The way I see it, everyone sees and understands something else from it. The outer layer is a political satire and most people see it only as a negative prophecy. But for me it's a much more complicated creation, which works on so many levels. It deals with the basic and most important issues in life, society, government, wars, religion, education, brain-washing, the place of the individual, the hardship of being alone (physically and mentally), the concept of holding two contradictious thoughts at the same time, the position of the individual in history, the nothingness of being human, love, family, loyalty and betrayal, the instinct of any animal in nature to survive, and so much, much more.Being so complicated, I think it's impossible to bring all the concepts of the book to the big screen (Naked Lunch, anyone? Heh, maybe Cronenberg should have handled 1984 too). So don't expect to find everything in the movie (this is the point to mention that several minor changes were made for the movie). If you like it, I recommend you to read the book. I think that together they complete each other, in the sense that the former brings life to the latter When I read the book (at least 4 times by now) I see and hear the characters as they appear in the movie. I can't imagine how the reading would be without it.Back to the movie, which, by the way, was shot on exactly the same dates (up to the day!) and locations as imagined by author George Orwell. It stars John Hurt, my favorite British actor, in what might be his best performance ever. Very few actors can give so much realism to such a demanding and difficult role (especially the torture scenes).This is also Richard Burton's last movie, and it's dedicated to him. Burton is excellent in his role, and his casting is perfect. His voice and speeches will stay with you for a very long time.All the other actors are excellent too Suzanna Hamilton as Julia, Gregor Fisher (which you might recognize from the TV Bean-like comedy The Baldy Man) as Parsons, Cyril Cusack as Charrington, and more.Dominic Muldowney did a fantastic job with the music and songs, and the Eurythmics contribution works well here, especially Annie Lennox's heavenly voice (but keep their CD-soundtrack aside - it's so much different from the movie's atmosphere, except for the end-credits song, Julia). Muldowney's score, titled Nineteen Eighty-Four - The Music of Oceania, was finally released in 1999. It's 54 minutes long and contains 24 tracks.Roger Deakins' cinematography and film-processing is excellent, giving the film the required atmosphere and aging look.And of course, Michael Radford, who also made the adaption, directed the movie flawlessly.Well, if you read this review up to here, you understand how good I think the movie and novel are. I can't recommend them enough. But be warned - both are extremely depressing and require a lot of thinking. Oh, don't read it in any language other than English!10/10  "},{"Title":"Movie = Novel.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave the movie a '10' because I read the book (some time ago), and the screenplay captured to mood, the dreariness, the hopelessness, the dialogue and the characters inch perfectly. As you read a novel, you come to picture in your mind the characters the author has created. The characters played on the screen by John Hurt, Richard Burton and Suzanna Hamilton are the 100% embodiment of what Orwell intended. The novel is not compromised in plot, dialogue, or character portrayal whatsoever.The finite movie run time of 113 min. did not allow the movie to deliver all the miserable detail of a limitless novel. E.g., the novel devoted much time into detailing Newspeak, which was the devolution of the English language into a dumbed down simplified version of itself in step with the dumbing down of it's citizenry into a mindless mob. But in defense of the movie, that detail does not readily lend itself to the screen because it requires no characters or dialogue.It remains a mystery to me why Orwell (real name Eric Blair), who was a devout socialist, would portray the outcome of socialism in the honest manner that he did. Nevertheless, my bottom line critical analysis is that the movie = the novel. If that's what you're looking for in a novel based movie, you will give 1984 a '10' also "},{"Title":"A bit too bookish","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very faithful adaptation of George Orwell's dystopian vision of the future world of 1984 - perhaps closer to reality today than ever before.The sets and cinematography are minimalistic and sufficiently bleak and gritty, which really evokes the hopelessness found in the novel. The acting is also good (especially Burton), although I felt that Hurt's Winston got a bit too whiny at times.The biggest problem, however, is that the success of the film relies too heavily on the having read the book. There are events and nuances in the performances that are lost compared to the subject matter. In other words, the book is obviously much richer in details and such, and it can't be expected that it's all properly transferred to the screen, but the film doesn't manage to stand on its own. Things from the book could have been added or removed in order to shape it into a better film.As it is now, it never rises above being a visual companion to the novel, rather than being a really good film. The same problem is evident in, for example, the Harry Potter films, that also suffer from this problem. So, in the end it's certainly worth watching, but it's not the wow-experience it could have been. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"29 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie literally directly after finishing the book, and maybe that was a neutral idea or a very stupid one. I think it was the latter. First of all, it was inaccurate in many small, yet important details. One of the first things I noticed was, during Winston's day to day life in his work, his conversations, eating in the cafeteria, etc. he feels free to look unhappy and make suggestive glances at people without immense fear. One of the most important parts of the book, was that even in small activities it was virtually impossible to safely show even a hint of his true emotions on his face AT ANY MOMENT. This is also shown in the scenes on the streets of the proletarions. In the book Winston knew that this was a huge risk to wander around there and was skeptical and frightened at every trip. While in the movie, he does it so often and without fear, that you lose the important feeling of heavy surveillance and risk right off the bat.Other minor inaccuracies included Winston hiding his diary in the wall, yes a very small change, but it begs the question, what's the point? There was also the most annoying thing a director can do with a book, and that is morphing characters. The large inaccuracies were far more disturbing, however. First of all, one of the important pieces of the book is that Big Brother is a government based on an intelligent, yet crude philosophy. In the movie, they skip that and go straight to making you think that the government is run by Hitler with technology. Which is true, in a sense, when directed with its facism, but if that's all you get out of Big Brother, you really missed the point of the book. The terrifying thing about Big Brother is that, in a way, it has some points behind its philosophy. When O'Brien is picking at Winstons mind in the Ministry of Love, he is LISTENING to everything Winston says against Big Brother. The fact that he listens, and advances forward in his philosophy, is in effect what is most creepy and intriguing. In the end, (careful SPOILER ahead) when Winston says he loves Big Brother, the terrifying thing is that you are not sure whether it was souly the beating and torture that caused this, or the actual power behind the philosophy. I am in no way saying that the Big Brother's philosophy has points that appeal to me, but its intelligence and depth is what makes this book incredibly disturbing. Also, how could anyone feel any connection between Julia and Winston in the film? It was awful, no connection whatsoever. And where was O'Brien before he gave Winston his address? One of the things that carried the book was Winstons thoughts about O'Brien BEFORE he made contact with him. In the movie, they just jump the gun. But that about sums up why this movie was a terrible adaption because its impossible NOT to jump the gun and morph characters in less than two hours. How could anyone think this movie was watchable if it was under two hours? At the very least, the movie demands 3 hours to be able to capture some of the important moods and connections. Anything less is just pointless.If you loved the book, and I mean TRULY adored it, you will not approve of this movie, and chances are, you already knew you wouldn't. Because the book is unfilmable, and this movie just proves how impossible it is cram something decent into a small reel of film.Two stars out of ten "},{"Title":"George Orwell's novel of a totalitarian future society in which a man whose daily work is rewriting history tries to rebel by falling in love.","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Radford's film adaptation of classic dystopian novel. George Orwell's terrifying vision comes to life . Exciting rendition that picks up every mote of bleak despair George Orwell's novel of a totalitarian future society in which a man whose daily work is rewriting history tries to rebel by falling in love . The film's opening prologue states Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past . In a futuristic, state-run society controlled by Big Brother in which love is outlawed, employee of the state Winston Smith (John Hurt) falls for Julia (Suzanne Hamilton) , and is tortured and brainwashed for his crime . As a man who works for 'The Party' , an all powerful empire led by a man known only as 'Big Brother', begins to have thoughts of rebellion and love for a fellow member . Together they look to help bring down the party .Dystopian polemic story which contain a polemic denounce to totalitarianism. Nineteen Eighty-Four is a workmanlike rendition of notorious novel that captures the desolation and misery found within those pages , though some liberties have been taken with the script . The film was made and released about thirty-five years after its source novel of the same name by George Orwell had been first published in 1948. Orwell chose the title of his magnum opus Nineteen Eighty-Four by inverting the last two digits of the year he completed the manuscript (1948). George also wrote ¨Animal Farm¨ , a barely-disguised metaphor for Stalin's propaganda-laced Soviet Russia, as well as his later novel 1984. This is one of a number of dystopian, Orwellian and Kafaesque films made during the early to mid 1980s , the pictures include 1984, Terry Gilliam's Brazil, Ridley Scott's Blade Runner , Pink Floyd The Wall , Season of the Witch and Giorgio Moroder version of Fritz Lang's Metrópolis .Very acting by John Hurt as the tragic figure who dares to fall in love within a totalitarian society where emotions are outlawed and Suzanne Hamilton ,she was perfectly cast as Julia , her uncommonly bold, affecting performance, earned her some notoriety and a bit of a minor cult and she is frequently seen in full-frontal nudity . And , of course , Richard Burton , in his last film role makes a grand torturer  cold , shrewd and stiff , in fact the picture is dedicated to actor Richard Burton ; the dedication during the closing credits states With love and admiration, Richard Burton 1925-1984 . Director Michael Radford and cinematographer Roger Deakins originally wanted to shoot the film in black and white, but the financial backers of the production, Virgin Films, opposed this idea. Instead Deakins used a film processing technique called bleach bypass to create the distinctive washed-out look of the film's color visuals . Impressive as well as evocative production design has been rendered with meticulous attention to period detail . The picture won the Best British Film of the Year award at the Evening Standard British Film Awards in 1984. However , the movie achieved mediocre box office , but following over the years as the film's reputation has steadily grown.Other adaptations about this classic novel are the followings  ¨1984¨ (1956) by Michael Anderson with Edmond O'Brien as Winston Smith , Michael Redgrave as O'Connor of the Inner Party , Jan Sterling as Julia of the Inner Party , Mervyn Johns as Jones and Donald Pleasence as R. Parsons . And for TV ¨1984¨(1954) by by Rudolph Cartier with Peter Cushing as Winston Smith , André Morell as O'Brien as Yvonne Mitchell as Julia and again Donald Pleasence as Syme . Furthermore, an American version , Studio one . ¨1984¨ , (1953) with Eddie Albert as Winston Smith , Lorne Greene as O'Brien and Norma Crane as Julia . "},{"Title":"At least as good as the book, a rare accomplishment","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's one of those rare movies living up to the novel. More importantly, the two don't exclude each other. This movie definitely stands on its own, and I found it intriguing enough to make me want more. And so, I read the novel afterwards for additional information. This is the best adaptation I've seen so far &#x96; it captures the very spirit of the novel, the impending doom, the desperation.The cast is incredible. Richard Burton doesn't act, he simply IS O'Brien in every single detail. This is Burton's best role in my opinion &#x96; so truthful to Orwell's characterization, powerful and effortlessly nuanced. Burton's O'Brian must be one of the most memorable villains of the silver screen, truly frightening and fascinating, suitably enigmatic and brilliant, just like Orwell described him. His chemistry with John Hurt is superb. Hurt's portrayal of Winston is flawless. He inhabits the role, intellectually and physically. Winston's admiration and fascination for his tormentor, his will to survive, his relentless struggle and desire to remember, understand and overcome his condition are palpable in Hurt's outstanding performance. The complexity of Winston-O'Brian relationship is contained in one single look on Hurt's face, in body language. Mesmerizing acting, right there. Orwell's novel is a masterpiece in every aspect, and Director Michael Radford is so smart, he knows that nobody could write those dialogues better than Orwell himself. As a result, the conversations between Winston and O'Brian, as well as many other lines are taken from the novel, verbatim. Those scenes are visceral. Michael Radford's homage to the great writer is complete. The idea of filming 1984 on the same date and location indicated by the novel makes it both a product of the 80's AND a timeless creation. The music and the dream sequences, the sets are excellent - everything looks and feels incredibly real, and the viewer gets the taste of genuine terror - the kind of horror that is man-made, the kind that actually happened. This is not science-fiction, dystopia or whatever some people call it, but real history in so many aspects. Only those who have experienced communism first hand in the worst East-European dictatorship will agree that 1984 is not far from reality. Not at all, believe it or not. But ironically, as Orwell noted, people do have a short memory, and it's that ignorance that They are counting on. Yes, it's all true. The vaporization was actually put into practice by Stalin, and much earlier by the Romans. The manipulation of the language as a means to reshape the perception of reality is, again, no fiction. In my country, the Communist Party tried to eliminate certain words out of the vocabulary specifically for this purpose. Of course, behind closed doors, when there were no neighbors or friends around (informers that is), people were still talking - and that's only because the Party didn't have the technology of Big Brother. During communism, there were these so called foster homes, which were in fact extermination camps for handicapped children (the name of one such center is Cighid, look it up). The Re-education center from Pitesti, Romania, (known as the Pitesti Experiment), where the treatment of political prisoners between 1949-1952 made O'Brian's methods look like fun and games by comparison, is as real as its victims. The disastrous consequences of forced motherhood in communist Romania (by Ceausescu's decree) surpass by far any dystopian scenario. How about the spiritual genocide of communist propaganda and censorship, inflicted for decades by all possible means? The indoctrination of children starting kindergarten, the food ration and other abominations of the communist regime- these are not Orwellian fantasy, it's historical fact, lived by millions. It's understandable why someone who was born and raised in a democratic society might find these things to be simply unbelievable. Yet it all happened, and Orwell's depiction of totalitarianism is closer to reality than fiction. The ultimate politics manual and a warning for the ages, 1984 is alarmingly relevant even in today's democracy. A must-see for everyone, this is Cinema in its finest hour. Watch the movie, read the novel. "}{"Title":"Cold and lifeless vision of the future","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit that I've not read George Orwell's original novel '1984'; but everyone knows the story and many elements of it have made their way into popular culture. Since I've not read the book; I can't comment on whether or not this film version is faithful to the literature, but apparently this is one of the more faithful movie versions. Director Michael Radford takes the subject material and uses it to paint an incredibly bleak vision of the future; one so bleak that all the warmth of the movie is thoroughly drained from it and we are left with is incredibly lifeless and hard to get on with. Our main character is a man named Smith. Smith works in a people intensive environment where he is charged with the task of rewriting history. This future society has been divided into three parts; and we focus on Oceania, of which London is the capital. The state is ruled over by 'Big Brother' and thinking outside of the box is against the law. Smith falls in love with a woman named Julia; which is of course against the rules of the totalitarian society.The movie takes more time instilling the situation of the future than it does on the actual characters; so while we get a chilling portrait of how this modern society is ran and the rules that govern it; we are unfortunately not given much in the way of reasons to care about our main characters' plights. The story itself has some very interesting points to make, however; and depending on your stance, you may well believe that modern society is moving ever closer to the 'Big Brother' of this film; here in the UK we are already being threatened with the prospect of ID cards, security cameras and ISP's spying on our internet connections, so maybe Orwell's vision is not such a distant possibility. Going back to the film; it does have to be said that it is well made. The acting is generally very good and the cinematography very much fits the style and atmosphere that the story demands. Some say that this film is terrifying; though the disengagement from the lead characters made it less so for me, and this is definitely the main problem. I haven't seen any other versions of this story, however (unless Brazil counts) and while I'm not overly fussed with this film; it is at least worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good cinematic take on the novel.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" As most people, the novel of which we all know is an excellent portrayal of a non-conformist man living and breathing in the pinnacle of totalitarianism.The movie is a nice adaption, however hampered as most most movies were back then and today by lack of sufficient time to grasp you fully as the book did.The movies strong points are the three main actors. There is no one better than John Hurt at playing Winston, fully getting into the emotional and emaciated character trying to find sense and a way to destroy the party that is responsible for the regime he is in. Suzanna Hamilton playing the equally strong-willed woman Julia who begins an illegal love-affair with Winston. And Richard Burton who resonates coldness as the all-knowing Inner Party member O'Brien.The cinematography is great, the music is also very good.However, the movie just cannot capture the entire strength of the novel. The movie is rushed to death and as a result, we never get really deep as we should have. The scenes that make this film are the opening sequence, Winston's narration of the diary he writes, and the torture of Winston. But these too are sadly dwarfed by the novel.Most movies can never equal the original novel because of budget and market constraints. No doubt this movie may have captured more strength from canon for the cinematic eye if these stupid barriers were broken.For lover's of the book and Orwell, it is still a worthwhile effort to watch this. "},{"Title":"Dark, atmospheric and thought provoking classic !","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Very minor spoilers) I had a hard time finding this film on DVD when I first sought it out years ago. I have since forgotten about it until a friend mentioned it to me recently and was lucky enough to find an unedited version of the film on my Encore movie channel package on satellite TV.The opening sequence was enough to suck me in. It's a movie that reminded me of the Half Life video games, dark, dystopia's living conditions, and the residents are conditioned to believe its normal to live that way. The film also reminded me of Metropolis (1927) since the plot was similar in some ways. The elite control the working class and eventually begin to take advantage of their power, causing one man and woman to rebel as quietly as they can. Even love making is an act of rebellion and Big Brother's eyes are everywhere. There are curfews, and waking calls. Synthetic food and rations, making you wonder if this Totalitarian way of life could have happened if WW2 ended differently.The book was written in 1949 and I have never read it..yet. I wonder if Orwell really thought that this scenario he painted was a What If scenario. The atmosphere and propaganda during the early 40s are included into his story and Nazi Germany was very much like the state of civilization depicted in 1984 except that it continued 45 year into the future, a parallel time line depicted in detail. Haunting music accompanies the emotional acting, large epic sets, and the film put images in my mind that are hard to forget. I'll remember this film for a very long time, it's almost as if the philosophical rant in the last 3rd of the film was the Devil's side of the story. A very disturbing film. "},{"Title":"Maybe we're missing the point","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The whole point of 1984 is to show that no matter what the individual wants, the state wishes to utterly control that want or basic human need.I could go on about a faithful translation of book to screen (and it is by the way), and I could say that some aspects of the screen version cannot really explain some of the finer details. But for me, the most terrifying thing is how the individual must love Big Brother before he or she dies.Winston Smith (John Hurt) opens up willingly to the torture inflicted on him, because for most of his life, he has loved and trusted Big Brother, even though he knows, through his position of rewriting history, BB to be false.Yet BB spews out anachronisms that are in constant conflict. Their propaganda tells the party that the orgasm is something to be avoided, yet they have a ministry that promotes pornography to the Proles. They frown on the party workers lack of fitness, yet provide Victory Gin and Victory cigarettes.Sometimes I despair at the parallels with the society of today. Cheap newspapers peddling pornography and propaganda in equal measure, the encouraging of a drinking culture with 24 hour pubs and alcohol cheaper than bottled water in supermarkets. the hijacking of public broadcasters to peddle government propaganda, the list goes on.I rate this film very highly and hope that on seeing it, people open their eyes to the disturbing parallels with 2008. "},{"Title":"A great adaptation","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nineteen Eighty-four has always been one of my favourite sci-fi books. I have read it several times and I still find it relevant even though the time Orwell lived in is long gone. Therefore, I was sceptical to see this movie at first. But my expectations were fulfilled.The story is very neatly moved from paper to celluloid. The plot is not changed at all, although condensed. The basic premises are there, the characters are the same, and quite a few of the scenes follow the book to the letter.The scenery works wonderfully. The dull, grey sets and the propaganda posters are very subtle and portrays the hopelessness of the novel in a great way. The pacing is slow and almost dull, but it actually works even though you have to be able to stand some slow parts.John Hurt and Suzanna Hamilton are great. John Hurt's minimalistic performance is captivating and Hamilton's naturalistic and sleek persona is a good counterweight. As a screen couple, they might not have a lot of chemistry, but that is also correct, this is a dystopian future which suppresses love every chance it gets.Some things are lost in the way though. The idea of newspeak is hardly touched upon and doublethink is not really described. If you, like me, know the book, then this is not a problem. For those who haven't, well, read the book first and you'll get a lot more out of the movie.The ideas are still powerful and valid and we constantly need to be reminded and warned by movies(and books)like this. So do yourself a favour, read the book(it can be found for free at various sites) and then watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation (spoilers)","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nineteen Eighty-Four is still relevant today. Like Orwell's book we live in a world where our movements are continually being monitored, where a minority of people control the flow of information and where people worship, suffer and die for the benefit of imaginary figures and callous tyrants. Just take North Korea, or religious fundamentalists, or Guantanamo Bay. They're all Orwellian examples.Therefore Orwell's book is timeless. It might have Nineteen Eighty-Four on the cover, but there are always going to people who want to destroy civil liberties, eliminate freedom of thought and enforce crackpot ideologies. But although the book will always be relevant, it does very much have a post-Second World War feel to it &#150; it's both timeless and of it's time. So it was an excellent idea on part of the filmmakers to envisage the landscape of the film as one that was already dated. Now that may sound stupid, but nothing dates quicker than a science-fiction landscape that has gone out of fashion, so to film Orwell's book as if it's happening just after the Second World War grounds it in a stark reality that you can believe in. It's a Britain that could have been.One of the best ways in which this bleak world is visualised is through the photography. It's dirty, it's grimy and it's washed out. It lends the film a depressing drabness that communicates how crippling and soul-destroying such a world would be. I also like the way the propaganda films are shot &#150; they're sepia in colour and again they look like something out of the Second World War. Then you have the costumes &#150; everyone wears boiler suits. It's a world where everyone looks the same.They're also forced to think the same. The scenes where large groups of people shout at enemies and then praise the almighty Big Brother make me think of religious fanatics. After all, Big Brother is really god. He may have a human face and the Party in the book and the film might be non-religious, but all repressive ideologies are the same. They require blind devotion, loyal servitude and the willing relinquishment of personal freedom. The only difference with religion is that instead of worshipping a man you're worshipping a man sitting on a cloud.Therefore, Winston's actions are heroic. All the time he's fighting the system. At the beginning it's just through not shouting as vigorously at the propaganda drivel as the sheep that surround him, but then it's through the journal he keeps and the love affair that he has. And although they're really small acts of dissent, because of the restrictions placed upon him they add up to a lot.But it's the affair with Julia that is most important. All through the film there are scenes where people denounce the family &#150; it prevents people from being loyal to the Party &#150; and where people say that Party scientists are working at a way to eliminate the orgasm &#150; pregnancies will be the result of artificial insemination. So that two people would connect and take pleasure in something that is entirely personal, is the biggest 'screw you' that you could give the Party. It's an expression of freedom, and one that, in the context, is remarkably heroic.But of course, it's inevitable that the two get caught &#150; they actually know themselves that they'll get caught one day, which makes their actions even more courageous. And it's the scenes with O'Brien, brilliantly played by Richard Burton, that I like the most. They're chilling in how unreasonably reasonable he is. He's kind of like a kindly uncle that is absolutely crazy but who can express himself much better than you and who is going to torture you until you come around to his own twisted logic. You know that Winston is right (John Hurt, too, is magnificent; perfect casting) but O'Brien is just more convincing. He speaks like he has the answers to everything, which indeed he does (even though they're wrong). And so the crushing of Winston's spirit and his resolve is unspeakably brutal. If indeed Winston is the last man, then there's no hope for sanity and freedom.I should also mention the Room 101 scene. It actually improves slightly on the book. O'Brien's dialogue is changed a little bit to make the rats seem like more of a threat &#150; Sometimes they go straight for the eyes, other times they burrow through the cheeks and devour the tongue. It helps just in case you think they're cute and cuddly.But, of course, the scene is also important because it's the scene where Winston's spirit is finally crushed. Up until that point, despite the torture and his submission to O'Brien, he hadn't betrayed Julia (emotionally at least) and accepted Big Brother. But confronted by his greatest fear, he's finally turned against her and comes to love Big Brother. Again it makes me think of religion. A lot of religious people don't love god because they see him as wise and benevolent, they love him because they fear what he'll do to them if he doubts their faith or if they worship him in the wrong way. The love is governed by fear.The final scenes are well filmed but they're not quite as powerful as those in the book. In the book, after the torture, Winston and Julia meet in a park and then after a banal conversation she leaves to join the crowd. In the film it's transposed to a café. It's still an excellent scene, but it's not quite as powerful symbolically.But regardless, the film is an excellent adaptation of Orwell's book. I honestly can't imagine it being done any better. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie and THEN read (or re-read) the book!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (WARNING!  THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW!)Like many of the other reviewers of this movie, I really like Orwell's book, and wholeheartedly recommend that people read it.  However, unlike many of these same reviewers, I recommend seeing the movie immediately BEFORE you read (or re-read) the book -- not after.Several people who read the book and then immediately saw the movie afterward think they found all kinds of faults with this movie, as detailed in their reviews.  Some of the criticisms were in fact inaccurate.I was required to study Orwell's book in 7th grade social studies, WAY BACK in the 1973-74 school year.  And like a lot of 7th graders, a lot of the true significance of the book was lost on me at that time.Fast forward to the early 90's.  I was watching the Bravo channel, and I caught this movie (for the very first time) at the moment (SPOILER WARNING!) when Winston and Julia are captured by the Thought Police.  The scene was riveting!  I watched the movie through its end and then promised myself I would try to catch the whole thing the next time it came on.  I eventually wound up buying the movie and watched it a few more times.  I then got the book and re-read it again for the first time in two decades.Having seen the movie gave me a visual basis upon which to look at the book, and I can tell you that with very few exceptions, the movie is exceptionally true to the book.  It was very easy to spot the deviations as I read through it, but from a visual perspective, this movie goes to great pains to depict things exactly as they are described in the book.And even though it might be sacrilegious to other people who love the book, I thought that the few details that were changed for the movie actually made a lot of sense.  (SPOILER WARNING!)  For example, the biggest deviation between the book and the movie is Winston's visit to O'Brien's home  In the book, both Julia and Winston visit O'Brien.  In the movie, Winston tells Julia about O'Brien's invitation, but he does not invite her and she does not go with him.  Also, the movie eliminates the rather open discussion that Winston has with O'Brien during this visit.  In the movie, the dialog is kept tight and Winston is very much on edge during the entire visit. O'Brien is in complete control of the entire scene.  Looking at the scene in the movie, and comparing it with this part of the book, the scene in the movie actually fits the story better!And even though we're not supposed to directly address other reviews, I do think it is fair to point out that some of them are factually incorrect. (SPOILER WARNING!) One review says that there is no sign of O'Brien in the movie up until the scene in which he passes his address to Winston.  This is not true.  O'Brien (played by Richard Burton) appears in several earlier scenes, including the opening scene during the Two Minutes' Hate. Furthermore, O'Brien appears in a dream of Winston's very early in the movie, just as it is described in the book, and O'Brien's words in that dream come straight out of the book.  There are several similar specific criticisms that don't stand up to scrutiny.  You don't have to take my word for it -- get out your copy of the book and re-watch the movie!  DON'T RE-WRITE HISTORY!In summary, if you love the book, and have not seen the movie -- SEE IT! If you have never read the book, SEE THE MOVIE FIRST!  "},{"Title":"Truly Intelligent sci-fi...","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1984 is a serious, thought provoking, highly intelligent piece of seminal sci-fi that has lost none of its power in translation from print to screen and the basic story so brilliantly realised by George Orwell in 1948 is just as relevant today as it ever was.Writer/director Michael Radford has done a remarkable job capturing the bleak world as dreamed up by Orwell and portraying it on the screen. His script adaption of the story is truly worthy of the source material, in fact this adaption to screen is so faithful that many may be put off by it's relentless bleakness and sense of despair and hopelessness as presented by Radford (and as originally conceived by Orwell), but those willing to take this journey will be rewarded with a truly powerful film experience unlike just about anything committed to film previously or since.The acting is superb on all accounts, with John Hurt and Suzanna Hamilton both perfectly cast as the lovers seeking comfort in each others arms despite the fact that their very love is punishable by torture and execution, however the best performance of the film comes from the late Richard Burton (in his final screen role) as the calmly menacing O'Brien who managed to seem both chilling and human and the same time. In fact Burton's performance here is both a mesmerizing tour de force and a lasting testament to his skill and talent as an actor. Also special note must be made of the wonderfully surreal music by Eurythmics and Dominic Muldowney that fits into the atmosphere of the film seamlessly.For those unafraid of the downbeat and who appreciate great film making without the need for action, laughs or happy endings then I wholeheartedly recommend this film without hesitation. Utterly superb.One man's opinion. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"powerful and accurate adaptation","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was amazed, when seeing this movie, to find that it recreated for me with surprising accuracy the interior mental images that I had imagined when reading Orwell's disturbing classic years ago. The movie makes a serious and successful attempt to hew closely to the book. John Hurt is appropriately painful to watch as the doomed Winston Smith, and Richard Burton redeems himself from the dreck he produced in his last years with this frightening (because chillingly understated) portrayal of O'Brien, his last film role and one of his greatest. A greatly disturbing, and disturbingly great movie adaptation of a timeless classic.   "},{"Title":"Movie > Book","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie doesn't do justice to the book, is the usual refrain everybody hears. But I disagree, the success of a movie are the emotions you feel while watching it. I felt sad at the grayish feel, annoyed at the repeated announcement and pain at the torture of Winston. You don't get the usual Orwellian commentary over the issues, but I think watching a movie requires more mental effort than reading a book, only when it comes to the thinking movies like this one.That is quite a controversial statement, but my reason is simple. A book has the liberty to explain what the character is thinking, with 500-600 words. A movie instead has just 5 seconds to communicate that exact process. It takes more effort on the part of the audience to make sense of it. Of course you don't get the leisurely experience of enjoying a book, and have the author use literary techniques to build mental images over pages and pages. But somehow in good movies even despite the images you have a tougher task of getting inside the character's head. I like that. "}{"Title":"Not Perfect But Underrated","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This version of George Orwell's classic story about a big brother is watching you type society of the near future is not perfect but it is very good and very underrated, with some great performances by the leading me.Richard Burton is excellent and John Hurt gives maybe one of the very best performances of his entire career, which is saying a lot because he has given some great performances in his time. Both men do excellent jobs here.If you're familiar with the story, it is pretty faithful to the original book and the director does a good job putting it to the screen. If you don't know the story there's not much I can say without ruining it, but you should definitely read the book before watching the movie, it is without a doubt one of the greatest books ever written. "},{"Title":"Book - God-like, Film - meh","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you haven't read the book I strongly recommend reading the book first. It is such a beautiful and though-provoking story that it simply must be read first. Words cannot describe how perfect it is.The movie on the other hand is unfortunately pretty disappointing. When I was watching it I knew what was going on and loved seeing someone else's adaptation. But realistically it's only decent if you're read the book first otherwise you will probably be frustrated and extremely confused. Even then you may not enjoy it. I simply didn't draw an emotional attachment to the protagonist as many did in the novel. Although played very well by John Hurt, the film simply lacked depth.In conclusion, the film is okay, nothing special. If you loved the book it may be worth having a glance at someone's interpretation but don't be too hopeful. If you haven't read the book, I can't stress this enough, READ THE BOOK! "},{"Title":"Pretty good!!!!!","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Orwell book is one of my favorites, and I have always enjoyed seeing what happens when someone tries to take good literature and translate it to something that is viewed as opposed to what is imagined from my reading.1984 does not fail to disappoint in this regard. The world that is created has the same run-down feel that one would expect from a war based economy, partly due, if I recall correctly from filming in bombed out ruins from World War II. John Hurt and Richard Burton (his last cinematic role) are quite convincing as Winston Smith and O'Brian, the Party Official.My only complaint with the film is that there seems to be an over-emphasis on the repression of sexual desires. Thus, we see a lot of scenes of Suzanna Hamilton (Julia, Winston's love and political interest) running around without any clothes on. Although being naked is an addition to the film when they are taken by the secret police - it adds to the emotional feeling of vulnerability at being caught - most of it is simply eye candy filler. The 1984 world is far more complicated that simply sexual repression.Also look for Cyril Cusack as Charrington, the shop keeper/secret police officer. I have always liked him since his role as the the fire captain in Fahrenheit 451. He has a very understated acting style that was well suited for this role.Overall a very nice film - not fantastic, but enjoyable. A different ending than the black and white version from the 1950's - which is also quite good - in that in the current version, we are left with the impression that Winston Smith was never truly broken by the political machine, whereas in the earlier version Winston Smith is presented as having surrendered to the political machine. "},{"Title":"Dark and powerful tale","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell's novel, 1984, was a nightmare vision of totalitarian oppression. It was extremely visionary, written as it was in 1949, well before the concepts of CCTV and mass-media had really taken off.This movie version was as good a screen adaptation as there ever could have been. John Hurt was excellent as the doomed Winston Smith and Richard Burton commanded the screen as O'Brien. Frankly, all performances were top grade. But it's the magnificence with which this movie captures the tortured society depicted in the novel that makes it one of the finest screen translations.Not everything from the novel makes it - there is little description of 'Newspeak', and even less on what the Thought Police actually were, though their name would be relatively self-explanatory.Nevertheless it covered and encapsulated the story superbly, and although it drags a *little* in the middle is nevertheless a worthwhile and successful endeavour. "},{"Title":"The 1984 rendition of 1984 far eclipses its predecessor.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For me, the Radford production stands as one of the most powerful films I have yet experienced. Yes, this is a film that is experienced rather than merely seen. I do not adhere to the notion that films must slavishly recreate their literary inspirations. The performances of Hurt and Burton were wonderful, flawless.I saw the film with a friend during its initial release and, 15 years later, I am still moved by its power. A true gem. I'd rate it a solid A.  "},{"Title":"1984 - 20 years later","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before I start with my review about the movie I want to say a few words about myself and George Orwell's book. I'm 18, so maybe I'm still young and naive. I guess I don't know many things and I haven't seen many things. I read the book three times in original (in English I mean, it's not my native language). I am astonished. I often imagine our future somber and dark. I love movies like Brazil, Mad Max, On The Beach and so on. Post-apocalyptic tales, visions from the future of our world, nuclear nightmares. Warnings. I think that we will be destroyed one day. Destroyed by our own greed, arrogance and self-confidence. And what is sad is that most of the people overlook these warnings. They accept such books and movies as entertainment. They do not see beyond. It's like we all know that we are going towards our doom, but nobody cares to change the direction. If after several centuries a man watches these movies he will probably say The bloody bastards knew that it would happen and still did nothing to prevent it. Then we deserve to be extinct... At least I hope that we won't be ruled by Apes! A girl from my class heard me once talking about 1984. This is probably the most stupid and boring book I've ever read! Like you've read many books in your life I thought, but I just said In fact it is a deep, profound book. It is a prophecy. But she continued It's just a dull boring book. You just cannot understand this book. It's you who's dull... and you don't even know it. - I answered. And about the movie. In fact I was a little bit annoyed. If I haven't read the book first I would probably do not grasp the whole idea. The movie is mostly visual performance of some moments from the book. It does not represent the whole idea of Orwell's 1984 world. The audience needs to be familiar with all those things like 3 world powers, telescreens, propaganda and so on. For example when Winston admires the song he says that it is written by a machine, but the woman makes it sound beautiful. And if you are not familiar with the book you'll probably wonder what is this machine, which writes songs. And the movie is full of such moments. The style is good, the costumes too. The sets are very good-looking. But the movie as a whole in my opinion is a number of scenes with no logical linking. Probably the best thing in this movie is the music. My advice - read the book. Then watch the movie, but do not expect to see something unique or great. I want a remake! This story has a great potential and if it is told in the right way it might be a magnificent movie. "},{"Title":"A most important film","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"28 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frankly, I'm offended by the rating this film has received here. This is not only an exceptionally well acted film, a film that is shot not badly, and a film that has some iconographic moments, it is a brave film philosophically. It does not pander to any particular agenda aside from a slight humanism that is forgivable given the subject matter.  It is somewhat populist, somewhat sexy and more frightening that most of the garbage being passed as horror these days.  The sexual overtones are actually quite effective in the war-torn context, and add depth to the film that might not have been there if it was purely a polemic against Trotskyism.Good stuff, and I congratulate the makers of this film for visual expansion and interpretation of an interesting, but dated, book. "},{"Title":"I felt like I was reading the book .....","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear Michael Radford, you did a great job adapting Orwell's novel for the big screen.I loved the tracking shot of all those sinister looking people at the beginning of the movie. What a way to start the film. You had me hooked! The close ups of John Hurt's cold and dry face was used to great effect. It sort of underscored the lack of joy and humanity in him. The film was filled with such thin, wiry and robotic looking actors who gave the impression of slowly wasting away. The oppressive post-war imagery characterized by scenes of destruction and decaying grey buildings perfectly evoked the atmosphere in Orwell's novel. The sets were magnificent. I know it is an odd word to use for such a depressing film. But Winston's workplace and O'Brien's office deserve special mention. This must be Alan Cameron's best work. He later worked mostly in commercial big budget films. If anxiety was the natural state of 20th century man (from Mailer), John Hurt's jaded facial expressions and scraggy demeanor expressed all the anxiety of living in a totalitarian state. Winston Smith must be one of his best roles. Best Regards, Pimpin.(7/10) "},{"Title":"warning","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" adaptation of an iconic novel of the XX century, it is a warning. one of the most persuasive because it discover not only the spirit of a great book, the fears, the future in dark nuances but the structure of a society who easy becomes wrong. and that fact transforms the performances in a sort of revelations. the force of gestures, dialog and tension, the memories about a a literary genre and the memories about the darkness of the XX century. John Hurt gives to his character substance and new nuances, suggestions in the Orwell's novel. Richard Burton reminds the Great Inquesitor in impressive manner. a film about future. its traces are bricks of present. and that is the good side who transforms 1984 in a must see. "},{"Title":"It's Unsettling How Relevant This Is Today","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie comes across as robotic, passionless and bleak. And that is not a criticism. It's exactly the way it should be. This is George Orwell's 1984 after all - his frightening portrayal of a future fascist state and its desire to turn its citizens into mindless and passionless robots existing in a bleak society. It's a movie adaptation of a book, of course (a book I read many years ago) and so there can be quibbles about how well or how poorly Michael Radford (who directed this and wrote the screenplay) captured the novel - but I thought that certainly in terms of the mood he created he did a marvellous job. Even the repeated exchanges of I love you between Winston and Julia were robotic and passionless - a robotic rebellion against a robotic society. Basically I thought this was very well done. John Hurd did a good job as Winston, and Richard Burton as O'Brien, who comes to represent the fascist state for us as he tortures Winston in an attempt to rehabilitate him was quite good in this - also cold and passionless throughout. Suzanna Hamilton's Julia was almost eerily robotic, in spite of the fact that she was really the lead protagonist, leading Winston into rebellion against the control of Big Brother.The portrayal of the state was interesting as far as it went. Winston's job was the constant re-writing of history so that the past would always support the party line of the present (summed up by the motto whoever controls the past controls the future, and whoever controls the present controls the past.) In addition to that there was the relentless propaganda, constant surveillance, and continual war as a means of controlling the population and giving them an enemy to vent against (probably by doing so preventing them from releasing their frustration against their own country.) The internal enemy revolved around the figure of Emmanuel Goldstein. Did he really exist? I'm not sure. Or was he just a mythical figure invented by the state, so that anyone who didn't buy into the society could simply be denounced as a follower of Goldstein and Goldstein's ideas; a part of an organized conspiracy against the security represented by the state. Even the concept of Big Brother is intriguing - and the question was raised in the movie. Was there really a Big Brother, or was there just the party who invented this leader image of Big Brother (complete with the ubiquitous portrait that looked down on everyone?) I'd guess the latter.What I found most unsettling about this was actually how relevant it remains today. Propaganda, the manipulation of news, image politics and the idolization of leader figures, unending war, the rewriting of history to suit the present, the willingness of some politicians at least to outright lie (and to be believed by many even as they lie shamelessly) - all of this is a part of the reality of many (perhaps most) Western democratic countries today. Orwell was writing fiction - but was he also a prophet of sorts?It would help to have read the novel before watching the movie, because by their very nature novels can give more details and background, but in terms of the overall mood and bleakness of the society the movie captures this brilliantly. (8/10) "}{"Title":"Not that much","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is OK only if you have already read the book. It goes over the introduction and the basic information quite fast and if you don't know what the book is about it would take some time to get it and even then you wouldn't really fully get it. Beside from the way to fast paced movie, the main actor did a good job. But as I said the movie could have been so much more. Disappointed. The book is very good and it's a shame that there was not a movie to really capture the emotion and the thoughts that are presented in Orwell's work. I am still hoping that one day a good director can actually make this film into a better version. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant, but..","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is the greatest edition between all the other adaptations, good plot and screen shots, and it took all details into considerations, John Hurt has successfully transmitted the message of George Orwell's novel through his extraordinary expressions and emotions, but the only thing that stops me from giving it a ten is that it's kind of a mysterious watching because it needs more explanation about the happening events throughout the film, I thought this adaptation was filmed only for those who have read the novel, a person who hasn't read the novel won't get the message from it, and as I'm sure 1984 is the most relevant novel to our days, but people nowadays barely read and that's the thing that might stop this film from spreading to them, also the whole soundtrack thing is not relevant to the movie and wasn't as powerful as the screenplay was. "},{"Title":"We shall meet in the place where there is no darkness.","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell's novel of a totalitarian future society in which a man whose daily work is rewriting history tries to rebel by falling in love. After The Atomic War the world is divided into three states. London is a city in Oceania, ruled by a party who has total control over all its citizens. Winston Smith is one of the bureaucrats, rewriting history in one of the departments. One day he commits the crime of falling in love with Julia. They try to escape Big Brother's listening and viewing devices, but, of course, nobody can really escape. Roger Ebert wrote This story is, of course, well known. 1984 must be one of the most widely read novels of our time. What is remarkable about the movie is how completely it satisfied my feelings about the book; the movie looks, feels, and almost tastes and smells like Orwell's bleak and angry vision. John Hurt, with his scrawny body and lined and weary face, makes the perfect Winston Smith; and Richard Burton, looking so old and weary in this film that it is little wonder he died soon after finishing it, is the immensely cynical O'Brien, who feels close to people only while he is torturing them. Suzanna Hamilton is Julia, a fierce little war orphan whose rebellion is basically inspired by her hungers. Radford's style in the movie is an interesting experiment. Like Chaplin in Modern Times, he uses passages of dialogue that are not meant to be understood -- nonsense words and phrases, garbled as they are transmitted over Big Brother's primitive TV, and yet listened to no more or less urgently than the messages that say something. The 1954 film version of Orwell's novel turned it into a cautionary, simplistic science-fiction tale. This version penetrates much more deeply into the novel's heart of darkness. The film is not only a powerful work of art but it is extremely realistic in its depiction of society. The film leaves the viewer with such feelings as dread and anxiety. "},{"Title":"This adaptation is just about perfect","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I'm going to keep this short and to the point for a reason. The reason is that I only just finished reading 1984 cover to cover today and did a review of it on Goodreads and if you've both read the book and seen the movie, you'll know the translation is actually really accurate. So if you know the plot of the book it's exactly the same deal here - Winston Smith is a man who has his doubts in a dystopian society and things soon become crumbling around him as he begins to have a love affair - which is forbidden and then increases the risk of being captured by the Thought Police. The acting is excellent maybe to the point of me forever associating the characters with the actors, the editing style is something I didn't expect with the Room 101 and the characters in the fields still playing out the conversation which is the very good stark contrast to the bleak hopeless atmosphere of the modern day Oceania. I'd say even though the book is better (...slightly) this is well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Pointless, just read the book.","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you haven't read the book, don't watch this film, read the book. If you have read the book, don't watch this film, you will be utterly disappointed. Going into the film I was curious as to how it would be pulled off, as the book seemed to me pretty much unfilmable. After watching, I am convinced the book is unfilmable. All of the vital philosophy and theory of Orwell's seminal work is lost in this adaptation. Orwell's deep understanding of both human nature and the operation of totalitarian states make the book a chilling read which makes a very convincing argument for why '1984' shows the natural conclusion of state power. All of this is absent from the film, as we have none of Winston's narration or Goldstein's book, and a very short version of O'Brien's monologue, which, I would say, are the most important aspects of the book. Both the narrative and character development are dreadful. Had I not read the book, I doubt I would've had any idea what was going on. The Two Minutes Hate, the Ministry of Truth, the memory hole, Newspeak, Doublethink and Thoughtcrime are explained either insufficiently or not at all, and without these concepts, the story is nothing. As for the characters, there is no explanation of Winston or Julia's thoughts toward the Party or their histories, and no real connection is established between the two. The character of O'Brien is where the creators fail the most, though. We get none of Winston's thoughts about him before his flimsy introduction, which makes his presence almost meaningless for the most part of the film. Winston's dream is shown and the line We will meet in the place where there is no darkness is said, but neither are explained. While Orwell's characters were hardly three dimensional in the first place, the film reduces them even further. The film's only redeeming features are the visuals, which convey well the bleak, homogeneous nature of this society, and the interesting soundtrack, which has a similar effect, also bringing a spooky, futuristic quality to the aesthetic.I know that an adaptation is a work of art in its own right, and should be regarded separately from the book, but with this sacrilegious desecration of Orwell's work it is impossible. It is saddening to think that some people may think of '1984' primarily as a film. It seems the makers have tried to introduce subtlety to the story that was not in the book, but it has an overwhelmingly negative effect, this is not meant to be a subtle story. This is the first review I've written, and I've done it to warn people not to bother with this film, as the incomprehensibly positive reviews on here mislead me. At the end I was angry at how much this story had been ruined. In conclusion, while the book exists, this film is a wholly pointless creation. Just stick to the book. "},{"Title":"Good bleak dystopian world","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1984 and the world is divided into 3 totalitarian competing superstates. Winston Smith (John Hurt) lives in a crumbling London in Oceania. He is a simple party worker in the Records Department of the Ministry of Truth. His job is to alter and sanitize records of the past. Everybody is under the constant surveillance of the Thought Police. Winston keeps a diary and encounters undeniable proof of official lies. He is in essence a thought-criminal. He begins an illicit affair with Julia (Suzanna Hamilton) who on the surface belongs to the fanatical Anti-Sex League. Then he meets a member of the Inner Party O'Brien (Richard Burton) who might be part of the resistance.This movie presents a good representation of the bleak Orwellian dystopia. John Hurt is rather lifeless as Winston which is what the character is suppose to be. However I wanted more for the movie. It is a little too bleak. The movie needs to hold out the promise of humanity and then snatch it away. It never truly holds out hope for something better. A better use of the dystopian world is the 1985 movie Brazil. This is a little too monotone although it is a good visual look. Even the torture is a little too slow. I love the rats but there is too much explaining. The excessive dialog drowns out the truly compelling parts of the torture. This is interesting but not that exciting. "},{"Title":"The Praxis Of DoubleThink -  2 + 2 = 5","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Favorite Movie Quote Can you hold onto two completely contradictory thoughts at the same time? Warning! - 'Big Brother' Is Watching! Grim. Bleak. Depressing.This brutally joyless film is a cold and sobering remake based upon George Orwell's famous, futuristic novel (of the same name), which was written back in 1948. The original movie-production of 1984 was released in 1956.Set in the fictitious country of Oceania, in the year 1984, this is the horribly dismal place where citizen Winston Smith ekes out his incredibly squalid existence. Working for the Ministry of Truth, Winston sits quietly inside his tiny cubicle, obediently rewriting history according to the strictest specifications of The Party (aka. Big Brother).Oceania is run by a ruthless totalitarian government known as the Superstate. All of Oceania's laws area stringently enforced by the barbaric Thought Police.Winston keeps a secret diary hidden away at home. This is forbidden. It is considered Thought-Crime.Winston meets Julia, an outer-party worker, and begins an illicit affair with her. This is forbidden. It is considered Sex-Crime.Soon Winston and Julia are caught in their defiant act of Sex-Crime and they are promptly taken to the Ministry of Love where torture and brainwashing are the order of the day. It takes no time at all for Winston and Julia to betray one another.It's inside Room #101 that Winston is eventually taken for further interrogation. It is here that he is forced to face and endure his own worst fears.The Soundtrack for 1984 was written and performed by pop superstars 'The Eurythmics'. "},{"Title":"A bleak world!","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" '1984' is based on the eerily prophetic novel of the same name by George Orwell which shows a bleak world from which there is no escape for people from the tyranny of a few as they seek to control the masses through a steady dose of patriotic wars, constant misinformation and by changing the history itself. In this world, not only saying things as they are is unimaginable but even thinking them through is a crime as the citizenry needs to be dumbed down into a servile and mindless horde. Knowledge is power and it must be destroyed so that the perceived reality can be more easily shaped by oppressors who will settle for nothing less than blind devotion from people to perpetuate their own rule. A greatly disturbing film and a wonderful adaptation of a timeless classic. This is cinema in its finest hour! "},{"Title":"I don't care how it relates to the book.  It was interminable.","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care how it relates to the book. It was interminable as a movie.I read the book many years ago (I was not forced to in school, it was by my own choice). Although it is regarded as a classic I could barely remember anything about it, so I went into this movie fresh. I came out of it disheveled and drained, and not in a good way. The very definition of bleak. I have experienced other movies that are depressing yet powerful, and they remain in my memory as worthwhile movie experiences. This one will not.I have seen Brazil and THX-1138 several times, and would watch either of them again. I have no desire ever to see Nineteen Eight-Four again.The one thing I did like was seeing Richard Burton. I had no idea that he was so ill at the time or that it was his last film, but I found his screen presence captivating. "},{"Title":"Great Book Adaptation Writing","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hopefully everyone knows the story of author George Orwell's novel and then the subsequent movie, Nineteen Eighty-Four. Even the cult classic movie Brazil in 1985 has an Orwellian features and themes through the entire fabric of the film. In fact the working title for for the highly futuristic Brazil was 1984 and a half.In the 1984 released film Winston Smith (John Hurt, from 1979 Alien fame) is a worker for the state, one of many whose task it is to literally rewrite history, changing names and events to suit the needs of the will of the Party.  Winston remembers what life was like before Big Brother and loathes what his government has become. He philosophizes about these ideas in private and in a secret journal he hides in the walls of his apartment. Winston begins making eye contact with a younger woman named Julia (Hamilton), and soon the two begin exchanging private notes which in turn leads them into becoming part of the rebellion against the state as their actions are viewed as subversive.This movie follows the book on a much closer level. John Hurt does a wonderful job in the lead. He carries the movie in the direction it needs to go. Unfortunately, the movie didn't make very much money and found itself on a shelf rather quickly. It generally only makes it off the shelf when some poor sap has to write a report on 1984 and they don't want to read the book. Even though the BBC version has the least budget of any film mentioned, it is worth seeing. If you're looking for an exact book copy then read the book. This 1984 movie is okay, worth seeing for John Hurt and Richard Burton who plays O'Brien. In any account with words like Orwellian and Big Brother in the lexicon of American culture, it's best to know where the roots lay. "}{"Title":"Freedom is the freedom to say two plus two equals four.","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's something peculiar about the film adaptations of George Orwell's celebrated dystopian novel, Nineteen Eighty-Four. Since I read the book for the first time earlier this year, I have enjoyed two film renditions of the story, Michael Anderson's '1984 (1956)' and now Michael Radford's very timely 'Nineteen Eighty-Four (1984).' Cinematically, there's little unique about these two films. When it comes down to it, they're both rather uninspired pieces of film-making, really lacking anything that would make them significant achievements. However, the piece of literature upon which they are are based is so incredibly powerful that the remarkable story overshadows the films' other attributes. Indeed, considering the near-perfection of Orwell's 1949 novel, it would be detrimental (and rather immoral, if I may say so) to make any major changes to the plot. Thus, Michael Radford's film sort of coasts through the story of Winston Smith and his rebellion against Big Brother, more out of duty rather than raw inspiration. However, it does do a decent job of it, treating Orwell's story with the respect it deserves, and so praise must be awarded where it is due.For years, Winston Smith (John Hurt) has endured a sordid existence in London, the capital of Airstrip One in the nation of Oceania. The year is 1984, and all citizens now operate under the strict guidelines of the Party, under the constant surveillance of the Thought Police. Day by day, it is Winston's duty, as an Outer Party member in the Ministry of Truth, to revise history in accordance with Big Brother's most recent requirements. Once a person has been erased from the official documents, he ceases to exist; indeed, he never existed. When the Party decides to cut chocolate rations from thirty grams to a mere twenty-five, it is Winston's responsibility to alter the facts in actuality, the chocolate rations were never at thirty grams. They were at twenty, and now Big Brother has chosen to increase the rations to twenty-five grams. The enthusiastic response of Party-devoted neighbour Parsons (Gregor Fisher) to this announcement is a testament to the lethal efficiency of these continual revisions. The human memory cannot seemingly be relied upon to recall such information, and so the Party is the only trustworthy source.Yet Winston Smith is not alone in his misgivings about the Party. He eventually strikes up a romantic relationship with a mysterious young woman named Julia (Suzanna Hamilton), and the two meet regularly to satisfy their desires for each other, in doing so rebelling against the strict rules enforced by the Thought Police. Smith decides to place his trust in an Inner-Party member named O'Brien (Richard Burton in his last screen role), but this turns out to be a sting operation, and both Smith and Julia are subsequently arrested and taken to the Ministry of Love to be rehabilitated. Via numerous grueling means of torture, O'Brien sets about destroying every last hint of Smith's rebellion, delaying his inevitable execution until he not only obeys Big Brother but also loves him. The treatment doesn't allow for rebels to make martyrs of themselves, since dissenters are only murdered once they have been twisted back into perfect citizens; until they will wholeheartedly agree that, if the Party says so, then 2 + 2 = 5.Though there are a few images that will surely stay in my memory for a long time (those shots with the swarms of filthy rats certainly qualify), 'Nineteen Eighty-Four' curiously lacks the unique visual style of many of the decade's other dystopian sci-fi classics, such as Ridley Scott's 'Blade Runner (1982)' and Terry Gilliam's 'Brazil (1985)' which is probably the greatest Orwell-inspired film you're ever likely to see. The film was shot in London around the precise time in which the original novel is set, but the setting seemed to recall Britain in the early 1940s, a historic city that has been torn apart by the constant onslaught of the enemy's aerial attacks. Though he had initially toyed about with the idea of filming in black-and-white, cinematographer Roger Deakins used a film processing technique called Bleach bypass to create the film's washed-out colour visuals. The most engaging sequences undoubtedly involve Burton and Hurt during the torture sessions, which are almost painful to watch. Winston Smith is reduced to such a horrific mess of a man that you really do despair when O'Brien declares him to be the final person of his kind. I also liked the idea of Smith regularly slipping into his hallucination of the flowing green fields, and that gutting moment when even this sanctuary is infiltrated by Big Brother and his all-powerful totalitarian regime. "},{"Title":"The only film version available!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell may have been a literary genius or a raving lunatic or both. This film version is dreary but so is life in the world of 1984 where everybody is watched, reported, and kept to a standard based on what higher powers think we should be. Winston Smith is an unlikely hero. He hates rats. He is working at making speech and language limited slowly by slowly. He hates his job. He falls in love but it's dangerous in a world where love is frowned upon. War is favored instead of love and hatred is preferred over romance. The world is a miserable existence for those like Winston who seeks to escape his mind from the controls of others. Orwell may have approved of this film version. I don't know because he died before it was even filmed. It's rather the last film and it was dedicated to Richard Burton CBE (he wasn't knighted) but should have been. He died after filming this movie. John Hurt CBE is a brilliant under-rated actor. This film version was used by me and many who were to read the novel for school. "},{"Title":"Watch it twice in two nights","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a BRILLIANT rendering of George Orwell's 1948 book. Starring the superb John Hurt as a mental deviant who holds still some doubts about The System, Richard Burton (as the chillingly calm Overseer), and Suzanna Hamilton (as the pretty comrade &#133; or IS she?), we immediately enter the world of the future (1984) - where technology and politics have gained absolute control over the population through the use of lies, fear, and the elimination of protest. (Closest literary/film relatives Fahrenheit 451, Metropolis, and Brazil.) Not only are the characters and scenarios incredibly gritty and believable, but the story is set as one would see 1984 IN 1948, i.e., the look of the costuming, machines, buildings, logos, etc. has strong links to the then-defeated Nazis, who, in 1948, were STILL being investigated, and the revelations still spewing forth. In this time of our privacy being secretly and increasingly violated by our own government in the name of National Security, and seeking NO approval from us, the book and the film 1984 are in NO WAY dated or quaint. Rent it tonight. Watch it closely. This is no fantasy. I'd seen it before, and I watched it again &#150; twice more in two nights. 1984 was made visual by the intelligent photography of Roger Deakins. "},{"Title":"The Best Adaptation of the Orwell Novel Yet!!!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ***1/2 out of ****I am a big, big fan of the classic Orwell novel 1984. I have not seen he first film adaptation of the book, but the adaptation is just about perfect in every way that the book was. This is a film that comes off as just as good and just as horrifying as the George Orwell novel.The film takes place in a dark vision of the future where Big Brother is always watching and everyone must follow orders from him and not break the law. Winston breaks the law by falling in love with Julia, a beautiful worker. They join together and try to escape the state of which they are programmed not to.This vision of the future is ugly in its rights of having long corridors of emptiness and rats which eat the flesh of the dead. Nobody can ever get a good funeral, not that one could really be acquired real easily. The hopelessness of Oceania is constant and almost cycling.Ther film hits all the right notes and does convey a sense of logic that makes it particularly memorable, especially through the disturbing scenes. The film makes its point across just as well as the book does and with this, i can highly recommend this film to everyone. Even if you haven't read the book, the film is just as effective, if not more due to the shock of it.Another film came out around the same time as this one called BRAZIL, which is very similar and I can recommend just as much as they are equally effective films. But this one is all the more due to the clear plot and the superb acting by John Hurt. Please see it, but see it with a sense of caution.Rated R for disturbing thematic scenes of violent content and images and for strong sexuality/nudity "},{"Title":"Visually stunning adaption","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though there are times when the film feels more like an adaption of the Cliff's notes rather than the novel, this version of the Orwell classic succeeded, through the cast and the art direction, in capturing the look of the novel. The excellent score by the Eurythmics also helped contribute to the eerie atmosphere.I also recommend the very hard to find 1956 version with Edmond O'Brien and Jan Sterling. "},{"Title":"We Are the Ones We've Been Waiting For, their favorite year","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's put this film on a time line, in manner of good investigators. What was occurring in 1984? Well, President Reagan, having kicked the soviets and Castro back to their respective cages, had just won reelection and it was 'Morning in America'. American's were happy, and freedom was breaking out around the world.The Leftists and their pantie-waist whining chorus were shrieking like a bunch of syphilitic banshees that President Regan would start a nuclear war. He didn't. As for home front, the screaming libs prophesied that President Reagan's pro-gun initiatives would cause 'a bloodbath from coast to coast'. They didn't.Of course, liberals never object to Castro, chairman Mao, pol pot, every crack-brained sadistic mullah and other commie thugs hoarding all the guns, grenades, and nuclear bombs they can get their claws on, do they? Wonder why that is? In 1984, America was free, jubilant, and prosperous, and the soviets, chic-oms, Castro's, and other global pests were nervous. The jihad-Marxist's 'students' who kidnapped and tortured American diplomats in the Tehran Embassy had most astutely realized, with Mr. Peanuts out and President Reagan in, their time was short. Very short. By their own admission. So, they released the hostages. Smart move.So, when this magnificent and prophetic warning in cinematic form was released in late '84, many overlooked it because though the year was 1984, the reality of the film seemed a fading worry from a bygone dark age.Until 2008, that is, when the spoiled-brat leftists who blew their minds on drugs during their 60s heyday returned and brought the dark ages with them, to make their last putsch for global tyranny.This film, based on Mr. Orwell's book, reads like a PET Scan regarding the commie rats and their sadistic, insane, childish, moronic 'philosphy', which consists of to taking functional things of value and destroying them, as well as violating our liberty in order to discourage as many people from living, so as to 'save the planet'.Nineteen-Eight-Four is also a treatise which tells us how the Left operates. It's a treasure, one the inadequate Left surely can't bear to watch, knowing that history is against them and their idiotic 'revolution'.If you find 1984 to be depressing, you're normal. Communism, socialism, and 'progressiveism' are depressing philosophies founded upon hate. They's why hate pimps like Lenin, Stalin, and crack-brain Marx endorsed it - because the Left is hate.1984 tells us about the Left, in order that we may know it and never again be fooled either by it or the weak minded shills who fall for it.Paul Vincent ZecchinoManasota Key, Florida01 July, 2011milspec390@aol.com "},{"Title":"Huge Disappointment","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Radford's Nineteen Eighty-Four is an adaptation of George Orwell's classic, 1984. It takes place in the future in Oceania, a society controlled through people's thoughts, or at least most of them. The main character, Winston Smith (John Hurt) lives his everyday life constantly battling over the fact that he knows what reality is in his mind compared to what the Party says it is. The film starts off surprisingly precise to George Orwell's book. The visual aspects of this film are so accurate and they look almost identical the manner that I pictured myself when reading the book. However, This film rushes through the storyline, leaving out many crucial scenes and patterns.Orwell intended this story to be battle of Winston and his mind. The most important aspect of the original book is Winston's thought life and how he commits thought crime on a day to day basis, going on unnoticed by the telescreens. Michael Radford's interpretation has very minimal dialog of Winston's thoughts. This film also does not introduce characters and ideas efficiently. For example, The film gives no introduction of the overall lifestyle and society of Oceania. It just jumps right in assuming everyone has read the book. Another is the mental portrayal of Big Brother. All you see is his posters and telescreens, you don't get a proper explanation of his purpose and intentions. This list of neglected scenes goes on and on. Winston's fear of rats, the scene where Winston brings Julia to O'Brien's and they make an oath to do whatever it takes to fight against the party, and the scene of the three inner party members who get arrested in the Chestnut Tree Cafe were either not properly demonstrated or not shown at all. With all my negative views, there were some positive ones. I thought the best depictions from the book are the 2 minutes hate scenes, with everyone screaming and stammering. I was also agreed with the affair scenes in the upper room of Mr. Charrington's shop. If you have never read the book, you will be utterly confused and upset. If you have read it, you will just be disappointed. The whole idea of the story centers around Winston's thoughts, while this adaption of the book has very few if his thoughts. It's almost as if Radford copied the book directly to screenplay, leaving out all the thoughts and emotions. To do justice for Orwell's masterpiece, this film would have to be made into 2 whole parts. "},{"Title":"A Fitting End to Richard Burton's Career","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 1984, when I was a college student, there was much discussion of George Orwell's famous novel, generally concentrating on how far his predictions had come true since he wrote it in 1948. Some felt that he had got everything right except the sex of the supreme dictator and that the country was now being run by Big Sister (by which they meant Margaret Thatcher) rather than Big Brother. Others claimed that the novel could be read as a prediction of developments in post- Stalin Russia and post-Mao China where the apparatus of state repression was now being used to defend not the Revolution but the power, status and privileges of the Soviet nomenklatura and its Chinese equivalent. All agreed that Orwell had been prescient in predicting the division of the world into three power blocs, his Oceania, Eurasia and Eastasia corresponding roughly to NATO, the Warsaw Pact and Red China. It was perhaps therefore inevitable that the novel would be filmed in that year. (It had earlier been adapted for television and the cinema in the fifties). There was, however, perhaps a problem. Orwell was not a particularly visual writer; he dealt in words more than pictures, and several phrases coined in the book have passed into our language. (Newspeak, thoughtcrime, doublethink, Thought Police, telescreen, Room 101, Big Brother, etc.). It is notable that many of these words refer either to speech or to thought, and in fact Nineteen Eighty Four is more than just a satire on totalitarianism; it is also an exploration of various philosophical, political and linguistic issues. These are difficult concepts to convey in cinematic form, and the director Michael Radford wisely concentrates more on the anti- totalitarian aspects of the story. Radford and cinematographer Roger Deakins originally wanted to shoot the film in black-and-white, which would have fitted well with Orwell's grim descriptions of existence in the totalitarian superstate of Oceania, but this proved unacceptable to their financial backers. Their solution was to use a process called bleach bypass to create the film's very distinctive washed-out look, dominated by blacks and greys, about as close as a colour film can get to monochrome. There are few, if any, bright colours except in the brief sequences where the film's hero Winston Smith and his lover Julia travel into the countryside. Most of the film is set in a London which has become a bleak urban wasteland. Although the novel is sometimes categorised as science fiction, there are no Star Wars type special effects. Orwell's widow Sonia, shortly before she died in 1980, gave permission for the film on condition that such effects were not used, which was a wise stipulation. Her husband's vision of the future was not a shiny, hi-tech one; Oceanian society has actually regressed technologically since the 1940s as the only new inventions the Party tolerates are those like the telescreens which make it easier for them to control the populace. The film is noteworthy for two remarkable performances, the first from John Hurt as Winston. He is part of the Outer Party, the state's army of bureaucratic functionaries. (The other two social classes in Oceania are the Inner Party, or ruling elite, and the proles, or industrial workers). Although the Outer Party officially form the regime's middle class, they live in squalid, deprived conditions, suggesting that life for the proles must be even harsher. Winston works at the Ministry of Truth (i.e. Ministry of Propaganda) where his job is to rewrite history and official records to make them accord with the current Party line. (Orwell's intention was to satirise Stalin, who had done something very similar, particularly writing Trotsky out of Soviet history). Winston is secretly guilty of thoughtcrime- in Oceania even thinking thoughts critical of the Party is a crime- and joins what he believes is a resistance movement, only to find that he has been betrayed by an agent provocateur. As played by Hurt, Winston is a shabby, middle-aged everyman figure, in some ways pathetic, in others heroic. Apart from Julia, he is the only character prepared to make a stand, however futile, against the evil rule of the Party.Suzanna Hamilton (who seemed to be a promising newcomer but has since disappeared from view) is good as Julia, but the other great performance comes from Richard Burton as O'Brien, the high-ranking Inner Party member who betrays Winston and supervises the physical and mental torture which is designed to break him psychologically. (The Party's greatest desire is not only to crush dissent but also to destroy the very possibility of thoughtcrime). This was Burton's last film; he died shortly after completing it and it is a fitting end to his career. His O'Brien is patient yet remorseless, never becoming angry or raising his voice yet implacable in his belief in the Party and its right to rule. Since the end of the Cold War, only a few years after this film was made, the political concerns which inspired Orwell's book have perhaps not seemed so relevant, at least in the West, although there still remain parts of the world, notably Kim Jong-Il's North Korea, where the system of government is not too dissimilar to that of Big Brother's Oceania. For the rest of us, however, the rise of a totalitarian superstate is perhaps not the greatest threat we have to face. (Something along the lines of Huxley's Brave New World may be a greater danger for our future). This does not, however, mean that the novel itself has lost its relevance and it remains one of the most eloquent denunciations of tyranny in the English language. I will not compare Radford's film to the two earlier adaptations, as it is a long time since I last saw either of them, but it strikes me as a very decent attempt to translate Orwell's eloquence into cinematic terms. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Best dystopia ever, but now double-plus ungood","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" You may note that I have rated this film as an 8. It would be a 9, maybe even a 10 if the b@stards in charge of home video for the studio had gone with the washed-out look of the theatrical version. For some reason known only to their own Eastasian (Eurasian?) selves, they went back and tweaked the original masterpiece so that it looked like it was filmed in warm, happy Technicolor.Shades of Minitrue. Or, as Colbert would call it, Truthiness.I consider myself lucky to have seen 1984 as it was originally presented (on cable, I wasn't old enough to see an R-rated flick in 1984), with the original look that the filmmakers intended. It was SUPPOSED to look awful!! London was SUPPOSED to look like it was falling apart! That's what happens in a Dystopia!When Spielberg went for the de-saturated look in Saving Private Ryan, he won an Oscar. Ask yourself what that movie would look like if it was a vibrant, Technicolor extravaganza along the lines of Raiders or Jurassic Park. Now you understand the ruination that was foisted upon 1984. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly shot and acted, but fails to portray the books most important concepts.","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 3.5/5 - Beautifully crafted sets and spectacular acting are marred by an inability to grasp some of the most important concepts in the novel. Particularly the Novels final, perhaps most crucial chapter.***Be forewarned I will deal with spoilers of the novel from here-out to illustrate my point.***I will begin with the single most important concept this film does not deal with, and that is the novels final and most important Chapter. Nineteen Eighty-Four the film almost completely ignores this final chapter. The Bookdoes far more to explain the aftermath of winstons treatment, and this is crucial to our understanding. Granted, the Books end can be perceived very different between individuals. I personally found it redeeming and hopeful of the future. The party meant to stamp the emotion, cognitive ability, and love right out of winston. Instead, they taught him how to really love, think about the world around him, and feel good natured emotion. To become a better man. The Ministry of Love had created in all their efforts exactly what they were trying to destroy. The party was fallible. It might fall, but Winston felt great gratitude towards Big Brother for teaching him these things. Winston loved Big Brother for it. Not in the way the party intended, but would he rise up against them? I do not know. The film did little to express the ideas of this chapter, and I would have had no way of formulating this idea of the novels conclusion based on it. I do not believe any viewer could come to an accurate conclusion of their personal theories of the novels final chapter based on the film. Some changes may always be necessary, even if just for keeping the running length below 3 hours, but this final chapter IMO needed to be shot word for word, scene for scene, in order, with every action meticulously displayed. The film even leaves out the crucial 'I betrayed you' comments by Winston and Julia to each other.Many other small situational contexts were changed throughout, such as the timing of events, and characters involved. George Orwell set out events in the Book in a particular order for a reason. The changing of the timing of these events blurs the ideas a little, but not to the point of serious detriment. The film does however, botch up dealing with the Brotherhood. Little mention is ever made in the film about the Brotherhood. It was my interpretation that the Brotherhood was organized and controlled by the party. An ultimate form of control. Consider the line in the book referring that the party makes the revolution to establish the dictatorship. None of this was touched upon in the film. Winston does not bring Julia to see O' Brian, and the conversation between the three does not take place in the context of the Book. In fact, a viewer who has not read the Book may not even grasp that O' Brian is claiming to be part of the Brotherhood at all.There are numerous other little changes I will not touch on. These two are the most important, and most detrimental to a film that is among the greatest ever made in the fields of acting and cinematography/directing. The scenes involving a crowd watching the telescreen are classics of cinema.So my verdict? Do not see this movie if you have not read the book. You will not get an accurate representation of the most important concepts with which to formulate an understanding of the material. Even Winstons time in the Ministry of Love is portrayed on a level minimal to the length of coverage given in the book. Read the book, then see the movie for it's artistic merits and to understand from what direction it was made, filling in the various holes from your previous reading. As a film not based on prior material, it would be one of the greatest films ever made, but it is based on a book, with ideas that crucially must be represented here. Some of the most important, are not. "}{"Title":"Supremely dark movie which echos the book well","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have read some people mentioning another adaptation of 1984 as a movie. I have to say I think it is a waste of time ! The John Hurt/Richard Burton version of 1984 is already the ultimate version. Seriously, could anyone improve on the performances given by these two, as well as the excellent supporting cast ? I hardly think so. John Hurt was without doubt the perfect choice as Winston Smith. First of all, he's English - and in the film portrays a cragged, disheveled and bewildered Smith - exactly as he was meant to be. There were no better performances anywhere that year and only the bleakness and content of the film stopped him from carrying away every honour conceivable within the film industry. Richard Burton's sheer presence, stony face and conviction is mesmerizing - he really does carry the message that Orwell wanted so well - that one really could make 2+2=5 if you can smash a persons spirit to dust and build them back up in the mould of choice. I fear for any remake. Just as War of the Worlds was bastardized again by Americans ( I'd love to see a proper version set in Victorian england ), I fear that it will be a Kevin spacey / Liam neeson nightmare set in new york. And that the human spirit wins out in the end - and Smith sees a BB poster crashing down in flames as he and Julia ( Jodie Foster ) head off into a free sunset to rebuild humanity. Seriously - can you imagine Hollywood making even a passable version of 1984 ? "},{"Title":"Disappointment's No Thought Crime A Meritorious But Failed Adaptation *minor spoilers only for those who haven't read the book*","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A worthy but not entirely successful adaptation of the novel flat and cold. Orwell's narrative is first and foremost an internal one, what is more, his characters must be careful not to betray their thoughts and feelings to others; this makes their effective translation to the screen rather difficult. The film-makers needed to be cleverer to succeed at this.The film's crumbling, bomb-scarred mise-en-scene and washed-out palette create an atmosphere of dismal oppression but never really invoke feelings of fear. The fear that Winston Smith's thoughts might be discovered is what lends tension to the book tension which is lacking in this film. John Hurt's beaten, cipher-like characterisation might ring true, but it hardly makes for engaging viewing (at least until he enters the torture chamber).Where is the sense of constant surveillance, of Big Brother's gaze? Where is the sense of liberation when Winston escapes this? 1984's world should, but does not, feel like a panopticon.The film also fails to make the love scenes between Winston and Julia (Suzanna Hamilton) suitably exciting and transportive. The tone of these scenes is hardly an improvement on the drudgery that precedes them. Indeed the rolling green hillside on which Winston first sees Julia undress, later becomes a motif for his torture-induced mental plane; this concordance is, I think, misconceived.Winston's little junk shop is another disappointment it has none of the nostalgic charm, none of feeling of a special place that is evoked by the book.I believe in judging a film for what it is; I am not interested in authenticity to whatever source material a film might draw from. I only make these comparisons because they are illustrative of the film's major failing the film is, as I've said, too flat; it is Orwell's novel drained of its gnawing tension and sensual releases.Winston's 'curing' constitutes a good third of the film a much larger proportion than it does in the book; Radford seems to have subordinated the novel's more natural tempo to the three acts mantra of the screenwriter's manual. The curing scenes just don't have the atmosphere to sustain them at their allotted length. The torturer's apparatus, including some hideously large rats, is complete, but the shooting of these scenes is so bland. Richard Burton's performance is passionless without sufficient compensating menace. Those who feel his chill feel only the chill of the circumstances his final film performance is sadly didactic and underwhelming.The film's final let down is the moment of Winston's breaking, which, after a slow build up, is skipped over far too glibly. The climax is, in a word, anticlimactic. An extreme close up, more fervour and volume in the delivery of John Hurt's lines, sound or visual effects something different needed to be done to add potency to this moment.The film finishes with an invented, rather dull epilogue. Something was needed, in this film at least, to demonstrate Winston's brainwashing, but this could have been more succinctly achieved. Orwell's parting words &#150; 'I had learned to love Big Brother.' &#150; achieve this aim admirably in the novel, but they are missing from the film. If ever there was a need for a voice over&#133;Having taken this film to pieces, I need to make it clear that it's still worth a look. It communicates the politics of its dystopia remarkably well; until Winston's interrogation, one never gets caught in a scene that feels like an explanation. Radford's adaptation is really solid in this respect.The crowd scenes effectively summon the spectre of Nazism. And the supporting cast does a good job of making us believe in their world. Gregor Fisher is convincingly credulous as Parsons.As I've said, John Hurt's torture-chamber performance is a virtue, and the urban mis-en-scene, exterior and interior, is evocative just don't watch this one when you're feeling impatient. If you've read the book this is far from essential viewing unfortunately, disappointed thoughts don't feel like a crime. "},{"Title":"OK movie, lousy DVD release","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched the DVD release from MGM after many years passing since I last saw this on video.  Radford sets an acceptable pace given this story's bleak content and there are some truly memorable scenes (especially between the O'Brien and Winston characters in the second half).  However, I think this movie really fails in captivating its audience fully.  Anytime a classic novel is turned into film there is certainly risk in not being true to the original material.  I think Radford does a decent job of captivating the right visual cues from the book, I just felt the characters wandered too much during the first half and I felt very disconnected with them by the time I'm suppose to feel pity for them in the second half.1984 Is still worth a watch if you're a fan of political dramas, but I doubt it has ever had the impact on its viewers the way Orwell's writing impacts his readers.  Tough material for Radford to adapt to screen, and I give him a lot of credit for trying.Strangely, the DVD version of this movie seems to have adopted Orwell's social-minimalist ideology in its own presentation.  This DVD is bare, folks.  Transfer is OK, but audio is still in MONO, if you can believe that. The only extra material is the original trailer and that's it.  There isn't so much as an insert card for the keepcase!?  I would hope that this movie receives the Criterion treatment someday, and maybe include the early versions of the film (1950s?), almost the way Criterion recently presented The Killers.  The audio certainly needs a reworking and this is an easy movie for some interesting supplements.I rated this movie 5.  If I rated the DVD, it would be a 2.  "},{"Title":"Great story and terrific acting","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1984 is a book that changed everyone who read it, so I was naturally drawn to the movie.  While a little disappointing in the story dragging away from the book, the acting was simply amazing.  Richard Burton and John Hurt are great actors, and they always amaze me. "},{"Title":"This movie was pretty much on the mark","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1984--the book and the movie pretty much predicted the future of modern political systems  There are security cameras everywhere, government wiretaps, torture chambers(check out the LA Ramparts police scandal), and many thought crimes--courts have ruled that is does not matter if you actually committed a crime, only that you *thought* you were committing a crime.  The only thing this movie didn't predict is that it was the most affluent societies that would be the most repressive (The U.S. has the most number of prisoners and the highest incarceration rate in the world).  This movie should be watched and heeded by all those concerned about the future of modern man. "},{"Title":"Where was Ridley when we really needed him???!!!!","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm giving this a 2 because it was shot by the great Roger Deakins. And even when working with a crappy script like this one, Deakins can't help but elevate the project with his genius lighting and camera-work.And of course, John Hurt is one of our great actors. So nothing against him. And Richard Burton a legend, as we all know.The problem with this film is the script and director.Apparently, Michael Radford, an otherwise intelligent filmmaker, figured EVERYONE knows the book SO well, that NOTHING really needs to be explained. The audience will just naturally connect all the dots and fill in all the plot holes and figure out this complex story on their own.Big mistake.This is a confusing, tediously slow-moving and nearly incomprehensible film. All the great craftsmanship that went into it was wasted.And I don't think Orwell wanted his readers to slit their wrists after reading the book, he wanted them to think. With this insanely bleak and depressing version, you might as well buy a gun before watching. That is, if you don't fall asleep first -- which is extremely likely.Radford's version can't hold a candle to the 1956 version. But without question, the greatest 1984 of all time is Ridley Scott's Apple Computer commercial. In my view, he's the only one so far who has perfectly captured the look, sound, and spirit of the novel. If only he'd been hired instead of Radford. Wow! Then maybe we'd have a classic film instead of this disastrous box office bomb that was barely even released. I saw in New York in '85, and I think there were about three people in the theater -- including me. What n terrible -- almost sinful -- wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"George's best  work","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great novel to film version I have ever seen. A totalitarian government using the ordinary people to thrust forwards a new world coalition under subterfuge means. Richard Burton was magnificent in his role as a lap dog for this new world order. And John Hurt the lowly man who is employed by a censorship board, only wanted to live in his own solace without the need for military interruptions. George Orwell captured the horrifying vision of how our own political bodies are becoming so corrupt, that even the common man and woman will not survive an oncoming slaughter to those who built the nations from the ground up using toil and sweat. This film had a vision which no other can match, cities nearly burned to the ground, ordinary civilians living in horror day by day, and children trying to survive by scraping the streets for food or eating virus ridden rats. The paraphrase, Big brother is watching you is not really that far behind us, and this movie captured it precisely. One of the greatest film achievements of all time. "},{"Title":"No nonsense Big Brother","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three weeks before his death, Richard Burton commented to brother Graham Jenkins in response to how his life turned out with frequent appearances in inferior movies asking whether it had all been a waste. His brother's reply was that he had given pleasure to millions and added; How can it be a waste? Burton choose to carry on with his own thoughts and said; Olivier and Gielgud, they've acted in rubbish. We can't be good for all of the time. But there's a difference, reminded his brother. You've spent most of your life on a film set. Olivier and Gielgud have given more to theatre (theater). Burton laughed; You mean if the rubbish is on film people remember it for longer. During 1984 Richard Burton made two final screen appearances in the remake of George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty Four along with a cameo role on a made-for-television Ellis Island. Directed by Michael Radford, Nineteen Eighty Four was a gripping and successful remake of the original 1950s version and a no-nonsense approach to Big Brother about a rebel Winston Smith brilliantly played by John Hurt and set in a bleak bloc outpost just like Stalin and the Communist regime with the secret police where people who show the obvious signs of rebellion face torture and worst, execution. Forget about the Big Brother where people contest on some reality TV rubbish, this is what can happen when your country has been governed from riches to rags with strict Big Brother which suggests that that word is Orwellian slang for something relating to Stalinism. Richard Burton completed work on 1984 barely two months before his death and he was still at his prime with remarkable performances despite his declining health and he never lived to see the reviews of 1984 for they came out a month after his passing. "},{"Title":"a very difficult film","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this film was mediocre. But I do not hold a grudge. 1984 is my favorite novel of all time and I don't think I would have been satisfied with any film adaptation. 1984 is a very difficult novel to adapt to film. The most emotional passages are not spoken, and the concepts presented are too numerous and too complex to adequately convey in a film of reasonable length. Before I present any specific criticism, please allow me to say that the acting was masterful (especially Suzanna Hamilton, who was great in the role as well as being gorgeous) and the cinematography excellent. There are no glaring defects in the making of the film itself, and I do not mean to imply that.The film rushed over too many aspects of Oceanic life. There were too many setups left out, which gave the payoffs less impact Winston's horror of rats is not adequately set up, nor is his queasiness about sex, nor are his struggles to discern what pre-revolutionary society might have been like. The distinctions between Party and proletarian life were not made clear, so the woman hanging laundry in the courtyard became meaningless. I think if I had not read the novel over and over again I would have been hopelessly lost in the film.The relationship between Winston and Julia had several holes. The subtleties of its formation were absent, as well as the harshness of its undoing. When they met after their re-education, they seemed almost cordial. There was nothing of the cauterized feelings of the book. And although their sexual relationship was portrayed vividly and splendidly, their conversations, which were so revealing and engrossing, were almost entirely excised. One of the key aspects of their relationship, which was not explored at all, was that they represented two different strategies of rebellion against the rule of the Party Winston wanted to act directly against the Party if possible, or in any event to thwart their efforts; whereas Julia had almost a split personality--she used a strident and orthodox exterior to hide a personal lasciviousness, while caring nothing about whether the Party succeeded or not. Many people today face a similar internal struggle Can the system be changed from inside? Do I make myself irrelevant by refusing to participate? Is there a middle ground? These mental struggles were absent from the film.In the film, the Party seemed evil and overbearing, but I did not get the sense of absolute control and helplessness that I got from the novel. The Ministries of Truth and Love were portrayed as being just as shabby as the rest of Oceania, when in the novel it was made clear that these were two places where the Party had really invested resources, so that they were ultramodern and efficient. O'Brien was not the awe-inspiring figure that he was in the novel. And his apartment, while cleaner and perhaps a bit nicer than Winston's, was not nearly different enough to make an impression--it looked more like an office. The meeting between Winston and O'Brien was dull and unmeaningful--in the novel, O'Brien is almost teasing Winston and Julia, though one only knows this in retrospect. He is filling them with a hope which he knows he intends to crush later. And the scenes in the Ministry of Love could have been a chilling, psychologically disturbing sequence, something like the Silence of the Lambs or 2001 a Space Odyssey or A Clockwork Orange. Notice two of those are Kubrick films--I think he could have made this film better.This film is not bad, but it's not good either. To get the full meaning and impact of Orwell's ideas, head straight for the book. Read it, think about it, read it several more times, and think about it a great deal more. Then you will begin to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"A documentary","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, this movie cannot be rated as drama of sci-fi anymore, its's a documentary, maybe yet a little inaccurate, but still a factual depiction of reality.We don't have Big Bother, but we have hundreds of political puppets. There is no Inner party, but there are international brotherhood of wealthy and powerful. Instead of Outher Party, there are politicians and top managers. Instead of perpetual enemy Goldstein, there are non-existing terrorists. There are spy satellites, email scanning, wiretaps, and almost vanished privacy. There's a little of free speech left, and the censorship is strenhtening. The Orwell's concepts of party doublethink (believing something you know is wrong because the government says so) and goodthink (believing anything party says and acting only the way government want you to act) is embodied in so called political correctness. There is no Miniluv, but there is CIA and secret prisons and elimination of unwanted dissidents.But most importantly, there is a monopoly on media, which turns 90% of world's population into Orwell's proles, who can never rebel and overthrow the party, because they simply are not informed enough to direct their anger against their government.The book/movie was an early warning, yet nobody seemed to listen, so it seems that we may be doomed to reach the worst end of Orwell's reality.The movie itself is flawless, with powerful acting and directing, but it's not the form it's the message that matters. "}{"Title":"Great. It even follows the book too closely","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first read 1984's book when I was 15, and since then I'm caught by the warning against dictatorships that lies in this story. About the movie, it follows the book so literally, that someone who hasn't read the book probably feels lost very soon. It is hard to understand, just seeing the film, the real situation of fear, misery and total mind control that the characters are suffering. I must say that all the atmosphere, and even the actors, are very similar to what I imagined when I read the book. Just Julia is a bit tasteless, you simply can't see her as the fierce but ice-cold resistant against brain washing. I have read the book four times, and probably seen the movie three or four times, too, and I still feel the anxiety and agony of Orwell's world. Nevertheless, a previous knowledge of the book is recommended "},{"Title":"every bit as good as the novel, utterly perfect","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  crushing, hopelessly bleak, disturbing, oddly touching and surreal, 1984 is the best movie of michael radford's directorial career, hands down.  it puzzles me that not many other people have seen this movie, when it is pretty obvious that it not only equals orwell's novel but even surpasses it in a strange way, if only because we see visually what orwell could only communicate verbally.  john hurt gives the performance of a lifetime as the painfully lucid winston smith, the understandably fearful and tortured citizen of oceania, a monstrous futuristic nation where freedom of thought is non existent and dissent is not even an option.  big brother is indeed watching, and at times the movie takes on such a vivid and terrifying life of it's own that you have to take a break from it. radford depicts perfectly a hellish world of fear and hatred, where the party line is the only line and  even the slightest sign of individuality, real or imagined, brings unconscionable consequences upon the sometimes unwitting perpetrator. this movie doesn't have a glimmer of hope in it, and i would even go so far as to say that the whole thing is so absolutely convincing and horrifyingly real that sensitive people will be perhaps tempted to cry after it ends. winston's relationship with julia is doomed and pathetic but touching, and of course is in the end brutally crushed, resulting in the horrific torture and brainwashing of them both. richard burton's farewell performance as the monstrous o'brien is absolutely flawless, and rather than portraying him (as a more average actor probably would)as a one dimensional villain, he demonstrates perfectly to us how deeply evil this man is in every sense of that wordhe is not unaware of the true state of things and the horror of the world he actively supports and is not oafish or unintelligent, he is rather a sensitive and intelligent yet slightly haunted man who has chosen to embrace tyranny and hopelessness for the sake of power. this illustrious cinematic achievement, along with orwell's classic book, should serve as a dire warning to the majority who take their personal freedom for granted and so eagerly submit to the dictates of authority for the sake of advancement or, worse, a good self image.  anyone with half a brain knows that the world, even the US,(which is becoming progressively more and more dominated by corporations and frenzied mass consumerism), has hardly taken to heart the still relevant and not by any means passe message that orwell so urgently wanted to convey to usthat our sugary optimism regarding the future and naive rousseauian assumptions about the fundamental goodness of man are quite unfounded, and that our comfortable willingness to let our guard down regarding society's expectations and insidious yet all pervasive demand for conformity just might result in a world that at present seems unimaginable and impossible, yet is much closer than we think. a brilliant and unforgettable movie that unflinchingly shows us the likely results of our complacency.         "},{"Title":"The best adaptation of Orwell's novel","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems a joke that the best adaptations of a novels have in their names some year 1984 and 2001 1984 has a solid pack of actors, but Richard Burton plays the best performance of his life. You really will hate his character, the secret police's agent O'Brien. The music, specially the Hymn of Oceania, will sound in your brain for weeks. And the next time you see a big electronic screen... you will feel that Big Brother is watching you.  "},{"Title":"One of the most accurate movie adaptations I've ever seen.   It was both chilling and compelling.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Radford's vision of George Orwell's 1984, is close to perfect. It is, in fact, one of my all time favorite films. From the set design, which seems to come straight from Orwell's vision to the performances, this is a great albeit depressing creation.The great performances of the two male leads are also of note. In his final big screen role, Richard Burton gives the strongest performance of the last decade of his career. His world-weary O'Brien is a masterful creation. He makes a character who performs evil acts, almost sympathetic. His obviously poor health adds to his character, but it does not detract from the power of his performance. John Hurt gives a great performance as well.All in all, this is a chilling and prophetic view that was still relevant in 1984 and it is still relevant today. "},{"Title":"Maybe 2084","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1984 and George Orwell's vision of the future hasn't quite arrived yet. Maybe Orwell should have been slightly more optimistic and named his futuristic pessimistic novel 2084.In any event the world is now in three different conglomerate countries and John Hurt as our protagonist Winston Smith is in the country of Oceania. It's all one continual war as Oceania is forever fighting with one or both the other two and sometimes one of the other two is in alliance. All we know is what the Faux News tells us. One thing is constant, you've got to keep up the martial spirit of the citizenry to hate the designated enemy at the moment.John Hurt has a nice bureaucratic job, but he's starting to question just what is being given out for news and a whole lot more about certain assumptions this totalitarian society is based on. He's even taken to fornicating for the pleasure of it, specifically with Suzanna Hamilton. They've even set up a love nest of sorts.But you can't keep away from the all seeing eye of Big Brother. And soon both of them are being rehabilitated by the State of Oceania.The state here is represented by Richard Burton who was ill at the time and gives an almost somnambulant performance. I suspect health was the reason. John Hurt however is fine as Winston Smith and he's a fine everyman protagonist for a very frightening future. "},{"Title":"What is the worst thing we are all capable of as human beings?","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" When George Orwell's publication of 1984 was distributed in 1949, it was not too long after the creation of two separate governments for Korea, as it was divided among the Democratic People's Republic of Korea of the North and the Republic of Korea in the south. South Korea is a moderate presidential republic. North Korea is the very nightmare Orwell's novel depicts. It is totalitarianism to the full definition of its own conception. The 'eternal president and the general secretary are Kim LL sung, and Kim Jong LL. Corpses in leadership essentially. The current president is Kim Jong UN, or as Bill Maher often remarks as a member of the Adam's family. Little humor is to be derived from such a comparison, when really pity and sorrow is a more appropriate reaction to the citizens who live under the regime of North Korea, with little freedom, or rarely any individuality in their existence. The same can be said for the people of Ocenia as they praise their ever loving Big Brother, for whatever greater good the party of Insoc (English Socialism) has declared. The details never matter, for the purpose of totalitarianism in its nationalistic intentions is to promote ignorance, and to discourage all forms of independence.Winston Smith (Hurt), a frail, and subtly loner, lives a pathetic and empty life in his methodical existence. His profession consists that of a worker at the ministry of truth, rewriting history, and preventing any essence of truth from reaching the surface of an ongoing war. He attends daily meetings of erratic praise, as many of the blue collared workers of the both the inner and outer parties praise the image of Big Brother, their all powerful and omniscient ruler. There is not a street corner where Big Brother's face isn't shown, or a room with a television screen of his bulgy focused eyes locked dead onto you. Children are recruited into groups known as the thought police, breeding suspicion amongst those they supposed to be thought criminals, as in those who commit the crimes of thinking. Friends, family, neither matters, anyone guilty of thought crime is considered an enemy of Big Brother.Winston's world is forever changed when he receives a letter from a women named Julia (Hamilton), saying I love you. Perplexing at first, and odd to the degree of such a confession, but with the curiosity of his wondering spirit, Winston pursues Julia to the point where they begin a forbidden affair, experiencing the sexual pleasure and the emotional love their society tirelessly works to prevent. As their love affair becomes more intimate, there comes an even greater understanding to Winston and his past, feeling regret for the sins of his childhood, and the doubts he holds to this day in being a human being.One of the central themes of 1984, aside from its direct opposition to nationalistic totalitarianism, is that it is an examination that it tackles both the beautiful and the equally horrible parts of the human soul. Through the character Winston, there comes an unraveling of the certain extents that human nature represents. There are two sides to the fragile and well-meaning Winston. Through his love affair with Julia, comes the gentle and benevolent side that is still discovering the concepts of beauty and happiness, forsaking the absurd notion of purity and embracing the tranquility of an old woman singing as though these were peaceful times. Then comes the cowardly and terrified side to his persona. It is a side that only those that haven't read the novel will find surprising in the dark revelations regarding the human condition. It is mostly shown through the chilling performance Richard Burton gives as O'Brian. A member of the inner party, O'Brian lives a more comfortable lifestyle, being mysterious and cunning in his remarks. He gives Winston dreams of hope, while raising suspicions in the audience. It is a brilliant performance that manifests a cold representation of the human being.Anyone who picks up a copy 1984 can merely see written words and images. As a filmmaker, Michael Radford captures the nightmare that George Orwell envisioned, generating a philosophical discussion regarding politics, the manipulation of history, and humanity in is most sensitive areas of understanding. For those who've already read the novel, fully know what happens in the conclusion. Given the film's faithful portrayal of the novel, 1984 distances itself from a typically broad ending, and sticks to the tragic ending that symbolizes the corruptibility of human beings. Winston is lured into the mysterious room 101, and as he is tortured endlessly, he eventually gives in, begging for not only mercy, but torment for Julia. Then and only then does the film truly conceive of the central point, as it causes us to reflect on the part within ourselves that is most vulnerable. Human beings are intriguing creatures indeed, especially in the conception of their capabilities. It is mysterious at times what we are capable of in our willingness, and the film presents that in an atrocious and pitiful form of betrayal, as Winston relinquishes the one he loves most, thus fully capitalizing on the deepest and most deteriorated part of the human soul, the part that is willing to do anything to end suffering, even if it means forsaking the very qualities that grant them the privilege to love. Then and only then does Big Brother truly win. O'Brian said it himself, You must love him. It's not enough to obey him. You must love him. "},{"Title":"Very good, faithful transition from the book.","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember buying the book a few years back and thinking it was a incredible book, I think I read it in two days. A while back a friend of mine told me there had been a movie remake of the book and of course I became incredibly excited. Fittingly enough around a week later my teacher revealed our next assignment which was writing and comparing 3 dystopian books, films or games of our own choice, And there's the reason I watched this movie.It is as previously said a brilliant transition from book to movie, one you rarely see. The strongest part of this film in my opinion was the skillful way they through the characters and environment was able to project this horrible picture of a controlling and oppressing society. Another strong point was how the main character didn't say much and most of the story was told through this overhanging voice, I think this even more adds to the image of the people being controlled. Also I think Richard Burtons role and acting is mere brilliance. "},{"Title":"Still amazing","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie should be a must see for everyone. Schools should use and discuss it. It is stunning and captures the atmosphere in the book extremely well. The tension of big brother is there every second of the film.It can be considered a total masterpiece. Of course it is not everybody's taste, but anyone must be able to see the acting, filming and dialog excellence of this movie. Richard Burton as the tired O'Brien, John Hurt as Smith and the amazing Julia put out a performance which is totally believable and convincing in every scene. The torture scene is amazing acting but also the dialog is woth the whole movie. What is it that makes you human? I was amazed that even 30 year (almost) after its release the film still doesn't look outdated. It looks stunning. "},{"Title":"Mistaken as a political diatribe.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've heard many commentators and English teacher state that this is a polemic on Soviet style communism, and that what we're witnessing is the degradation of human values and a corruption of an inescapable society. Ergo we're witnessing is the disintegration of humanity under the Soviet system.Well, maybe, but not quite.Orwell wrote this book in the wake of WW2 and after one of the great realizations that mental health issues were abundant among people before and after the war. One of the methods used to cure shell shock, or a soldier who had been driven to a certain level of insanity due to all the carnage and destruction he'd witnessed on the battlefield, was to place him in a semi-conscious state and force them to relive the experience with a psychologist or psychiatrist walking them through the experience by talking to the soldier who is in semi-consciousness. What does this have to do with 1984? You're saying that the war portrayed in the book is always off screen so to speak, so it's not an issue as such. Ah, but it's the fact that Winston Smith lives a dreary life with the perspective that he serves a larger party that will take care of his every need and desire, all the while inside he is craving more.Winston craves sex and the desire to rebel against the system. He is furnished these things. Again, what does this have to do with anything? Because this is a psychiatric regime to take the fight out of a mind that is allegedly suffering from delusions or is somehow deranged. All the stuff about new-speak and double plus good and rationing of things like chocolate or razor blades, is all just dressing for the real story which is a torture session designed to get a person to think correctly, or, more rather, to get them to rebel and behave properly.That's what the actual tale of Orwell's 1984 is all about. Everything else is just science fiction for the sake of it. If you look at the speculative history and society of both book and film, you'll find as many comments on capitalism and free markets in regards to advertising and dumbing down speech to sell more products which are always in short supply, and therefore go for a higher premium, than you'll find jabs at communism.The film starring John Hurt shows us that, but also does much to disguise the psychological and psychiatric tale as per Orwell's verbiage which acted as camouflage netting on what he regarded an important work for society, and specifically to get people to react to it, and, in this way, hopefully get them to do something about mental illness among society.John Hurt likes his mundane life, but he is not a whole man. He has not experienced life so to speak, and is stagnating. Is he sexually repressed? Maybe. That's a big part of both book and film; satiation of basic sexual urges and desires. Again, this was a big issue back in the 40s and 50s, and again, this book homes in this like a heat seeking missile.The only problem with the movie that I could find is that Hurt's act of defiance at the end was understated. Perhaps that's in tradition with British expression of things that are startling, but I can't but feel that had it been an American cast, Hurt's Winston, played by an American, would have destroyed the cafe in the final scene.The film itself is shot with a lot of slo-mo shots, color extraction, and the usage of minimal lighting with lots of grays. It makes for an interesting viewing experience, but also makes for a dreary film. Then again 1984, book and film, are not meant to be an uplifting experience of any kind.Well shot, an interesting score by the Eurythmics (if you can find that version), combine with exceptional performances and lensing to make for a good watch (even if it is depressing). If I had one real hard critique of the film, it's that we don't see larger shots of the society outdoors; i.e. no crowd scenes outside, nor tanks rolling in the streets and so forth, like a May Day parade outside the Kremlin, but, to do so would have probably blown the entire budget.See it once if you're into brutal sadistic films about dystopic futures. But keep in mind what I've written here. "},{"Title":"'Nineteen Eighty-Four' (1984)","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Virgin Films/Umbrella-Rosenblum Films Production; John Hurt; Richard Burton; In Michael Radford's Film Of George Orwell's 'Nineteen Eighty-Four'; With Suzanna Hamilton; Cyril Cusack; Director Of Photography Roger Deakins; Editor Tom Priestly; Production Designer Allan Cameron; Music Eurythmics & Dominic Muldowney; Produced By Simon Perry; Executive Producer Marvin J. Rosenblum; Co-Producers Al Clark & Robert Devereux; Written & Directed By Michael RadfordThis version of Orwell's 'Nineteen Eighty-Four' (1948) is probably THE book-to-movie adaptation to end all book-to-movie adaptations; is there any other film that can claim to be so faithful as to have been shot within the EXACT same time frame as written in the original text? And on top of that, to show off an excellent cast of performances, fantastic sets and costume design, and great reproduction of the story's most important parts? Indeed, '1984' is in a class all its own, and more than admirably translates Orwell's claustrophobic, Dystopian vision to the big screen, making it all the more perfect with its 'real-time' frame.In this case, that time frame begins on 4 April 1984 (the date of both the opening scene itself and the date on which it was apparently filmed)-- a date noted in the diary of Winston Smith (John Hurt), during a rare moment of reflection and escape from the omniscient multimedia glare of the Big Brother figure (portrayed here by Bob Flag), in the future totalitarian English wasteland of Oceania. Smith is a mild-mannered member of the 'Outer Party,' or the massive outer section of government immersed in regular day-to-day matters; he is a history-revising employee at the Ministry of Truth, one of numerous ironically titled government branches. Near-constant surveillance ('You must love 'Big Brother'') and contradictory news reports (is there a war in EASTasia or EURasia?) drive the terrifying, paranoid atmosphere of Oceania and its inhabitants. Language has been deconstructed into the simplistic jargon of 'Newspeak,' in which previously separate words ('artificial insemination,' for example) are now sandwiched into ugly verbal abbreviations ('artsem,') as well as blunt concepts ('thoughtcrime') and outrageously silly adjectives ('doubleplusgood'), et cetera. Both Orwell and Radford have constructed a stark, depressing picture-- a dictionary definition of 'despair,' made all the more pathetic by the stilted, submissive personalities of people like Parsons (Gregor Fisher), a bumbling friend of Winston's, and the smug negativity of people like Syme (James Walker), an advocate of the minimalist 'Newspeak' language. In the midst of all this quiet chaos, Winston falls in love with another, younger Party member-- the feisty Julia (Suzanna Hamilton), and the two soon strike up a secret love affair that strongly opposes the foundation of resistance and blandness for which Big Brother stands. From there, Smith also strikes up an unlikely acquaintanceship with the mysterious O'Brien (Richard Burton), an 'Inner Party' member, and Charrington (Cyril Cusack), a kindly old store owner in whose upper quarters Winston seeks refuge.To reveal any more details would likely spoil the remainder of the plot for those totally new to Orwell's world. An ideal recommendation would be to first read the book, THEN see this terrific film (as I did, in that order), and only then will the complete experience be as rich and fulfilling as '1984''s influence.- IMDbsmith "}{"Title":"Faithful to the book and as stirring","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's always hard not to compare book to movie -- especially when the story carries as much emotional weight as 1984. This adaptation manages to create some evocative imagery, sending you to the ravaged, fear-filled world of Airstrip One, which looks a lot like post-Blitz London might've. The squalor of the apartments cafeterias and even the people is all there. The rage you feel when Julia and Winston are discovered by the Thought Police is real, too. As is the sense of dread you feel every time Winston Smith writes in his diary to no one -- the act of Thoughtcrime. Particularly gripping, though, is O'Brien's interrogation of Winston in the Ministry of Love. This scene explores what is going through Winston's mind in a fresh way -- thanks to the well-built character John Hurt constructed for the film. This movie creates a sense of atmosphere of such power that viewers who haven't read the book won't miss the central points of the story. "},{"Title":"Gets the mood right","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is often said that Orwell was really writing about the bleak war-scarred England of his own time (1948) in his great political science (fiction) masterpiece.  This Nineteen Eighty-Four manages to get that sense exactly right.  Hard to imagine anyone better to play that downtrodden, already-half-broken Winston Smith than John Hurt.  I think some may have found the film too gloomy, too resigned, but that really is the mood of the book. "},{"Title":"Prophecy - Big Brother and the transvaluation of all values. Michael Radford","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" When, Orwell wrote his morally questioning novel, he was prophesying 36 years into the future. Today 1984 is 27 years in the past. The Bible distinguishes between Prophets and false-Prophets by acknowledging the corroboration of the actual event predicted, as a God given power.Orwell has with this , his last novel, added two separate words to the English language, that of Orwellian which evolved because the title of the novel, 1984 did not lend itself to idiomatic expression, as say Catch 22 has done. What does Orwellian mean in the context of this novel 1984. The dictionary offers that which dehumanizes. The second word actually, a phrase, Big Brother is defined as a dictator, or alternately as,  a powerful leader, or organization, regarded as ubiquitous and sinister.What has made this movie so necessary to make is the influence of the book, as a prophecy 1984 must be judged from the viewpoint of today 27 years since the prophesied date 1984 + 27 = 2011. Orwells, prophetic status is as a true Prophet or a false Prophet? Exactly, which type of prophet is Orwell?One is forced to consider the two most influential terms dehumanization and the sinister and ubiquitous power of Big Brother. Has the ontological reality become less human with the social need for security? Is the social dynamic involving more scrutiny, more abdication of personal freedom or not? Is the ruling power manipulating the desires of the individual, by various forms of propaganda, - persuading masses of citizens to act in a regimented, uniform, colorless manner? When one looks around in 2011 this does ring true.However, Orwell a religiously, devoted Socialist, would most probably feel if he is watching from the firmament that he was part of the tendency that militated against the fulfillment of his prophecy.What of the movie itself? Well, John Hurt has the lead playing Winston Smith who could easily have been called Alfred Glum An interesting portrayal of the hang-dog look - he even looks glum after sex with Suzanna Hamilton whom we see as a fetching nude. Nothing can make Winston feel less glum. Winston knows that all Thought is Crime but his libidinal stirrings suppress his social obligations. The propaganda aspect of the novel is very challenging - slogans such as War is Peace, Thought is Crime and the menacing Big Brother is watching you, combined with the use of repetition are standard advertising techniques. The assault on individuality and the problem of divergent subjective thoughts/desires/needs are viewed in a thorough and exhaustive investigatory manner in this movie.Richard Burton offers us a last chance, his last movie to hear the mellifluous instrument of his voice. Well, its a bit of a strenuous journey, but if you want to explore George Orwell and his novel 1984, then this faithful rendition will certainly inform you of his calling! "},{"Title":"War and its miseries are decreed from that time to the very end. Daniel 926","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Vincent Canby of the New York Times writes This ''1984'' is not an easy film to watch, but it exerts a fascination that demands attention even as you want to turn away from it. I agree w/ his professional film critic assessment because the reason we want to turn away from this film is that it expertly brings to life our planet during the coming Tribulation. Yes, 1984 is a wake-up call to what Scripture warns this world will be like. Even though, George Orwell's novel kept faith and our Heavenly Father God out of the scenario, nonetheless, his drama serves an indictment against God-less governments and societies (of Orwell's time and to come). This brilliant adaptation strikes the perfect chord in its portrayal of individual existence as lived under the control of a God-less government (which will occur as the Bible warns before our Redeemer and Savior's Second Coming). There are over forty-nine Old Testament verses and at least fifteen New Testament prophecies that Orwell's nightmarish drama aligns with in describing the Tribulation. The most telling of these being that our planet has yet to see a time of endless war and its miseries. I commend all around to the masterful acting, the bleached cinematography, the absolutely superb direction, the realistic location selections, the junkyard production design and the faithful screenplay writing. The DVD version I saw did not contain the Eurythmics soundtrack and while I enjoy their music it made for a better viewing experience to only hear the composed soundtrack in this version. Roger Ebert comments in his review that Orwell's hero, Winston Smith, lives in a world of grim and crushing inhumanity, of bombed factories, bug-infested bedrooms and citizens desperate for the most simple pleasures. Yes, the world to come for those not saved from Tribulation. "},{"Title":"1984 in 1984","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Filming George Orwell's grim, dystopian horror story in the year it was set and in the actual locations specified by the novel lends a frightening sense of credibility to this adaptation, without a doubt the closest in spirit to Orwell's original vision. It's been called perhaps the bleakest film ever made in the English language, and not without good reason such unrelenting pessimism has rarely (if ever) been seen on screen, making the lines in John Hurt's face almost painful to watch after a while.Visually, the film is the equivalent of an open sore. Credit goes to the art director and cinematographer for recreating Orwell's Oceania in all its seedy splendor, capturing the chill and decay of a closed, totalitarian society in tones of washed-out grays and greens. The fact that the year 1984 is already behind us doesn't alter the impact of the story; if anything, our familiarity today with Orwell's ideas of doublethink, ideological brainwashing, and non-stop propaganda help make the movie less of a cautionary fable and more a depressing preview of events in the not too distant future. "},{"Title":"Superb, but the earlier Peter Cushing version...........","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ....from 1954 is even better (wanna see St. Pete's classic? Feel free to contact wnstn_hmltn@yahoo.com for a copy). Be that as it may, this rendition pulls out all the totali-terror-ian stops with such a nerve-fraying atmosphere of all-consuming menace, accented by an enticingly eerie Eurythmics score and unforgettable, breathe-down-your-neck performances by all concerned. What punctuates this version's effectiveness is that it's (obviously) the most recognizably modern, leaving one dogged more than ever by the notion that Orwell's waking nightmare could really happen if it isn't already! Richard Burton, John Hurt and Suzanna Hamilton are unforgettable. "},{"Title":"This should be required reading/viewing in school!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was in high school in the 60's both 1984 and Animal Farm were required reading. They should still be! That they aren't is just one more indication that Orwell was right and the entire world, especially the U.S. of A. is steadilly moving to a mind control society. Though today we call it political correctness. What happens to Winton Smith, Julia and the animals in Animal Farm is happening to today's society. The 1984 version of the movie does a good job of following the book. Though as is the case nearly all the time, it means a lot more if you've read the book first. It's not entertainment. It's a warning. In this election year, 2004, listen to what the candidates don't say. Nobody is talking about the Constitution because they don't want us to know when they violate our rights.  "},{"Title":"A Powerful film for the ages","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is it just me, or did George Orwell love ending his stories on a sad note? Having read Animal Farm in grade school, I wasn't too shocked to have read the ending of 1984. Both stories are very political as well as powerful. The grim endings only imply the horror of a possible future of the masses.When trying to explain what Room 101 is and the scene with the rats and the ending of 2+2=, you have to imagine the situation that the main character is going through. What exactly in reality and what is happening in his head? If you think about it, the entire film could be happening in his mind. Accepting this, much of what is unexplainable is now explainable. The overall message of a society conditioning their people on what to believe is the truth.  My grad school Professor almost had a stroke in the middle of a speech on ethics when he compared President Bush's orders in invading Iraq to the order of reasoning in 1984. Although his ideas were extreme, I get the point. "},{"Title":"exceptional adaptation","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Orwell's 1984 is a book that struck many nerves and continues to provide an ever-relevant reflection of what our society is at risk of becoming.  Does this film do the text justice?  Well, yes and no.  As far as the creation of a dismal, defeatist future where men's thoughts are regulated like clockwork is concerned, director Michael Radford succeeds--the society as a whole is bleak and degraded, filled with darkness and grime.  The casting is inspired, from John Hurt's portrayal of Winston Smith to Richard Burton's scene-stealing O'Brien (the interrogation scene is torturously convincing thanks to their efforts).  On the downside, as others have mentioned, the novel struck so many nerves--far too many to incorporate into a normal-length feature film--that the movie feels stripped down and simplified; yes, it includes the key points from Orwell's text, but not nearly enough.  Perhaps this material would've been better suited to a two-night miniseries instead.  There is a lot to admire about 1984, and also a lot of glimpses of what could have been.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great adaptation, with a very few minor disappointments","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Orwell, and especially 1984. I've read the book five times, and I just saw the movie for the first time. Before viewing, I was expecting to be upset because I didn't think anyone could really do a good job of putting the story into 120 minutes of film. I was wrong - the movie was almost perfect as a screen adaptation of the book. The moods, settings, characters, and themes are all captured perfectly. The only objections I had to the film come primarily from the ways in which I interpreted the book, and really didn't take away at all from the movie.(Spoilers follow)Firstly, I was a bit let down in the character of O'Brien. He seemed to come off as a standard inner party drone in the movie, while in the book there was the hint that he was actually very special and important. In the movie, when he tortures Winston, he seems to treat it as just another re-education. In the book, he clearly is impressed by Winston and treats him almost as a peer, even though he is still loyal to Party doctorine. Also, the movie took Julia out of the scene where they visit O'Brien, and therefore leaves out the part where they agree to commit all sorts of atrocities to bring down the party, which is an important point when O'Brien and Winston meet in the Ministry of Love. Thirdly, what was up with that green field? Maybe I just didn't get what the movie was trying to show with that. Finally, I was a bit miffed at the ending. There was far too much interaction between Winston and Julia at the chess table, even though the point that they can no longer care about one another was made. And the movie omitted the daydream-sequence of Winston getting shot at the very end. But even accounting for those few forgiveable flaws, it was a great adaptation, and viewed solely as a movie it would be perfect. 9/10.  "}{"Title":"Does justice to the book...","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having read George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, I was very eager to see the film.After seeing the film, I was not disappointed. Like almost every other film based on a book, `Nineteen Eighty-Four' is not as good as the book, but it does do it justice.Strong points of this film are that it remains loyal to Orwell's book. The vision that Orwell seemed to have of the world that Winston Smith (the main character) would have lived in is portrayed well in the film. Another strong point is the acting, especially from the leads. John Hurt (Winston) and Suzanna Hamilton (Julia) put forward excellent performances, as does the late Richard Burton (O'Brien).I would recommend watching this film, especially if you have read the book. If you see the film without reading the book first, I would also strongly recommend that you check out the book.In conclusion, I would rate this film 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Oceania The Clammy. (But what an anthem!)","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mud, dust, peeling paint and broken windows. Is this what they're fighting for? What a country!  But a great screen adaptation, with a perfect cast.  =\/=  Some thoughts on Dominic Muldowney's  great  score, and in particular his wonderful Oceania,  'Tis For Thee anthem (with David Stewart), which has become a cult favorite. I don't believe the soundtrack has ever been released, which is a wonderment, since it's sought after. The Oceanic anthem itself is heard only instrumentally (at times as an almost-nostalgic solo oboe) until the final credits, at which point the full chorus opens up. But it's not the arrogant song of conquest that Muldowney could have created (boastfulness as a sign of complacency?); it's instead almost a hymn of supplication (to work the masses even harder?). Musically, it doesn't really resolve itself nor stay within an easily-sung-by-the-masses dominant mode (or even remain at the same time signature), but it reaches into ever-searching and unsettled realms, until the final chorus ... which quickly becomes almost a hushed prayer to the monolithic nation.  Every deed, every thought, 'tis for thee.   (Notice that accompaniment is mandatory to sing the  anthem properly. Go ahead, try singing it a  capella! Oceania's leadership who ARE those  people, really? would certainly insist that it be  performed correctly and en masse. I think that's  what Muldowney was saying. It's masterful work by a  fine composer.) "},{"Title":"More homage than adaptation","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's interesting, but when watching an adaptation of a novel I do not often come to the conclusion that the adaptation is a good homage. By the very nature of adaptation it would seem the filmmaker has to pay homage to the book, but 1984 seems to be the singular film to have that distinction.Orwell's 1984 needs little introduction--in a world where not many people read more than a book a year, most people still acknowledge the references and understand the general gist of 1984, even if their pop-culture induced intertextuality or straight-up Cliff's Note night-before-the-high-school-5-paragraph-essay-is-due reading is the closest they've gotten. It is a shame because of course like Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451, Orwell's 1984 is significantly text-based in a way somewhat under-evaluated. Orwell's books are by and large about the politics of language, and the famed Newspeak of the novel is dripping with irony and anger in a way that doesn't get translated to screen--there, it just sounds like a typical futurism lingo.So here's the problem 1984 is pretty much evenly divided into two parts, the first part following Winston's exploration of his thought crime evolving toward a real desire for resistance, the second half a protracted sociophilosophical discussion as Winston's entire psychology is broken down bit by bit. The first half is the easier to adapt into film--it results in what this movie is, a gritty gray-scaled urban nightmare. The second half is a little more difficult, and this movie lived up to the challenge as best it could. I believe it is the second half why Gilliam's Brazil ended up the way it did and Lucas' THX 1138 decided to just go for a chase scene--these are visual, exciting motifs. The end of 1984 is a multiday discussion on politics, power, language, truth, and everything connected to crushing all of same. Radford helps keep the story going visually by focusing on the torture aspect of it, while also slipping occasionally into Winston's mind for brief countryside interludes. It helps keep the tension going while a summary of the high points of the book's discussion get covered. It shows more the fascination and fear the book invokes, than develops its own fear and fascination itself.Which is a not ungood choice (sorry, just had to make Orwell's corpse twitch just once). There are certain scenes of this movie that do not really follow but do create a strong tone that pretty much fits the feel of the novel perfectly. It is easy to point to Roger Deakins' cinematography, but it is weirder to mention that the Eurythmics add a lot of their own to the chill. The way that this movie was shot during the timeline the book took place certainly really helps the acknowledgment that the people involved in this teleplay were not just in it for a paycheck, but also had the book squarely in mind. The production design itself looks like they just pulled into some really bad neighborhoods and started filming, though there was obviously a lot more work done than that.So really, I am glad that this movie is the adaptation of 1984 and I would not recommend another filmmaker try to do this one one better. This movie gets about as close to the text as cinema can, without starting to alter some very important aspects that might as well just make it 1984-inspired than 1984-adapted. However, as fond as I was watching this movie, in this case it is still significantly important that the viewer read the book as well, as the politics of language are harder to follow when spoken in muted, grungy dialog rather than read at your own pace.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Interesting re-invention of the classic George Orwell novel.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1984 (1984) was another cinematic version of the classic novel from the ever interesting novelist George Orwell. He had a terrifying vision of our future world. A world that is under the thumb of a brutal totalitarian government who cares little for the people and keeps them down through repression and poverty. The novel is still effective today as it was over fifty-five years ago. Many of the things that have happened in the novel are becoming ever so present in today's world.Winston Smith is a citizen in the country of Oceania. He's just another slave to the government's war machine. They seem to be at a constant war with it's rival Eurasia (a.k.a. East Asia). The war has been going on for years and it seems to never end. The people are also angry at a man named Goldstein. Everyone vents their anger towards this individual who speaks truths but no one will listen to this person's pleas. By the way, the government is extremely bored and has a lot of time on it's hands. But Winston soldiers on, pass the tele-images of Big Brother, a way from the prying eyes of the children (who are instructed to snitch on those who seem to be think criming). He endures his repressive lifestyle until he sees a light at the end of a dark and dreary tunnel, a shred of hope in a world that's a living hell. Can Winston weather the storm or will he just become another lifeless soul in a polluted and corrupt world? Not a direct translation of the novel but it incorporates it's theme, mood, elements and characters. Michael Radford does an excellent job of transporting the world of Oceania upon the silver screen. John Hurt played the role of Winston with his usual effectiveness, such a great actor. Suzanna Hamilton is workable as Julia. But the main star is Richard Burton in his last role as O'Brien, a government official who has no emotions left within his soul. He has neither feelings nor empathy for his fellow man. Only the good for the party and Big Brother. A shame that Richard Burton could have never capitalize on his role in this movie. He could have made an evil villain in another production. In a world of sociopaths he could have been their king.Recommended for fans of the book, They'll enjoy this reinvention of the novel. Maybe some day they'll be a true film adaptation of the novel. Until then this will suffice the curious. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fantastic film !The title does not belong to the year the film was made. It belongs to the title of Orwell's great novel 1984.This film will be a pleasure for all fans of Brazil (1985) and other retro-future films.But in difference to A Clockwork Orange for example, this movie mainly works on minds not on action. Very silent but with great pictures (imagine the small monitors everywhere - Big Brother is watching you).I voted with 9 points.... one less than Brazil. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed Nineteen Eighty Four. I give this movie 10 out of 10. This movie was made in 1984, maybe that's why they named this film as the year 1984. Richard Burton was dedicated to this film after he died. Considerly this was his last movie he made.  "},{"Title":"War is Peace!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A phenomenal book-to-film translation. More poignant than ever before especially in these dark days of Fear and Hatred. It always seemed to me that Orwell referred as much to the United States as he did to the Soviet Union. As a radio journalist for the notorious BBC he knew the inside workings of the propaganda machinery better than most and I believe that Winston Smith has come from that experience. Of course, it could have been the Public Radio or the CNN.  In any case, this is a chilling film showing the sad reality of the world we live in presently.  The Big Brother is watching you more than ever!  "},{"Title":"A poem in the shape of a film...but an add-on to the book.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great example of how film can be an addition to a great book. This 1984 version of Orwell's novel is meant to be seen after reading the paper version rather than the usual Cliff Notes premise of seeing the film instead of reading the book.With a breathtaking and often despairing authenticity the casting, acting, writing, production and set design bring even more life into the mental picture of Oceania and give subtle detail to one of the century's great works. The film works in the mind in the same way that a painting of a familiar place can add reality even in its lack of pure realism itself.I'd rate this a must see for anyone interested in film, literature or politics. But, first read the book. "},{"Title":"Didn't meet my expectations","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a huge fan of the book, I was eager to see how the film matched the image in my mind. Visually it was a perfect fit but much of the film was lost in transition. Definitely a case of the book being better. "},{"Title":"Not to be forgotten","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were two ghosts that hung over the second half of the twentieth century The novel 1984 and the wreck of the Titanic. It was the ghost of the future, and the ghost of the past.Up until the year 1984 there was the constant fear that George Orwell's prophesy would prove correct - which, I suppose, was what Orwell had intended. There were times when the pendulum seemed to swing toward, and then away and then toward totalitarianism, even in the United States. By the time the year finally arrived, most people were no longer terrified of this phantom. And now you no longer have glib commentators invoking the image of a totalitarian future with the phrase 1984.Growing up in the last third of the 20th century, the Titanic was like a mirror-image ghost of 1984, the past embalmed beneath the sea, preserving a world of grand innocence that died with World War I, or at least the image of innocence and grandeur that we projected upon it. Ironically, that ghost was exhumed two years later, in 1986, but it was not until the movie that it was finally exorcised through trivialization.While I was disappointed with the movie Titanic, I was not disappointed with the movie Nineteen Eighty-Four. I do not know of a better rendition of a novel. I am amazed at how accurately the mood, imagery and even scenery of the movie matched the ones created in my mind by reading Orwell's novel several times since early adolescence. After all, these were my images, my subconscious, my fears. And yet here they were on the screen. It is a testament to Orwell's writing that he was able to create such vivid imagery that found its way faithfully into so many minds. And it is a testament to the film's producer; proof that a book can be transformed into a movie accurately. Judging from some of the other reviews, not everyone shares this view. But as I recall from my college lit classes, not everyone was capable of understanding every book, so could some of this be the reader-viewer's fault?One detail in the movie that I found amusing was the depiction of computers. It was a melding of teletype keyboards from the 1940s with monitors using 1960s technology. I can't help thinking that that is the kind of computer technology we would have if government and the courts were to dictate the rules.Freedom requires individual initiative unencumbered by government, as far as possible. However, corporations grown beyond control or accountability may be an even greater threat. The end of the Soviet Union, one of inspirations for 1984, is not the end of Big Brother. And, oddly, modern computer technology is only now creating the capability of producing true omnipresent paranoia. How many of us wonder, as we are sitting at out computers at work or at home, whether someone is watching our work?If you are looking for sheer entertainment, Nineteen Eighty-Four will disappoint you. So, too, if you don't like history. But even though the time is now in the past, the ghost may still be in the future. And for that reason, I hope people will still read the book AND watch this impeccable cinematic rendition of Orwell's masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Nineteen-eighty four.... In Russia TV watches you.","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nineteen Eighty Four 8 out of 10 Most films simply don’t age all that well. Philadelphia with Tom Hanks and Denzel Washington for example simply doesn’t have the same impact today that it did in 1993. (Both gay people in general and AIDS in particular are simply less scary today.) In another example we have seen both technology and fashion move so fast that the futuristic phones in many a seventies sci-fi movie look positively ancient today not to mention the burnt orange and avocado green color scheme of the future that so many seventies sci-fi are stuck with. (I’m looking your way Rollerball.) So how has a film, released when people outside of American colleges actually believed communism worked, aged today?Brilliantly. If I say so myself. If anything the film works better today than it did in 1985.For starters the film itself is timeless. Nothing about the film gives away the date that it was made. Only the fact I know who John Hurt and Richard Burton are gives a hint to time period. The film itself could have been released in theaters last week.Since the film comments heavily on torture in its last act and on “Big Brotherism” throughout, if released today it undoubtly would be seen as a direct attack on both the Bush administration and the British Labor government. In fact many scenes are a clear attack on the Bush administrations torture policy and the endless war on “Terrorism”. One could almost never believe the film was about communism at all. Modern audiences today would laugh at such a quaint notion. With few exceptions I have never known a film so timeless. Heck it is one better than simple timelessness. It is actually more relevant today than when it was made. The idea of government using an endless indefinable and unwinnable war to curtail its subject’s freedoms is right from today’s headlines; whether you are discussing the war on drugs, terrorism, or global warming the results are the same. All the good intentions in the world simply mean less freedom for you and your children. “For the greater good” no less.Orwell would be shocked at the creativity governments today would use to curtail peoples freedoms and lives. Or perhaps he wouldn’t and that is why his story is so timeless and most remarkably the film based on it is as well. Oh and the film is fun with a brilliant and perfectly cast John Hurt in the primary role as the put upon and tortured everyman. Richard Burton, not chewing scenery for once, in a role with gravitas; his last I believe. Also super cute and believable Suzanna Hamilton who looks like a real woman both in and out of her clothes as the love interest and the catalyst for desire of change. And a special kudos to a fantastic direction by Michael Radford and production design by Allan Cameron. The really capture a place and time that as I have said before is timeless.In conjunction with Terry Gilliam’s similarly themed Brazil, Nineteen Eighty Four is one of the best movies about the early 21st century made during the nineteen eighties. "},{"Title":"Big Brother is Watching...","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ''Nineteen Eighty-Four ''is a political novel that George Orwell wrote in opposition to totalitarianism, where an omnipresent state wields total control of it's citizens(including their thoughts), manipulating them and taking out all their civil liberties.The government changes even the history to have a better control of their citizens, and the main character, Winston, a member of the Outer Party, has a job that involves doctoring historical records in order to comply with the Party's version of the past.Winston also keeps a secret diary, telling not only the things he thinks about in general, but also his illegal thoughts about the Party. When Winston encounters Julia, a mechanic on the novel-writing machines, and the two begin an illegal love relationship,Winston's views begin to change, and he finds himself relentlessly questioning his government.The movie and the book are very depressing, so, don't watch this movie if you are in a bad day. "},{"Title":"Poor Orwell","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Orwell was not an anti-communist. The sad thing is that he has been used by capitalists to empower their points against communism.This movie is well crafted, it has an interesting direction and very good performances, especially by John Hurt, Richard Burton and Suzanna Hamilton. However this is only for those who have read the book. The plot is kind of vague at times and only if you have read the book you can understand. Further more the movie manages to become a glorified hymn against communism, whereas Orwell in this book is against totalitarianism, and yes he criticizes Stalin, but more on what the USSR was heading rather than communism in general.In any cases avoid this. Better read the book. Even V for Vendeta is better on pointing out something political. "},{"Title":"1984 Movie Comments","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Long an aficionado of the Orwell novel 1984, I have to say that the Michael Redford movie is an excellent attempt to glean the tone and emotion of the book in pictures.The casting is perfect. Especially John Hurt as Winston Smith and Richard Burton as O'Brien. The sets are appropriately dark. Big Brother's image is almost grandfatherly in it's sinister visage. The hopelessness of the story is portrayed grimly.No movie can quite capture Orwell's satire of the stark reality of a nightmare future, but this film comes close, and for those who have the stomach to read the novel, the movie will not disappoint.However this cinema is not for the faint of heart so be forewarned.  "},{"Title":"a great job of filming the unfilmable","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" On hearing that yet another film version of 1984 was in the works, and that the role of O'Brien was to be played by Richard Burton, I felt quite sure that this film would be an atrocity. Almost everybody who has tried his hand at dramatizing 1984 has been content with skimming the surface a horrific world of the future where people are watched by telescreens, public opinion is manipulated by the ultimate Goebellish big lie, sexual passion is illegal, and so on. Yes, yes, yes, I've said to myself every time I see one of these superficial interpretations of this great work of literature, it's about all these things but a hell of a lot more (see the superb review on this page by Room102 from Israel, who says it better than I could).This version is true to the spirit of Orwell's novel in a way I could never have predicted. John Hurt was born to play Winston Smith, and the rest of the cast are just as superbly fitted to their parts. Burton, whom I would have expected to ham and orate in the role of a torturer, shows a subtlety here that tops any and all of his other performances. One can get a very good picture here of why Winston can't stand the ever-chattering Parsons, but is fascinated by his other friend the Newspeak lexicographer and Ingsoc ideologue the film establishes it in a few deft strokes.Only Suzanna Hamilton (as Julia) disappointed me, for two reasons (1)She showed little of the amoral adventuress of the novel, the almost sociopathically impulsive and utterly what-the-hellish aniheroine who was such an effective foil to the ever-brooding, ever-theorizing Winston, in other words she pretty much wasn't there except physically; and (2) speaking of physically, the two or three nude scenes were totally gratuitous and utterly distracting from the story. Never mind how physically attractive she is (very!). How many men, I wonder, checked out the video just so they could look at her crotch? The makers of this film should have known better than to cheapen the film in this way.There are just a few things about the film that bug me, and I'll bet they bug other Orwell readers too. (1)There is no real attempt to deal with what or who Big Brother is; in this film, BB seems to not to be an embodiment of a neatly packaged and simplistic political philosophy but rather just a face on a screen. The whole point of BB in the novel is that he is given a personality, even if (as is almost certain) he does not really exist as a person. This could have been even eerier in a film than in a novel, if done rightly. A great disappointment and a major chance missed. (2) Ditto for Goldstein. (3)The philosophy of Ingsoc, and its origin in the process of freezing history at the point where the rulers realized that they were in power just for power and had no ideology---this is, in the novel, the whole point of Goldstein's book, but it's skipped in the film. (4) Newspeak wasn't explained. O.K., you can skip that in a film, but then why is O'Brien depicted talking in Newspeak, and why are we left in the dark as to what the hell he's doing?But altogether, a fine film. "},{"Title":"Good - but could be better?","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1984 is a good film, but after reading the book I knew there were going to be issues with the film. With so little dialogue the book deals with one mans thoughts, one mans issues. There can be no real way to encapsulate that in a film. Left out are extracts like the problem with the 2 minutes hate is, un-persons, Winston knowing which of his friends are going to die long before they know it, the horrid spy children and the explanation of Winston's feelings toward O'Brian during the torture scene where they end in each others arms. All points that I feel detract from what is still a poignant movie highlighting what could happen if there was every a time when people gave up thinking.But on the other hand other aspects are amazing. The office Winston works in, the corridors, the walk home, the cafeteria etc, all as they should be. Gray, old, falling apart and depressing. And the face of BB is PERFECT.The film is good. I would recommend it to anybody with an active imagination and a cynical outlook. But I would recommend this film only if you have read the book. If you just watch the movie you may have a hard time. And you also do not get the extracts from Goldstein's book in the movie, which are worth a read at any time. "},{"Title":"Just Read the Book","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" READ THE BOOK, simple as that. This movie version of 1984 is MEDIOCRE at best and is guaranteed to leave any enthusiasts of the book sorely disappointed. The masterful scenery/imagery from the novel translates very poorly to this big screen adaptation, leaving one who has not already read Orwell's 1984, to have little to no understanding of what is actually going on. The pace of the movie, in opposition to the book, seems too fast - and causes for a number of important scenes/events to be barely skimmed over or skipped completely. Character development, scene depiction, the chronological order of events, all seems sacrificed for the sake of promoting a poor movie version of a classic novel. Initially, i thought it'd be nice to have some sort of visual aid to help with what was described in the book, however after watching the film, I felt betrayed that I must now have such a sub-par tool for reference between the two versions. The movie will offer you NOTHING not already presented in the book, and does a bad job in ever believing it can. Please, for the sake of your own time/enjoyment, do yourself a favor and just READ THE BOOK5/10 stars "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the original","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this newer version more faithfully follows the book (which I've read at least 5 times) and paints the same picture of bleakness and control, I enjoy the original version much more. I disagree with the thoughts of a previous reviewer that the romance was primarily an effort to rebel against the party, though this version of the movie does seem to carry that bent with their cold, detached dialogue and constantly blank facial expressions. In the old version, it is indeed more romantic and even tugs at the heart a bit.Needless to say, the technology assumed to be present in 1984 is more accurate in this version - but, somehow, I think the original version captures the general feel of the book better than this one, even though the story is less tightly followed. It leaves more to the imagination and doesn't spell everything out the way the newer version does.The new version is quite monotonous and has no dynamics, while the older version hits me with more dramatic scenes. The Two Minutes hate scene is especially impactful with the rapidly changing camera angles, atonal music and lack of color. Then the sudden shift in flavor to the romance scenes makes the rest of the movie all the more bleak and hopeless.It really depends, however, on the point of view of the viewer. If you're one to pick apart movies and analyze plots, etc., then you may indeed like this version better. I'm by no means a movie expert and only know whether I enjoy watching it - and whether I want to watch it again. In general, I purchased the old version and watch it often, whereas I only made it halfway through the new version and don't care to give it another try. I had also rented this movie when it was popular, and didn't watch it to the end that time either.Like everything else, the modern version is more in your face, spell it out for me than the older version which was made at a time when people had a sense of delicacy and were willing to use their imaginations a bit to interpolate the missing pieces and, thus, interpret it their own way.In all, the newer version seems more suited to those who have not read the book or seen the original - for if they had, the newer version has little further to offer except color - and not much of it, which I'm sure was also intentional. But if a small number of color combinations helps to illustrate futility - then black and white does it better while also capturing the romantic feel of the days of old. "},{"Title":"Watch Big Brother","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1984 is an adaptation of George Orwell's well-regarded novel of the same name. The film is set in a hypothetical future Britain (called Oceania) where the ultimate totalitarian regime, led by the Party, is in control. The story follows Winston Smith, who is a lackey within the Party's Ministry of Truth and alters records to support official doctrine. The Party expects no less than perfect loyalty to the mystical leader of Oceania, Big Brother.The world of Oceania is appropriately dingy, taking its cue from Orwell, who wrote that the world of Oceania had improved technologies for surveillance and communication but regressed otherwise. All of the technical details of Oceania were well-developed from the view screens with faded color to the tubes used to pass messages in the Ministry of Truth. Even music is used effectively to create the atmosphere of Oceania.This film is perfectly cast. John Hurt was an apt choice to play the downtrodden yet curious and creative Winston Smith. Suzanna Hamilton is refined and sensual as Julia and the relationship between her and Winston is made realistic. Richard Burton is likewise well-cast to portray the two faces of O'Brien, who can be genial or disturbingly and zealously methodical. Another notable performance comes from Gregor Fisher as the overwrought man Parsons.Having read 1984 before seeing this, I appreciated how closely this film followed the story. The grimness and tension of Orwell's novel is captured vividly in this film. Some people may find this film too bleak, but I appreciated that no compromises were made to make this a more cheerful story. Like Orwell's novel, this film is depressing but always compelling. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece after all","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love especially the scenes where the movie challenges the book and wins. For example, The scene of the Winston's arrest. In the book, the thought-policeman appears in the room as a young black haired man, after he was seen previously as an old white haired merchant. The movie does not need that brutality. It rejects the brutality. The old man remains old man with white hair, who climbs the stairs with difficulty. Yet, when he enters the room, the violent policemen stand still recognizing his dreadful might. He then addresses a policeman with no respect at all - Pick that up, as a master to a slave. The scene where O'Brien offers Winston the fatal Goldstein's heresy. Again, the Orwellian scene is brutal and vulgar. In the movie, the same scene is gentle and sophisticated. O'Brien speaks nothing of Goldstein. He offers Winston a book disguised as a dictionary.Some shots are masterpieces of photography, such as the scene of mass hanging, and the Winston's visit to a whore. In the both scenes, the atmosphere is created by slow movement of the camera.In the hanging scene, the camera moves slowly away from the object. We see a victim, then another, then one more. Then there is a pause little longer, enough to make us hope it is only three. But then the fourth victim enters the frame, and we at once understand the number of the hanged may be indefinitely larger. In the Whore Visit scene, the camera moves in the opposite direction, coming ever closer to the whore. It beautifully illustrates the story which Winston dictates into his diary. At the beginning, the whore seems to be young. Then the camera gets closer and discovers the heavy makeup on her face. The camera moves on, and forces us to look upon her ugly genitalia, making us feel the smell of cheap perfume and dead insects...The music alone is worthy of an Oscar. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest motion pictures ever made.","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Orwell was a prophet. One of the greatest motion pictures ever made, 1984 describes the Fascist state we live in today. A docile, repressed, uniformed populace, unending war, scapegoats targeted by the government -- it's all here and now. Of particular interest is the fact that the movie was shot during the year 1984, and in the summer when the novel took place, and in the same city -- London -- in which the novel took place. The gritty look of the film stock is appropriate, matching the mood of the times the characters lived in. I was surprised to find that Michael Radford had directed the more recent Merchant of Venice with Al Pacino, being a much different and inferior motion picture. I can only suppose that after creating such a masterpiece in 1984, there is no place left to go. 1984 was Richard Burton's last film, and his most important. "},{"Title":"Big Brother is watching","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the book and I must admit that the film remains very impressively faithful to it. George Orwell's terrifying vision of the world of tomorrow. In the Totalitarian society Winston(John Hurt)lives in everybody works for the government of Oceania faithfully, there is no alternative, even thinking of an alternative is a crime. Oceania is one of the three great world states of 1984. Winston's job is revising history always under the watchful eye of the leader Big Brother. Like most citizens he lives in a low-class housing, an apartment complex continually monitored by two way telescreens which can be turned down but never actually shut off. Winston falls in love with Julia, an emotion forbidden by the State which secretly they both bitterly resent. They get caught. 1984 depicts a ruthless, heartless, cruel world led by a government that will stop at nothing to keep its citizens under complete mental and moral control. "},{"Title":"Minor civil service man in oppressive surveillance ridden party state  encounters nemesis in the shape of a young female party member.","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Regardless of what the vast majority of people believe 1984 was written not as a warning against communism but as a warning against capitalist society. Society is controlled by a single party and the world is in a constant state of staged war between three super powers. Video surveillance is constant through Vid screens in virtually every room, and constant risk of being denounced as a thought criminal. Against this background our hero is a minor functionary amending past historical events so as to fit in with current party propaganda making war heroes un people. Anyone who asks what happened to the £60 Billion stolen by Thatcher from pension companies and the £60 Billion short fall in pension provision might already understand the basic mechanics of how this happens. Wilson meets a young anti sex league worker and they begin a torrid affair. This is a must see for anyone who likes to think for themselves and is genuinely concerned for the future a truly accurate adaptation of the Orwell novel. Richard Burton's last performance is stunning as is John Hurts this is a truly scary film. If you want to imagine the future of humanity imagine a jack boot stamping on a human face for ever. "},{"Title":"Not terrible...","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the book 1984 before I watched the movie, and I loved the book. One of my favorite books, I had a helluva time imagining the entire story in my head. That being said, this isn't a terrible adaptation, it's just so radically different from what I had conjured up in my head that I can't stand to watch it. With that said, I'm not trying to say that this is a good adaptation either. The word average does a good job describing the film, which is a shame considering how great the book was. There are many good future dystopia novels, and I can't recall any of the others being adapted to the screen, so this is all you've got. If you have never read the book, and have no intention of reading the book, then the movie is worth watching, so that you get the message, but I HIGHLY suggest reading the book first; it's a much more enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"if you've read the book...","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" if you've read the book; then you probably find the movie better. until now this was the best filming of a book I've seen yet.The problem is that the director so literally followed the book that it was impossible to put what he wanted in 100minutes; resulting in fear movie. The scenes are all snippets thus making it harder for the actors to live their role; although they did a good job I'm sure that if the scriptwriter had done a better job the film would have been a blast.my conclusion It hasn't got the power it could have. If you've read the book it's a must see. If you haven't read the book you might get lost sometimes. "},{"Title":"Manages to Stay Loyal to The Homonymic Classic Book","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who hasn't read 1984, and hasn't heard about the Big Brother? Despite its more than 50 years of age, George Orwell's all-time-classic book always feels like if it was written today, with its message against the threat of totalitarianism being very strong.The greatest achievement of the homonymic film is that it manages to stay very close and loyal to the book. Although it is in general very difficult to portray a writer's thoughts on the big screen, especially when a complicated and sophisticated book like 1984 is concerned, director M. Radford does a very good job indeed The bleak atmosphere of the not-so-distant future is accurately portrayed, while the characters and the plot remain quite close to what we would expect by reading the book John Hurt does a perfect job in playing the doomed would-be rebel Winston Smith, while Richard Burton is also very good in his (unfortunately last) role as malicious inner-party member O' Brien, and so is Suzanna Hamilton who plays the character of innocent and promiscuous Julia.In brief, although slightly inferior to the fantastic book, the film still gets a very high grade overall 8/10. "},{"Title":"Decent adaptation.","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a well made and well acted version of '1984'. It is faithful to the book. Very faithful. One flaw is that anyone watching who hasn't read the book, is unlikely to completely understand everything that is going on. For instance, the scene when Winston Smith sees an enormously fat woman, singing happily as she hangs out her washing and declares 'She's beautiful', can not be seen in its proper context on screen without a narrative. "},{"Title":"Brilliant adaptation","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I discovered Orwell's book and this film within a few months of each other 13 years ago - and have loved both ever since. I don't think the film is wrong in any aspect - the casting is perfect, the music, settings and overall atmosphere are as stifling and chilling as you would expect, there is just the right hint of surrealism to be workable.  The scenes with Winston and O'Brien in the second half of the film will stay with you a long time.  A clear case of two excellent works of art being completely complementary. "},{"Title":"superb interpretation of the book","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love that picture very must, I've seen it a doze times and it still gets to me also thanks to the overwhelming performances of the acteursI'm a great lover of SF (novels and pictures) and the first ever book I've been reading was Orwell's 1984. At that time I was about 14 years old and I did not understand very much of it but I kept on searching (no know Jules Verne, Jack Vance,...). Now I'm 42 and I'm still searching.Pictures like this one and others that I find quite equal (space odessey 2001, alien 1, close encounters of the third kind,...) make that search easy and opens perspectives for the future...Luc "},{"Title":"A likely disappointment","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" As true with all great books, no film can completely give it justice, but i expected much more than i received. While they do portray an utter sense of helplessness throughout the whole movie, as in the book, they fail to address the more minor details. If I was unfamiliar with the novel I would have been very confused about generally everything. Without proper knowledge of what a telescreen is and its function, how can it make the needed effect? If my memory serves (it should i watched it an hour ago) when Winston rents the room he fails to mention the main reason why he made that purchase, because it had no telescreen to his knowledge. I am almost certain that to people not familiar with the novel it would take multiple viewings to understand what was going on.And that brings me to my three main problems with the movie. Firstly Julia's character is not well developed at all. She tells Winston she loves him when leaving the room they rented after all he essentially said to her was I want you. It is not explained properly why she loves him (a man so much older) or why she, a person who in the book is usually so safe,would bring an almost certain end to her life by taking a foolish risk just for Winston. Secondly, the importance of O'Brien is not fully developed. In the book everything comes back to O'Brien. Not only is he a hope, he is a friend, someone he can talk to whether he be friend or enemy. When O'Brien invites Winston over to his house, a thrilling chapter in the book, it hardly has any effect because the only mention of O'Brien is when the camera shows him in the 2 minute hate and the very opening scene where their eyes meet, which in itself is also not developed. Thirdly and lastly was the point in which the telescreen says something about how Winston's fabricated soldier killed Eastasian troops when it was an exceedingly important detail to the story that Oceania were enemies with Eurasia not Eastasia. That mistake diminishes integrity of the film as it was such a careless mistake that i could not let slip by.In my opinion I did not care for the soundtrack or the sets, but that is just how I feel and will not hold it against the film.To me this film is unwatchable, because of my love for the book. As a non fan of the novel it is still bad because it looses the excitement and the majority of the horror the book conveys. "}{"Title":"1984","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a massive fan of the book and Orwell is certainly my favourite writer ever since studying Animal Farm at GCSE. I bought the DVD out of sheer curiosity, Burton is an actor I hold in high regard so when I heard that he played the role of O'Brien I was swung.I watched the trailer on the DVD first and some fears started to set in, mostly regarding the frankly terrible Theme song, hearing the Eurythmics mechanically shouting 1984! over and over again to an electronic beat is as bad as it sounds.The acting on a whole is pretty good, Burton and Hurt play their roles well and the tension that exists in the Ministry of Truth towards the end can be felt, especially in the harrowing Room 101 scene. However this is also where the movie is let down. The movie spends too much time focusing on the Love affair between Winston and Julia, which frankly isn't what Orwell was writing about. He was writing about a harrowing future, about how Ingsoc build up a mans beliefs and then shatter them all in the name of him being made to love Big Brother. The movie skips over what is essentially the most important part of the book, Winstons coming to terms with his position in life and the world, and his re-education via O'Brien.The comment on IMDb at the moment states that the movie sticks to the book is completely incorrect. Julia is not present when Winston visits O'Brien, they do not commit themselves to Goldstien's Brotherhood and confess their crimes. There is no obvious mention of the initial instances where Winston finds the article with the Unpersons but it does get mentioned near the end, if you have not read the book it is completely confusing.A terrible screenplay, which some excellent acting cannot rescue. Michael Radford seems to have completely missed the point Orwell was trying to make, and the electronica sound track is frankly terrible. "},{"Title":"Dystopian paranoia","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on George Orwell's paranoid classic, this is a dystopian vision of hell, set in a world where every thought, every action is governed and monitored by the all seeing Big Brother. John Hurt plays the renowned role of Wilbur Smith, a citizen who defies conventions, and questions what he is told. But he's a convincing fraud. Reacting appropriately to the propaganda rallies by saluting and hollering when expected, working his day job without complaint, he dreams of a world where people are free to do and think what they like. Stunningly acted, with the double whammy of both Hurt and Richard Burton in the power acting stakes, this is visually, emotionally and artistically sumptuous. The environment is atmospheric and compelling - whilst the ever present propaganda narrative spouts the successes of the party in the war with Eurasia, everywhere the eye looks is dereliction, decay and despair. The music is bombastic, a clarion cry to the masses to follow their great leader. The acting is simply jaw-dropping, the script excellent, and the direction sublime. I'd like to write more about the parallels between Orwell's concepts and the way Western civilisation seems to be headed, but I'd need a whole other website.A wonderful, wonderful piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"A nice try, but it errs in leaving out important details","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell's best-known novel, Nineteen Eighty-Four, has become such a classic analogy of the process of collective mind control that years after the date referred to in the title, readers still consistently fail to understand it. One can often test the intellectual mean of readers, in fact, by asking them to describe its content. Less astute readers will mistake the story for being about the terror of constant surveillance, of having no thought left unchecked by the powers that be. While this is an element of Orwell's nightmare Oceania society, it is not the mechanism by which this awesome extent of thought control is achieved. And once one understands that Orwell's nightmare scenario had more to do with the modification of language in order to make divergent thought difficult or even impossible, the flaws in this film adaptation start to stand out like Patricia Heaton at a conference for adults with Asperger's Syndrome. It is somewhat ironic, because it is the things that the film omits that become its downfall.When Winston, portrayed here in a very convincing fashion by John Hurt, writes the date in his diary, the novel diverts into a thread about his doubts about the date. Since his job is mainly concerned with the rewriting of history, and a truthful history no longer seems to exist, he has little idea of what the date could truly be. For all he knows, it could be 1954, 2024, or 2084. This is a critically important point that a lot of modern essays regarding the novel miss. It was Orwell's way of saying this could be happening at any time, not just at some vague point in that point of dismissal we call the future. Another point the film misses is that the society depicted in the novel was in a transitional stage. The changes necessary to bring the society to the stage depicted in the film likely took place over so many years that, as stated in THX 1138, nobody really noticed until it was too late to complain. The changes still to come would likely take just as long, but that is an ancillary point to the story.George Orwell was quite a believer in the freedom of language, and nowhere is this more apparent in his appendix describing the principles of Newspeak. The real horror of Nineteen Eighty-Four was not the constant surveillance or the legality of torturing disbelievers. The real terror in Orwell's novel was the modification of language to make abstract thought impossible, and non-compliant thought incredibly difficult. Try this experiment on for size if you are having trouble with that idea. Think up all the words you know that describe a woman who is overtly sexual and unashamed of the fact, and think of all the ones that describe such a woman in a flattering manner. When you come to the realisation that the English language does not have any, you will realise that the language modification that Orwell described in his novel has been happening for some time, and continues to happen even today. Thoughts not in keeping with the party ideology must be corrected, even if it involves murdering children.And that is where the major fault of the film lies. Although it spares no detail in describing the squalor and hopelessness the protagonists live in, much of the detail of why they are in this situation has been lost. Describing the reason why the Two Minutes Hate ends with chanting Big Brother's initials or why loving relationships are outlawed except in very specific circumstances is a very tricky thing to pull off in film. Explaining that Big Brother, or rather the people behind that facade, feel threatened when furious, intense emotions are not directed towards them instead of elsewhere, is a task very few directors are equal to. And this is a real problem, because without those bits of background information to glue together Oceania and its motives, the story starts to come apart at the seams. We see moments that were quite evocative in the novel, such as Julia tearing off the party uniform, rendered as incredibly sterile and unmoving in film. Everything seems so perfunctory when it should be a cry to the heavens for answers.And with the true reason for the story's timeless quality lost, the film ironically ends up more dated than a calendar. All films are a product of their time, of course, but some manage to transcend their time and become a cultural icon for all of the ages. I think the fact that Orwell's novel is still read and debated near to sixty years after its publication says it all regarding the timelessness of the novel. The problem for this film is that a mere ten years after its first release, it was not only forgotten, but almost impossible to find. The DVD format allows it to be seen once again, but that only serves to highlight why it was relegated to the most obscure section of the weekly rental market in the first place. Even the most terrifying scenes of the novel, such as when we learn what actually is in Room 101, just come off as a lot of flat recitation in this film. Many libraries in various countries banned the novel for its revolutionary image. I do not even believe the early rental market really noticed this film.Hence, I gave Nineteen Eighty-Four the film a four out of ten. Save the money you are planning to spend on the DVD and buy the novel, along with a copy of Animal Farm, instead. "},{"Title":"Worst adaptation of a book","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A few weeks ago, I read the classic George Orwell novel, 1984. I was fascinated with it and thought it was one of the best books I've read recently. So when I rented the DVD, I was intrigued to see how this adaptation measured up. Unfortunately, the movie didn't even come close to creating the ambiance or developing the characters that Orwell so masterfully did in his book. The director seems to think that everyone watching the movie has read the book, because he makes no attempt to demonstrate WHY the characters act and feel the way they do. John Hurt, the main actor, is droll the entire way through, and hardly does any acting until the end. We never really find out what he does for a living, or why his love affair is forbidden, or what the political climate is and why the main character desires rebellion. This book cannot be done justice in movie form without proper narration and explanation of the political system oppressing the characters, and the fact that those are missing is the greatest shortcoming of this film. Besides that, John Hurt was a terrible casting choice, looking about 15 years older than the 39 year old Winston he was supposed to be portraying. On a more positive note, however, the rest of the cast was well chosen. It's just too bad they were put in such a horribly adapted film with the wrong lead actor. -Brian O. "},{"Title":"doubleplusgood","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Doubleplusgood! I first saw this film when I was 13-14, when I hadn't read the book yet, but just as I was starting to enjoy myself my father made sure I did follow the read the book first rule by changing channel with the words What's this rubbish I want to see something better...bla,bla,bla! and flicked on to some worn out old western, so I went to the bookcase, got the book out and read. Years later I hired the video and finally got watching the film in peace, realising how good and how close to the book it was. One of the interesting differences comparing it with the original text is the use of the words brother and sister used by party members to address each other, Orwell used comrade. I think this was done as in 1984 the term comrade still had (and has to this day, but more so in the pre '89 world) a great political meaning, being used not only by communists but also by socialist, so I interpret this as an act of political diplomacy. I've seen the film and read the book several times, as well as Orwell's other works. And if one thinks about it can be a good instrument to understand a few odds and ends of what is going on today...oops I think I'm committing thoughtcrime, the Thoughtpolice will be after me. See you in the Ministry of Love. "},{"Title":"Could not agree more with poe426","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR at the last showing of the last day in the theatre, nearly empty. Why? Perhaps by the time this definitive version was made, cinema-goers had been subjected to far more spectacular and exciting stories of the future -- more puissant heroes, more alluring heroines -- with more uplifting endings. Perhaps too by the pregnant year, this film was alternate history made dreary, nastily laid on, and Americans like things sweet.The 1956 version with, of all actors, Edmund O'Brien as Winston Smith, a movie that fired me up as a teen-ager, really suffers by comparison. It told the story, and that was all.NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR was filmed on location and with a touching eye to authenticity, art imitating the reality we missed, the very springtime when Orwell set his novel, real hommage. I am certain the master would have liked it, and had he as a very old man seen the Hurt and Burton interpretations of his classic characters, the fallen socialist would have said, Spot on!No one does anything alone . . . anymore . . .. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you have read the book, then the movie will be a complete disappointment. It is an excellent book but in my opinion a below average movie. A lot of critical scenes have been omitted and others have been significantly altered (e.g. both Winston and Julia went to O'Brien. Winston never got the book that way!). I know that a movie can never be the same with the book but at least is should give you some similar joy. The book is a masterpiece. If you haven't read the book and haven't seen the movie either, then please read the book first! Otherwise you will probably hate the movie and never bother to read the book. And for the record, no I didn't even like the acting or the directing... "},{"Title":"Not terrible...","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the book 1984 before I watched the movie, and I loved the book. One of my favorite books, I had a helluva time imagining the entire story in my head. That being said, this isn't a terrible adaptation, it's just so radically different from what I had conjured up in my head that I can't stand to watch it. With that said, I'm not trying to say that this is a good adaptation either. The word average does a good job describing the film, which is a shame considering how great the book was. There are many good future dystopia novels, and I can't recall any of the others being adapted to the screen, so this is all you've got. If you have never read the book, and have no intention of reading the book, then the movie is worth watching, so that you get the message, but I HIGHLY suggest reading the book first; it's a much more enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Well made movie, but not for entertainment!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well made movie, that has a message; not an entertaining message, but one of bleakness.  I have to read nine books for my college lit course, and this is movie 3.  Much better than the 'The Others' but less entertaining than 'Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead'.  What I like is the portrayal of a repressive government, and how a government lies can be truth if that is how they become perceived.  How much does the media, and government manipulate the truth is what I gain from this film.  Being a literature classic some of the film is dry, and complex.  I believe this film is a crisism of communism and the super state.  Where the elimination of the family, and all other loyalties must be repressed.  In the end, whenever I hear something is for the greater good watch out.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Good depiction","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, first off, I want to say, that I liked Orwell's book a lot more than this film, but - as I ADORE the book - this doesn't say the movies bad.Instead, I think it is a good addition to the book as the movie gives a very good depiction of the gloomy and somewhat claustrophobic London of 1984, the city where a love story between Winston Smith, a 40-somewhat old man whose work is to change old newspapers and make their contents fit to the common knowledge of the totalitarian system he lives in, and the young girl Julia. The problem is, in this fictional 1984, everything is controlled by cameras and the only place you got to be free is your mind. But as the most interesting part of Orwell's fiction, the leaders know this and want to change the language itself by deleting uncomfortable words (p.e. revolution and so on). Of course, though the couple is REALLY careful, their love is discovered and they get imprisoned. I have to add that in 1984, love as we know it is forbidden and man and woman only team up for making children (as hard as this may sound). But now Winston is getting a delightful insight in the way his world works...As already said, this is a very good depiction of the book. It is not a bad movie or only decent, it is good, but I think, that the problem of this film is, as the majority of the book plays in Winston's mind, you cannot put it into a movie well. They did their best and I enjoyed it, regarding it as a very good movie on a book (because they kept close to the original). "}{"Title":"How Prescient and Right on the mark!!!!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Have you noticed the police helicopters hovering over South Central L.A.? Do you exist in a cubicle from Hell, fighting for air in a large room of 400 people, separated only  by these cardboard dust-catchers?  Welcome to the world of 1984, where privacy is a thing of the past, love between man and woman verboten, and the post-nuclear holocaust world totally devoid of manufacturing capability.  Except for the munitions, the DOD finally ascendant (almost as bad as today, where we buy B-2 bomber 'Hangar Queens' to supply spare parts for the other B-2 which breaks daily).  That is a design feature, not a flaw in the  Dod world.  Forget breast cancer, we have a war to fight Somalia, Euroasia--same.  Wars are necessary to give the people some purpose in life.  So now we know.  It is our herdlike mentality that the protagonists are trying to overthrow.  and wind up on the rack. Who said, If you choose to emulate Jesus, expect to wind upon the cross. So seen in '1984'.  See it twice a year, along with 'Bullworth' and you might just turn back into a human being, and a US citizen worthy of the name. "},{"Title":"amazing adaptation of a classic book","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion, 1984 by George Orwell is still the best novel I've ever read. So when I borrowed this film on video (it still hasn't been released on DVD in Australia shamefully), I didn't know what to expect, as I thought it was going to be almost impossible to put Orwell's masterpiece on screen without messing anything up. However, this is a exactly what the director achieved he made a film which is not only a perfect film version of the book, but also a classic in its own right. John Hurt is perfect as Winston, while Suzanna Hamilton and Richard Burton (in his last ever film) are great too. It is hard to find fault with the film, so it seems strange that it only has an average rating of 6.9 on this website (and generally only gets 3/5 in film books; Fahrenheit 9/11 gets 4/5... what is this world coming too?). This is probably because of the darkness of the film, and some of the more agonizing torture scenes towards the end of the film. However, I thought the rawness of the film, the slightly faded look, and the amazing music score all contributed excellently to the film. Admittedly it is not exactly light watching, and some viewers might find it a bit oppressive, but in my opinion this was all in keeping with the classic book that it was based on.... in fact I would recommend any directors who wish to make an adaptation of a famous novel, to look at this film and see how its done. "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" If people are even too lazy to read Orwell's truly awe-inspiring novel, then they should at least see this film adaptation. It is amazingly shot, acted written, directed. I honestly think that this film was at least 10 years ahead of its time. I look at movies from the early 90's that are not shot this well. And the set design is beautiful. It is bleak and dreary and so oppressive. You can almost smell the nasty cold air. I have no complaints. It stays exceptionally true to the novel. of course some details are left out. So i suggest reading it and then seeing the movie. This is an all too important story not to be heard, even if we are not living under the shadow of Soviet Russia, people still need to heed Orwell's warnings about totalitarian governments. "},{"Title":"1984 is not a work of 'Science Fiction.'","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 20th anniversary of this film has put it into rotation on some cable networks, so a fresh and different review seems in order. I'm having trouble understanding where some of the other reviewers on this site are coming from. Some seem to be complaining that the film didn't entertain them properly, while others slam the book on which the film was based. Incredibly, others contort their thoughts to find parallels between the fictional world of 1984 and real life 2004, particularly real life US society. This must be an important work of art, otherwise it would be ignored. So, having said that, here's my review1984 is not a work of 'Science Fiction.' It is political/psychological fiction. We are introduced to a world some 20 years into a socialist revolution. (The book places the revolution at about 1965.) The landscape and scenery is almost shockingly bleak, but evidence of a great, productive society once existing there is visible. Somehow I was able to perceive that I was looking at a future London, England. (The book clues you in on the location. The English accents also help! It's hard to explain this perception, but anyone who's been to England surely must feel it.) After many years of war, society has been reduced to a subsistence level. Everything is in short supply, but constant news updates proclaim great improvements in the quality of life. All of Oceania lives under the constant threat of defeat in a war with its sworn enemy 'Eurasia.' Propaganda is constant and relentless. A news blurb informs the public that a victory in some battle has brought the war against 'Eurasia' close to an end. The same message is repeated at the end of the film, but the enemy has changed to 'Eastasia.' The most important theme of the book and film lies here. It doesn't matter who Oceania is at war with, or whether or not the war is even real. The population must believe the war is real, thus their suffering is necessary for victory to be realized. Thus, the elite 'Inner Party' can exert power over the populace and remain in control. The main character asked the key question when he said 'I understand the 'How' but I don't understand the 'Why.' It's all about power and control&#133;.The main character is complicit in this vast fraud in a small way, and grows disillusioned. He is compelled to have a forbidden affair with a young woman, and to join a rebellion against his world. You can feel the tension develop as he continues to have hope for the future. The viewer knows he will be caught, and eventually, he is. The final act of the film details how he is brought back into line with the party. His mind is destroyed and rebuilt, so he will believe anything the party tells him. Like Big Brother, the Soviet Union used propaganda and force to maintain control. Look at any of the current documentaries of North Korea and you hear a constant voice over loudspeakers. How much do you want to bet those announcements are of how much grain was produced, or how the standard of living has risen? Meanwhile everybody is starving. 1984 was and is a powerful and accurate portrayal of the ultimate socialist society. As we look back from 2004, the parallels with the Soviet Union, Red China and North Korea are plentiful. How some reviewers on this site see Big Brother in modern American society I'll never know. The term 'Big Brother' must be one of the most mis-used themes in literary history. Using video cameras to monitor high crime areas is not big brother&#133;nor is protecting freedom by aggressively pursuing those who seek to do it harm. What is 'Big Brother-esq' is presenting loose theories as fact, like in the film 'JFK' , or using movies to change public perception about a past war, like has been done over and over again with the Vietnam war. Remember, Big Brother is a socialist, just like Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Castro, Kim Il Jong, Pol Pot&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;..Finally, regarding 1984 as a 'Movie.' Well, don't watch it to get revved up for a Saturday night out. It's meant to be an intellectual challenge, not a simplistic action adventure or sappy romantic drama. It does what any truly great movie does&#133; it transports the viewer into another reality, and leaves him/her wanting more answers. 1984 is masterful in its ability to provoke thought, and in providing the viewer a chance to see what such a world would be like without having to experience it first hand. I say 10 out of 10. It's not my favorite movie of all time, but surely is on the list. I'm confident this review will be roundly bashed by any further reviewers, but hopefully some will appreciate this point of view.  "},{"Title":"Read the book, ignore all statements to the contrary; you have been warned!!","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a massive fan of rendering a book to film because when it's done well, a week's evening-reading can become a single evening's enjoyment. The problem with this adaptation is that its does not convey the message nor feel of the book adequately. Please ignore this work entirely and read the book. Anyone who states otherwise probably misses a large majority of human existence due to their limited mental capacity.John Hurt, as ever performs admirably and the attempts to convey the mass-adoption of a totalitarian regime can only be applauded but the film really fails when you realise that half of the film deals with the last few chapters of the book rather than focusing on the societal factors that both facilitate and sustain such a regime. Roll on Apple et al and please support the tyranny of information suppression and control they support!! 1984 is a startling text but will The proletariat conquer the world through ignorance or arms; I fear the former. "},{"Title":"Oceania Dick Chaney's Homeland","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell writing in 1948 gave us the flip side of Britain future absorbed by Oceania (presumably the us) it acts as an airstrip in the eternal wars of the super-states East Asia Eur-Asia and Oceania. We find Winston Smith at his desk in Mini-truth rewriting the past. Led by Big Brother, a shadowy image on the telescreen which broadcasts official propaganda and spies on the citizenry, Oceania is whipped into a paranoid state. Because of the never-ending wars, subversion pervades Oceania, particularly a noxious liberal democrat named Goldstein. But in the course of re-writing the archives, Winston discovers that the real leaders of The Revolution have long since been vaporized. The image of Big Brother merely is generated by the political structure running Oceania through technologically disseminated paranoia.Thus Winston embarks on a journey down the twisted corridors in search of The Truth. What is the Truth? 1984 is of particular pertinence in our times in which the US has become the mirror image of Oceania, replete with a real life Big Brother, a roly-poly little man who runs off in crisis but smiles for the camera.If George Orwell qualifies as a latter day prophet for having accurately seen much of the future there is one small detail Orwell may have missed He never saw that the cardboard cut out Big Brother could be such a coward. "},{"Title":"1984","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that 1984 was a good movie. It was the last film for Richard Burton. The film is about War. A different kind of war. I would give the movie at least 8 out of 10. This film might be a film you may never forget. The film was based on George Orwell's novel. "},{"Title":"A rare case of a movie being *better* than the book","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Consider In the book, O'Brien was just a one-dimensional dishonest villain; the stereotype of the back-stabbing Communist official. The film version makes the character far more subtle and interesting. Watch the scene where he describes the resistance to Winston, knowing how Winston will interpret his words, and compare it to the version of the scene in the book. "},{"Title":"It isn't just a story","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some would say that just because we live in a democracy we still don't have freedom of thought. Everyone knows that there are certain things you can't say even though abundant physical and documented evidence proves they are true. But I digress. I haven't read the novel but I  was told this was a fairly faithful adaptation of it. Let us praise all men who dare to stand up and tell the truth like Galileo and Copernicus most famously but also many others, some of whom are even striving today.                             "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of a classic satire","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the future (!) the world is split into three super powers.  Within Oceania the people are monitored constantly by Big Brother and policed by four ministries who represent the full power of the party.  Smith is a worker who's job involves the rewriting of history.  However he begins to resent Big Brother and look for a world of freedom and expression.  He finds this world in a small back room with a fellow worker called Julia.  However the Ministry of Love and the Thought Police is never far away.Although this was made in 1984, it is set in a 1984 that has more in common with 1940's post-war Britain than with the 1984 we know.  This is the only way to film it &#150; this 1984 is a different world (is it?) in many ways.  The plot is a major success simplky because it takes the rambling thoughts and ideas of the book and puts plenty of them into a story made of occurances rather than just thoughts.  This means much of the book is cut or minimised but it still has the basics there.Many of the scenes are not too far away from the modern world we live in &#150; although our world is a lot more subtle.  I don't even mean the obivious things like CCTV or our mobile phones etc meaning someone can know where we are all the time.  But the scene where statisitics are changed or twisted to be good news as opposed to bad news certainly rang bells with those in the UK who live with our `spinning' government.  More appropriately in our post &#150; 9/11 world is the way at the start that the public are manipulated to feel hate towards whoever Ocenaia's enemy happens to be at that time.  Not unlike the media was quick to make enemies of whoever America is at war with.Hurt is on good form as the skinny thought-criminal Smith and is convincing throughout.  Burton finally gets the darkly serious role he wanted his whole life (and he died just after).  Hamilton is good but her constant nudity was distracting from her scenes (I felt).  When even Gregor Fisher (best known for Rab C Nesbit) gives a subtle performance then you know you've got something good.Overall this film is a good adaptation of the book and manages to be a nightmarish extreme and be recognisable at the same time &#150; a difficult thing to achieve.  It may never reach the satire or the strength of the book but it's a strong film and the final 30 minutes (where human spirit and love are shown in all their weaknesses) is nothing but chilling. "}{"Title":"Faithful to the spirit of the book...","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of the pitiful handful of truly flawless SF fantasies, NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR just may be the best. Faithful to the spirit of the book (if you'll pardon the play on words there), this version is superb in every single regard. That more people haven't seen and experienced this film is in itself a thoughtcrime; Orwell(Blair)'s novel has been ripped off more often than probably any other book ever written. (Even George Lucas's first feature, THX-1138, owes much to NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR.) Whether the book or this particular movie version (the only version I've seen, or will ever need to see), NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR is a remarkable piece of work that no one should miss. Do so at your own peril... "},{"Title":"A bad version of one of the world's greatest novel","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard about this novel a long time ago, many of my friends have recommend me to read it. I searched it in every place and finally found it. This is a book that every man should read, because it is genius and because of it's vision. I enjoyed every page.I knew about the movie and could not wait to see it. When I finally did I was very disappointed, many things that are in the book are not in the movie (I do not think that this is a spoiler) that just makes the movie not logical... Michael Radford might be a good director, but a bad writer. Especially as a book adopter. The movie is not dark at all, the writing is really bad, the only thing that is good, even great, is the acting. John Hurt is an amazing actor and the only face I myself could see as Winston Smith.What angers me the most are the people in IMDb that called this The Best Adaptation Ever without even reading the book! Or knowing anything about screen writing!You can only understand the brilliance of the story by reading the book, do not consider this as an alternative. As a fan of the book, I was very disappointed.The points I gave for this movie goes for the acting. "},{"Title":"Silly And Unbelievable","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Orwell's book is one of the defining literary works of the last century. It's amazing how prescient the book is, although it also proves that today's hot topics of civil liberties, surveillance and the New World Order are really nothing new. As long as there has been politics, there has been the potential for authoritarian states to enslave their citizens and dazzle them by the use of revisionist propaganda. In some ways this was even more relevant to the Nazis and Communists in the 1930s than it is to today's political situations across the world.Although it's true that technology has managed to find new ways of invading people's privacy and making them feel under constant scrutiny, it's conversely true that technology has liberated us to travel more freely than ever before, to learn more than ever before, and to exchange opinions and experiences with those we would never have come into contact with 50 years ago. On balance, I'd say we're further away from Big Brother now than we were at the time of Orwell's novel (an unfashionable view I suspect).Interestingly, it was watching the film of 1984 that made me decide Big Brother is further away than I realised. Before seeing the film I was astounded by how accurate George Orwell seemed to have predicted what today's world would be like. The film, however, exposes some of the major flaws in Orwell's premise.To put it bluntly the innate nature of the inquisitive, rebellious human spirit will NEVER be permanently imprisoned by rogue politicians. They might get away with it for a while, but in the long run the people will rise up and overthrow any regime that pushes them too far. Look at the collapse of the Communist bloc of Eastern Europe in the late 80s. Look at the rise of capitalism in China now, which is slowly but surely bringing new democracy to China. Look at the huge groundswell of public opinion in the US and the UK which is firmly anti-government. People in both countries are utterly cynical and sceptical of their politicians, and certainly don't live in fear of speaking their minds. I'm free to write this, aren't I? Oh hell...who's that knocking at the door???Quite frankly, none of the characters in the movie have any charisma, humour or humanity whatsoever, which makes them one-dimensional and unbelievable. The film looks dated and unscary. There is very little suspense at all and too much generic dystopian-imagery-by-numbers.My favourite part of the novel was the manifesto which Winston was given that spells out the principles of the government. This to me is the crux of the book, more than the plot line itself. Unfortunately, the dry Newspeak language of the manifesto simply does not lend itself to dramatisation. The Room 101 scene was better, but even then it seemed unrealistic and over-stylised rather than psychologically terrifying.On the upside, the acting performances were OK in an artsy type way, and the music by the Eurythmics was excellent. I'm glad I watched this film, but I don't think it does the novel any favours...it just makes the land of 1984 seem like a bad dream rather than a plausible reality. Which wasn't the point! "},{"Title":"Great idea almost entirely ruined by lackluster direction","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't read the book by George Orwell or seen any of the other film adaptations of it, so I can't comment on how accurate this is compared to any other version. I've heard it's quite accurate, though. Just about anyone who've read the book has praised it as a terrifying masterpiece about a totalitarian government. That, coupled with John Hurt being in the lead role, convinced me to see this film. I was quite excited to see if it lived up to its reputation. Unfortunately, almost all of the great promise of an excellent idea is ruined by the poor direction and unimaginative cinematography. The film never manages to capture or maintain the viewers interest for more than a few minutes through the entire film. The plot is good, but it moves so slowly that there are times when it doesn't seem to be moving at all. The acting ranges but is mostly unimpressive. John Hurt gives a good performance, but that's about it. The characters are well-written and credible, but I suppose that is because Orwell rather than any of the film-makers. I could be wrong, but that's the one thing(coupled with the plot/theme, which is Orwell's work as well) that isn't tame and mediocre. The cinematography is dull and daft. No new or even slightly original angles, pans or cuts. All tongue-in-cheek, old, standard stuff as far as camera-work and editing goes. The film is visually uninteresting and the plot moves too slow for it to be saved on that front. I really found nothing of interest in this film that isn't most likely done, and much better so, in the book, which I've heard is supposed to be far more captivating. It can hardly be worse, that's for sure. Just to put into perspective exactly how boring this is; I saw the horror film The Dentist yesterday, a movie most write off as pointless and forgettable. I sat through the entirety of that film, and I still remember quite a bit of it. I frequently left the room(with the film still running) during this film, and I don't really remember any of it, even though it ended not long ago. This film could have been great, in the hands of far superior film-makers such as Terry Gilliam and Stanley Kubrick... too bad it was ruined by a talentless no-name director. I don't really recommend this film to anyone, since the book appears to be much, much better. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A keen introspective into communism","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone that hasn't lived in or experienced communism, the film might appear ideologically foreign. However, the truth is that Orwell, knowingly or not (as the novel was written too early for him to ascertain the true impact of communism) captured the essence of life in a totalitarian socialist regime (one that was embraced by many eastern european countries). Having lived through it, I recognized right away many elements that comprised life in those circumstances. The brainwashing and 'thought police' are very eloquent examples of such elements. The film itself does the novel credit and provides an adaptation that is very true to the idea it tried to convey. Visually it is also quite effective, creating the stark, desperate, claustrophobic mood that helps propel set ideas. The acting, of course, is top notch as both Burton and Hurt turn in impressive performances. All considered, I think it's a rather powerful movie that could provide insight into the psychology of aforementioned regimes like not many (especially english speaking) movies can. "},{"Title":"Great movie adaption of Orwell's drama","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This version of George Orwell's famous social fiction book 1984 from 1948 is a brilliant adaption with great actors. Shot in and around London between April and June, 1984 (exactly the place and time where the plot takes place in Orwell's novel), it shows the horror vision of a disturbed and military future with no space left for individualism, criticism, love, sex and feelings. All thoughts and actions are controlled by the big brother, an all-present spy- and camera-system, and it resembles the atmosphere of the German Third Reich, settled in a bleak post-industrial war zone.The photography is brilliant, with typical dirty 1980's industrial design and destroyed and grey landscapes. The minimal electronic sound track by Dominic Muldowney and the songs by the Eurythmics add more dark atmosphere to the hostile surroundings and the disturbing plot. The best about this movie are the actors, especially John Hurt as tortured individualist Winston Smith who turns to a mind-controlled puppet on a string, and Richard Burton in his very last role as an official, explaining the principles of the totalitarian system to Hurt. Watch this touching, fascinating and very atmospheric science fiction movie, it's just great!  "},{"Title":"The impact of the book is lost in translation to film","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best parts of 1984 are the parts that are nearly impossible to accurately translate effectively onto the medium of film. So this is a case where the book is so much better than a film adaptation ever could be. And this is odd because most people and especially most young adults have experienced many more movies than books, so its almost shocking to think that mere words can do what the whole multi-sensory experience of film cannot. Its not so much what the film did that was bad, but rather all the things it failed to do.The first thing it failed to do was provide much of a story background for the viewers of this imaginary futuristic totalitarian world. I assume they did not have the time to include it, but this really weakens the build up to the so-called climax of the movie. It seems the director is basically assuming that anyone watching the film has already read the book. But if you haven't I promise that you will be asking questions and be scratching your head almost right away.I had a small problem with the casting of John Hurt. He acted well enough, but he is a good 15-20 years older than the 39 year old Winston Smith was in the book. I'm not sure why they changed that aspect of the character. The movie also wholly misses out on Winston's internal psychological terror and painful introspective ruminations on the meaning and loss of history. I didn't get the sense that Winston really cared about history all that much. The movie focused more on his longing for amorous connections. If you saw this movie without reading the book you actually would get a small sense of what it would be like to live within the party where whole experiences are denied to you because language has been altered or obliterated. But you wouldn't know it. This is hard to explain.The acting was certainly adequate for everyone except O'Brien. Some of O'Brien's scenes from the book were removed from the movie so he actually had less to work with, but even his torture of Winston at the end seemed uninspired and rushed. And Winston's interactions with the enigmatic O'Brien is another area the movie really botched. In the book Winston is longing for a savior figure from the Brotherhood and he has this sense of doomed fatalism about him at all times. He reaches out to O'Brien knowing he is a dead man already, but the movie fails to build up that tension properly. The result is that the twist where O'Brien reveals himself as a member of the thought police is not climactic at all. Again, if you had not read the book you would probably just be confused rather than shocked. Now despite these shortcomings, I actually still enjoyed the movie even though so much of the emotional and psychological impact was lost. This was most likely due to the excellent set and consistent acting. But this is definitely a case where another remake is in order. I think with today's technique and technology they might be able to capture the essence of Orwell's timeless work. But I can only recommend this film to someone who has already read the book. "},{"Title":"I'm none the wiser...","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" After hearing about George Orwell's prophetic masterpiece for all of my life, I'm now 37, but never having read the book, I am totally confused as to what I've just seen.I am very familiar with the concepts covered in the novel, as i'm sure most are, but only through hearsay and quotes. Without this limited knowledge this film would have been a complete mystery, and even with it I'm still no more educated about the story of 1984 than I was before I watched it.On the plus side...The cinematography is amazing, Hurt & Burton deliver fine performances and the overall feel of the movie is wonderfully grim and desolate. The prostitute scene was a fantastically dark piece of film making.Now for the down sides, and there are plenty...There is a war going on, (at least as far as the propaganda is concerned), but why & with who? Nothing is explained. There are a couple of names bandied about (Eurasia etc), but they mean nothing without explanation.Who is Winston? what does he do? where does he come from? where does he work? why is he changing news reports? why isn't he on the front line? Why doesn't he eat the food in the canteen? What is that drink he's drinking through the entire film? Why is he so weak & ill? Why isn't he brainwashed like the rest of them? What's the deal with his mother & sister? What happened to his father? A little back story would have been nice, no scrub that, essential for those like myself that haven't read the book. Without it, this is just a confusing and hard to follow art-house movie that constantly keeps you guessing at what is actually going on.The soundtrack was dis-jointed and badly edited and the constant chatter from the Big Brother screens swamps the dialogue in places making it even harder to work out whats going on. I accept that this may have been an artistic choice but it's very annoying all the same.Also, I know this has been mentioned before, but why all the nudity? It just seemed totally gratuitous and felt like it had been thrown in there to make up for the lack of any plot coverage.I personally can't abide the way Hollywood feels it has to explain story lines word for word these days. We are not all brainwashed simpletons, but this is a few steps too far the other way. I can only imagine that it totally relies on the fact that you've read the book because if this film really is the 'literal translation' that I've seen many people say, I would find it very hard to understand why 1984 is hailed as the classic it is.There's no denying that it was light years ahead of it's time and has pretty much predicted every change in our society to date, (maybe this has been a sort of bible to the powers that be?), but many sci-fi novelists have done the same without leaving gaping holes in the storyline.I guess I have to do what I should have done from the start and buy a copy of the book if i'm to make any sense out of this.All in all, very disappointed in something I've waited for years to watch. "},{"Title":"One of the most accurate movie adaptations I've ever seen.  It was both chilling and compelling.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Radford's vision of George Orwell's 1984, is close to perfect.  It is, in fact, one of my all time favorite films.  From the set design, which seems to come straight from Orwell's vision to the performances, this is a great albiet depressing creation.The great performances of the two male leads are also of note.  In his final big screen role, Richard Burton gives the strongest performace of the last decade of his career.  His world-weary O'Brien is a masterful creation.  He makes a character who performs evil acts, almost sympathetic.  His obviously poor health adds to his character, but it does not detract from the power of his perfomance.  John Hurt gives a great performance as well.All in all, this is a chilling and prophetic view that was still relevent in 1984 and it is still relevant today. "},{"Title":"old newspeak","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the book in high school in the 60's and assumed it was an indictment of communism. Before seeing the movie the other night I had convinced myself that it would be even more relevant in that it surely had to be about the capitalism/fascism mess we know live in. It isn't. It simply makes the point that individualism could be stamped out and that it could make for a very dire existence if the oppressor were as bad as one could imagine. I will have to reread the book.. maybe it is deeper than the film suggests.Very atmospheric and economical filmmaking really. Great performances. GREAT NUDITY.. is this sense. The woman playing Julia is lovely, in a very ordinary way and to see her so exposed,quite hirsute in fact, is a revelation to one about how beautiful human beings can be. Our clothes are the first cell we inhabit.I don't know. I just hope someone writes a 1984ish book revealing the dark underbelly of the society we have embraced, reflexively out of fear of the Orwellian world. "}{"Title":"THE LAST MAN","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nobody seems to get this book/film, your all going on about totalitarian regimes, illuminarty and other such stuff of nonsense. The book is about the last man(Nieztche), and his inability to think freely and control his environment, causing such power structures to come about. He creates such powerstructures so he can blame them for controlling him, without ever realising that they are of his own devising. Think room 101. A torture of your own devising.(why rats - because deep down he knows hes part of the rat race, no matter how much he denies it). If anyone is looking for a deeper understanding of this phenomena, then please look into the work of Winnicott, and the intermediate area of illusion. Subjective reality - Winston intermediate area of illusion - Julia Objective reality - O'brianwill we ever learn and throw off the tyranny of BB, which i guarantee is very much real. "},{"Title":"verbatim but flat","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Visually director Michael Radford nailed the landscape and mood of 1984. Winston (John Hurt) and Julia (Suzanna Hamilton) were played by actors who understood and became the role and were not beautiful or attractive in any way (just as Orwell describes them). However, Richard Burton was slightly miss-cast as O'Brien, his character dedication weakened as the movie progressed. The overall story jumps from point to point, leaving no room for building suspense. The viewer is allowed to hear Winston's inner thoughts (practically the foundation for the novel) and there are just not enough scenes in the film to stress how important this is. A viewer will go through the 1st quarter of the film unaware of how Winston feels about his station in life and society as a whole. I would recommend this movie to high schoolers who don't feel like reading the book but need to pass English because it is an excellent visual cliff's notes. "},{"Title":"A classic complicated book is made into a equally complex and disturbing film!","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everything about this movie felt so real, the cinematography, the outstanding music, the acting, the entire look of the film. John Hurt is perfectly cast as Winston Smith. If you want more of this talented man's work, try the Elephant Man, Watership Down, The Black Cauldron and Lord of the Rings(the animation)Richard Burton was wonderful as the sinister O'Brien, and their scene in Room 101 was the highlight of the film, and is also the best bit of the book. The Room 101 scene is very disturbing, and sees Winston as a broken man, people O'Brien pulls out Winston's tooth here, the sound that made disturbed me greatly. The cinematography was excellent, with the graphic darkness and the pastoral imagery. Susanna Hamilton is also good as Julia, though the sex scene in the woods was a little too much information, everyone in my year 11 English class, i was 16 when I first saw this, covered their eyes when Julia stripped naked. However, this is very faithful to the source material, well it may need to be to convey the terror of living in an omnipotent society. All in all, a powerful and effective film, based on a complicated but truly excellent book. 9/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"I hate purity, I hate goodness, I hate this movie!","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, I believe that 1984 was one of the best books ever written. Yes, I also believe that 1984 was one THE worst movies ever made. I'm talking worse than The Beast of Yucca Flats bad! The book is a striking depiction of what the world would become if the backwards thoughts of extreme government systems were allowed to continue. It was a wakeup call that reminded us to be human. And, come on, the main character wanted to rape a chick and slit her throat! It was corrupt to the bones! However, the movie... Ha! Movie. I have seen 8th grade plays with more emotion, action, and certainly better acting (remember Julia's fall?). For those of you people who claim that this is THE best book to movie adaptation ever, I think you should just be sent to Room 101 or something, just die. For those of you (normal people) who struggled like Winston being tortured to stay awake during this piece of doubleplus crap, my hat goes off to you. You were able to notice how it was as if everyone in the whole cast of 1984 was high and that the director must have said Move as little as possible, let's try to make the viewer feel as if he is in Room 101 and this movie is his worst fear. This movie is so SLLLLLLLOOOOOOOOOOWWWWWWWWWW, DEAD, EMOTIONLESS.. I could go on. Please save yourself from 10 hours of moviecrime and just be satisfied with the book. Or if you feel up to it, take a video camera and film the pages of 1984 one by one. After you have completed this task, watch it. And although, it would be a huge waste of time and very boring, it would still be better than the movie. I hated Big Brother. "},{"Title":"Disappointing compared to the book","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the book (in an excellent audio form but fully) and I found this movie very moody and dark compared to it.It didn't have the 'cyberpunk-ish' feeling of the book which was fast paced and strangely refreshing. This movie is dystopian even in the mood, quite low pace.In addition it gives me the idea that it's very anti-communist while the book was both anti-communist and anti-fascist. I suspect it's affected by 80s Soviet era anti-Soviet propaganda.I say that because the movie starts with a mock up of we, the workers, we, the builders, while that is not stressed in the book at all. In fact, in the book the Proles which are closer to the 'workers' are not even praised. It's the 'middle-lower' class of the outer party that gets the bulk of the oppression according to Winston and common sense. "},{"Title":"Don't know about the high ratings but it was DISAPPOINTING","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the novel first and I was amazed by the brilliant George Orwell and the wonderful details and imagination in the novel. The problem is the movie is missing lots of details. I mean, if someone didn't read the novel watched the movie he will get the wrong idea or no idea at all. The most important part and I myself consider it the masterpiece of George Orwell is the Book of Goldstein with its 3 chapters. In the movie they only showed one paragraph of the book!!!!!!!! Guys, C'mon. What I know is if anyone didn't read the book of goldstein part of the novel then he didn't need to bother himself to read the novel at all. And after all this they didn't show it in the movie for God knows why. I was really disappointed by the movie because I said it missed a lot of very important details from the novel. "},{"Title":"not sure what to think","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not sure how to rate this movie. In parts, it was totally ridiculous and i hated the director (like the scenes of everybody congregating to watch Big Brother). In so many parts, though, it was a decent story about a man who is forced to both create and destroy information. It creates a duplicity in him that is difficult to see through. Whether I should credit Orwell, or the makers of this film, i'm not sure, but the story is pretty solid (yet nowhere near as good as PKD). There are inconsistencies, however, like the lack of razor blades despite the fact that not a single person had a beard - nor did the ladies shave. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the book","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While seemingly well done and visually pleasing the movie just fails. It failed to attach me to Winston and Julia, I felt nothing for them and their playing was, in my opinion, seriously lacking. Needed scenes were missed, and from that reason or another the film just doesn't give the chill and the excitement that gives the book.Sorry, try again. "},{"Title":"Is What It Shows","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.It is a pet peeve of mine to discover films whose point is undermined by its container.  Most of these are the trivial case of movies about taking chances and being unique, but  the form of the movie is the complete opposite.What we have here is similar, but in an interesting way.The book is a minor work, poorly written with dim vision that would have long ago faded  away. It is a morality tale that follows in the tradition of 18th century Christian lesson- stories. But it accidentally fell into a niche that is convenient for the US public school  system. That system has to recognize the plain fact that reading is the very first step to a  life of the mind. But education is an industrialized affair, so the core of that truth is bleached down to  books that are an easy read, that have no ambiguity or layering, books that have a  message that can be clearly stated and about which simple questions can be asked.  1984 meets these criteria, so has been elevated to the status of an important book. In  fact, 1984 has survived that status in the last decade of creating similar important  books whose message isn't even in the text, rather the fact that they have diverse  authors.But the truths in this book aren't truths at all; they are instead simple slogans. Now, along comes a credible movie version of the book, which makes teaching even  easier. Students can now glue themselves to a screen like scabs, to coagulate the simple  point on which they can be questioned. How is this substantially different than the  perfidious conditions depicted? (There is one difference the world OF the movie is unrelentingly bleak and sexless. The  movie is as well, but it has nudity, which -- I suppose -- makes a statement about  freedom of some kind to junior high schoolers.)Brazil was a flawed project, but much richer in exploiting the notion that it was all a  reality constructed by the narrator during a session in a related but similarly constructed  world. Why not show complex films? There are many with this same notion freedom in  sex as a metaphor for freedom of the mind in a political context. Though that gets pretty  tired, there are many film projects that are at least rich in this regard. (My mind snaps to  The War is Over.) ... or gasp! Have kids read intelligent, layered books?As a film, it is all a matter of style, that retrotechno look that begins with familiar Nazi  cinema propaganda and extrapolates forward. In this case, the style is copied from Ridley  Scott's 1984 commercial for Apple's Superbowl introduction of the Macintosh. That  little film still reverberates today.You could, as a viewer, grow this into a film with depth by adding your own backstory to  the Hamilton character and imputing her as the writer and collaborator with Goldstein.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"World of False Delusions","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never cared for Orwell, '1984' was  only saved because it had some (un)clever little phrases such as whoever controls the past controls the future, etc. etc.'Fahrenheit 451' is superior because it doesn't abandon the thought of entertainment, something shunned by Orwell in his blindness to reality.  Alas, 'Fahrenheit' is considered grade-school material while Orwell's abomination gets the prestige of being in the times.This is your only spoiler warning...Perhaps it's because Bradbury had a more detailed idea of the future that there is only one film adaptation of his work...so far.  In Orwell's future presented here, everything is surface value.  Nothing carries a shred of depth because the image is meant to be a postcard or propaganda poster.  By the end, Winston has rejected himself, his world, and even the opponents of his world.  He knows nothing.The production values are understandably bland, the music is awful, and the food is the worst.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "}{"Title":"A movie bogged down with it's own premise","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's sad to see to see such a wonderful book strangled in it's upteenth film adaptation. This film focuses far too much on Orwell's ideas and completely forgets to give any attention to it's characters.The film follows Winston Smith(John Hurt), a man disenfranchised from the dictatorial, big brother state, which is trying to clamp down on free thinking and orgasms, amongst other things. Things soon get complicated for him when he befriends a beautiful young like minded girl.Throughout this film I was in awe of the wonderful cinematography by Roger Deakins, which brings out every wrinkle of John Hurt's anguished face. The film is drained of all colour and light, reflecting the state's unfathmobable control over everything, including the colours.The main problem with this film is the lack of weight it gives to its characters. You can have all the scariest, inventive ideas in the world, but as soon as you forget your protagonist the film becomes more a lecture than a book. Winston Smith and his female accomplice are characters that you simply don't care for. They are just shells. It all seems pointless. Maybe that's the point, but you can't have an engaging story without likable, or at least relatable characters.Brazil is a similar film, yet it at least brings out satire and humour in it's situation. This is just stark, depressing images without an interesting character or a hint of excitement. "},{"Title":"Unrelieved dreariness","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"         I saw this film in the theater when it first came out. Since I was with a group of friends, I felt obliged to sit through the whole thing. I came out of the theater wishing I hadn't.         I read Orwell's book many years ago, so I can't say just now how faithful an adaptation the film was. However, I'd also seen an earlier version of 1984...the one made in 1956, I think. I remembered the 1956 film as being quite chilling. However, the 1984 remake left me unimpressed. As we exited the theater, a friend of mine who seemed to believe that with Reagan in office we were all headed straight into Orwell's nightmare world, asked me what I thought of it. I told him that this movie was just about the elaborate squashing of a bug...and a corrupt bug, at that. I could not bring myself to care about Winston Smith at all. I had a little trouble with the notion that Richard Burton's character would handle so many messy details of Smith's...what? Interrogation? Re-education? Sensitivity training?...himself. The only character I found at all interesting was Suzanna Hamilton's. She was the only bright spot in all that unrelieved dreariness. I KNOW that Orwell's book isn't a happy one, but portraying Ms. Hamilton's character as this film did felt too much like a ham-handed effort at a little contrast, and left me wondering what on Earth she had ever seen in Winston Smith. "},{"Title":"I just didn't care","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe it was because I watched this film without reading the novel first, maybe it's just because of my age, and maybe it was because I watched this in a high school English class, but I just did not care about this film. I wanted to like it, I really did, but i just didn't. The plot had holes, and the character development was lacking. I didn't know why this dystopian society was the way it was, I didn't know who these characters were, nor did I care. The film had no levels, the plot stayed one tone the entire time, as did the acting. I just feel that it lacked in many places. I regret having to give this film a bad review, but for now this is where my opinion stands, maybe as i grow and experience some more things as a person I will understand this movie but for now it is just a flat surface with no color. Something that I don't care about. "},{"Title":"Good portrayal overall but has its flaws","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Ninteen Eighty-Four' is a film about a futuristic society in which the government controls everything and no one can be trusted. It is a very dark film, and it is one that will not make you feel good about yourself. It is about a romance taking place in this society and the betrayal of the lovers and about human nature being self-centred. The film has some very good ideas and is done well in portraying this society with the dark tones in colours (contrasting with happiness and bright colours in the dreams) and a general feeling of loneliness through objects and people and places. However, despite the film's cleverness at portraying this idea, the film was very slow and did not seem to quite get the idea across. It seemed to spend too much time being clever rather than telling a story. "},{"Title":"Utterly crap","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The book is fantastic, this film is not. There is no reason this film could not have embraced a futuristic technological vision of the book. Hell, total recall was released a few years later and that did a good job of it, even a clockwork orange released in the 70s did a good job of trying to make a futuristic world. The bleak German expressionistic colours, the black and white footage from the vision screens, there is no reason for this approach for when the film was made in 1984. The main character is in a white collar writing job yet he dresses like he works with oil and grease in a garage. This film decides to take a mock-communistic approach to set design, atmosphere and theme, yet the novel did not necessarily dictate a communist, worship-the-humble-worker theme itself. This book seriously needs to be adapted in a modern context as this book is more relevant today than ever before. I could not watch more than 20 minutes of this crap. The soundtrack is annoying, the lack of foresight is annoying, this film seems to have been made to deny a sense of realism or believability when that is exactly what is required to hammer the novel's messages to the viewer. "},{"Title":"I Feel Dumber","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I understand the reason for this film just as much as I can understand the film itself - which is null and void. I'll never see why this is considered a cult classic. Maybe because of my political incorrectness, or maybe because it makes no sense...possibly even a combination of the two.Sadly, this is nearly 2 hours I won't be getting back. The film wasn't exactly what I'd expected. If you're politically-minded, you can give it a go if you dare - but I think even this film will make you go, What the...?Time to watch something that makes more sense...like In the Night Garden. "},{"Title":"Couldn't hold a candle to the Book","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit, there are few books with corresponding movies that I have actually read before seeing the cinematic adaptation.  Nineteen Eighty-Four happens to be one of those rare cases.  The book was great.  It was immersive and interestingly prophetic.  But the movie just plain sucked. It is easily the worst film I have ever seen.  The only reason I didn't turn it off after the first 5 minutes was the fact that watching the movie was half of a two-part assignment for a class.  It was dark and grotesque, but did nothing in the way of achieving the proper atmosphere.  The acting was nothing above average, and considering the fact that there wasn't much to act out, this was severely disappointing.  The book, for example, didn't give me the impression that Winston was unable to blurt out more than a single syllable at a time. Boring, disturbing, and visually unappealing, the movie totally cannibalized the book. Wait a second...Isn't it British? "},{"Title":"This film really didn't seem up to par for me  (","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that the shots and lighting were very poor. When I watched it for the first time I thought it was the old version(1956). When I really found out the true year of the film I was shocked. I didn't know that there could be such a bad film made so recently. Thats really all I wanted to say. This film had a good plot though, nothing you couldn't miss out on if you would simply read the novel that George Orwelll wrote. All I really want to say has already been said except for this I can't believe that this film could have possibly received so many awards and nominations.I gave this film a One (awful), because I felt that it was very badly made. Well that is all. So long "},{"Title":"Sorry, but I hated it...","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie last year in Media class and I have to say I really hated it. I was in year 10 (and aged 15) so that may have has something to do with it. But for English this year, year 11, we had to read Animal Farm, also by George Orwell. Aside from the fact that the book is based on the Revolution, my opinion is that it is a terrible book, and I also hated it.But 1984, I think it was the most disturbing movie I have ever seen, and I think that George Orwell is one of the most deranged people ever to live on this planet. I'm sorry to everyone who loved his work, but I unfortunately did not. The themes in the movie were well portrayed, but the way the whole movie was set and the events that took place within it were not to my standards. This is only my opinion, and I'm sure many many other people thoroughly enjoyed this film. "}]