[{"Title":"Be Afraid... Be Very Afraid...","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"74 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh, I can understand why Conan the Destroyer is the way it is.  The original, classic Conan the Barbarian was a hit, but the Hollywood bigwigs decided they could get x-amount more money if they made a more family-friendly sequel, thereby opening the franchise to the lucrative kid's market (never mind that, for as long as there have been restrictive movie ratings, kids have known how to get to see the movies they want).  Take out the sex, tone down the violence, crank up the humor, and... out comes this movie.It's like Destroyer is stuck in a state of half-development.  The basic storyline would be okay, but the script gives Conan a coterie of unneccessary sidekicks (as if Conan were not a strong enough character to carry a movie by himself).  Grace Jones is interesting to look at but gets tiresome VERY fast; the cowardly sidekick gets more irritating by the second; Mako wears this expression like he's only in this one for the money. Olivia d'Abo is just plain miscast it's like she's a marker that should read Insert More Interesting Character in Second Draft.  Arnold Schwarzenegger does a competent job as Conan, but we don't see the raw power and brute force of the first movie.  There is a thin line between competence and complacency, between an actor and a star; it took Roger Moore six years to get to that point in the James Bond series, while Schwarzenegger reaches the same point with Conan in two.I think part of the problem is whether or not the Conan concept is flexible enough to become family fare, and my answer is no.  Fans of Robert E. Howard's Conan work know his Cimmerian is a very rough-edged hero, a cunning, hard-drinking, hard-fighting man, and the first Conan movie captured that essence.  To change him into the simple-minded do-gooder of Conan the Destroyer is to destroy what Conan is all about, and the movie suffers for it.Is Conan the Destroyer worth watching?  Yes.  For someone who knows absolutely nothing about Conan, I suppose it can be a harmless sword-and-sorcery popcorn flick.  For Conan fans, it's kind of like Legend of the Lone Ranger for Lone Ranger fans an irresistible example of just how badly Hollywood can treat your favorite character.I just hope that if there is ever another Conan movie (not likely, thanks to Destroyer), the producers will concentrate on following the style of Conan the Barbarian and just ignore this one.  "},{"Title":"Conan Sequel Lots of Muscles, but Lacks 'Muscle'!","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"58 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After the worldwide success of CONAN THE BARBARIAN, it was inevitable that a sequel would be made (director John Milius envisioned the saga as a trilogy, with an aged Conan ruling his own kingdom in the final chapter). But Universal, seeing star Arnold Schwarzenegger as appealing more to younger audiences, did not like the R-rated combination of gore, sex, and machismo philosophy of the first film, so Milius was unceremoniously dumped, and more family-friendly action director Richard Fleischer was brought in to helm CONAN THE DESTROYER. Working with a script by comic book scribes Roy Thomas and Gerry Conway, much of what made the first film so unique was tossed aside. While Milius had Arnold lose weight and study Oriental swordsmanship, in an effort to tone down the bodybuilder look, and make him more flexible and believable as an arena-trained warrior, Fleischer ordered the actor to bulk up as much as possible, hoping to recreate the impossibly-muscled giant painted by Frank Frazetta on the covers of the paperback CONAN novels. Instead of being a taciturn loner, Conan would joke and 'care' about people, with an idiot sidekick (Tracey Walter) to provide comic relief. Bloodletting would be mainly off-camera, sex would consist solely of flashes of cleavage, and any monsters faced would be toned-down so children wouldn't be traumatized. While all this succeeded in garnering a PG rating, the end result was less Robert Howard's barbarian, more the generic B-movie hero seen in the dozens of imitations CONAN THE BARBARIAN had inspired.The plot is simple; Cruel but beautiful Queen Taramis (SUPERMAN I and II villainess Sarah Douglas) promises to revive Conan's dead love, Valeria, if he'll lead virgin Princess Jehnna (Olivia d'Abo) and her bodyguard (basketball legend Wilt Chamberlain), on a quest to steal a giant diamond, and use it to recover a horn that will bring god Dagoth to life. Joined by his sidekick, Malak, a wizard (Mako), and a female warrior (Grace Jones), the group faces the usual array of monsters, wizards, and enemy soldiers, and defeats them all, succeeding in the quest...but Conan discovers, nearly too late, that the bodyguard has been ordered to murder him, after the horn is retrieved, and that Jehnna is to be sacrificed as part of the process of reviving Dagoth...While the fight between Conan and Toth-Amon (Pat Roach), in a hall of mirrors, is well-staged and exciting, much of the rest of the film seems flat, with one scene, of Conan blind drunk at a campfire, ridiculously out of character and silly. CONAN THE DESTROYER didn't achieve anywhere near the success of the original, but Schwarzenegger had no reason to worry; his next film would be a low-budget SF thriller called THE TERMINATOR, and he was about to become a superstar!A footnote to CONAN...in early 2003, Schwarzenegger and John Milius tentatively agreed to bring CONAN THE KING, the final chapter of the saga, to the screen...With the original director's vision, and the improvements in FX that CGI has provided, we may yet see the ULTIMATE Conan film reach the screen, if Arnold's political career doesn't take precedence! "},{"Title":"campy and humorous, but still enthralling entertainment","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While the original 'Conan the Barbarian' was more dramatic, the sequel is played more for laughs. Nonetheless, it is still a highly entertaining sword and sorcery fantasy flick. The music is again outstanding and carries the movie where the dialogue fails. Of particular note is Wilt Chamberlain's impressive performance as the immense Bombatta. He has a tremendous screen presence, more than just his stature (plus he had to do his own stunts!).There are lots of memorable scenes throughout the movie. Not a cerebral film, just good old-fashioned fantasy! "},{"Title":"Stupid But Fun","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you're looking for a deep, interesting and layered fantasy flick which makes sense and has an original story, go rent out the first Conan movie. Conan the Destroyer is pure Hollywood cheese, made because the Conan the Barbarian was such a hit. The studio execs made the story more light-hearted, with sidekicks and magic and the kind of story a thirteen-year-old could watch without getting in trouble.Oddly enough, it works. While it's light years away from Robert E Howard's original Conan stories, Conan the Destroyer is still great fun, even twenty years after it was made. Arnold Schwarzenegger makes the most of the very silly lines he's given, Tracey Walter proves a capable if somewhat pointless comic foil, and the irony of casting Wilt Chamberlain as a protector of a young princess' virginity is hilarious.Mako hams it up, Grace Jones takes it all too seriously and Olivia D'Abo makes for a good childlike princess because she was 16 when the film got made. The music's over-dramatic, the lines are laughable (Some wizard you are! Go back to juggling apples!) and the story's cliché, but for Saturday night viewing, nothing beats Conan the Destroyer.Possibly Interesting Trivia This movie was produced by Raffaela De Laurentis, daughter of the famous Dino De Laurentis. She also produced the confusing big-budget epic Dune. Both Dune and this movie flopped at the box office, and both were filmed in Mexico. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but not as good as Conan The Barbarian","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have been captivated by Conan's heroic fantasy world for many years. For this reason alone I am rating this film as 6/10. Do not expect a continuation of the first Conan film. 'Conan The Destroyer' is too light in its scope and Conan is not the same man anymore. The villains are also not as menacing.Having said that it was good to see Grace Jones and Sarah Douglas and also Conan's companions had good lines and were very funny at times.As a side note I found the adjective 'Destroyer' in the title quite misleading and unfortunate. For those of us that read the Conan novels we see Conan driven by his own motivations, and fighting his battles only if he had to and not for the sake of destroying. The film distributors could have picked something else to promote the movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad - but blimey - the most annoying sidekick ever!!!!!","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The plot moves on at a fair old pace from one big set piece to another and it is clear the film had a decent budget. In fact, I would say that this is excellent bubblegum sword and sorcery fodder except for a few minor, but annoying quirks. For one thing the comedy sidekick Malak is phenomenally irritating, badly acted, and takes any tension, interest etc out of any scene. Clearly they were going for a wider 'family' appeal with this film, but this was also clearly a decision made some time down the filming process. Most obviously this hits home during the fight scenes with some very choppy cutting as some of the more gruesome bits have been removed. And Conan's second encounter with the camel suffers from this too! That aside the cast carry off their roles with aplomb, Grace Jones in particular really getting across her character's zest for and love of combat. One of the better hack and slash films out there. "},{"Title":"This was great","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know why it got such a low rating, I really enjoyed Conan the Destroyer. I wasn't as good as the first one, but it was a very good sequel, and definitely worth watching. Good acting, good music, the special effects could have been better, but they were still good. WATCH THIS! Arnold did a really good job with this movie. I think one of the reasons people thought it wasn't good was because it was either confusing or boring. It wasn't boring at all. And it was a little confusing because it is a fantasy adventure movie! Look at Lord of the Rings, that is fantasy, only everybody loves that! What the....  "},{"Title":"Conan the Destroyer","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The great warrior, Conan, is promised the return of his beloved Valeria if he will lead a quest to find a horn which belongs to an evil god, Dagoth. Along this journey, accompanied by the princess of whose kingdom worships Dagoth and her giant guardian, Conan will find others to assist him along the way as they come across heavy resistance and danger to their mission to retrieve the horn.I've read many considering this a homage of sorts to Seven Samurai, and while it does contain a group joining forces to defeat a powerful enemy, this is more of an adventure tale with sword and sorcery(..absent the nudity and gore from Conan the Barbarian which actually appeals to those yearning for the more gratuitous elements sacrificed to obtain a larger audience). Quite an eclectic group we follow, too. Grace Jones as a tribal warrior. Wilt Chamberlain as the princess' guard who we all know could turn on Conan any moment. Mako as a powerful magician whose saved from nearly being a feast for a cannibal tribe. Jeff Corey as a thief who swallows gems he steals. Olivia d'Abo, the virginal princess who secretly desires Conan. The most unfortunate decision was a limited Sarah Douglas who is perfect as the sinister Queen Taramis who wants to sacrifice d'Abo so that she can command Dagoth to do her will, with designs on ruling the world..she gets little screen time which is a shame, because she's so wonderfully evil Instead the film spends a lot of time on the journey with Conan, Bombaata(Chamberlain), and princess Jehnna(d'Abo)gathering up allies, encountering opposition, providing fans with plenty of swordplay. A little bloodier than I had remembered, but nowhere near as ultra-violent as Conan the Barbarian. Arnold Schwarzenegger was in fine form during this period, but the movie doesn't demand him to flex in acting muscle, just his pecks when he wields his sword at his adversaries. Most often chuckle at Chamberlain's performance, but, let's be honest, we all know he was hired for his towering presence not his acting chops. Grace Jones goes all out as she normally does, with a giant stick, battling men with swords, eyes bulging, hyena screeching, the works. The Mexico locations provide this film with the proper setting needed for warriors battling in caves, deserts, and under the hot sun. Far less serious approach is applied here compared to Conan the Barbarian which might be why it received less critical reception. Most of the graphic violence is shot away from the viewers' eyes, certain to earn a PG rating, but what did the filmmakers sacrifice in return? Contains another masterful Basil Poledouris score, adding a riveting thrill to the battles not to mention providing Conan with a majestic aura. "},{"Title":"The destroyer of Arnold's sequel phobia","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I was a little girl, my parents were hooked on the Conan movies, but The Destroyer always stood out to me more for some reason. But I haven't watched this movie for a very long time, so the other night, I was in a weird mood, I decided to watch the Conan movies. So The Destroyer was more familiar to me. But the thing is, this movie is a sort of break through for Arnold, since this movie was a flop at the box office, he doesn't like sequels, The Terminator being his only exception. So I was curious as an adult if this movie really was as bad as it's made out to be, I liked it a little bit when I was a kid, but when you're a kid, you're fascinated by anything. So watching this movie, as cheesy as it was, I still had a good time watching it. I understand why a lot of people have a distaste for it, it's definitely not up to par with the first Conan, it's more of a comedy vs. adventure. But I still enjoyed this movie, it's a good bad film that entertained me.Conan and his partner, Malek, are brought before Queen Taramis, who asks that Conan perform two tasks for her obtain a special gem and retrieve the magic horn that can awaken the god, Dagoth. In exchange, she offers to resurrect Conan's dead lover, Valeria. Conan agrees. Conan, Malak, Jehnna, the queen's niece, and Bombaata set off on their journey. Along the way, Conan enlists the aid of his old comrade Akiro and the group later encounters Zula, who joins the party. They then set off after the magical horn, which is kept inside of a mysterious fortress. Jehnna retrieves the horn. After some difficulty from the cult residing in the fortress, they try to make their way back to Queen Taramis however, Bombaata betrays Conan and takes Jehnna, leaving the others to fight for their lives.The story is a bit much and it's not the same as the original, but if you give it a fair enough chance, I think you'll enjoy it too. It is a bit more comedic and steers away from the original story, but I think the comedy still made it fun. I loved the addition of Grace Jones, she was one tough chick and could stand proudly next to Conan; even if she did have a silly Japanese anime type of look to her hair in the end. I loved the costumes and the special effects and of course, Arnold. Conan is the part that he was meant to play and he carries the movie well with the other cast. Granted I know the direction isn't really good, it does have a more cheesy vibe as this was the same director for our favorite barbarian box office flop that was Red Sonja. There are a lot of plot holes and a script that could us a more than a few touch up's, but give the movie a fair enough chance, don't compare it to the original, on it's own, I'm sure you'll have a good time watching it.7/10 "},{"Title":"All good fun!","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sequels are rarely as good as the original, and with a film like Conan The Barbarian to live up to this one had a hard time from the start.And yes, it's not as sophisticated a film as the original, but no it is not a bad film.Running along like a more typical S&S film, the emphasis is more on a runaway action film rather than the screen opera of the original. There's plenty of swordplay, wizards, magic etc. It does feel like it could have had a bit more to it though, maybe another place to visit or another enemy to slay and maybe a bit more depth to the supporting characters but it's not a serious drama and it's a cut above other films of this genre. Also remember, this is the film that most people remember when they think of Arnie as Conan. Sword, loincloth and not much else so it must have struck a visual chord at least.I'm glad they made this film, it's a fun romp and a great way to spend an evening. People will judge it as the weaker film, which it is, but it's also the most fun out of the two.If only King Conan Crown Of Iron was made with Arnie as the old bearded king today it would make a nice little trilogy (Or box set of you throw in Red Sonja which is basically a Conan film!) Great stuff! "}{"Title":"Conan the Destroyer is a good sequel!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Destroyer is more action and hero film than the first one. Ofcourse as always Arnold performes good and Wilt Chamberlain is huge! It was so awesome to see a bigger man than Arnold in one of his films. Sara Douglas looks terrific. Mako is good. Look for Pat Roach,the legendary wrestler Andre the Giant, and Sven-Ole Thorsen in the movie. The film is never boring and it is arguably better the the prequel. The music is great by Basil Poledouris. I hope Arnold does make King Conan! All fans of Arnold and sword fighting check this out soon! "},{"Title":"Sword-and-sorcery epic with silly adventures , spectacular battles and brutal scenes","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an epic adventure based on Robert E Howard's pulp tales with screenplay by the comic-book authors, Roy Thomas and Gerry Conway , it stars Arnold Schwarzenegger in the title role, the Hyborian Age hero . This time Conan with the help his partner (Tracey Walter), a magician (Mako, who repeats his role as wizard of ¨Conan the Barbarian ¨ by John Milius and written by Oliver Stone), an androgynous sidekick( Grace Jones who steals the show ), as a club-wielding tomboy, a giant hoodlum (Wilt Chamberlain) and a virgin princess(Olivia DÁbo) undergo on a risked trip to find a treasure whose sacred jewel contains a magic horn that relives a monster (manufactured by Carlo Rambaldi  ET) and leading a vibrant ending.This violent following packs noisy action, full-blooded adventure, thrills, crude scenes and rip-roaring fights. Dumb images and unintentionally hilarious but amusing . Made on a grand scale with spectacular production design and colorful cinematography by Jack Cardiff, occasionally filmmaker. Big budget and lavishly produced by Raffaela De Laurentis, Dino's daughter. Impressive musical score composed and conducted by Basil Poledouris as vibrant as the original Conan. In other words, it seem likely Conan enthusiasts and juvenile viewers will be delighted. Followed by several low-grade imitations and rip offs, and spawned TV series starred by Ralph Moller. Furthermore a similar film realized in old-fashioned style also directed by Richard Fleischer titled ¨Red Sonja¨ with Brigette Nielsen as female lead , Sandahl Bergman and of course Arnold Schwarzenegger has a brief guest spot. And in production a new ¨Conan¨ by Marcus Nispel with Jason Momoa,Rose McGowan and Ron Perlman. "},{"Title":"Conan The Comic Book Flavoured Destroyer","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is more lighter in tone than John Milius' classic, Conan The Barbarian. Probably due to a more lightweight director, Richard Fliescher coming on board, and more importantly a script by Marvel Comics writers Roy Thomas and Gerry Conway. However, the mix is more enjoyable this time around, not as interesting or impessive than its predescessor, but more fun. Arnold never looked more mightier than here, looking like the true Marvel Comics equivelent of the hero, rather than Milius' or Robert Howards version. The script is pretty dull, it has to be said, owing from the likes of Steve Reeves Hercules movies and the classics of Ray Harrihausen. But there is still Arnold, the wonderfull sets, the powerful Basil Poledouris theme, and a cast of Grace Jones, Sarah Douglas, Tracey Walter, Mako, Wilt Chamberlain and Olivier D'Abo, who some how manage to make this resemble an episode of the 60's Batman T.V Series than a piece of Robert Howard soaked fantasy.The fighting scenes a re good and there is a fantastic scene in wich Conan is trapped in a cave of mirrors terrorised by Red-Hooded monsters. The only way to kill them? To smash the mirrors of course. Pure Marvel Comics fantasy. "},{"Title":"Conan is stronger... a great winner!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Mystery & treason,these words are qualified to the second episode. Conan the Destroyer,represent on screen,fascination as too adventure to the age,where warriors they fight by reward or to save yours lives. The man ape,a magnificent creature whom to face Conan inside your chamber in his Castle. Others excellent details,you'll perceive at to see this film. In the mean time,read the story. As for me,my vote is 10.Please,let your vote registered in this page. "},{"Title":"Episodic and ill-judged sequel to Conan The Barbarian.","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The original Conan movie - Conan The Barbarian - came out in 1982 and was both a popular sword and sorcery film and a reasonably successful attempt to turn bodybuilder Arnold Scwarzenegger into a movie star. However, the critics were somewhat unkind to John Milius's fantasy epic, stating that it was far too long, far too serious and far too humourless. On that occasion, the critics were wrong - I, and many others, like Conan The Barbarian BECAUSE of its length and its seriousness. The story feels thorough and atmospheric, and the pace is controlled, not dull. It is very sad that this sequel addresses the very things that were falsely alleged to be wrong or flawed about the original. It's as if the makers of Conan The Destroyer sat down and listed all the criticisms ever levelled at Conan The Barbarian, then tried to do something to rectify them. So, this sequel is shorter, more lightweight and more humorous than its predecessor. Does it work? Have these changes resulted in a massive improvement? No. In fact, Conan The Destroyer is actually vastly inferior to the original, and is little more than a juvenile romp aimed at bloodthirsty kids and slightly nerdy adults.Fearsome Cimmerian warrior Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and his travelling companion Malak (Tracey Walter, in a bad comic characterisation) are summoned to carry out a dangerous quest on behalf of the treacherous Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas). She promises that if the quest is a success she will reincarnate Conan's long-dead lover so that he may be reunited with her. The mission requires Conan to take a beautiful, virginal princess named Jehnna (Olivia D'Abo) on a journey to recover a magical crystal. The princess is the only person who can handle the crystal which, when used correctly, will unlock the gateway to an all-powerful horn. With this horn, Taramis plans to awaken a deity and share God-like power with it by sacrificing Jehnna. Along the way, Conan picks up other travelling companions to aid him in his quest, such as the female barbarian Zula (Grace Jones) and inexperienced magician Akiro (Mako). However, Taramis has lied to Conan in order to secure his services; she not only has no intention of bringing his lover back to life, but also plans to kill him once his usefulness is over.Conan The Destroyer is not a total loss - in fact, in some departments it is actually quite good. Basil Poledouris again provides pulsating music (not quite as good as his scoring of the earlier film, but good enough all the same); Jack Cardiff's photography brings the vast sets and varied locations colourfully to life; there are even infrequent bursts of real excitement. But Conan The Destroyer is repeatedly dragged down by its numerous flaws - ill-suited comedy, listless performances, obvious special effects, and an episodic narrative. In particular this last criticism is a major disappointment. The story is episodic to the point of tedium. The characters ride around, chat about love and magic, then arrive at some kind of temple or castle where a little action ensues. Again and again, with irritating repetition and boring monotony, this same sequence recurs - ride, chat, action.... ride, chat, action.... ride, chat, action.... ride, chat, action.... Conan IS a destroyer - but, unfortunately, what he's destroying is his own genre!! "},{"Title":"A cheap, but funny and light-hearted sequel. Not inferior to Barbarian, just different","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Being a fan of Robert E. Howard's short stories I must say that funny and light-hearted are definitely NOT the words I would use to describe Conan. Destroyer loses the poetic melancholy of Barbarian, but is more accessible (it was the first of the Conan movies that I saw as a kid). The PG rating doesn't harm the tone of the film much, it's still relatively bloody, but apparently Richard Fleischer shot it as a hard R before the producers cut it down.The story this time has Conan go on a mission for the seductive Queen Taramis (she can be my queen ANY day, and look for a quick glimpse of her bush in the first Shadizar Castle scene). He must retrieve a gemstone which unlocks another treasure called the Horn of Dagoth. A treasure that will bring to life an Evil God. Conan doesn't care as Taramis (who was NOT a villain in Howard's short stories, her twin sister Salome however, definitely was) has promised to bring back his dead girlfriend from the first film. And so with his ragtag group of companions Malak (a comedy sidekick, but what happened to Subotai from the original?), Zula (Grace Jones, wearing no more than a couple of inches of leather floss), Akiro (Mako, the only returning cast member from the original), Bombaata (on a secret mission to kill Conan) and the virgin Princess Jehnna, Conan takes off on his mission.The first film was serious but this one plays more like Labyrinth than Barbarian. The effects and sets are very typical of early '80s fantasy movies. Conan talks a lot more too, and has fun in a drunk scene. I don't have a problem with this as he is quite cunning and intelligent in Robert E. Howard's stories, and they kinda sold him short in the first film by limiting his dialogue.Some scenes reek of cheapness. The Toth-Amon/Man-Ape scene is so ridiculously fake it makes you wonder how the filmmakers took it seriously. And the ending, featuring the resurrected Dagoth reduced to a sub-Godzilla demon is just plain stupid. Not silly. Even a few more minutes of thought put into this would have made it much better. But it is all very entertaining it really does is add to the kitschy hokum of it all. And hokum and weirdness is what Howard's stories were all about.Basil Poledouris' music is the one part of the film that is totally up to scratch. It's not as heavy as his score to the first film but he does introduce new, stronger themes and lighter takes on cues from the first. Brilliant stuff.It's a lot more formulaic and 'Hollywood' than the first. No new ground is broken and it's obviously a film made quickly to cash in on the success of Barbarian. Another way in which Conan has been sold short. You can tell with some gimmicks present in both films that they were trying to turn this into a long-running series. A shame that never happened. It really should have been like Bond, with a film coming out every 2 years.Conan the Destroyer is guiltless fun with goofier characters, sillier dialogue, clumsier action, and loinier cloths. And, honestly, it's none the worse for it. "},{"Title":"Conan the goofball!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Boy, did this one take a wrong turn at Albuquerque!  Although it's still pretty entertaining, it's played far too much for laughs.Ahnuld is back, and this time he gets more dialogue, a big mistake.  He sounds more than a little ridiculous with a large part of his dialogue.  Instead of Gerry Lopez, we have Tracy Walter, a fine actor, but too comedic for this (yeah, he's the comic relief, but Conan shouldn't have comic relief). Mako is good and Sarah Douglas sizzles as always.  Grace Jones, well, is Grace Jones.  If you are looking for subtlety, look elsewhere.  And, speaking of subtlety, there's Wilt, the Stilt.  As an actor, Wilt makes a great basketball player.  Olivia D'Abo is cute, but little else.The movie has its moments and the finale is pretty good, but there's a lot of junk in the middle.  The fight between Conan and Toth-Amon (Pat Bomber Roach) is fantastic, but the campfire scenes after are just plain stupid.  Tracy Walter's character gets annoying with the constant Shaggy and Scooby jokes (you know, I'll wait here.  Wait for me!).  The basic story is good and in keeping with Conan traditions, but it descends into camp at the worst times.Roy Thomas and Gerry Conway were quite familiar with Conan, having written the character for Marvel Comics.  How much of their story is in the final film is a puzzler.  The elements that work are straight out of Howard and Roy Thomas' comics.  The goofier stuff, who knows?The first film was epic adventure.  This is more of a glorified B-movie.  It's fun when you have a group of friends together and can MST3K it; but as cinema, it's not 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.  Director Richard Fleischer has done better.  Still, it's a great guilty pleasure film. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A good film, but not as good as the original.  The original Conanthe Barbarian was a low-budget B movie with a great plot andexcellent use of special effects for it's day.  The Destroyer has anincreased budget (probably because of the success of the firstone) with better effects (the creature at the end) but plot hasslipped a little in response to the need to make more money off ofthe Conan legacy.  I'm glad they stopped here; I wonder how badthey really could have gotten. -Joeyfro "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever (From a child's point of view)","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was probably 5 and because of it I am now a giant fantasy/adventure fan. I love movies where the lead character uses his sword to solve his problems and both Conan movies do this. This my favorite of the two because the battle sequences are more frequent, the characters are more rememberable, and the music rocks. I have always been a fan of movie soundtracks and this one is my favorite. Do not rent this if you want to see a deep and complicated plot. Rent this if you want to see Arnold kick some a**! Every set, fight scene, and character from the Scorpion King was based on this film. I love this movie! "},{"Title":"Grace Jones is just horrible and hisses a lot.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"36 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sadly, sequels are rarely as good as the original, and with Conan the Barbarian being such a good movie, this one had to produce something special to live up to its predecessor.Well, we still got Arnie as Conan, so that's a good start. And we have one of the other cast members from the first flick, in the shape of Mako. But that's about where any good stuff ends.The first death knell for this movie is the casting. We have Tracey Walter as Malak, a thief side-kick of Conan's (whatever happened to Gerry Lopez's Subotai character?) Tracey does a very good impression of Peter Lorre...throughout the whole film. Then there's Grace Jones (perhaps the original singer-turned-actor) as some kind of demented she-warrior. All she is really good at is glaring at people and hissing like a snake and she does this......throughout the whole film. Sarah Douglas as the obligatory evil queen...the only thing she seems to be queen of is sequels (Superman 2, Puppetmaster 3, Beastmaster 2 etc.) and Olivia D'Abo, who is just irritatingly helpless and annoying here.The plot is trivial and the dialogue poor and some of the effects are lamentably bad (look for the island in the lake and the man-ape). Also, did I mention that Grace Jones is just horrible and hisses a lot? I did? Oh well, it bears repeating..All in all, this is a cash-in movie, designed to rake in some easy money on the back of the original and not really caring much about a plot or good actors. Even Arnie, the world's best actor at not saying many lines, is hampered by having too much dialogue.Avoid it unless you want a laugh. "}{"Title":"Have some silly fun","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas) offers Conan the barbarian (Arnold Schwarzenegger) to bring back his love Valeria back from the dead. Conan and his sidekick Malak (Tracey Walter) is to escort Taramis' virgin niece Jehnna (Olivia d'Abo) to find a key and a jewel horn. Her bodyguard Bombaata (Wilt Chamberlain) accompanies them but Taramis tells him to double-cross Conan. On the way, Conan saves wizard Akiro (Mako) and Zula (Grace Jones) and they join the ragtag band of travelers.It's sillier than the first movie. Its saving grace is that it's fun as long as you don't take it seriously. I think the dialog actually got more clunky. There is certainly nothing quite like this. Grace Jones looks crazy awesome. Mako and Tracey Walter are making jokes. Wilt Chamberlain is actually acting. At least he's not much worst than Arnie. Olivia d'Abo looks really pretty. This is one crazy group. "},{"Title":"Maybe they want to capture us and torture us to death","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sequel to Conan the Barbarian sees Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) leading a group of characters on a quest. Evil Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas) promises to bring Conan's dead love Valeria back to life if he can protect her niece Jehnna (Olivia d'Abo) as she journeys to retrieve a jewel that has something to do with a prophecy. It's all bull though, as the Queen intends to kill Conan and friends once their task is through and sacrifice virgin Jehnna to the god Dagoth.This sequel is OK but nowhere near as good as the first film. More comedy and watered-down violence don't do much to help it. Arnold seems to play this a little tongue-in-cheek at times, unlike the first one where he played it straight. I had a huge childhood crush on Olivia d'Abo from this movie. She's actually one of the better parts, cast-wise. Basketball player Wilt Chamberlain plays her bodyguard Bombaata. As an actor, he's a great basketball player. Mako returns from the first film and is fine. He should have been the only comic relief but alas, we have the terrible Tracey Walter as Malak, Arnold's moronic thief sidekick. Sarah Douglas always makes for a good villain. Lastly, we have androgynous '80s curiosity Grace Jones as the animalistic Zula. She's amusing to watch, though usually for the wrong reasons. Still, entertaining is entertaining. Altogether it's a weak sequel but not without its merits and hard to hate. It's fun and enjoyable despite its faults. "},{"Title":"Conan goes PG.","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mildly entertaining sequel to Conan the Barbarian is expectedly not in the same league as its predecessor. The basic problem is a common one for many viewers this is a somewhat watered-down, PG rated Conan that just doesn't have a lot of intensity. Ultimately it gets too fantastically silly for its own good, in an obvious attempt to bring in the younger audience. It's not the same seeing Conan in this kind of juvenile adventure. The quest that Conan and comrades embark on is also lacking in any truly perilous episodes. It certainly was typical of the kind of low grade stuff that veteran director Richard Fleischer (20000 Leagues Under the Sea, The Narrow Margin) was churning out at this stage in his career. Arnold Schwarzenegger returns as the muscle bound Cimmerian warrior who is approached by an icy Queen (Sarah Douglas) with an offer accompany a princess named Jehnna (Olivia d'Abo) on a journey she must take according to prophecy. In return, she will restore his great love Valeria to life. Of course, this Queen is played by Douglas, otherwise known as Ursa in two of the Superman movies, so we KNOW that she's going to have a nefarious agenda going on. Conan is accompanied by characters such as Bombaata (basketball legend Wilt Chamberlain, in his only film role), a feisty fighter named Zula (the always striking Grace Jones), a goof ball thief, Malak (Tracey Walter), and the wizard Akiro (Mako, also returning from the first film). On location filming in Mexico helps a great deal, as well as solid work from talents such as production designer Pier Luigi Basile and the legendary Jack Cardiff. The music by Basil Poledouris is also a very worthy component. Carlo Rambaldi created the amusingly designed monster-god Dagoth, and it's highly amusing to note that this creation was played by none other than wrestling star Andre Roussimoff, a.k.a. Andre the Giant. Unfortunately there's no real sense of an epic to this sequel, and while there is violence, it doesn't have a lot of punch to it. The finale when Dagoth comes to life at least isn't a bad one. The acting is either hammy (Mako), adequate, or hilariously stiff (Chamberlain and Jones). Walter, while ordinarily a fine character actor, acts too contemporary and is simply out of place here. All things considered, this viewer can see why some fantasy fans would be less than satisfied with Conan the Destroyer. It's actually not that bad as entertainment, but it's better to take it on its own rather than compare it to Barbarian, as it would always come up short. Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"Conan must die.","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I never was much a fan of the original film Conan the Barbarian, but director Richard Fleischer's ramshackle sequel while not as epic or grand in structure somewhat appealed to me more. In a way it was a lot more enjoyable with fewer pretensions. I guess it was more so the fantasy angle of its story (magic & sorcery), amusing side-characters (which I can see why some find these ragtag characters led by Tracy Walter irritating) and it seemed to flow much better. However while I found the pacing not to be as stodgy&#x85; it just lacked the episodic adventures with its straight-forward story-telling and obvious plotting. Therefore it felt rushed and in the end doesn't really build up to much. Save from a couple of set-pieces of Conan taking on a wizard or two and then finally a mythical beast. Although gotta love the use of the practical special effects and make-up FX. You know rubber monster designs, smoke effects and blatant, if colourful set-designs. No illusions here. Then there's the carnage, and just like Barbarian, Destroyer doesn't skip out on the blood and gore that Conan's sword unleashes. Arnold Schwarzenegger in his signature role plays Conan like his on cruise control. Mixing combat and humour with very little effort. He was born for the part. The support cast had some names with Mako the other only cast member to return. Wilt Chamberlain, Sarah Douglas, Olivia d'Abo and a very animalistic Grace Jones make up a strong line-up. Clunky, but fun 80s sword and sorcery pulp.Thief's should be hanged. "},{"Title":"Conan Goes Hollywood","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For fantasy-geeks like myself, this 1984 outing of the legendary swordsman is an interesting mix of highs and lows. The cinematography, costumes and settings are a high-point, remaining loyal to Frazetta's incredible illustrations.Gone, unfortunately, is the first film's solid, adult screenplay. Howard's original, Nietzschean Conan is watered-down here, the director deciding to play for laughs (but Conan and his world just is'nt comedic).Like the dialogue, the casting is sometimes hit and miss. Although Grace Jones (as the wild warrioress Zula) has been criticized as over the top, she puts in a solid, believable performance. Sarah Douglas also shines as Queen Taramis, although we don't see enough of her! Arnie is adequate, as is Mako (who reprises his role here as a helpful wizard).The film suffers most from poor special effects (an unforgivable crime for fantasy lovers)! It looks like they spent most of the budget on actors and settings, but even by 1980s standards, the monsters Conan faces were absurd.Lessons were not learned, ending with the debacle of Red Sonja a year later. Arnie admitted that film to be the worst he ever made. Destroyer amounts to harmless entertainment, lacking conviction, but watchable all the same. "},{"Title":"A Good Follow-Up To The First Film.","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I liked Conan the Destroyer almost as much as the first of the film series (Conan the Barbarian). I just miss Valeria being with Conan, she died in the first movie. Otherwise, I enjoyed this film.Grace Jones was a perfect addition to this film - she was extremely popular at the time - and well suited to play the part of Zula. Tracey Walter (Malak) gave some comical relief in the film. The role of Princess Jehnna seemed tailored to fit Olivia D'Abo.The script was good for a sword and sorcery movie and I liked it very much. A good follow-up to the first film.Movie Plug King Conan is due out December 2015 which is the third part of this film series. Our very own Arnold Schwarzenegger will play Conan once again.9/10 "},{"Title":"Thorougly entertaining movie","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After the box-office success of 'Conan The Barbarian', it was inevitable that a sequel would be made.  'Conan The Destroyer' may lack the brutality and some of the excitement from its predecessor, but it's not too bad.This time, Conan is on a mission to help Princess Jehnna (Olivia D'Abo) retrieve a magic horn.  The queen has promised him that if he is successful in reaching this goal, she will revive his dead love.  However, early on we learn that the queen plans to betray him.The film can get a little silly at times, however it remains quite entertaining throughout.  It may not be as good as its predecessor,  but it is definitely worth watching. (6/10) "},{"Title":"good action movie","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I would give this movie a thumbs up. It's not perfect, but it is a good action movie and it has a colorful cast. Quite different than Conan The Barbarian, which was a lot deeper and more dramatic.The best thing about Conan The Destroyer is the action scenes and the music is very good. The cast isn't perfect, but they all seem to fit the part well. Sarah Douglas, Wilt Chamberlain and Grace Jones all have a good presence. Oh, and of course Arnold. The only one I object to is the sidekick thief Malak, and maybe the wizard. Malak was put in the film to add comic relief, and he's not even funny. He should have met his demise early in the film, like in the opening scene maybe. Akiro shouldn't be there because he was in the first Conan movie, and Destroyer is so different than the first that I don't see why they didn't just use someone else for the wizard.Conan The Destroyer is a good action movie with some humor thrown in. It could have done without the cheesy one liner jokes, which seem to take away when the movie gets serious. The only real humor is when Conan gets drunk, I thought that was hilarious. The music is excellent, who couldn't like the theme for this one? It's perfect for this kind of film. The movie could have been better. It has some good scenes and some irritating scenes, but overall it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Conan O'Brawn....","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There's nothing like watching Arnold Schwarzenegger beat the living beans out of every single living thing he gets his hands on.And Conan the Destroyer carries on this lofty tradition.A sequel of sorts to Conan the Barbarian, this one finds our boy (Schwarzenegger) securing a princess who is supposed to gain a sacred jewel that will bring a stone god to life.  But of course, nothing is as it seems.One thing I gotta hand to this sequel; it doesn't take itself as seriously as its predecessor.  In fact, this could be seen as a precedent for the umpteen sword-and-sorcery epics that can be had for peanuts on TV and in the movies nowadays.  With every swing of the sword and clash of a titan, there is a one-liner, sight gag or humorous outcome.  What more could you want out of a Conan movie than that?Schwarzenegger is the center of the action, and a solid center he is.  He's always been kind of self-deprecating and he still is here. And being surrounded by a fine ensemble like this doesn't hurt, either.Mako returns as a wizard who can either light a torch or throw a mean spell when he has to, Chamberlain and Jones both flex muscle fiercely and get down and dirty with the fight scenes, Walter adds to his oddball roles as the jewel-swallowing pickpocket Malak, D'abo is slight but well-used as the princess in question and Douglas plays her role as queen much like she did Ursa in Superman II.And for as many fight scenes as there are (and there's a lot), there are also a plethora of humorous scenes - enough to make this one a solid rent alongside the original Conan (or even The Sword and the Sorcerer, another pretender to the throne of Conan, with a few laughs all its own).Eight stars and two swords up for this Destroyer of the competition.  There'll never be another Conan but Arnold's. ...and if there is, put my money on the champ. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Adventure","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Personally I prefer this film to the original. Conan The Barbarian' was slow moving and,while James Earl Jones was excellent, Schwarzenegger was blatantly atrocious. Surrounded by the talent in this film you don't notice how bad he is as often.High marks are scored by Olivia D'Abo as the impudent Princess Jehnna, Sarah Douglas as the sexy,evil queen, and Mako in a comic turn as the Wizard and the stories narrator. Add Tracy Walters and you have a fine supporting cast.Grace Jones and WIolt Chamberlain add nothing to the film except a bit of visual diversity, Jones sneers a lot and Wilt just isn't much of an actor,although he comes off better than Schwarzenegger. The plot is nothing to speak of. Its been done before, but its fun,colorful and its not a bad way to pass 2 hours of your time. "}{"Title":"This is my favourite movie","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, most people think this film is a piece of garbage. Most people however, also, are greedy money-grubbing destructive capitalist pigs. So pay no attention to them. If you are like me you want to see the American-Israeli-British-Vatican-etc. empire destroyed, you hate watching adverts on TV, you want hard drugs available at all times, and you also love CONAN THE DESTROYER. The first Conan movie is NOT better, it only pretends to be. It acts serious when really it is a MOVIE ABOUT CONAN THE BARBARIAN!!! The Destroyer is far superior, in every way. Underage girl, giant mongoloid destroyer, evil prophecy, commune with the evil spirits.....reminds me of the White House!!! Great film in every way. Schindler's List sucks.No joke - this really is my favourite movie. "},{"Title":"Awful....ly UNDERRATED!!!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Vastly fun gem, me and my pals agree, this film is fun. Conan sets out to lead a princess to a god's horn, so an evil queen can bring back his dead lover. Little does he know the queen's promise is a lie, Conan is to be killed, and the princess is to be sacrificed. The entire film is pure fun. That's it...fun. Fast paced and fun. So don't look at this as a ALIENS or CITIZEN KANE, just expect to be wowed and entertained.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"this is perfectly great !!!!","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i was wondering why a lot of people hate this movie.... i have seen the first one....it is really great...but i could not intending to watch this again and again...because it was quite slow and boring....but it is a powerful movie indeed!!but this sequel...Conan the destroyer is definitely far much much more better than the original !!! i kept on watching this movie repeatedly !! this is truly one of the greatest sword movie ever made!!! the cast is great, strong performances from the actors and actress... especially from Arnold himself and grace Jones.. they were absolutely great !! not only that, i also loves the music in this sequel...the action is superbly great!! i doubt if there is anymore movies like this... nothing to say more...this is great one!! better than the original !!!go and get this movie as fast as you can!!! don't miss it!!! rent or buy it!!! you won't regret !!!10/10**** (superbly great) "},{"Title":"Conan The Destroyed","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan The Barbarian stands as one of the best epic movies of all time. Conan The Destroyer is what Batman and Robin is to the Batman series. The whole dark atmosphere and seriousness of the first movie is traded for a children-friendly approach that ruined the whole appeal of Conan.The Plot The wicked Queen Taramis(played by Sarah Douglas) dupes Conan to escort her princess niece (played by Olivia D'Aba) on a quest for some sacred horn in exchange to bring back Conan's lost love, Valeria, from the dead. Conan embarks on the trip with the princess accompanied by Bombaata(Wilt Chamberlain) who is secretly ordered to kill Conan. On the way they befriend a fierce captive Zula(played by Grace Jones) and trouble ensues.Opinion Conan The Destroyer is laughably bad. The actions scenes are hilarious and you know it's a problem when someone getting decapitated provokes laughter. Each head that gets lopped off and each sword in the gut seem so cartoonish plus you have to deal with the third rate acting. Sarah Douglas and Olivia D'Aba are both wooden and Wilt Chamberlain(RIP) and Grace Jones both seem out of place in this picture. Arnold is his usual self so don't expect much. Not only is the plot weak but the score is redundant also. Conan The Barbarian had a great score to accompany every scene. Here the score is monotonous and weak. I can only recommend this to you if you want to complete you collection other than that skip it. "},{"Title":"The Destroyer Of The Series Run!","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes, it is possible to enjoy this movie but you must go into it expecting pure camp and a parody of the original one which was deadly serious. Also, Tracey Walter wipes out the movie as the worst side kick in the history of movies. When I saw this in the theater, people were making loud obscene remarks to the screen whenever he was talking. Yes, as an Arnie fan, I own the movie but, as a movie reviewer, it is my duty to warn you what you are in for if you choose to watch this. It actually has a WWE moment where the wizard body slams Conan and uses the most hilarious move in wrestling, the airplane spin, I S#@$ you not. People were laughing loudly and some got up and left all through the movie. It killed the series because it tried to make a family film out of a very gory but good original movie. Milius' original featured some of the most graphic violence ever seen up to that time with cannibalism and half nude hot babe sacrifices. Here, the tone is much more of a send up of the series. Walters is making very unfunny quips all through the action; yes, Chamberlain was physically awesome to behold but he was a dreadful actor. Don't believe me? Find me another movie he starred in besides this one? Grace Jones is always a treat, here she has some great one liners like her dating technique,Grab him and take him. The battles feature just dreadful facial expressions by Arnie and Grace, bugging their eyes out and making what Fleischer thought were 'war faces.' No, Richard, they are dumb ass dorky looking faces that triggered non-stop giggling in the audience I saw this with. There even is a purely parody scene with the wizards dueling it out with door open / door closed complete with elevator noises. If you enjoyed Flash Gordon and Buckaroo Banzai, you may actually enjoy this movie. I own it but it took me decades to get used to it. When it was released, it closed within two weeks. Everyone expected the original and did not like either the comedy or the campiness. Arnie does a good job, except for the facial expressions, I enjoyed Grace but Walter / D' Abo and Chamberlain are awful. Sarah Douglas, while quite stunning, was always a shaky actress. She has but a few scenes at the beginning and the ending but she is like a redwood wooden. The other point of attack is the finale with Dagoth which has not aged well. Again, Dagoth grabs Conan's arms in the old make a wish hold that provoked more giggling in the cinema. Yes, the movie is bad but imagine how much better it would have been without Walter who prattles on interminably? He faced universal critical attack for his non-stop unfunny humor and stupid acts like stabbing Dagoth after it was already dead. The best way to review this for you is to warn that it is entirely alien to the original. Those who hate parodies or campy movies will loathe this sequel. The humor is throughout the entire movie even during the climactic battle. There are a few funny lines that work but most fall flat. The sword fights tend to be over the top with constant bug eyed facial expressions or people flying through the air thrown by Conan or Chamberlain. I learned to tune Walter out, enjoy the campiness and appreciate it for what it is. I am in the minority believe me; the majority of the fans of Barbarian or the books just detested this movie. If you are as big an Arnie fan, as I am, all of this won't matter a bit to you. He has some good lines with that deadpan delivery that was his trademark. I love,Enough talk, yes, he really wasn't much of a conversationalist. Summary As a pure dramatic sequel to Barbarian, one of the worst sequels only surpassed by Jewel Of The Nile. As campy, light distraction laughing at itself often, it will grow on you. Be warned, I am one of a handful that liked this movie. The theater started emptying almost immediately, by the end, four other people out of a hundred were left. Take It For What It Is. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Underrated awesome epic conclusion sequel to the original film!","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Destroyer (1984) is actually very underrated flop to the success of the original epic adventure flick Conan the Barbarian (1982). Even tough Conan the Destroyer is very bashed and critized by critics and fans this film is actually very good! It is my childhood film, I grew up watching this film. This is actually the third Arnold Schwarzenegger film I watched as a child. After seeing this film on VHS in the 90's I wished to see Conan the Barbarian so badly with Arnold in it. Finally it was on TV and I have enjoyed the first film the same as I did the sequel. This film is very underrated but it is still good. Million ways better than the remake Conan the Barbarian (2011) and Red Sonja (1985) they ruined the original film with that remake. Sorry I never liked Red Sonja or the remake to the original and a sequel film. Why hate this film, when it's not that bad. In fact, it's really good. Why remaking the film if we already had the original film?! Pointless! The film is also pretty brutal in places, it is violent, and somewhat bloody, but ALL of the mean-spirited violence is dealt by the evil characters,so don't be too mislead by the PG rating. The PG rating doesn't harm the tone of the film much, it's still relatively bloody, but apparently Richard Fleischer shot it as a hard R before the producers cut it down. Conan (beautiful and charismatic Arnold Schwarzenegger) going on a mission for evil Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas). He must retrieve a gemstone which unlocks another treasure called the Horn of Dagoth. A treasure that will bring to life an Evil God. Conan doesn't care for Taramis who has promised him, to bring back his dead girlfriend Valerie from dead. She was his girlfriend and a queen of thieves who thought him how to be a thief. With his team of companions Malak (Tracey Walter), Zula (Grace Jones, wearing no more than a couple of inches of leather floss), Akiro (Mako) he was the only returning cast member from the original film, Bombaata (Wilt Chamberlain) on a secret mission to kill Conan and the virgin Princess Jehnna (Olivia d'Abo), Conan takes off on his mission. That's your basic plot. It does involve sword fights and sorcery including mythology, like the evil god that they put the horn on him and try to kill Jenna. Conan chopping the heads off, they didn't show everything but we see flying heads when Conan chops them off. Conan fighting with Wizard Thoth-Amon/Monster in the chamber of mirrors was epic, the battle was awesome. I Love that Conan kills Bombaata on the end of the film for betraying him, saves Jenna and battle Dagoth creature played by WCW wrestler (André the Giant). Conan fighting off Queen Taramis's guards in the opening scene was just spectacular, bloody and very violent. That's what I just love in this film. After watching it this Saturday I have enjoyed every moment and had fun with it. This film has a cracking soundtrack score to it. And an awesome score soundtrack, the ambush scene by the horse soldiers and the fight underground after stealing the horn. Basil Poledouris' music is the one part of the film that is totally up to scratch. It's not as heavy as his score to the first film but he does introduce new, stronger themes and lighter takes on cues from the first. Brilliant stuff. Conan the Destroyer is a 1984 American sword and sorcery/adventure film directed by Richard Fleischer, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mako Iwamatsu reprising their roles as Conan and Akiro the wizard, respectively. The cast also includes Grace Jones, Wilt Chamberlain, Tracey Walter and Olivia d'Abo. It is the sequel to Conan the Barbarian. The film was moderately successful at the box office in the U.S., and very successful internationally, although critical response was not as strong as for the original film.Arnold Schwarzenegger returns with a vengeance in the sword and sorcery adventure Conan the Destroyer. The powerful hero Conan (Schwarzenegger) has been commissioned by evil Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas) to safely escort a teen princess (Olivia D'Abo) and her bodyguard (Wilt Chamberlain) to the magic Horn of Dagon. Conan soon discovers, however, that the queen plans to sacrifice the princess when she returns and inherit her kingdom. Now he and an unusual group of allies&#x97;including the eccentric wizard Akiro (Mako) and the wild woman Zula (Grace Jones) must defeat both mortal and supernatural foes in an epic, sword-wielding battle with the fate of the entire world at stake.It is still my favorite film, PG rating doesn't bother me, the film is still awesome, Entertaining and fun! I will take this film over Red Sonja (1985) and Conan the Remake (2011)! 9/10 Score A- Studio Universal Pictures, Dino De Laurentiis Company Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Grace Jones, Wilt Chamberlain, Mako, Tracey Walter, Olivia d'Abo, Sarah Douglas Director Richard Fleischer Producer Raffaella De Laurentiis Screenplay Stanley Mann Story Roy Thomas, Gerry Conway Rated PG Running Time 1 Hrs. 43 Mins. Based on Conan the Barbarian by Robert E. Howard Budget $18.000.000 Box Office $26.400.000 "},{"Title":"Conan Camps It Up.","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan The Destroyer is one of those movies that most people seem either to love or hate. Personally I love it. One IMDb reviewer said it was campy & humorous, but still enthralling entertainment. Another that it was stupid but fun. Both reviews are accurate, in my opinion. Another reviewer called it total crap. Maybe, but it's fun crap. Personally. I liked this movie more than the original Conan The Barbarian, which took itself more seriously. Aside from Arnold Schwarzenegger playing our hero Conan, it is full of fascinating characters. Sarah Douglas as the evil Queen Taramis is an absolute hoot & so too is Grace Jones playing Zula a gritty female warrior. Far less interesting is Olivia D'Abo as Princess Jehnna who seems miscast &, quite frankly, a poor actress. The gruff-voiced actor Mako, a Japanese who emigrated to the USA, plays one of Conan's friends a powerful wizard named Akiro. He also gets irritating after a while. The film's story, to try & pare it down, is that Queen Taramis enlists the help of Conan to find the horn of an evil god Dagoth. The horn will enable Queen Taramis to rule the world, she believes. The virginal Princess Jehnna has to be sacrificed as a part of the deal & the evil queen's agent Bombaata (Wilt Chamberlain) accompanies them in their quest. He has been sent as guardian to the princess, to ensure that the princess remains a virgin & to spy for his queen. At any moment Bombaata could turn against Conan & try to kill him. Along the way they encounter Zula who joins the team after Conan saves her from being executed. Some of the sets made for this movie are both imaginative & very creative. It is campy, certainly, but it also generally a lot of fun. The IMDb user-rating of 5.8 is, in my opinion, far too low. I would score it a minimum of 8. "},{"Title":"Fleischer the Destroyer.","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger reprises his role of legendary sword-swinger Conan, who, in this adventure, is promised the return of his love Valeria by Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas) if he agrees to escort virginal princess Jehnna (Olivia D'Abo) on a quest to find a sacred jewelled horn. With help from his loyal friends, wise wizard Akiro (Mako), cowardly thief Malak (Tracey Walter) and warrior woman Zula (disco diva Grace Jones!!!!), Conan succeeds in his task, but is double-crossed by the queen's guard, Bombaata (Wilt Chamberlain), who has been given orders to kill the barbarian.Conan isn't the only one who feels betrayed&#x85; as a fan of the original film, which took a delightfully coarse approach to its sword and sorcery, I have to admit to being disappointed by the family friendly nature of this sequel. What I wanted from a second Conan movie was more sex and gore, Arnie once again frolicking with naked slave-girls and lopping off limbs left, right and centre; instead, we get lots of silly comedy courtesy of the barbarian's irritating sidekicks, very little in the way of graphic violence (there's only one severed noggin and a brief splash of blood), and a couple of shonky rubber monsters. It's reasonably fun in a camp, so-bad-it's-good kind of way, but it's not the film that I wanted.Director Richard Fleischer should be ashamed (doubly so, seeing as he was also responsible for the equally disappointing, PG rated fantasy flick Red Sonja, Arnie's subsequent cinematic outing as a barbarian). "},{"Title":"Conan the Destroyer","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So we've had basic plot idea number one family killed, take revenge. This sequel goes with basic plot number two given quest by ruler to find something, but its a trick...yes I just blew a huge spoiler so sue me.Yep, the rather devious and clearly untrustworthy Queen Taramis asks Conan to go off and find a sacred object so she can awaken a God, hmmm I smell something fishy. So Conan agrees because the evil Queen says she will resurrect his lover from the first film Valeria if he succeeds, oh come on Conan don't be dumb! Did I mention this was all a big trick by the naughty Queen?The main draw here is the cast really, Arnie's team are a much more interesting group this time with the insane Grace Jones, annoyingly crap acting of Tracy Walter, Mako back as the obligatory team wizard, d'Abo as the young virginal Princess and ex basketball star Wilt Chamberlain, a very colourful bunch. They are all up against the gorgeous and stunning Sarah Douglas who as usual is doing what she does best, being a sexy evil villainous bitch, oh my!The main problem with this sequel despite its better looks, fancy titles, a bigger Arnie and overall slightly sexier production values, is the fact it was watered down. The film aims for more comedy, slapstick and visual buffoonery over blood n violence, nothing wrong with this I guess but for me its a thumbs down. The first film was more adult and gave the film a grittier nastier feel, this just feels like a kids adventure at times. Even with Basil Poledouris booming musical score (first films sounded like 'Total Recall', this sounds like its been extracted from 'Robocop') it doesn't make much difference.I must admit to enjoying these films much more when I was but a mere sprogling. The fact its Arnie in the main role as Conan saves the film from doom in my opinion as there isn't too much more on offer. There isn't much action of note, not much blood, set pieces are drab and the adventure a bit dull, the only thing to lift you is the nice monster sequence at the end (head looks a bit like the Brundlefly creature from the Cronenberg film). That and Sarah Douglas being all sexy n evil (oh my Queen!), for me these films haven't aged so well and I still prefer 'The Beastmaster'.4/10 "},{"Title":"I prefer a Barbarian over a Destroyer","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mildly entertaining but ultimately underwhelming successor to the superior Conan the Barbarian (1982). The strong but silent warrior returns to the big screen as he is tasked by a ruthless queen to escort her young and beautiful niece to a faraway magic castle to find a jewel that can awaken the sleeping god, Dagoth, she worships. Together with a ragtag band of fellow warriors, Conan fights marauders, sorcery and demons along the way, while the princess falls in love with him. Little do both know she is destined to be a human sacrifice to the monstrous god, and there are those in the warriors' ranks who must ensure the girl will fulfill that destiny, even if it means killing Conan in the process. Though there's more intrigue in the story compared to its predecessor, it often gets in the way of the plan simple action people will expect from this film, while a PG rating, ill suited to the material (Barbarian was rated R after all), further restricts the fighting to such an extent it never gets beyond childish and mediocre. The effects are also not on par with the first film, though they still make for a decent dreamy level of quality that contributes to the overall sense of fantasy. Noted science fiction and fantasy director Richard Fleischer (20000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954), Fantastic Voyage (1966), Soylent Green (1973)) has been known to produce better fare than this, though it remains an interesting entry in his oeuvre. A third movie, which could have undone the flaws of this film, unfortunately never got beyond the planning stages of production. In order to still get his dose of fantasy acting, Schwarzenegger opted for a supporting role in the suspiciously similar Red Sonja the following year, ironically enough also directed by Fleischer. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" While this movie does not come anywhere near the brilliance of the original film it is still quite a good and enjoyable fantasy adventure. What I considered a shame though was that the filmmakers never actually went on to make a third movie where Conan becomes king. I am not familiar with the original Conan stories, having never read one, but I suspect that the filmmakers did refer to the books when making these films, and I suspect that the books also chronicle on Conan becoming a king, though as I said, I have not read any of the books so I cannot comment.While not having the same epic quality that the original film has, I still enjoy this film. Rather than having the scope of the first film, where much of the film is narrated as we follow Conan in his desire to revenge the murder of his village, this film really only deals with a single adventure that Conan has after defeating the snake cult (though the only reference to the previous film is to Conan's beloved, and this is played out by the antagonist who promises to bring Conan's beloved back to life in return for his services).The interesting thing is that the more recent Conan movie seems to have elements of both of these films in it, namely with regards to the woman that Conan protects. In this film the woman is a young noble who will be sacrificed to allow a god to return to Hyboria. In the later movie she was to be a conduit through which the antagonist could resurrect his dead wife. However, as mentioned a few times, the newer movie pales in comparison to the original ones. In this one they must go on a quest to retrieve some objects, however the girl is meant to remain a virgin (something that is excluded from the later movie). This would have been a problem, except that Conan's heart belongs to somebody else, and this somebody else is dead, so we notice that Conan is constantly rebuffing the girl's advances.I do enjoy this film, and would watch it again, particularly since I like the wizard. In the first movie he only carries the name wizard, but here we learn that he does have a name, Akiro. I would have preferred it if he had simply retained the title 'the Wizard' since it would have added a lot more mystery to the character, but this film, as mentioned a few times, is not the original film, and simply seems to be an excuse to cash in on the limited success of the original. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I remember...","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember this film from my youth and I remember it being a much more fulfilling experience than the one I just had. I guess I've seen so many better films by now that it just doesn't cut the mustard like it did back then. But more of my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters please wait outside the fortress and guard the horses).Conan is grieving for his lost Valeria (from the first movie) and, when he's offered a chance to bring her back from the dead, he jumps at it. Queen Taramis needs him, by now a skilled warrior, to take Princess Jehnna, who has been gifted with special sight and her bodyguard, Bombaata, on a mission to retrieve a magic crystal from an enchanted fortress. He also takes Zula (a skilled fighter), Akiro (The Wizard) and Malak (a thief). This mission proves very perilous and Conan has enemies all around him. I don't want to say any more, just on the off chance I might give too much away.Although this film had a bigger budget than the first one, I think it fails to hit the mark by quite a long way. The script is terrible and some of the effects look very dated by today's standards. Although nobody stood out, performance-wise, I will give honourable mentions to; Arnold Schwarzenegger as Conan, Grace Jones as Zula, Wilt Chamberlain as Bombaata, Mako as Akiro, Tracey Walter as Malak, Sarah Douglas as Queen Taramis and Olivia d'Abo as Princess Jehnna.I guess all fantasy adventure films will be weighed against the 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy and older films, like this, are never going to come out well. It's clear that the filmmakers put most of the money into the effects and forgot about the script, unfortunately. It's a shame because the first Conan film, Conan the Barbarian (1982), and the subsequent one, Red Sonja (1985), were so much better. I just hope the new Conan film, out later this year, doesn't fall into the same trap. This one, unfortunately, is NOT recommended.My score 5.2/10 "},{"Title":"Destroyer is right!","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" (Credit to Tim Harrison on IMDb) The wandering barbarian, Conan, alongside his goofy rogue pal, Malak, are tasked with escorting Queen Taramis' virgin niece, Princess Jehnna and her bodyguard, Bombaata, to a mystical island fortress. They must retrieve a magical crystal that legends say can awaken the god of dreams, Dagoth. Along the way, Conan reunites with the wise wizard, Akiro and befriends the fierce female fighter, Zula. Together the heroes face ancient traps, powerful Wizards, plots of betrayal, and even the dream god, Dagoth, himself!I enjoyed the original, but this sequel was pretty underwhelming. After this disappointment, it's not a surprise that Arnold didn't do many sequels to his films. The awe and wonder are nowhere to be found in this film. It feels very manufactured and contrived. The storyline is very uninteresting and there isn't much violence. They re-cut it to have a P.G rating, but that backfired. I missed the emotion and the spectacle that made the original so good. The acting isn't very impressive. Arnold tries, but he can't overcome the crappy material. He'll always be Conan to me and I hope the new one he's making will make up for this movie. Grace Jones had a moment in the sun during the 80's for some odd reason. She's just weird and not in a good way. Wilt Chamberlain should have stuck to his day job. Mako reprises his role from the original, not much more to it. Olivia d'Abo is cute, but doesn't offer much of anything else. Sarah Douglas makes a bland villain. Hopefully the new Conan movie is good! I didn't care for the remake and I don't think we've gotten the follow-up that we deserve. Watch it once if you're a huge Conan or Arnold fan, then forget it exists. 3.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not the Barbarian","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian was and is one of the best movies of the eighties. Sadly, the successor does not live up to it. With the change of the director and the cinematographer the gritty look and incredible combats that made the first movie were replaced with a bright set and uninteresting brawls that come out of nowhere.The serious philosophical side of the Barbarian is gone and instead they gave us a comical side complete with one liners, sidekicks and, of course, Arnie having revenge on the camel. While in the first movie you had such great characters as Thulsa Doom and Valeria, who you truly cared about, here we have an annoying princess called Jehnma who makes you wish the bad guys would succeed in their mission.On its own Conan the Destroyed is a decent action movie but compared to the masterpiece that was Conan the Barbarian it is not even worth watching. "},{"Title":"Conan The Nanny?","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When Producers decide to make more family-friendly sequels to violent cult-flicks, it is never a good idea. Tamer sequels do not necessarily have to be bad films, but they usually seem incredibly dull compared to their predecessors. This was the case when the Australian cult-classic Mad Max (1979) and its even superior sequel Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior (1981) were followed by the tame and vastly inferior third part Beyond Thunderdome (1985), and it is also the case with Conan. While Conan The Barbarian of 1982 is an absolute classic of the early 80s which stands out as THE all-time highlight in the Sword & Sorcery genre, this Conan The Destroyer of 1984 was obviously intended to cash in on a wider audience - which makes it a lot less interesting. The film cuts back on violence and nudity, as well as the generally archaic and menacing mood of the predecessor, and introduces annoying and unnecessarily 'funny' characters. As in Conan The Barbarian, the films starts with Mako voice speaking a little prologue (Between the Time When The Oceans Drank Atlantis,...), but it also sounds a lot less imposing this time. What really lowers the quality of the 'Conan' franchise in this sequel, however, is the lack of a charismatic villain. The mysterious and diabolical Thulsa Doom, the cult that followed him and the mythology behind it all, as well as James Earl Jones' brilliant performance in the role were arguably the most memorable aspects about the original. The sequel lacks a villain that could even nearly compare to the greatness of Thulsa Doom. While no comparable villain could be expected, the lack of a true menace still reduces the film's entertainment value immensely. Assigned by a Queen with magic powers, Conan and his companions have to escort an arrogant teenage princess (Olicia d'Abo) this time, which is, of course, a lot less promising a premise than that of the first film. Nonetheless, it would be wrong to state that Conan The Destroyer has no qualities whatsoever. The settings are still very cool (even if not AS cool). Arnold Schwarzenegger still fits in his role, even though Conan has become a little 'nicer', which I find quite annoying. Also, Grace Jones is not exactly my dream woman, but she fits in her role extremely well, and is probably the best reason to watch this flick. The late Mako also comes back in his role of the Wizard and Narrator. Unlike its predecessor, which was filmed in the Spanish Alméria (the splendid location where many brilliant Italian Westerns were filmed during the 60s and 70s), Conan The Destroyer was filmed in Juarez, Mexico. The locations are still very nice (even though not as great as in the first), and the camera work is very well done. The musical score is also quite the same as in the first one, even though it seems as if composer Basil Poledouris put a little less effort in this time. The film has its qualities, but the main thought one will have while watching it is still that it is just so vastly inferior compared to the original. This is especially disappointing, regarding that director Richard Fleischer is also responsible for several very good films, such as 10 Rillington Place, Mr. Majestyk or Mandingo. Overall Conan The Destroyer is acceptably entertaining, but compared to its great predecessor, it is just cheesy and solely commercial nonsense. Stick with the original instead! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the sequel to Conan the Barbarian, Conan is tricked by an evil Queen into rescuing her young daughter and recovering a magic horn. In return for the girl's safety and the horn, Queen Taramis claims that she will be able to bring Conan's lost love Valeria back to life. Conan accepts, not knowing that the queen has no intention of keeping her part of the bargain, and that she really plans to sacrifice the princess and harness the magic of the horn for her own destructive purposes. Conan sets out with Bombatta, her bodyguard and his Malak, a thief. They meet old friend Akiro and a warrior woman Zula, and together take on the quest. It will not be easy as Bombatta is a traitor, and there are many enemies in their way.An inferior script and direction lets this film down in the shadow of its predecessor. There is too much comedy here, and Conan becomes more sociable rather than the tortured Barbarian he really is. He was meant to rule forever with Valeria, but she was taken he should have become more of a recluse rather than making unlikely friends- he spent the majority of his life imprisoned or as a slave. However, this is the way the story goes, and while Grace Jones, Olivia D'Abo, Chamberlain and Mako are good, the rest of the cast is annoying. Everything looks cheap, without the style of the first film helped by James Earl Jones, Max Von Sydow and Gerry Lopez. There is little emotional content compared to the first film which decreases the quality. Some of the effects are awful even for the time, and much of the dialogue is cheesy. However, there are a few funny moments, the famous, repeatedly cut 'camel punch', and the music is very good. Arnie gets lots more to say but the impact is not as great as in COB. The action is pretty good though, and that is where Arnie is the King. It could have been a very good sequel, but suffers as a cheap cash-in with no real thought or emotion put in, perhaps due to the rushed schedule.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A not so serious sequel...","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a not so serious sequel to Conan the Barbarian. It definitely is a different type of film, which seems to be not as well liked as the ...Barbarian.I saw this movie first in the theaters, in the 80s. As a child, I liked it and many years later I still watch it occasionally enjoying it thoroughly.Conan is charged with guiding a small band to retrieve special jewels to bring back to life a god. In doing so, he is to be rewarded his ultimate desire, to have his Valeria brought back from the dead (watch ....Barbarian for that story).Things happen along the way, and we get to be part of the journey but spared the most boring parts. Mako makes a return in the sequel, playing the wizard role again. The quest involves a lot of action along the way, fighting, killing, betrayal. We're treated with an array of good special effects, that aren't totally realistic but can definitely be appreciated.The young (I think she was 15) Olivia D'abo is just so beautiful in this film, she holds the attention of the film on several occasions. She really does a nice job in what I think is her debut big screen role, playing the princess to perfection.This film like Barbarian, featured a great cast of interesting figures. While not necessarily movie stars, Wilt the Stilt Chamberlin and Grace Jones co-star and more contribute to this fun movie.One of the things I enjoy is the apparently way over acting of Chamberlin, requiring his lines to be dubbed after shooting. You'll also notice most of his lines are off camera. But that's OK, the massive Bombaata can do his lines however he wants! The ending is OK, featuring Andre the Giant in the Dagoth costume. The real final battle is that between Bombaata and Conan. Still the Dagoth scenes are done OK, and I've got to admit after Dagoth is slain I still find the oozing scene a bit disturbing! While this movies story is a bit lighter than Barbarian, the film is still well done and has a lot of attention to detail.I'm happy with the results, I'm just a little disappointed that a 3rd movie never came to be.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not too bad, judge it for what it is.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had not seen Conan the Destroyer since I was a teen and looking back now having just watched both films, this one is not that bad if you look at it for what it is.Conan the Barbarian really is a classic. It is unpretentious, raw, and mythic. I didn't enjoy it when I saw it as a child. It is an adult's film. Conan the Destroyer was made for a younger crowd - children to college age. Despite the PG rating, it does have plenty of rolling heads and blood, though to satisfy the adult audience. The difference in this film is that there is an emphasis on humor and the characters are not as interesting. It IS a weaker film, but it still is a good film.Uncompared, as every film should be viewed, this is a nice little fantasy. The scenes with the evil wizard in the ice palace are wonderfully mythical and the sword-fighting is just barbaric and true to the Conan character. The musical score by the returning Basil Poledouris is excellent too. It really adds to the credibility of the film. Schwarzenegger is good here too. He seems to be having fun and he definitely is a perfect Conan. Just as good is the return of Mako as Akiro the Wizard. He is definitely Conan's best ally and he turns in a much better performance than the rest of his team. Chamberlain is good enough and it was smart that he doesn't have too much dialogue. He gets to look imposing. Sarah Douglas is terrific as the sexy evil queen and the only shame in her character is that we do not see more of her. She has a certain dignity and mystical quality that a beautiful evil villainess should have.What doesn't work as well in the film is the acting of the supporting cast, less the people just mentioned. Most of all, it is weakly directed, though. There just doesn't seem to be a driving force in this film. It feels as if wanders along. It would be more interesting to see what makes the princess choose the course that they take. The film lacks purpose.Overall, though, this film entertains and is still a worthy sequel to Barbarian. It rates about 3 points less though, almost solely based on the directing strength that John Milius gave the first film. He is what is sorely missed in this one. On its' own, however, this is a fun film and can be totally satisfying as such. "},{"Title":"Good but beware the acting","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Have just finished watching the flick for the nth time. A good thumb up bum type of film but if you expect any type of acting expertise by the cast - beware. Arnie range is not even good enough to be called wooden, Grace snarls well but I think that the film is saved by a young Olivia d'Arbo. Not well acted by her but she looks the part. Standard sword and sorcery script with cheesy special effects but never-the-less, enjoyable. "},{"Title":"It's Wilt's Movie","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The unheralded Wilt Chamberlain, is the really impressive person in this film considering he was asked to do the part at the last minute when no suitable bodybuilder matched as a villain who could intimidate Arnold. Cheesy movie made good by a unique presence. I can't see Jordan or Shaq doing a movie where they are actually cool in it like Wilt.  "}{"Title":"a violent, simple, romp or a film","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  much campier then the first film, it attempts to make for Conan's lack of depth with a large supporting cast. (they used up all his depth in the first film). Yet it is worth it just to see Grace, Wilt Chamberlin and all the rest of the cast bust some serious heads. "},{"Title":"A disappointment but not as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really like Conan the Barbarian, and while I heard Conan the Destroyer had a dubious reputation I was all for seeing it. Conan the Destroyer is disappointing, lacking the fun and kitsch magic of its predecessor. It does have its good things however, the scenery and costumes do look great and the special effects are an improvement I think. The ending is also fantastic and makes up for the truly dull middle section, and as the villainess Sarah Douglas is perfect. I am not sure whether I take the fact that there is more action here as before as a good or bad thing, either way it was quite exciting. Against all that, the score was rather uninspiring, most of the direction was flat, the story is meandering and dull and the dialogue is cheesy, Tracey Walter's dialogue especially is reminiscent of a badly written Scooby Doo episode. The acting is nothing to write about either, Douglas is for me the only good performer. Arnie is charismatic but the fact that he has more dialogue here than before does show his limitations as an overall actor, Grace Jones does little more than be sexy and hiss and fight, Tracey Walter is annoying with grating catchphrases, Olivia D'Abo is cute but hopelessly miscast and Wilt Chamberlain may have a towering presence but his acting is laughable. All in all, disappointing but I would hardly call it one of the worst sequels ever. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Fun if Slight Sequel to CONAN THE BARBARIAN","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Reading the other comments on this thread, it's obvious that a LOT of people were taken with John Milius's bombastically epic CONAN THE BARBARIAN - if you're one of them, then you're certainly going to be let down by this sequel. On the other hand, if you thought CtB was a pretentious, overripe mess that stranded its entire cast in the middle of Milius's cod-Nietzschian fantasies, then you'll probably enjoy the more lighthearted adventure CONAN THE DESTROYER.Director Richard Fleischer, unlike Milius, plays to his performers' strengths rather than straightjacketing them into a bombastically macho worldview. As a result, limited and/or inexperienced actors like Arnold Schwartzenegger, Grace Jones, Olivia d'Abo and Wilt Chamberlain deliver surprisingly appealing and effective performances, while old pros Mako and Tracey Walter are playful and consistently entertaining throughout. As the Master (Mistress?) Villain Queen Taramis, Sarah Douglas is a good hissable baddie, but unsurprising.The effects are variable, from an impressive climatic monster (the Dagoth) down to some truly laughable rear-projection - but even that adds to the old-fashioned kiddie matinée air of this movie. Recommended for adults and older kids (10 and up), there is a lot of nonexplicit violence, a humorous drunk scene and a bit of mild sexual innuendo. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel...though not as well made.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This sequel to Conan the Barbarian is a pretty good movie in its own right, though it is not of the same quality. The first one is definitely better, but this one is a more fun movie not to be taken as seriously. It also has more action than the first and this one needs it, as the acting isn't quite as good. Arnold is still good as Conan, but I didn't care for Wilt as the bad guy unless he was fighting. Grace Jones added nothing to the movie and does Conan really need this many people in his party? His sidekick gets kind of annoying after awhile too. Fortunately, though there is plenty of action to take your mind of these qualities...though this one isn't nearly as bloody as the first one. "},{"Title":"What a letdown. An insult to the first (amazing) movie.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" -SPOILERS BELOW- God what a letdown. First I gotta say i LOVED Conan the Barbarian, probably my 2nd favorite movie of all time. It was well written and well directed. The characters were convincing. They were dirty and unkempt. They looked fearsome...and best of all, THEY COULD ACT! Sadly this on has none of these elements. Its pure eighties cheese. They traded the realistic, dirty, dark look for oiled muscles, clean looking b movie outfits, and feathered hair. The acting is the essence of wooden. While the thief in the first movie was somewhat fearsome, his counterpart in this is a ridiculous coward that does not fit at all (and whats with the New Yawkish accent?). The first was set in a believably asianesque/mongolian setting. This is apparently set in some sort of fantasy kingdom (where are the elves??). And I got to say (SPOILER) the Ice castle was ridiculous, and the wizard Conan battles in the hall of mirrors looks like he bought his mask at the mall during discount days. Throwing Grace Jones at this movie doesn't make it any better, and Wilt Chamberlin as a character makes about as much sense as casting Shaq in Lord Of The Rings. The God/Beast battle at the end is mildly cool, but far too little too late. This movie just feels thoroughly watered down, hollywoodized, and neutered. Fans of the original, or anyone for that matter, avoid this rubbish unless you are having your own do it yourself Mystery Science Theater episode at home. It really is that bad ( "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked the Destroyer better than the Barbarian!  I liked how it had more fantasy elements than just barbaric fight scenes.Wilt Chamberlain was more of a distraction than anything.  He was better as a basketball player than an actor.Grace Jones is just scary.  Why Dolph Lundgren dated her is beyond me. Mako was good as the wizard.I know that the Barbarian had a better climax, but this film is more fun.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"One of the best adventure film we have ever seen","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film even though is the second part of Conan the barbarian but it is a damn good film. My kids love it and even I have seen it so many times with them. Arnold is fantastic and so is Grace Jones and Sara Douglass. I wish director Richard Fleischer makes  more of this type of films like Conan 3,4,etc., before Arnold gets too old. "},{"Title":"Worst sequel in HISTORY!!!","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a shame this is. The first film is so gorgeous with it's metaphoric dialogue, bombastic soundtrack, and Nietzsche-isms throughout. Yet here they changed directors and added a PATHETIC excuse of an ensemble cast and the results are outright disastrous. Too much humor, too many beasts, not enough deranged characters who talk like unholy prophets. I guess they wanted to reach a wider audience. How sad. Robert E. Howard must be rolling over in his grave. "},{"Title":"The Horror","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A few words about the first Conan the Barbarian. Fairly true to author and Conan creater Robert E. Howard's vision, the first Conan was entertaining and successful. Schwarzenegger was perfectly cast as the protagonist. Born and raised in the barbarian northern land of Cimmeria, Conan of the novels (originally published in serial form during the thirties) spoke the various languages of his world with, as Howard described, a 'gutteral accent', and Arnie's Austrian articulations fit the bill to a tee. In the first film a sort of plausible reason for his huge muscles is offered (fifteen years give or take as the last survivor of his people, every day pushing a huge wheel that runs a mill of some sort), and he goes forth as a formidable adult, on his quest to avenge the slaughter of his people, with some carousing thrown in along the way. The first flick entertains and has a satisfying conclusion. I was looking forward to perhaps seeing the continuing story of Conan's life chronicalled on film as this beginning promised in its final storyboard, even perhaps to Arnold portraying Conan as a 60+ year old still-strong warrior king the way the books tell of, in Arnold's own advancing age. (well, I can dream..)Then this thing came along. 'Conan the Destroyer'. What in high heaven was the studio thinking? This production is garbage. The story? A remarkably motley group of misfits heads across the land on some lame quest, looking like one of those Disney Incredible Journey movies where an odd assortment of pets crosses the country looking for their owners. Other than Schwarzenegger the casting stank. Wilt Chamberlain just looks weird and gangly beside the much shorter and more heavily muscled Arnold (actually 6'2 himself!) and succeeds in making the Oak look like a strange lumpy dwarf in most scenes where they are seen together. Olivia D'abo as the princess seems to have few things to say except for screeching Bombaataa! every few minutes. The cowardly thief is a dislikeable gimmick and Grace Jones is such a bug eyed screaming train wreck you just want her character to be killed as soon as possible. Regrettably that doesn't happen. The people responsible for this film should be doomed to bussing at a Burger King for foisting this disaster on the public. Conan the Destroyer indeed. It destroyed the chance of there being another Conan movie of any kind made, ever again. "},{"Title":"Conan the Conversationalist?","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What made Conan the Barbarian a great movie was the fact that Arnold played Conan as a person who was shut away and not talked to for most of his formative years. The first movie had minimal dialogue, and it made it seem like whenever Conan had something to say, it was important. In this movie, he seems to be talking every other second. He even hams it up doing pratfalls when he is drunk. It takes the emotionally stoic backbone out of the barbarian from the earlier movie. Arnold is an action star, not a stage actor. "}{"Title":"Just as the first one...","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ** HERE BE SPOILERS **Conan (Shwarzenegger) is brought to the queen Taramis (Douglas), where he is offered a quest. To guide and protect princess Jehnna (d'Abo) to a key/jewel protected by a wizard. This key enables them to collect a gemmed horn, which queen Tamaris desperately wants. Conan's reward for this is the resurrection of his love, Valeria. What Conan's and his friends don't know is that this horn is to be used to awaken a god/monster. In this process, the princess must be sacrificed. Taramis captain of guards, Bombaata, is sent with them to ensure the safety of the princess and her virginity. Preferably he should also see to that Conan and his friends don't return from the quest.The story is different, but the movie is just like the first one. Force dominated fights with sword and heavy weapons in between stretches of scenes of journey. The dialog is better and more extensive, mostly is it Conan himself that speaks more. So these scenes is actually combined with some dialog which don't make them so easy to tire of. It also seems like Schwarzenegger has learned some skill with the sword, which he most unmotivated shows off in the middle of a fight or two. But even if these small improvements is there, I did like the first one better, because this just feels like the same thing all over again. This sure gives that if you liked the first one, you will probably enjoy this one as well... If you were a little doubtful after the first one, watch something else...5/10  "},{"Title":"It was good, but it was missing something...","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just saw this movie and I have to say it was good, but it felt like it was missing something. Like the power or strength of the first Conan movie. It's hard to explain, it's something this director couldn't bring out. The first Conan was amazing, this movie felt like a sub-story in Conan's life, instead of a major story in his life.Acting and effects were fine, although a little shallow from time to time from the supporting cast. Arnold as usual was great as Conan. I just can't wait for the 3rd installment of this movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"runs out of steam about 1/2 way through","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Even though I consider this a childhood favorite up there with FLASH GORDON and THE BEASTMASTER, this film really fails to hold up to adult eyes even as a campy retread. It's not that it's bad or such a pale kid-friendly followup to its CLASSIC original, but CtD is just clunky and boring.The biggest problem is that Conan is given way too many sidekicks. It seems every significant scene in the first half of the movie only exists to either set up the plot (which is rather thin and lacking), introduce another sidekick to add to the party, or provide for weak comedy relief! There is absolutely no character building, precious little intrigue, no suspense, and even less excitement. Once the second half comes and we near act 3, the film feels so on autopilot that it's impossible to pay attention to.Richard Fleischer was one of the top action directors from the 50's-70's, but by the mid-80's he had unfortunately been reduced to hired hand status and often given family-friendly dreck he seemed to have precious little investment in. This film is pedestrian and uninventive in every way, especially disappointing considering the crew involved. Jack Cardiff's photography is workmanlike, Giannetto De Rossi's makeup rubs off in a few scenes, and Basil Poledouris's score is just a weaker version of his career highpoint score for CtB. Even Carlo Rambaldi's malevolent demigod creature creation is lacking and not very scary at all thanks to poor movement control and the fact that you never see the entire monster in any one shot. It suffers an acute case of Krakenitis (in reference to CLASH OF THE TITANS) in that it's the climactic cataclysmic monster but upon introduction it just stands around and doesn't do anything! About the only saving grace is the completely wacky cast - with Arnold teamed up with Wilt Chamberlain (in a completely forgettable and pointless role), Grace Jones (as an angry Zulu warrior), Mako (looking half-asleep), Jeff Corey, Sarah Douglas (attractive as usual), Pat Roach (in a rare speaking role), and Sven-Ole Thorson. Thorson's character is given a curiously detailed and important-feeling fight scene with Arnold even though he is just a random low-level nameless villain whose face is never clearly shown. Arnold doesn't seem to care at all that he looks just like one of the villains he killed in the last movie. Perhaps he's meant to be his twin brother? This could have been interesting if the film had done anything with it.That unfortunately applies to everything else in this film - a lot of missed potential in favor of a cynical attempt to make as much cash as possible with as little style or originality as possible. "},{"Title":"CONAN THE DESTROYER (Richard Fleischer, 1984) **1/2","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Even before I reacquainted myself with its predecessor, I knew this would basically prove to be an unassuming comic-strip effort – which may have been closer to Robert E. Howard’s source material than the more realistic first film (which perhaps drew more on the famously stark illustrations of Frank Frazetta for its look).Anyway, while this emerged a somewhat more engaging adventure than RED SONJA (1985), the plot of both films is strikingly similar – in that the mission in each involves a girl in peril (here, however, she’s an innocent rather than a warrior) helped by he-man Arnold Schwarzenegger to fight an evil queen/sorceress and her legions – even if the obligatory comic relief is perhaps even less welcome this time around (via Conan’s diminutive and cowardly sidekick Tracey Walter)! The action highlights are also more elaborate (though they’re far from the stylized ones featured in the 1982 CONAN THE BARBARIAN – and, consequently, less impressive) these include the oft-seen trick involving a wizard defeated by shattering his multiple reflection in a hall of mirrors, and the climax where Conan (with the dubious help of Walter) battle a Toho-style monster(!) called Dagoth.Despite employing director Fleischer and legendary cinematographer Jack Cardiff (both of whom had worked on THE VIKINGS 1958, one of the most impressive – and evocative – epics from the genre’s heyday), the film can hardly be compared to that magnificent achievement. For starters, Schwarzenegger’s Conan comes off rather buffoonish at times, especially during a drunken reverie in which he stumbles clumsily into rockfaces and in an unintentionally hilarious shot when villainess Sarah Douglas asks Conan to think and we cut to a close-up of wide-eyed Arnie! The cast is made up of veteran character actors (Mako, Jeff Corey and Ferdy Mayne) and supporting newcomers (Grace Jones, Olivia D’Abo, Wilt Chamberlain) and Basil Poledouris once again provides stirring musical accompaniment. Although I revisited the film via the UK R2 DVD, unfortunately it was the original, bare-bones and slightly censored disc rather than any of the two subsequent SE DVDs which include Audio Commentaries with Fleischer, Douglas, D’Abo and Walter! "},{"Title":"Nice Work from the Governator","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnold is the reason to see this film. Flexing his muscles and showing off his swordsmanship, he proves why he was such a great action hero before entering politics. That groovy Austrian accent doesn't hurt either. This film nicely combines thrilling sword fights with light-hearted humor. The production values are top-notch, with quality fantasy-style costumes and realistic set design. The outdoor shots are breathtaking. Arnold is backed up by a strong supporting cast, particularly Grace fearless fighter and Mako as a wise wizard. The writing is well-done, containing nice one-liners and great fantasy-style dialogue. This is one of Arnold's best. "},{"Title":"Destroyer is good for kids, but disappointing for Howard fans.","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is what happens when Hollywood wants more money, but is too greedy to care about the project! Destroyer isn't a horrible sequel to barbarian; but it is far from the glory of the first. Arnold returns as a more heroic Conan, which seems a natural progression. I felt he truly embodies Howard's beloved character. His supporting cast is interesting, but rather underdeveloped. However, Conan is caught in intrigue and sorcery. This is also topped off with a climatic fight with a god monster that is true to Howard and Frazetta. I feel that the budget was constrained on this one and that's a shame. A PG rating screams We want all the little kiddies allowance. and this cheapens Howard's vision. I'm glad Milius is doing King Conan. He should bring back the savage in Conan. I hope he can get the Governator to return as well. Destroyer is good for kids, but disappointing for Howard fans. "},{"Title":"Disappointing but fun","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Though there were plans to turn Conan into a long running franchise along the lines of Bond, it ended here with the rather disappointing 'Destroyer'. Though i'm quite fond of this movie, it suffered from having too many characters & trying too hard to be comedic. Mako, Tracey Walter & Olivia D'abo simply get in the way of the action. Thong wearing Grace Jones tries hard, but she fails to match the athleticism of Sandahl Bergman with an unsubtle performance punctuated by eye=rolling and pantomime snarling. Sarah Douglas is underused as the evil queen bearing in mind howdeliciously evil she was in 'Superman II'. In all an unsatisfactory end to the Conan saga, though there may be plans to revive the series utilising modern CGI techniques. "},{"Title":"5/10  ***/5 ~ Saturday Matinée romp is a far cry from Robert E. Howard's creation.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Cimmerian (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is tricked into helping a princess (Miriam D'Abo) to steal an enchanted jewel which will revive the demon god Dagoth.Producer Dino De Laurentiis' unworthy follow-up to John Milius' powerful Conan the Barbarian (1982) is passable escapist entertainment in spite of cheap-jack production values (filmed in Mexico), a sub-literate screenplay and listless direction by the usually competent Richard Fleischer (20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Fantastic Voyage, Barabbas). Schwarzenegger's Conan is here wasted on a trivial adventure which resembles the Conan comics more than Robert E. Howard's original stories, with none of the latter's imaginative pulp poetry. The Sword and the Sorcerer, a prominent low-grade Conan cash-in, is a more satisfying Saturday Matinée than this. There is more so-called magic in this fantasy than in the first Conan film, but the rubber monsters make it play like a charmless remake of Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger without the wonderful effects artistry. The script, an appalling come-down for writer Stanley Mann, is cursed with unfunny comedy and relentlessly dumb dialogue which make the dubbed Italian Maciste pepla epics of yore seem bright by comparison.Big Arnold, then just cutting his teeth as a professional actor, is given no opportunity to develop his one-dimensional character, yet commands attention whenever he is front-and-center. The film only comes to life during the fight sequences, which really deliver the goods. A thrilling sword-fight between Conan and one of the Queen's guards is a major highlight.Otherwise the production's most interesting aspect is the colorful supporting cast, notably scene-stealer Grace Jones, as a ferocious, butt-kicking warrior, and ultra-cool Sarah Douglas (Superman II), in outrageous leather-bondage garb as an Evil Queen. Mako returns as the Dune Wizard, but sports giant Wilt Chamberlain is not allowed to make much of an impression, apart from a display of grunting machismo. Ferdy Mayne (Count Von Krolock of Roman Polanski's The Fearless Vampire Killers) makes an appearance as a wicked sorcerer. There is also the novelty of two future Bond women (D'Abo of The Living Daylights and Jones of A View to a Kill) in leading roles. The movie's nadir is the foolish inclusion of a pipsqueak comic sidekick (Tracey Walter), so annoying that the real Conan would have eaten him for breakfast -- raw.Instead of making improvements for a third entry in the initially promising Conan series, De Laurentiis squandered Schwarzenegger in an unwanted travesty of Howard's Red Sonja (1985), killing off hopes for further adaptations of the author's work. Recent plans by Schwarzenegger to atone by reviving the character seem to have been ... Terminated. "},{"Title":"even better than the original(despite the casting blunder of Grace Jones)shudder","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this sequel to Conan The Barbarian is a pretty decent movie,in my mind.it has as much action as the first one,but the story is better in my opinion.it is a bit hard to follow.at least i thought it was.the tone of the movie seems lighter than the first,and there is more humour.i also liked the fact the Conan was shown as being human,and not invincible.i thought his main adversary was a great choice for the strength of Conan and he could not beat it by brawn alone.there are also some great characters for Conan's traveling companions,who actually were very helpful to Conan.the one thing i did not like is the inclusion of Grace Jones.to me,the woman is much too scary to be on any screen or even seen by the public.i thought she added nothing to the movie and her role was pointless.she also scares the sh*t out of me.however,i thought the movie was good enough to overcome that huge casting blunder.in fact,in spite of that fact,in my opinion Conan The Destroyer manages to be a better movie than the first Conan movie.this is just my opinion of course.For me,Conan The Destroyer is an 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"D Grade thru n' thru","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Destroyer, the sequel to Conan the Barbarian (one of my favourite Arnie action movies) seems to completely ignore most of the happenings of the first movie. Instead of Conan being a king, we find him being a scavenging thief, with an annoying wise-cracking side-kick Malak. They both get involved with some plot with an evil queen who sends them on a quest, with a young virgin no less, to retrieve a special key, which in turn unlocks a horn (or something).As previously stated - this movie seems to completely ignore what made the first movie soooo great. Conan in the original film was a complete thud with no brains - and no dialect either. However - fast forward to Destroyer and his vocabulary seems to have increased at an exponential rate - so instead of being a complete brut - he know sounds like a semi-educated security guard.The first movie was a serious one - full of glorious music, emotion and blood and guts. However - it feels like they have tried to completely tone down all the violence and adult themes in order to achieve a lower PG rating to get the kiddies in to watch the film. Also - half of Arnies punches and sword swipes don't seem to connect (take the first battle - whereby a punch thrown by Arnie into thin air knocks down a horse and solider!).I'm a big fan of Grace Jones - but she doesn't seem to do her acting career any favours by having an acting range of angry to angrier. Her role in this (despite being second billed) is very minor and completely incidental to the plot line.I think they had some serious casting problems with this movie - they seem to have casted a poor-man's version of Debbie Gibson who can't seem to act. Also - they make her out to be sexy - but she doesn't even look legal! I'm glad she picked up a couple of Razzies for worst supporting actor that year! And that sidekick - he is just soooo overacted (but then again - the script doesn't really do anything for him in his favour - with dialogue like A fine magician you are! Go back to juggling apples.).The special effects are cheesy and rather embarrassing. Conan fights with two creatures, both of which look like a David Cronenburg rejects. The whole wizard power thing was totally lame. Mako basically waves his hands around, sounds constipated and can determine where missing virgins are or raise locked doors.Overall - I like cheesy movies, but this just doesn't even cut it on a cheesy movie factor. Probably adding to my hatred of this movie - is the fact that this sequel cheapens the first! This is D Grade the whole way. "}{"Title":"- Bombaata!!!Bombaata!!I need you!!!!!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For ultra fans of sword and sorcery\barbarian flicks like me, this one is the second best (the first, is of course Conan the Barbarian)..I know Richard Fleischer is not John Milius and Conan the Destroyer is a much softer film that Conan the Barbarian, but Conan the Destroyer is a great and enjoyable film, is a bit campy,and the jokes aren't so good,but ,in my opinion is very well done, is a nice classic..The film tell us the story of Conan the Cimerian (Uncle Arnie), and his new friends the traitor Bombataa (Wilt Chamberlain), the comedian Akiro (Mako), the looney Malak (Tracey fukin Walter) the famous diamond eater and the princess Jehnna(Olivia D'Abo, i never saw another movie with her..p), in a quest (demanded by Queen Taramis), to find a magic crystal before the sorcerer Toth Amon(Pat Roach) can use it. They plan use the crystal to get the Horn of Dagoth, Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas) betray Conan, and try to kill him, and bring Dagoth (Andre the Giant)to life..But Conan is not for funny stuff, and kick butt Dagoth, Bombataa, Queen Taramis and shes entire corrupted Kingdom... Once again from Dino di Laurentiis productions and the same great soundtrack by Basil Poleudoris, Conan the Destroyer, shouldn't be missed by sword and sorcery\barbarian freaks!!If you like this film, i recommend Conan the Barbarian (the best sword and sorcery\barbarian film ever);Red Sonja (the third best); The Archerfugitive from empire (great one); Beastmaster (nice, but a little bit B) "},{"Title":"Well stop him, kill him or something! - My dagger's gone, *you* kill him!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Picking up a few years after the first film, Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) still misses his one true love, Valeria (Sandahl Bergman), who was unjustly murdered in Barbarian by Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones), who was rightly destroyed by Conan for it. Evil Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas, Ursa of the Superman films) offers to resurrect Valeria in return that Conan accompany virgin princess Jehnna (Olivai D'Abo) on a mission to acquire the this key artifact thing that will resurrect an evil god of some sort. Along for the ride is Mako's wizard, the late Wilt Chamberlain's bodyguard Bombatta, evil eye Grace Jones as killer Amazon Zula, and Tracy Walter as bumbling sidekick Malak.More of a comedy or spoof of the genre, lacking much of the drama that elevated the first film above being just another costume epic. Arnold is fun to watch - though he should have kept his shirt and pants on -as you can see him developing his Arnold persona with more of the charm and humor that characterized his outings in films like Commando, Predator and The Running Man; he even shows more knack for drama as he delivers lines such as What I want, you cannot give me. and Life for Valeria. Wilt Chamberlain plays his part well enough, Jones is fierce looking, Mako is dignified, Oliva D'Abo is cute and Walter has his moments though he really doesn't belong in this movie (Robert E. Howard's Conan would never have taken such a cowardly fool under his wing, and you can see Conan himself shake his head at Malak). Action pieces are executed competently, but there's something sad about watching Arnold get his ass handed to him by the gator ape (the late Pat Roach, may he rest in peace). Conan's climactic brawl with the monster god is the crown jewel moment of the film. "},{"Title":"Poor sequel","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A long, long time ago, before The Phantom Menace and Jar Jar Binks, in an era called Hyberborea, there was a barbarian called Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger), who had the most annoying movie side kick ever invented, called Malak the thief (Tracey Walter), who single handedly, above all the bad writing, dialog and direction made me hate this poor, poor sequel of one of my favourite movies ever, Conan The Barbarian.First mistake with this movie was, that it was given to someone else than John Milius, who did fantastic job giving life to Conan in CTB. Second mistake was, that the writers and producers abandoned the original style of the creator of Conan, Robert E. Howard, and went towards more childish, yet some times entertaining, Marvel comic Conan. Third mistake was the almost complete removal of familiar characters of CTB, only Conan and The Wizard were spared, and replacing them with annoying and non personal paper cuts. The plot goes, that Arnold and his idiot peon, along Zula (Grace Jones) Bombaata (Wilt Chamberlain) and The Wizard (Mako), must rescue a princess Jehhna (Olivia d'Abo) for eeveel queen Aramis, oh sorry Taramis (Sarah Douglas), and bring the Queenie a crystal horn, so she could revive a Horned God. This would have been perfectly fine for a 10 page long Marvel comic. For this movie it's just pain.Also the acting deepens the unbearably of the flick, everyone just over acts poorly or seem totally uninterested in a way or another.This is probably the worst, there's huge battle between this and Red Sonja, movie by Arnold, with very little redeeming aspects. There is however, in the uncut version, couple of close up shot from heads chopped off, so if thats your thing, you might find this some what entertaining.I personally found it to be a appalling experience, tough a honest word here, I liked this when I was 12-years old. But that was mainly because of the head chopping. "},{"Title":"Sword and the Toad","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an absurd and hastily made sequel to the far superior Conan the Barbarian. Swartz is back as the big hulking paleoanthropic warrior who has more muscle than brains. This time around the landscape looks like something out of a cheap fantasy movie and nothing ever clicks or feels like the original. The difference with this is that the first film had a believability to it and this one just oozes out vacuous emptiness. The plot concerns a princess who must fight an evil sorceress. . . not much there to begin with. Along the line there are more absurd characters including Grace Jones who resembles a twig and beats men 8 times her size with a stick. Chamberlain is even more lackluster as a personal guard to the spoiled princess who has special powers to defeat darkness. Look for the awful 'non-moving face' monster in the hall of mirrors that is about as scary as a dead fish. Even as a kid I hated this movie. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the 1st one","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This must have been filmed very quickly after the first film. Grace Jones and Arnold have almost nothing to say, the lines seem to have been passed to those who could speak them more clearly.The film recycles music from the original (the stuff used during the snake cult which is reused during the sacrifice scene) and quite a lot of the queens castle looks a lot like stuff from Krull.The film is basically just about moving from one very thin plot device to a fight to another thin plot device to another fight and so on and so forth.I still don't understand why Conan 3 wasn't made quickly after number 2, was he cast for Terminator shortly after this? "},{"Title":"Convoluted and Superfluous","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tracey Walter, giving his best Peter Lorre impersonation as Malak, says, My cousin's sister's brother dug his way out of there. Ahem ... a cousin's sister is also your cousin ... so is her brother. Why not just say My cousin? That convoluted and superfluous relationship statement echoes the convoluted and superfluous story line in this film. In order to bring Conan's lost love, Valeria, back from the dead, they have to steal the Heart of Ahriman so that it can be placed on a stand to recover a horn, that, when placed in the forehead of a statue, willl bring a god back to life to end the world. I'm dizzy ... run that by me, again. On second thought, don't run that by me again. From the opening superfluous fight scene to the very end, this film has no point -- Conan gains nothing (except maybe some experience points for D-and-D from the fighting). This film is a jumble of convoluted, superfluous relationships, resulting in a very campy rendition of Conan. If taken seriously (if that is even possible), then this film really FUBARs the Conan saga. Given an inch from the first movie (in such things as Conan praying) the filmmakers take a mile in this sequel with Conan pining over a single lost woman. He is so blinded in his grief that he cannot see that the promise made by Queen Tamaris in the beginning is an obvious lie. "},{"Title":"Good strong medieval fun","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a blast. Really. Schwarzenegger as the rather stupid, but proud warrior (or barbarian) Conan, is just a total riot. But then again, I consider this movie to be a comedy. Don't get me wrong, it has a lot of action, fight-scenes and even half-nude women, but this movie can't be taken too seriously. It is very true to the original Conan from all the comics, and it's not at all like the original Conan movie, but it's a fun ride. Cannot really say it's in the top 100 of all movies ever made, but it's a great waste of time! I enjoyed myself throughout the movie, but don't expect a masterpiece. This is just a cool movie. Nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"Dire sequel to a timeless classic &#150; what happened?","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the ever present Hollywood dash for cash, it seemed inevitable that the wonderful Conan the Barbarian would get a sequel, and what a total turkey it was.Where do we start?  Well the plot basically has Conan on a quest in search of that seemingly illusive and rare item in this film &#150; a decent script.Accompanying him are a rat tag bunch of loons including a double crossing heavy, a dumb blonde bird with a bad English accent, the Chinese wizard from the first film, Grace Jones (this just gets funnier folks!) and a desperately unfunny comedy sidekick thief who serves no useful purpose whatsoever and should have been left on the cutting room floor.Add to this some atrocious editing and cinematography plus the cut and shut job on the recycled soundtrack from the first Conan movie and you have this utter turkey.Even the sword fight scenes, a strength of the original, where badly scripted and edited and let this film down enormously.And that is before we have even mentioned the dreadful crystal castle that creaks and groans for no adequately explored reason &#150; either that or it has a serious termite problem.  Then there is the weird gorilla in the red frock with the mirror fixation and finally the monster at the end, a sort of one horned turd that looks like he was knocked up cheap in someone's lunch break.All in all a mess &#150; go watch the original and only look at this if you are seriously desperate and the DVD is in the bargain bin &#150; trouble is the R2 release is pretty dire as well!  "},{"Title":"Short sighted hack job","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK. This is a really simple movie which doesn't have a good plot, but it does have a lot of really good scenes (like Grace Jones) and lots of good one liners.I remember seeing this movie in 1984 and went straight to the phone to track down Oliva D'Abo's address (or at least her mother's address) in LA. I had such a hardon for her that I did find the number and actually did call her mom. I asked for Oliva and they realized that they should have an unlisted number. Shortly after that the number was out of service.Yeah, true story, but hey, I was sixteen and had tons of hormones to spare.(back to the review) As I mentioned there are some really good scenes and I wish they would have put a little more in to the movie to raise it up to the level that the first movie ended up at; which is why this movie sort of feels rushed.This movie isn't really worth much but for people who like Arnold it is worth the replay (if not for seeing the young Ms D'Abo). Owning the DVD would be worth it if their were lots of extras but I've yet to see any thing on the market worth my money. "},{"Title":"Has None of the Inspiraiton the Original Glorifies In...","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With most of the cast returning, I thought Conan the Destroyer would be another rousing adventure -- even if my expectations on quality were low to begin with -- however, this has none of the inspiration the original glorifies in.From beginning to end, when the action erupts, it is poorly shot, or poorly conceived; trying to reach towards a younger audience (for more box office revenue) and leaving out the hyperbole-like violence. Now, seeing some of the cast return gave a warmth to my heart, but the acting, and characters they portray in this film are downright awful. Nothing happens to make these people different from the way they were in the first, nor makes the newer members seem deep. The monsters aren't impressive, and the sets make for terrible special effects. The story, too, is mediocre, and very kiddy.All in all, definitely skip this if you liked or loved Conan the Barbarian. It has none of the thrills or adventure of the first, and I only recommend it to those craving for more. "}{"Title":"Run of the Mill Medieval Fantasy","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What a bringdown from Conan The Barbarian! This time out, our hero must rescue a princess from an evil sorcerer. Ah-nold is good as Conan, and Tracey Walter provides some comedy relief as his dim witted sidekick.Also on hand are basketball great Wilt Chamberlain and disco diva Grace Jones in what are interesting performances. However the film fails because of its very routine story and too many 80s style FX. We pretty much know the outcome before it actually goes anywhere. Good vs evil, good wins but only after going through hell to get there.The producers completely eschewed John Milius's dark brooding version and even though there are swordfights, they come off as substandard to the original. There is some good atmosphere-especially in the sorcerer's lair, but that's about it. The ending is totally predictable. Though the actors try their best, they are let down by a trite screenplay that is not too much different from other Medieval epics like Beastmaster and Sword of the Sorcerer. Sequels are for the most part unimaginative and/or rethreads of the originals. Too bad. This one could have been a contender. All in all, not a total disaster, but it just can't compete with Conan the Barbarian. "},{"Title":"Not completely awful but uninspiring!!!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I found myself wrist watching throughout Conan The Destroyer willing it to end. When I look back on it now it wasn't too bad a movie but it was just so predictable and unoriginal. I understand it was made back in 1984 when this kind of thing was reasonably new, but it just lacked that special something (which I can't name) that classic movies from that era contain. A few of its attempts at comedy aren't too bad but the the others are just pathetic due to awful acting from everyone. The storyline is poorly explained throughout the movie which makes it hard to keep up with what's going on.All in all not different enough to be worth paying anything for or really wasting 104 minutes of your time (maybe if you're a hardcore Arnie fan). "},{"Title":"Rubbish. I love it!","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh my gawd, this film's awful. The performances are wooden, the special effects are lousy, the dialogue is clunky and the story's preposterous.Yet, this film is exceptionally entertaining! Come on, it's got Governor Arnold trying to act drunk, Grace Jones (terrifying) the tallest man ever (Bombatta), the Scrolls of Skelas, some priceless lines and plenty of action. It's loads better than the po-faced Conan the Barbarian, at least this one knows its garbage and just gets on with it.The promise I was kingdomed? Come on, it's GENIUS! "},{"Title":"saddening","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film fails to live up to predecessor.  While Arnold does a fine  job, everyone around him, with the exception of Mako, brings down the film.  The film is hurt by a weak script, and plays more like a D&D game.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting much more from this movie, but instead I got a lousy flick, obviously intended for a broader audience. The first Conan may not have appealed to everyone, it is very exotic and strange, I'll admit that, but this movie was made for 13 year old kids. It's a big fall from it's original, but hey, that's the case with most sequels. It's trying to be funny, but fails. If you didn't like the first one don't bother seeing this one.If you liked the first one stay away from this one.Sad.         4/10  "},{"Title":"Quite crappy","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I haven't seen the first part, but it has been said, that it is much better. Anyway, this movie was very, very campy. Schwarzenegger was charismatic as usual, but he can't act very well. Grace Jones had her stereotypical character. She played her character almost the sameway, she did in A View To A Kill. The film has horrible plot, but the savior of the film are good visual world and Schwarzenegger. Quite crappy movie, but not very horrible, so you can watch it and forget it forever. ** stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"Conan the Destroyer","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Below average follow up to 1982 film with Schwarzenegger returning as warrior Conan, who gets mixed with bad queen Sarah Douglas who wants Conan to fetch a wizard's magic key. Once again, some startling sword play help move the film along...but that's about all.   "},{"Title":"Of Course Not as Good as the Original","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Obvious its not, because it was made for kids. So cheesy its almost not worth watching. They got it on TV now. Conan the Barbarian was awesome compared to this one. Who ever thought this would be a hit switching the rating lower for a wider audience is stupid. They do it all the time for horror movies, and that is why a lot of horror movies suck, is the PG-13 rating. Good luck directors that keep doing it that way.Then there is not enough lines here to submit the review. That is stupid. There is nothing much good about this movie to say, unless I am under 13 years of age, which I am not. These people that make movies need to realize that kids are not the only people in this world. Just because they are the future, which the future is looking worse anyways. No need to worry about it since it will end eventually anyways. "},{"Title":"Watchable but disappointing and dumb sequel to the strong Conan the Barbarian.","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan (Arnold Schwarzengger), who's still a thief and an warrior. Conan is teamed with a goofy thief Malak (Tracey Walter). Conan still can't not get over the death of his woman Valeria. When an mysterious Queen Taramis (Sarah Douglas) and her trusted bodyguard/warrior Bombaata (the late Wilt Chamberlain) hires Conan to escort the young Princess Jehnna (Olivia D'Abo) to get an magic horn from the magic fortress. Which only the princess could touch the magic horn. But Conan isn't working alone, since Bombaata is along with them. So Conan, Malak, Princess Jehnna and Bombaata are on a mission to get the magic horn. Since Queen Taramis promises Conan that she could bring back Valeria from the dead. Conan also finds help by a wild female warrior (Grace Jones) and his friendthe Chinese wizard (The late Mako). But what Conan doesn't realized that Queen Taramis lied to him and Bombaata is supposed to kill Conan. Once the mission is completed and Queen Taramis is willing to sacrifice the Princess. Which she gain power from this magic horn and to rule the world.Directed by Richard Fleischer (Amityville 3-D, Red Sonya, Soylent Green) made an watchable but disappointing sequel to the first darker Conan film. This sequel has high camp and awful special effects. The cast keeps a straight face for most of the film. Although Schwarzenegger keeps the film bearable with his amusing sense of humour.This DVD is from the franchise collection, which is double featured with the superior first film. DVD has an good non-anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an fine Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound. The only extra for this sequel is the original theatrical trailer. This was probably one of the worst sequels ever made, it was certainly mentioned in the magazine Entertainment Weekly. This is only for the Die Hard fans of Robert E. Howard work only. Screenplay by Stanley Mann (DamienOmen 2, Eye of the Needle, Firestarter). From a story by Roy Thomas and Gerry Conway, who were so disappointed with the film. They re-worked their story for a graphic novel as ConanThe Horn of Azoth. J-D-C Scope (Joe Dunton Camera Widescreen). (***/*****). "},{"Title":"Pretty bad yes","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  spoilers((( Being Arnold must be sort of silly. Here he plays Conan, with big muscles off course, trying to be smart and with bad looks. The movie is neither entertaining or funny, it's just boring sadly enough. While I was watching I tried to keep awake threw the irritating dialogs and the totally un-interesting story. Arnold swings his sword like a lunatic and seems to try looking rough and sexy, something he fails bigtime attempting! CONAN THE DESTROYER is the sequel to the CONAN THE BARBARIAN that were released two years earlier, and I have to say; I really didn't have any expectations either!Arnold looks a lot like the comic figure, but who cares? The terrifying camera angles and the bad colours doesn't help in this totally rubbished movie. And I think nobody can like this; because it's so anonymous! It doesn't peek out in any level, it keeps serving bad action scenes, bad acting and shitty stories, so what's with the cult status? Ah, pretty lame! STARS 1/5  "}{"Title":"Conan the destroyer of movies","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzanegger's first movie, Conan the Barabarian, gained a cult following for its faithful portrayal of the comic book it was based on. The fact that Arnold could neither act or speak for the first movie made no difference; it was unimportant.  For the sequel, Conan the Destroyer, Richard Fleischer, the director, threw away all the points that made the first good; the minimalist dialogue and any vestige of an intelligent plot.But Arnold movies don't need plot.  They have muscles.Arnold delivers spectacularly in the muscle department.  The violence in this movie, the selling point in every action movie, is unrelenting and vicious.  As Arnold spins into action, limbs fly.  Literally.  The sword fights contain none of the martial arts finesse Hollywood insists on putting into newer action films; rather, they are explosively violent and vicious in an untamed, unfinessed battle of strength against strength.  It's no wonder that when the credits start rolling, the first name to come up is the stunt coordinator; he had the most important job.Other than that, the movie is lackluster.  The effects are impressive, for 1984; the monsters are more believable than most.  The characters are throwaway caricatures, with no life in any of them.  The sets are flat and cartoony, resembling something out of a movie twice this one's age.  Grace Jones and Wilt Chamberlin are wasted in empty roles, roles that any stuntman could have filled.The movie tries to move in a lighter direction, but the jokes fall flat. The running joke about the thief of the group being a coward, greedy, and whiny simply makes him unlikable.One highlight that makes the movie almost worth watching is the scene where a drunk Arnold tries to teach Olivia d'Abo (Princess Jehnna) to use a sword. He shows some of the comic flair that came to life later in such movies as Twins and True Lies.  `I suppose nothing hurts you;' she notes.  `Only pain,' he agrees.Conan provides a brief adrenaline rush, and an occasional laugh, but if your choice for a weekends entertainment lies between seeing Conan the Destroyer and beating yourself on the head with a hammer.pick the hammer.  "},{"Title":"Drivel, utter drivel.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After the superb Conan the Barbarian, a fascinating and adult movie, director John Milius had intended to complete a trilogy. The completed first installment was about strength, the projected second and third installments would be about honor and responsibility in turn.  Well, something must have gone wrong between Milius and producers De Laurentis and Pressman because Conan the Destroyer bears about as much similarity to the first film as a Big Mac does to a fine medium rare steak. Milius' measured and stately direction, minimalist dialogue and Nietzschean philosophizing are gone to be replaced with a hackneyed script bursting with cliches, and silly characters. Conan himself is reworked as a bumbling drunken oaf as opposed to the Aryan ubermensch of the first movie. Conan the Destroyer is less interesting than a comic strip, what on earth possessed the makers of the series to perform such an about-face? Who knows, but it was a massive mistake. Conan the Destroyer is Arnold's worst movie. And that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Second Time is NOT the Charm","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a miserable attempt to milk the well-earned success of the first movie. It compares badly on every element and fails on its own merits on most as well. Arnold is dull, dull, DULL in this one. The dialogue is wooden. The music is overwrought. The writing is BAD. Characterizations are laughable and cliched if they exist at all. The earlier movie had the earthy and admirable Sandahl Bergmann as his love interest. This movie has a whining princess, and she's plain insufferable. The cowardly thief of this movie is neither comedic nor likeable. Plugging Grace Jones in this movie didn't help. Neither did adding Wilt the Stilt. You end up wanting most of the characters to JUST GO AWAY. The special effects are either okay (the night-flight across the lake to the mystic castle is good, and so is Dagoth the demon) or downright terrible (the rubber ape-mask on the demon in the mirrored room). This movie lacks heart and character, brains and imagination. The only barbarian movies worse than this are Red Sonia or that Lee Horsley dog, The Sword & the Sorcerer. "},{"Title":"Classically disappointing sequel.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having read all the Conan stories as a boy, I had a real feel for this character.  The original film captures that feel admirably - just as well as this movie misses it.  Surprising that those involved should follow up such a good movie with such a bad, lame one.  Howard's original stories had enough left in them to spawn a good sequel.  Too bad this one killed a possible series a-borning. "},{"Title":"Enough Talk!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" That line in the second half of Conan the Destroyer is as good as any to mark the replacement of John Wayne by Arnold Schwarzenegger in our celluloid action national consciousness (it was 16 years since the Republicans had tried to get Wayne to run for President & 19 years until they persuaded Arnold to run for California Governor). Still, this is one of Arnold's lesser endeavors, when he was still finding his feet as a star & hoped for no more than laughs & loot. Brawny barbarian thief & hackmeister Conan is recruited by sinister, leggy witch-queen Taramis (Douglas) to help her leggier, good-witch niece Jehna (D'Abo, in her first film) steal a distant, well-guarded bauble necessary for their thaumaturgical ambitions. Jehna brings her bodyguard Bombaata (Chamberlain, in his only film) and Conan his sidekick Malak (Walter) and wizard-buddy Akiro (Mako), the only other character returning from Conan the Barbarian. On their travels they rescue punk-Rasta Amazon Zula (Jones, leggiest & toughest of anyone) from an interactive lynch mob. You'll be stunned to learn that there's more to this adventure than Conan was told (if you can't trust a sexy witch-queen, what's this fantasy world coming to?). Conan 2 makes several valiant attempts at humor & campiness. The actors are game but with varying results. Walter steals every scene as the dagger-wielding thief who's utterly selfish except for his loyalty to his big buddy & even that has limits. Fine character actors Corey (Butch Cassidy), Mayne (Where Eagles Dare)& Mako don't have enough to work with here, although Mayne gets to say, as few actors can, that he actually blew smoke out of his ears. The lissome D'Abo in costumes made with a threshing machine is very watchable until the last big action hoopla, where she cowers and screams annoyingly for several minutes. Let's be fair, though could Julia Roberts have done any better with that material? Chamberlain, fresh from hucking the VW Rabbit to a credulous America (it had more headroom than his Rolls-Royce, remember?) makes a finely taciturn lunkhead. Wilt illustrates why Schwarzenegger succeeded where Dick Butkus before & Shaquille O'Neal afterward failed. Arnold's lively, artless and infectious joy at getting paid for Let's Pretend really has no equal in the entertainment industry. Not for several more years did he start taking himself as seriously as his rival Stallone, at which point the fun ended. The worst part about this film is that it has a story worthy of much better treatment, a classic fantasy adventure rather than the gloomy, introspective revenge tale that Oliver Stone & John Milius put on in the first film. Robert Howard, one of the best short-story writers ever, might have made much of Taramis's attempts to seduce Conan & the hero's struggle to resist her enough to remain true to Howard's Barbarian Code of Honor--and done it in a few pages. Of course, all that would have taken a lot of, you know, like, acting & stuff. The film's effects are a cut above average until the last scene, where they become as ludicrous as any ever filmed. Basil Poledouris's magnificent music, the best feature of Conan 1 & among the best ever written for the screen, is wisely recycled into Conan 2. This film isn't romantic enough for a date movie except with the least discerning (that is, the most hammered) of girlfriends, and is too '80s androgynous to watch with the guys (Oh, no! What if Boy George had been offered a part?!). Conan the Destroyer is a guilty pleasure best watched alone. "},{"Title":"Deeply disappointing","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It seems common knowledge that sequels are rarely as good as the originals, but usually the makers try and copy what made the first time out so entertaining. Not here--in fact the makers dispensed with everything that was good about the first Conan movie (when he was still just a Barbarian), and made some disastrous decisions to boot. The major mistake was dropping the rating from R to PG. Another huge mistake was failing to get John Milius to direct the project. Then there were the decisions about virtually everything else--the writing was abysmal, the villains were silly, and the humor was entirely out of place and unfunny. I needed some relief from the comic relief. Wilt Chamberlain was a bad idea, it's not that the guy can't act, which of course he can't, it's just that he's not all that menacing and seems uncomfortable in all the scenes he's in. Grace Jones is more than irritating, she's unwatchable. Robert Howard purists had some problems with the first one, since it didn't closely follow the books, but this is more like the comic books rather than the actual books, a comic book set on film--and not a very good one at that. This was extremely disappointing in that it was such a missed opportunity. Some sequels are serious mistakes since they detract from the original, but Conan is one character that can handle a series of movies--but who'd want to see another if it is as silly and stupid as Destroyer? "},{"Title":"CONAN THE COMEDIAN..","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  That´s the most appropriate title for this one. I usually only choose to comment on movies that I like, but I couldn´t resist this one. I´m a huge fan of the original and it should be pretty obvious that I would have strong opinions about this one. They insisted i making this more of a regular fantasy film for younger audiences, with a lot of laughs. -Bad mistake. Most of the actors are misplased, the fx look cheap and the whole thing it´s just not what it could have been(with Milius on board)Fleischer could easily just as well go on and make RED SONJA(ups, he did)But some good things have been brought along Arnold(though not as good as before.save your words!), Mako, Sven ole Thorsen( In a ok fight scene with Arnold) and Poledouris´ great music. It even has some of the blood and violence(But just some)It´s funny I don´t think they even mentioned this one on the Milius/Schwarzenegger commentary track on the original. I remember one of them saying something like we should make a second one time.Why don´t we just forget this one, get a hold of John Milius and let him continue his trilogy which he so provdly started.As the sequel              2/10 As a regular fantasy movie 5/10 "},{"Title":"Wilt Chamberlain and Grace Jones???!!!","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Please first be advised that I really am not the biggest action film fan in the world, so keep this in mind as you read.This film is a follow-up to CONAN THE BARBARIAN, but instead of being violent and intense like the original, it was much sillier and lighter in tone. Part of this is because it was really very hard to take the film seriously due to the ultra-bizarre casting. While Wilt Chamberlain was sure impressive from a physical point of view, it was just hard for me to see him in animal skins kicking butt. But even more bizarre was the appearance of Grace Jones as,....Grace Jones. I guess it was just an 80s thing--but WHAT WAS THE APPEAL OF MS. JONES?! Her music, to put it mildly, was crappy and mind-numbing but her acting was far worse! She made up for her limited acting range by mostly shrieking and killing things! This bizarre casting actually was positive in one way. Up until this film, many had questioned Arnold's ability to act or even speak English. But, compared to these two supporting actors, he seemed much more like John Gielgud in comparison! A very trite and forgettable film. "},{"Title":"If I wanted to play Dungeons and Dragons, I'd break out my 20 sided dice...","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember looking forward to the sequel to Conan The Barbarian many years ago. The first Conan, while somewhat rough and incoherent in spots, managed to incorporate much of what Robert E. Howard's best known creation so interesting and appealing. The director, John Milius, seems to have a special affinity for tales like this, and his crew definitely captured the raw-edged, primal feel of a wilder, mythic time. And then this thing came along. The first sign of trouble, to me, was having the credits include Roy Thomas and Gerry Conway as the writers. Now Thomas and Conway were/are both fine comics writers. In fact, Thomas' adaptations of Howard's works into comics form (along with artist Barry Windsor Smith) were classics and high points of the genre. But the emphasis here is that they wrote COMICS, not movies, and I was afraid they might be conditioned and limited by the conventions of a medium typically followed by male adolescents. I don't know how much of the mediocre mess that followed the movie credits was actually Thomas and Conway's fault, but my fears proved to be justified. The plot, which might have made for a mildly diverting 48 page issue of Savage Sword Of Conan, was far too thin and clichéd to sustain a feature length movie. The dialog, which might have 'read' well in a word balloon on a comics page, was flat and badly delivered. The acting barely existed. Chamberlain and Jones were barely able to play themselves on camera, let alone act. Walters and D'Abo were completely out of place in this setting. In fact, almost every comic relief line out of Walter's mouth made me want to plug my ears and sing loudly to drown him out. The sets and costumes all looked like something John Buscema (the legendary comic artist who took over 'Conan' when Smith left') might have done if he had burned out and was drawn the whole thing in one morning without a single correction or revision.As for Arnold, he seemed to have both bulked up and polished his physique, so he looked much more like a comic book superhero than in the first film, but it wasn't really an improvement. Instead of looking like a wild-maned barbarian, he came off as something like a viziers' pampered bodyguard/strongman. And while he still could swing and handle a sword convincingly, his acting hadn't improved in the least. But mostly, the story just didn't have any 'heft' to it. Conan and his motley crew ran around, got into scrapes with soldiers, guards, wizards, and monsters, and eventually Conan ended up skewering another beastie in a climactic scene that had all the dramatic impact of a Power Rangers' movie. I have to admit that I saw this on cable again a few months ago, and enjoyed it a lot more the second time around. Maybe it was my diminished expectations, or the fact that I was seeing it for free on the confines of the small screen, but I was able to find a lot more to like about it. That adds a couple more stars to the rating. So IMO, that's the way to see Conan The Destroyer. Don't think of it as a Conan movie. Think of it as Conan Lite, and you'll be okay with it. "},{"Title":"Conan the Destroyer","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I heard that the original film, Conan the Barbarian, was meant to be a pretty good film, especially for Arnold Schwarzenegger starting his career. I think this was Schwarzenegger's second or third film after the good success of The Terminator, but it is not one that goes in his greatest films list. Conan is on a really weird mission to become king or something. He is accompanied by a load of people to help him destroy something. One person includes a boyish looking (as always) Grace Jones as Zula. The story is pretty rubbish, I can't remember seeing any decent fight scenes, and Schwarzenegger is a lot better in The Terminator, being evil. Arnold Schwarzenegger was number 54 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Pretty poor, as far as I remember! "}{"Title":"Lame flick - great music","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie really ain´t all that good. The problem is that there are so few fantasy flicks around that you like it just because you like swords and monsters. The biggest mistake the film makers made was casting Grace Jones. She stinks! Also, there are too many jokes in the film compared to the first (great) one. But not everything is bad about this movie.The music is fantastic and it, alone, makes Conan the destroyer worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Shame on Hollywood","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a really pity! After the awesome first film of Conan, they just made profit of the success to cash in with this cheap flick. I can't understand how Arnold accepted to take part in this film, it is really degrading. The story is lame, the effects are terrible, the dialog is boring at the most, the jokes are not funny... my god, it seemed to be really hard to spoil the great saga of Conan the Barbarian, but this guys have really done it this time. Shame on this film!! I still hope that someone with real love for film making, will embrace the original story of Conan, and will make a good film about it. After all, there is still a tale to be told ;) "},{"Title":"Total Crap","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Everything from cheesy sets to the character of the bad wizard, and the gorilla in the red cape is characteristic of terrible design, poor music, shows a lack of talent for making what I consider a worthwhile film.I can't think of anything good about this film it's a total failure to live up to its promise, in fact it is worse than any in the Conan series, with the blame going to the director I suppose.This film is one of the poorest in it's genre. Compare this with the excellent Beastmaster and then perhaps you will understand what I mean.Arnold is muscular, other than that he is slow moving and wooden. I suppose he is incapable of speaking without his German accent-- serious problem for any actor. Perhaps this movie will be up to the expectations of those people who voted for him to be Governor of California. Perhaps he  will be better in that role, although I doubt it.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is quite possibly one of the worst movies I have ever seen. With the exception of Arnold, the acting is horrible, (just listen to the thief guy for about one line and you'll see what I mean) and the effects are bad also (the scene with the wizard over the lake.) The abysmal plot line is very jumpy, and people just travel from place to place all over their world. It's just very poorly put together, and has a lot of bad filming errors (there's telephone poles in one scene!) None of the actors really seem interested throughout the movie, and they all say or do incredibly annoying things throughout the whole movie. About a half-hour into it, you're incredibly annoyed and just want people (namely the stupid thief guy) to shut up. Overall, this movie is incredibly bad, and unless you're really into Arnold Schwarzenegger or something, DON'T see this movie. "},{"Title":"No; too easy","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I will not make a pun on the title; no sport. The first one is a lot of fun if you take it for what it is, and the only exposure to the franchise(never read a single page of the books) that I've had. Here, you can tell from the very beginning that it's not as good. This is the studio version of an entry in this series; hence it's watered down and killed any hope of further follow-ups. While this is the only Fleischer film I've seen, clearly he could direct before, what happened? Was he just *that* unfamiliar with this kind of flick? Arnie returns for more sword and sorcery, and even the most desperate D&D fans probably reject it. Say what you will about the original; I realize that not everyone loves it, and it's neither a masterpiece nor a movie for all audiences. Still, it stays with you, it's entertaining, it's epic and visually, it's *fantastic*. None of that is true for this. Oh, the FX has moments; among the poor instances of them are 2D animation(come on, what's wrong with clay, or stop-motion, it's not a cartoon) and obvious green-screen shots(guys, you might wanna consider getting some footage to inter-cut those with, they help make it convincing). Well, the sets are nice; they came with the bigger budget. However, the editing and cinematography are extremely unimpressive. This features a basketball(I think) player, and he's quite tall; so why does this barely take advantage of that at all? I didn't know until about halfway through it! At the end, I could barely make out what was going on at points. This has many silly designs, especially helmets; for crying out loud, the *horses* aren't spared! The acting is average. This has utterly intolerable comic relief(in general, the humor is bad). There's a thong-wearing black chick(I'm gonna ruin countless of sexual fantasies with this, but... at times, she really does look like Wesley Snipes) who's usually wearing as little in the way of clothes as she can get away with by the censors. The princess can't conceal her British accent for a fraction of a line. There are hawt chicks in this, to be sure. The score tries, ah, it really does... and someone *needs* to give the composer a strong sedative, because he's amping up dully shot sequences of *riding*. No, really. The action isn't that exciting or adventurous, and there's not that much fencing. There are holes in the run-of-the-mill plot. Exposition is forced. There is a bit of bloody, brutal violence in this. I recommend this to those who simply cannot get enough of Conan, and who refuse to merely re-watch the far superior first picture. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Lame sequel to a lame movie","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a big fan of Arnie. I've never liked any of the Conan films. I think they're both campy, stilted, poorly acted, silly, unimaginative, dire, boring. I don't like swords-and-sworcery flicks, either, so maybe that has something to do with my dislike for the movies.Arnie returned in 1984 after the success of the first film to play Conan again. The sad fact? The first film was at least rated R - this is friggin' PG! Which means no blood, no guts, no sex, no unnecessary brutal shots of decapitation and gruesome murders. (Kidding about the last two. Or am I?) Arnie didn't like this film when it was released and supposedly didn't even want to film it. It didn't flop, surprisingly - overseas it did better than in the States (as many of Arnie's films that performed badly in the US did - including End of Days) but it probably deserved to.It's even worse than the first film, which I for one thought was quite boring to begin with. "}]