[{"Title":"Pretty atmospheric.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"62 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After reading some negative comments on this film it seems to me that many of those reviewers hate horror movies.If you don't like horror,then leave this genre alone!!!Go back and watch some Hollywood big-budget trash!!Children of the Corn is an enjoyable horror film with a few creepy scenes and some good shocks.The acting is decent enough,and the atmosphere of an isolated town(Gatlin)is well-captured.I've seen the first four parts of this series and they are not really bad(want some crap-check out Witchcraft series)Enough said-try this one if you enjoy watching horror movies.Very atmospheric score too! "},{"Title":"Sarah Connor - Vs - Satan","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Certainly one of the better adaptations of a Stephen King tale, Children Of The Corn, for me, was a goosebump film. But all the more chilling was an unseen, Evil Force who a group of murderous children happily calls He Who Walks Behind The Rows (Rows, meaning rows of corn in a corn-field) The image you get of this He Who Walks Behind The Rows character is simply Satan with a new nick-name. And why old Lucifer has chosen to possess a billion ears of corn in Nebraska instead of the John Deere tractor sitting alongside of it is beyond me. Whatever the reason, the fact that he's somewhere within that cornfield gave me the chills throughout this film. More chills than watching these children go on a killing rampage throughout the small town. Anyone over the age of 17 was quickly laid to rest at the beginning of the film, and any kid about to turn 18 happily sacrificed themselves to He Who Walks Behind The Rows.The film stars Peter Horton and Linda (Terminator 1 and 2's) Hamilton. By accident, they enter this small town and become the towns only two grown-ups. Once spotted, they are quickly labeled Outlanders and are pursued throughout the remainder of the film until they are finally caught, bound and prepared for sacrifice.I love this film. Its had a special place in my heart for years. There is not a boring moment in this film that would put you to sleep. There are many jolts, winces and frights. And even though the He Who Walks Behind The Rows fella never shows his face, you will definitely feel it's presence. Trust me. Just knowing that he's somewhere in the midst of that cornfield will be enough to creep you out.I give this gem a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Outlander!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is a classic example of a movie that was much more frightening when I was a kid. Now I suppose it pales in comparison to the better horror flicks I've seen. It's still not a bad genre flick and I recommend seeing it. Children of the Corn has its moments. Isaac and Malachai are still creepy looking cats (both played effectively by John Franklin and Courtney Gains). The musical score with the children chanting is an eerie effect too. The café scene and the accidental hit and run are the standouts of the movie, it's pretty grisly stuff. The rest is a bit mediocre. Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton are pretty good as the young couple trying to escape the murderous children. And an appearance by R.G. Armstrong is never a bad thing. The movie is a loose adaption of a Stephen King short story, but the sequels are just absolutely King rapes. So do not bother with those. "},{"Title":"Spooky, thought-evoking revelation into the dark world of the occult.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"38 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film sitting on my Dad's lap when I was about seven years old. (I was a horror film fanatic from a very early age on.)  We used to sit up watching late night scary movies while my Mom went to her ceramics classes.Dad and I loved this movie.  There is no sex or nudity in this film.  Even though the images are pretty graphic, if your older children are mature enough to handle a little fright, this should be okay for them.  Besides, since the children are the bad guys, your kids should be pretty happy!!My favorite actors in the film are the two star children (Joby and Sarah). They really make the film eerie with their innocence and sadness over losing their families.  Malachi would be the scariest character.  Even the way the other children in the movie gasp when they hear his name makes me shudder. I would not want to face him either!!  Another aspect that makes this film so scary is the music.  The director adds clips at just the right moments but doesn't forget to leave ample silence.  There is nothing greater to add to the suspense than a good dose of silent screen.  Then all your senses get a jolt at once when the big horror scene comes alive.The most suspenseful scene is when the boy stumbles out onto the highway clutching his sliced throat.  It's a real hair raiser!!  But, without revealing too much, I guess I will close by saying that this is by far one of the best horror films I have ever seen.  A little strange, but, then again, this IS a Stephen King film.  Need I say more??  "},{"Title":"Another so-so film based on one of Stephen King's books","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"32 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King is often cited to be the father of modern horror, and this view isn't wholly unfounded. King's stories have had a large impact upon the horror genre, and many of them are very good stories in their own right also. However, when it comes to translating King's words onto the screen; many filmmakers have proved that they are not up to the task. I haven't read the book, 'Children of the Corn', but I'm sure it's better than this movie. While the film isn't especially bad; it's hardly a tour de-force of horror cinema either, and like many Stephen King films; this one could have been a hell of a lot better. Actually, this story isn't one of King's better efforts; it follows a small town whose children murder their parents on the instructions of a mysterious preacher; a little kid calling himself Isaac. The story picks up three years after this terrible event when a young couple drive into town for some reason. They find the village completely devoid of adults and it isn't long until they discover what's happened and seek to put an end to it! This film has missed several opportunities, the most glaring of which is the subterranean manifestation that dwells beneath the soil in the cornfields. We get several glimpses of this creature, but we never get to see it properly; and because of this, the monster is about as threatening as a bunch of little kids. Oh wait. Anyway, the film draws parallels with other evil kids films such as Village of the Damned in the way it plays out, but it never really gets out of first gear. While the atmosphere of the town is foreboding and well done on the whole, the plotting isn't very exciting and there's very few moments of real tension or suspense, which ensures the film isn't as engaging as it could have been. The cornfields and the corn that inhabits said field's makes for an unlikely horror prop, and some scenes within the fields are genuinely creepy. The kids themselves are rather well done also, with both of the main ones having good screen presence. If you were to pigeonhole King's films into 'good' and 'bad', this one would firmly be in the latter side. On it's own, however, it's not all that bad, and if you're a fan of King's work, you'll no doubt find something to like here. Or you might hate it for not living up to the book, one of the two. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I dunno what it is about this movie, but it is so addictive. The first time i watched it it scared the mess outta me! But I really liked it and watched it over and over. I myself am a fan of older horror movies, and this movie is for sure a lot better then some of the so called horror movies now days. Some of the stuff i didn't really like though (SPOILER) I didn't really like the way they drew on Jesus's picture, and i didn't care to much for there gathering when Issac preached about their god He Who Walks Behind the Rows. But other then that i really liked this movie and would reccomend it to anyone who likes being freeked out!  "},{"Title":"And a child shall lead them...","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the tale of a young couple (Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton) stranded in the deserted little town of Gatlin, Nebraska and stalked by a pack of adult killing children worshipping a demon living in the surrounding cornfields. This very atmospheric piece is a rather humble b-movie that boasts an unusual and interesting premise (thanks to a pretty good short story by Stephen King) and delivers some decent performances from its cast (which is rare with children in general). Although soft in its depiction of violence, the movie offers some creepy moments (especially in the still effective opening sequence). John Franklin, excellent as the child-preacher Isaac, makes for one odd and creepy looking kid and Courtney Gains inhabits his psychopathic Malachai character with obvious delight. The cornfields are beautifully shot and the overall is boosted by a pretty efficient score by Jonathan Ellias. And to top this all up, R.G. Armstrong makes here an appearance (albeit a too short one) as a recluse gas station owner. Don't be fooled though. The movie is far to be a masterpiece. At leading endlessly its main characters around cornfields and then through the deserted town (direct effect of superficially expanding a short story to feature film length), the movie ends up suffering from its slow pace (Things just aren't happening fast enough even says Horton at some point) with the characters taking what seems like an improbable amount of time to realise what is afoot. The danger of young and impressionable minds blindly following extremist religious leaders is certainly an interesting theme but is here barely tapped into. Finally the climatic sequence, with the manifestation of the collieflower looking He Who Walks Behind The Rows, is a bit of a let down to say the least. Those (not so minor) details however are not enough to warrant the bad press the movie gathered upon release (and Stephen King's severe criticisms). Children of the Corn is a well performed little soft core horror b-movie that surprisingly enough spawned a franchise and still provides eerie ambiance and creepiness that even, at times, make the few cheap scares work. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe not so scary, but pretty cool horror movie after the short story written by Stephen King.The children of Gatlin, under the influence of 'priest' Isaac, kill all their parents as it is the wish of the Lord who apparently lives in the corn. 3 years later a couple (Peter Horton and Linda -Terminator- Hamilton) are stranded in that same place. The kids, led by Isaac and his first man Malachai, set up a plan to sacrifice them to their God.The movie gets a great start with the children killing their parents, after that it isn't much horror but more of a suspence movie. You got to see this only for the Malachai kid. Great casting!6/10. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Children of the Yawn","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a really disappointing adaptation of an excellent and terrifying short story which appeared as part of American horror novelist Stephen King's first anthology of short stories, 1978's 'Night Shift'. King's story offers a dreadful sense of growing unease and a truly horrific ending which is completely scrapped in the movie version.The good news about the film is that Linda Hamilton stars; if she has ever delivered a bad performance I have not seen it. She has a toughness and a vulnerability at the same time, and is an extremely likable actress. I just wish she made more movies; I remember seeing her many years ago as the violated wife in the harrowing telemovie 'Rape and Marriage The Rideout Case'. Hamilton made 'Children' shortly before playing tough heroine Sarah Connor in 'The Terminator', the role for which she is most famous.Burt (Peter Horton) and Vicky (Linda Hamilton) arrive in the small town of Gatlin, Nebraska to find that a small group of mutinous children led by the Damien Thorn-like Isaac (John Franklin) have risen up and murdered nearly all the adults in their town. At the unhinged Isaac's behest, they worship He Who Walks Behind the Rows, and they are not above sacrificing the odd grown up to this mysterious figure.The shadowy presence of He Who Walks Behind the Rows pervades King's taut tale. In the story, Burt is killed by this thing a few hours after he finds his wife crucified, her eyes plucked out and the empty sockets filled with corn husks. It is an incredibly downbeat and horrible ending to a great story, and draws most of its strength and power from the fact that we do not ever really find out what exactly He Who Walks Behind the Rows is. Is it human? This clever method of suggesting rather than showing horror is discussed by King in his wonderful and nostalgic non-fiction book 'Danse Macabre'. He recalls always being disappointed when a monster was finally unveiled in a horror film. According to King, your imagination will always summon a beast much more frightening than something that a special makeup effects man has dreamt up. Unfortunately, the horror of He Who Walks Behind the Rows is totally diffused by this film. Instead of some terrifying presence, we get an awful electrical current, the product of some pretty shoddy early eighties special visual effects work.But the worst thing about this movie is the happy ending. As I wrote, King's ending is far better and a hell of a lot scarier. It would have been extremely powerful had Burt and Vicky met a grisly fate more faithful to King's original vision. These are likable characters; we do not want to see something bad befall them. So a downbeat ending would have been that much more effective. The loss of these characters would have been depressing and unsettling. Instead, what we end up with is a forgettable ending to a forgettable film. 'The Shawshank Redemption' this most certainly is not. "},{"Title":"An adult nightmare.","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the corn is a 1984 film based on the short story by Stephen King. The story is that a couple who go to Gatlin, Nebraska find themselves in a living nightmare as they are hunted by a cult of children who have been taught by their preacher Isaac that everybody over the age of 18 must be killed.This film starred Peter Horton, Linda Hamilton & John FranklinIn my opinion this is an entertaining film and doesn't deserve all the stick it gets, it isn't great by any means however it's a good film too watch when your bored also a good film to watch with your friends on a night in. I do recommend this film if you have read the short story or if you are a Stephen King fan also to all you 80's cult fans.***/***** Good film. "}{"Title":"Classic Stephen King","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The murder rate is as high as an elephant's eye in this flaccid adaptation of Stephen King's short story. While driving through Nebraska en route to a new job, medico Burt (Peter Horton) and his wife Vicky (a PR-Terminator Linda Hamilton) nearly run over a mutilated boy who staggers from the cornfields. Seeking help, they enter the town of Gatlin, whose under-20 residents have butchered their parents per the decree of junior-grade holy roller Isaac (John Franklin), who preaches the word of a being called He Who Walks Behind the Rows. King's original story (from his 1978 collection Night Shift) was a lean and brutal melange of Southern-Gothic atmosphere and E.C. Comics-style gore, which script Greg Goldsmith effectively neutralizes by adding a youthful narrator (a grating Robbie Kiger) and putting an upbeat spin on the story's morbid conclusion. Fritz Kiersch's direction is TV-movie flat, with the sole inspired moment (hideous religious iconography glimpsed during a bloody service) delivered as a throwaway. Aside from Horton and Courtney Gains (as Isaac's hatchet man Malachai), the performances are dreadful, and the depiction of the Lovecraftian monster-god as a sort of giant gopher inspires more laughter than terror. Amazingly, the film spawned six sequels; Franklin (Cousin Itt in the Addams Family films) later appeared in and wrote 1999's Children of the Corn 666. "},{"Title":"Children of the CORNY","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a real let down. It started off creepy enough with the slashing of some elderly throats and some mystical choking. I liked the part with Sarah (the young girl) in the beginning and her nightmares but then it went downhill, and then some. The movie lacked an explanation for anything that happened, and most of the events seemed to jump out of nowhere. The whole The one who walks behind the rows thing was an attempt to have some type of mystery and intrigue but in the end we find that it really makes no sense at all when some random monster just appears from no where, burrowing underneath the soil&#133; yeah that makes lots of sense? The worst part about this movie it that it really made no sense at all. It never explained anything that happened, like why Job and Sarah seemed to be immune to the thrall of the cult that Isaac so easily asserts upon the other children in the town. Also, why the town so swiftly became a mysterious and hidden down that yielded power so easily, such as from the old man at the gas station, in only a few days. The adults die and suddenly the town's off the maps and the sky seems to yield to the children's will, it all happens too fast and with no explanation as to how Isaac and Malachai attain their god-like status.This movie seems to be quite the cult classic, and must have done very well judging by the parade of sequels that followed in its outdated footsteps. It's really too bad, perhaps if this movie had never been created all the other terrible Sequels would not have been made either. My advice is to stay away from this movie, you'll expect too much due to its fame and come away disappointed and angry, mumbling something to yourself about the structure that plots are supposed to follow in movies. I wouldn't even suggest this movie for a laughable scary flick, I would instead shy away from it totally as it fails on both fronts, I guess the problem is it takes itself far too seriously in correspondence to its laughable plot and story and ends up really sucking. "},{"Title":"Children are scary","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is one of the classic horror movies. It's one of the first uses of children as stereotypically scary entities in a movie, a trend that has exploded in recent years (that awful Dakota Fanning movie, Silent Hill,The Ring, The Grudge, Gothika, and even in video games like F.E.A.R.). To answer the above poster's question, Fritz Kiersch is currently an artist-in-residence and professor of film studies at Oklahoma City University. I believe that he is the had of a new film studies program at the university which is just starting this year. While some scenes in this flick are laughable today, I remember seeing it as a young boy and being scared witless. It will always be one of the great horror flicks of all time, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A well done Stephen King film!","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gatlin Nebraska 1981 A boy preacher arrives in town, shortly thereafter, the towns children pledge their allegiance to him & slaughter all the adults on a quiet, sunny Sunday afternoon in a bible belt community. In present day 1984, Newlyweds Burt & Vicky Stanton on their way to another town, where Burt (a doctor) has a new office waiting for him. They pass through Gatlin Nebraska, when they accidentally hit & kill a child standing in the middle of the road. Upon examining the child's corpse, Burt discovers that the child's throat had been slit & had not been killed with the car like they had feared, after the child had staggered out of the corn fields. Upon investigating the field, Burt finds a suitcase the child has been carrying. Putting the corpse in the trunk & the suitcase in back, they drive a little further & meet a gas attendant who tells them to stay away from Gatlin. Going against the old man's advice, they head into Gatlin & find the place deserted of any inhabitants & overrun by a murderous cult of weapon wielding children, who follow their evil leader ISAAC (JOHN FRANKLIN) & his right arm enforcer, the teenage MALACHAI (COURNTEY GAINS)! who claim to be worshipping a mysterious & powerful deity known only as He who walks behind the rows who dwells within the cornfields & who have slain all the adults in the town, as well as cutting off all communication to the outside world. When his wife is abducted, Burt sets out to rescue her & thinks the children are crazy, but quickly learns that the entity the claim to worship, is in fact very real! Things only get worse when Malachi takes full command of the children & overthrows Isaac's rule & plans on sacrificing both Burt & his wife Vicky & Issac, unless Burt can stop him. CHILDREN OF THE CORN was a short story, written in 1977 by horror author STEPHEN KING (Just fifteen pages) the story despite being a short, was rather creepy, dark, weird & eerie, a very scary tale with a pretty good twist for an ending. This adoption of King's film pretty much takes the basic concept & jettisoned everything else, the twist ending was dropped in favour of a more happier one, the bickering couple that Burt & his wife were written as was also dropped, the spooky explanations for why this was happening, what the sacrifices meant & creepiness of the supernatural deity, the issues touched upon such as patricide, paganism puritanism & clairvoyance are all gone & as a result, the children's motives are left somewhat in the dark. Regardless of these changes, the film is well directed by FRITZ KIERSCH who stages some pretty scary moments, my personal favourite being the scene where the child's corpse whom Vicky & Burt find on the road, leaps out at Vicky in an eerie dream sequence & is able to pull off several jump scares & also manages to keep a good firm grip on the suspense & tension. Despite the fact that many call this King's worst adoption, I strongly disagree, I wound up enjoying the film, it has lots of the good stuff in it & for the most part remains pretty entertaining, even after repeated viewings. In an odd ball kind of way, CHILDREN OF THE CORN could be looked at, as the horror genre's answer to LORD OF THE FLIES, what with the children left on their own & making their own laws & the acting was pretty decent. In short, CHILDREN OF THE CORN, is in my eyes one of the better adoptions of a STEPHEN KING short story. True it doesn't really follow the story right to the letter, but it remains a fairly decent horror outing nonetheless & better than many horror films of it's kind. & it's hard to believe that the CHILDREN OF THE CORN series began as a truly suspenseful & interesting horror tale, full of genuine suspense & tension, two things that were sadly to be crudely abandon more & more as each sequel went on. This is definitely (arguably) the best of the series. Definitely recommended to those haven't seen it. But question did the score have to be so similar to THE OMEN? A truly deplorable remake was made for SYFY TV in 2009 that was co-written by King himself & that was more faithful to King's novel (which tells me it should have turned out a lot better than it did) & was directed by the producer of this film, DONALD P. BORCHERS & Followed by seven increasingly dreadful sequels, starting with CHILDREN OF THE CORN 2 THE FINAL SACRIFICE.**** stars "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE WAS GREAT (contains major spoilers)","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How can people diss this film.  It was brilliant, the effects were lame but it was very atmospheric.  It all starts off with a boy called Job who goes into Hansen's cafe after church but soon everyone is dead, a woman drugs the coffee and Malachai, and companions beats all the adults up and Job is the only person left alive.  It happened everywhere that day.  And so it began... Burt and Vicky are on the road when they run over a young man called Joseph who had just been killed by Malachai for running away because the worship of Issac was no longer upon him.  Issac was the leader of all of the kids. Burt and Vicky go into the town of Gatlin, where it is deserted apart from the odd child running around.  They then find a house where Sarah (Job's sister) is playing.  They try and get answers out of her but because Burt thinks that they're talking in circles, he goes to have a look in the town hall and leaves Vicky talking to Sarah.  When Burt realises that it isn't safe, he goes back to Vicky and then there is a chase for a little while, Vicky gets caught and is about to be sacrificed by He Who Walks Behind The Rows...This is a great film, I give it 10/10, quite gory and scary at times. "},{"Title":"Why it's one of the most unique horror films","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's very easy to identify what about it made it unique.  Unlike a lot of horror films, especially many of the modern slashers, Children of the Corn managed to be a terrifying tale without much gore.  Instead, what makes the film great in my opinion is how disturbing it is.  It portrays cult fanaticism and the power of ideas. "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic (SPOILERS)","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  	In my opinion this is a great film and here's why Even before we see anything we feel that the score will be of great importance in this film. Aside from a slightly electronic new wave 80s score provided by Jonathan Elias the film is also scored by a children's choir appropriate and both chilling in tandem with the events that occur onscreen and with the theme of the film. 	    Like in many horror films we begin in flashback to prior event that led to current unusual circumstances with voice over narration of Job who is the older brother of Sarah. Throughout the film these two are involved in simple activities which are banned under the rules but because of Sarah's gift they generally are allowed to do what they wish. What separates this film from most of the 80s is that it's not necessarily into gore. We get dead bodies and the after-affect of the massacres. The obsession of needing to see the blade or bullet whatever it may be pierce the skin is absolutely eliminated and the result is even more frightening. 	    Joseph, a child displeased with the ways Isaac has placed upon the town of Gatlin, tries to escape but he is caught. All we see when he dies is a few drops of blood falling on a suitcase he was going to take with him on the road. Film is a medium that is at times binding to the imagination. When any director, Fritz Kiersch, in this instance allows the audience allows us to imagine what may have been done to these people it deserves notice. Another example of this being the massacre three years prior that kicks off the film we hear a mother's death over the phone and see a father's blood splatter over a son's face. 	    A lot of what makes this film great is the mounting tension that is created when we see these two trying to get around this seemingly abandoned town. 	    One of the most effective techniques Kiersch used to heighten tension while the film was progressing was the use of shots from an anonymous yet subjective POV after we knew the children were already out to get them. There's a shot through broken glass that's been stained brown, a shot of someone peering over a garbage can, low-angle shots of the corn when Joseph's being chased. He also employed time to his advantage because the young couple does not enter the town of Gatlin where all the horrors will occur until the 39th minute of the film and even when there things creep along slowly. There is a great use of wide-angle shots throughout to demonstrate the emptiness of the town. 	     The audio and visual effects of this film are absolutely breathtaking. There's a great use of what appears to be time lapse footage coupled with the audio affect of gushing wind to signify the wrath of God. Near the conclusion of the film we hear the greatest demonic voices in the history of film (In my humble opinion). It's deep, raspy and frightening without going overboard. And just when we the most psychotic of all the town's children is going to walk away from this Isaac speaks to him in that voice and delivers a line that helps make that voice He wants you too, Malachi. He wants you too.  The escalating horror of the climax continues when there is a gorgeous fiery apparition in the sky and later an obviously processed flame beneath it which we assume is supernatural but to say more would be giving it away.   The end of Children of the Corn is wonderful the very last scene gives you a fright which is conceivable and doesn't seem fake at all and is probably due to some crafty editing. It takes away that artificial happy ending feeling. The happy ending in any horror movie is absolutely false because we know usually have been through a harrowing experience and it'll be hard for them to walk away smiling. Watch for the sound of the crickets and the return of a choir, this ending will run a chill through you all over again! 	    This film is also steeped in religious commentary. First, there is Horton and Hamilton in the car listening to a televangelist and mocking him and showing very good comedic interplay. They find a cross made of corn and Horton says in an offhand and stunned way Jesus Christ to which Hamilton responds Not in my book. We witness a mass of those who worship He Who Walks Behind the Rows and see the irony of their words screaming at us. All the names of the children in this town Isaac, Malachi, Job and Sarah are all biblical figures. These are the Children of God-fearing people who have twisted the scripture to suit the needs of a few sick souls who are power hungry those who stand against the clan generally have no chance. Vicky is kidnapped and hung from a cross made of corn, biblical passages are written in blood on church walls the same church where a desecrated portrait of Jesus hangs. There is but one point where the film climbs towards the didactic and even so it's but a moment and almost necessary because it shows how insane Malachi's followers have gone. 	    One other things that make this film is unique is that we get inside the cult and see the way Isaac and Malachi differ. In what makes horror films fun we get to side with one of them over the other because if we were involved with them in anyway he's the one we'd prefer. There is much infighting with these two and it adds to the tension and adds a wallop to the climax.  "},{"Title":"A classic Horror Film","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had the opportunity to watch this movie back in 1984 at the movies. Let me just say that as far as it being a horror film, this movie ROCKS! It has that special quality few horror films attain, which is give you an eerie, unsettling feeling. I recommend this movie to all movie fans alike. 4 out of 4 ****'s.  "},{"Title":"Children of the Corn (1984)","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young couple find themselves stranded in the middle of a deserted town with a religious cult waiting to strike in Children of the Corn. It begins with all the adults in town getting slaughtered by a group of Kids/teens led by cult leader Isaac. Fast forward three years and we meet Burt and Vicki, young couple travelling through Nebraska. They end up running over a little boy who was trying to leave the clutches of the religious cult. Eventually they hit Gatlin, a deserted small town filled the the murderous young people. They come across two little kids who defy the religious cult at every turn, and they all try to escape the evil force known as He who walks behind the Rows.Children of the Corn is one of my guilty pleasure horror flicks. It's not the best movie out there and doesn't have the greatest plot, but there's something about it that is really good. I love the adventure that Vicki and Burt go through in this. The driving around the open roads and then when they get to the empty town of Gatlin. The children chasing Burt around Gatlin yelling outlander! was really effective as well. I like the atmosphere of it. The actors are all pretty good too. Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton are wonderful as the lead characters Burt and Vicki. John Franklin plays evil Isaac well, and all of the child actors are good too. Children of the Corn has spawned several sequels and a remake, but from what I've seen none surpass the original.7/10 "},{"Title":"a decent movie takes a nose dive","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn (1984)5 word summaryMurderous children take over townWhen I started the film I was interested. Children that kill people are great tools for horror movies in my opinion. Exorcist, The Omen, Pet Sematary, etc. Children of the Corn started off seemingly the same. The kids kill all of the adults and live in the cornfield and so on. A couple show up and try to save the kids that are non believers. For a little bit, after maybe 15-20 minutes it gets a little slow but I live through it. Then it gets alittle more interesting with the whole religion thing. Showing how all the kids are just crazy religious folks who do what their leader says, showing how dangerous religion is&#x85; and then it happens&#x85;****spoilers****The movie goes from this good slasher/horror like film about killer kids and then it just throws all that good stuff out the window with some weird supernatural **** that in my opinion ruined the movie. Weird static ball things that crawl through the ground and explode the cross and whatnot&#x85; then kills the leader but brings him back all zombie looking. I don't know it just seemed like the writer just gave up and needed something to finish the story quick and threw in something dumb and crazy. It turned it from a unlikely but possible scary story to something dumb and supernatural. It would have worked with it being supernatural the whole time or not at all, don't just add it at the end, it seems lazy.****end spoilers****in the end i guess it is a new horror classic and probably has been quite influential to the genre, i just have a problem with how they ended it, which ruined the earlier parts i did like.I wouldn't really recommend this film to anyone unless you really enjoy horror films or have heard of it and you're curious. Or I guess if you really like Stephen King's horror books or movies, I just feel it wasn't his best. I wouldn't go out of my way to see it. "}{"Title":"a chilling horror, ruined by cheap ending","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. Its about a young couple who find themselves in an isolated Nebraska town where the children have formed a satanic cult and murdered all the adults.The movie was very good. The isolation of the town, and the chillling child chorus music score is brilliant. But the writing isn't good, but you do have to cut them slack because they had to write it from a short story.I do enjoy how the movie gave a lot of information about their beleifs and practices, like how they are sacrificed to he who walks behind the rows on their 19th birthday. However, as the movie goes on, the special effects are almost laughable and shouldve been avoided. "},{"Title":"Beware of He Who Picks The Corn","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is AWESOME!!!!! Open with a coffee shop massacre. That'll get the audience's attention. Prologue To sum it up spooky cult of children kill all the adults and worship a corn deity named He Who Walks Behind the Rows. *3 years later* Burt Stanton and his girlfriend Vicky are on a cross country road trip to Seattle. Trying to push their arguments aside, they try to focus on being a couple. While driving through rural Nebraska the two run over a boy who's stumbling in the middle of the road. When Burt reaches him the med student finds that the boy's throat was already slashed when he stumbled into the road. Who is he? Where did he come from? The couple stops at a near by almost ghost-townish like gas station. The old man there tells them to turn back and go to the near-by town of Hemmingford. Discourged the couple decide to go to Gatlin, a town that is closer instead. What they find there is every parents worst nightmare!!! The towns children are a cult of murderous malcontents. Children who wield sickles, scythes, and machetes and chant, Spill the blood of the outlanders. The children are led by a boy preacher named Isaac Chorner and his henchman Malachai. And they worship an evil corn deity named He Who Walks Behind the Rows. These two characters (Isaac and Malachai) alone are enough to make your skin crawl! The machete twirling Malachai, and the Giver of his word Isaac will have you hiding your head under the covers. As for the rest of the story if you really want to know you'll have to watch the movie yourself. But to it's credibility this one movie has now spawned 6 sequels. Some good some not so swell. But there is no denying that Children of the Corn is one of the best horror films EVER made. As my name suggests I am COTCgirl. I am probably one of the biggest fans of the COTC films. So take my advice see this 80's classic for yourself. Then pick a row for yourself and join me in loving this wonderful treat of a film! A CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM If you liked this one do see the sequels even though some are not so good. Children of the Corn II The Final Sacrifice, Children of the Corn III Urban Harvest, Children of the Corn IV The Gathering, Children of the Corn V Fields of Terror, Children of the Corn 666 Isaac's Return, and Children of the Corn Revelation. "},{"Title":"What a bad movie","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first word i can find to describe this movie is Awful.This movie is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. First of all is the plot a very thin and pretty generic when you think of horror films. This makes the movie bad, because you know whats going to happen. Secondly does the movie contain a lot of questions which never is revealed. One of the questions (and this is no spoiler) is WHAT THE HELL ARE THE KIDS DOING IN THAT CORN???!!! Thirdly is the characters very bad, not only because the movie is bad, but also because of the sorry actors. They are bad as they can be.The last thing that make this movie bad, is that its a horror movie. You are supposed to be scared of the killings or the sudden shocks, but you are not scared, you a not horrified because you know whats going to happen. Why? THEY SHOW YOU! yes, when something is going to happen BAM you see what it is and, well, see the murder. In the scene where they are escaping through the corn field, well, I thought in the beginning of the scene it was scary but the way they delivered the scare, ruined it! They have some chances to get scary but every time they are about to be scary, they deliver it pretty badly. This has to do with a bad director who apparently doesn't know HOW to make a movie about a cornfield scary. Conclusion The movie is bad! I hoped that it was a very great movie but because the story is bad, the actors are bad, the film raises a lot of questions and because its not scary, the movie is best unseen. "},{"Title":"Would Have been terrifying in real life, but the flat directing didn't accomplish anything","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have been a big Stephen King fan for years, and this film never used to seem interesting to me, so that's why I passed on it several times. One time while I was at the library I checked out a book of his called Night Shift. It is a collection of short stories, one of which is Children Of The Corn. When I read the short story, I was freaked out beyond belief, and strangely while I read it, I was in a car at night going down a road with corn fields on the side of the road. I quickly decided to rent the movie and I had my hopes up. When the movie started, I was disappointed by it. The direction is like something you would see in a TV movie, most of the performances are horrible, and the movie just doesn't deliver any scares at all. In real life this would have been the most terrifying thing ever, but due to certain faults, the movie just didn't work.(Spoilers) A bunch of kids in a rural Nebraska town kill the adults in their town and take over, forming their own little cult. A man and a woman who are driving through Nebraska just happen to go through the town. They accidentally run into a severely mutilated kid that was standing in the middle of the road. Mean while, the children of the corn try to kill the outlanders. The man goes through the empty town and tries to find somewhere to get help, but has no luck trying.Sounds pretty scary, but like I said before, the scares are never delivered the way they should have been. Children Of The Corn is a decent rental, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, But What Else Would You Expect From A King Adaptation?","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While this is horribly dated, I MUST insist...PLEASE, NO REMAKE! Frankly, it just won't help, as there's nothing which could be added or changed, contemporarily, to make this cinematically better.The novel upon which this is based, was atmospheric, well written, truly spooky work, but on film, it just doesn't translate. Most of King's written masterpieces fail to translate to film. I'm not sure why this is, but when you view this work, if you view it, you are likely to see just what I mean. The book? It's wonderful. It's not a masterpiece, but it's more than just entertaining. The movie? Do something else. You can thank me later.It rates a 3.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"the start of an amazing series","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie, the only one of the COTC series written by Stephen King, truly kicks ass. the special effects are excellent considering it was made in 1984. acting is excellent, the two star actors are excellent, and the COTC leader Issac (who makes a return in COTC 6 Issac's Return) is an excellent actor and malakai, the rival leader, is wicked scary. This is definitely the scariest of the series. I rate this 9.8/10. If u like this, then watch COTC 2 The Final Sacrifice, another great movie.Cert 18s, for frequent and gory violence, and occasional language  "},{"Title":"Like it or Hate it","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Like many of the Corn movies (seven as of 2001!) I find that either people like this one or hate it. Some viewers despise the plot and say the setting is cheesy and the acting is bad, and that after watching it years later after we've all our bad tastes of horror flicks- let us not forget the Scream series- they find it is not as scary anymore. All I have to say is that if you're open-minded and you're into a plot about what would happen if these kids took over (sound familiar? sounds like my home town...) then definitely see it. I, personally, love this movie, although I started the second one and I couldn't finish it because I was laughing too hard. I'll try the third one, but really, the original horror movies are usually the best and in this case that is very true. On to the plot This is basically about two newcomers who come to this deserted town and find out that these children are actually killers and worship 'Thee Who Walks Behind the Rows', a demon in the corn fields that speaks to Issac only, the leader of the children. Of course, there's the rebellious Malachai who turns it all around for the children in the end, and then to make matters worse there are now two new adults things really get busy! I think this is the most appealing because you pretty much find out everything as the adults do, as opposed to the other movies where you pretty much expect just all these adult killings, although I've only seen the 6th one (which should be illegal in the US because it's so horrible). But anyway, a 7th Corn Movie is on its way, and it's on Post Production last time I checked, so maybe things have turned around! All I can see is that a new sequel is coming out every two years, but none will ever match up to this one. So see it! I give it an 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Children of the Corn shucks! This horror movie is too corny.","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Set in the fictitious rural town of Gatlin, Nebraska, the film tells the story of a couple, Burt Stanton (Peter Horton) & Vicky Baxter (Linda Hamilton), getting caught up in a ritually sacrifice murder plot run by the children of the town to ensure a successful corn harvest after years of droughts. This movie had a lot of potential of being a great corn in a cob movie about natural corn killers; instead, the movie fed its audience, chicken feed. What a huge disappointment! I was really looking forward to this movie as a kid. After all, I was a huge fan of 'the bad seed, horror genre'. 1956's Bad Seed, 1960's Village of the Damned, and 1993's The Good Son are some of my favorites. However, this movie really goes against the grain. It wasn't any fun of a great horror popcorn flick. Based upon the 1977 short story of the same name by fame horror author, Stephen King & directed by Fritz Kiersch, the movie was very lackluster. It didn't translate well into film. In my opinion, the awful screenplay is one of the reason, why this movie didn't work. King wrote the original draft of the screenplay, which focused more on the adult characters of Burt and Vicky and depicted more backstory on the uprising of the children in Gatlin; however, this script was disregarded in favor of George Goldsmith's screenplay, which featured more violence and a more conventional narrative structure. Because of this change, we don't see, how the children of this town, got tempt by this malevolent entity, that they call God, nor how they were able to maintained and keep themselves, isolated from the rest of the world. Here is a bigger question, what was the reason, they felt, the lone mechanic (R. G. Armstrong) around? I get that, maybe, they keep him around to help run the machines for the harvest, and help isolate themselves, from outside visitors, but it doesn't make sense in a plot sense, because, their God AKA 'He Who Walks Behind The Rows', stated out, that all adults in their town, must die, or he will lower the age to 18, rather than 19. Plus, he wasn't there in the original source material. The movie also starts off awkwardly, with all of the adult figures, being killed off. It's felt like we jump into the third act, without knowing it. In my opinion, I would rather have, the mystery of the child getting ran over, opening from the source material over this. It builds more suspense. Since the movie has large story gaps, it's not very well-paced. Lots of slow and dull moments. It was not flesh out enough. Another thing, I didn't like, about this movie is the main good child, Job (Robby Kiger). He reads the narrative, with seemingly no emotional reaction. A good example of this, is when he talks about his father being killed right in front of him. Also, for a character that is supposedly, very smart. He does a lot of stupid decisions, like shouting out, when people are able to escape. His sister, Sarah (Annie Marie McEvoy) is just as stroppy. She gives no emotional side of trauma, as well. Nor, does she ever seem to be in fear of her life. I also hate the fact, that her character started drawing pictures that predict the future, without any backstory. The two adult leads, are also pretty bland as well. Peter Horton looks and acts like director Michael Bay. His character has a very offensive and fake-looking attitude, when it comes to him looking for action. It's pretty lame, how easily, he can escape from these maniac teenagers. For Linda Hamilton, it's very jarring to see her, play the damsel in distress after last, seeing her, play a semi good heroic in 1984's Terminator. It's sad to see, that her character, here, doesn't really add, anything to the movie. Anyways, their action scenes, together, barely counts as thrilling. I really find the movie, very weird that it's Rated R, yet, most of the deaths, are not really gory, or graphic. The camera always seem to cut away. Another fault of the movie is the lame, and not frightful, jump scare. They mostly pointless, nor make any sense. A good example is the kid's dead body scene. It's a bit odd, for her to know, in detail, what the kid look like, when she didn't see the body, at all. Even, the anti-climactic ending was bad. The movie ends so abrupt. I would rather have, the tragic yet, somewhat bitter sweet ending of the book over this, any day. If there was anything scary about this movie, it wouldn't be the dated, special effects in this film as well. It wasn't impressive at the time, and it sure, hasn't aged well, since then. It looks like radioactive VHS static. The creature toward the end of the film, also looks like a recycle copy of the Master Control Program (MCP) character from 1982's computer fantasy, Tron. The only thing, that was somewhat good, about this film is how menacing, the then-25 year old, John Franklin as the cult lead, Isaac Chroner was. He really save the movie, with his chewing of the scenes. Courtney Gains as his second in command, Malachai Boardman, also deserves credit. He was foreboding, most of the film. Overall While, this movie was badly made. It did started a thread of sequels and remakes, hoping to capitalize on Stephen King's name. As of this writing, eight sequels have since been produced, and a 2009 remade, TV Movie was filmed. In the end, I felt like this movie could had been better. It's not the worst Stephen King movie, I ever saw, but it's not even, near the best. It's just disappointing. Not a-maize-ing. Let's hope, in the future, somebody can tackle, the source material in making a film with some respect. "},{"Title":"Deeply flawed but has its moments","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In a remote ghost town, children kill any adult who enters the village; their motive, false religion. One day a couple drive into the town, soon learning something is wrong, and it is up to them to stop the senseless sacrifices before they are slaughtered. Aided by two innocent children, they are up against the manic Malachai and some unseen horror known only as He Who Walks Behind The Rows...My expectations were low for this film after seeing so many other distinctly average offerings from the based on Stephen King catalogue of cinema. However I was pleasantly surprised by the film, it's not often that I find myself laughing out loud at a movie, but I just couldn't help myself in this case. It starts off well enough, as a spooky little atmospheric film, the most effective scenes where the helpless couple are driving around seemingly endless dirt tracks in the corn.However, as soon as the main male lead, played by Peter Norton, is stabbed in the chest (with seemingly no effect) things just go a little over-the-top and start to get funny. They then build up to the climax where I was pleased to see bad '80s animated special effects come into play. Well, some of them weren't that bad, but they weren't exactly VOLCANO-style computer generations. Maybe I am spoilt by SFX these days, but back projection is getting a little dated.The monster really remains unseen during the film, appearing underground in a TREMORS-style way, it tears up the ground as it speeds along. The acting was also good for a change. The children weren't too annoying, and I actually found myself liking the unaffected kid in the film. Malachai I recognised from somewhere, and the IMDb soon revealed to me that I also saw him in THE 'BURBS a while back. Isaac wasn't exactly what I'd call scary though.Peter Norton was quite good as the lead, he redeemed his nondescript acting at the start of the film by a speech where he shouted that religion not based on love is false! Linda Hamilton, in the same year she made THE TERMINATOR, sadly has little to do but run around and scream as the heroine. Come to think of it that's about all she did in THE TERMINATOR as well. At least her character was fleshed out a little there. The film remains unsettling at times, and is enhanced by the director's decision not to show some of the deaths, instead only hint at them (saying that, there is a meaty scene where an old guy gets his hand pushed into some sort of grinder). It wasn't overly gory but this added to it for me. The climax was fairly entertaining, but really a case of big explosions don't compensate for tying-up plot threads again. It's not a good film by any means, and it remains clichéd, but I enjoyed it and that's what counts. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully awful horror film","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Based on the 1977 short story of the same name by Stephen King, this is a wonderfully awful horror film. I have no idea how closely it sticks to the story since I never read it or any of King's work for that matter but the script is horrendously written with more plot holes than you can shake a stick at. The only even remotely clever bits such as the depiction of the mob mentality engendered by cults are taken from either much better works or, unfortunately, real life incidents.The film takes a dash of Village of the Damned (1960) and a pinch of The Wicker Man (1973) to come up with a storyline concerning evil children who sacrifice people to ensure a good corn harvest. Now, I like corn as much as the next guy but this approach seems a little excessive to me. Isaac is basically an older version of Damien from The Omen (1976) crossed with Wesley Crusher and the film's score is a poor man's version of that film's. It's essentially a rehash of earlier horror classics. Unlike The Wicker Man, however, this film actually attempts to make the relevant crop frightening in a few scenes. Amazingly, it doesn't work very well. The director Fritz Kiersch is hardly Richard Attenborough or Kenneth Branagh but he's no Ed Wood or Tommy Wiseau either. Some shots are downright or at least borderline competent.The plot concerns the lovely little town of Gatlin, Nebraska which is ruled by Isaac and the other followers of He Who Walks Behind the Rows. Three years earlier, Isaac, clearly a very persuasive guy, convinced the rest of the town's children to ritually murder their parents and every other adult in town (bar one mechanic). The town has been occupied only by the cultists since then and no one has noticed in the meantime. Isaac even used his powers of persuasion to convince cartographers to take Gatlin off the maps, apparently. John Franklin's performance as Isaac could not be described as good but, by God (or should I say by He Who Walks Behind the Rows?), it is entertaining. He steals all of his scenes and makes the film far more entertaining than it would been otherwise. My favourite line is Question not my judgement, Malachai. I am the giver of his word. His delivery and contemptuous expression are simply hilarious. It's a great verbal bitch-slap.Linda Hamilton and Peter Horton play the hapless interlopers / outlanders Burt and Vicki who wind up in Gatlin while on the way to Seattle. Hamilton and Horton are actually good actors who deservedly went on to bigger and better things the Terminator franchise and Beauty and the Beast (1987) for her and thirtysomething for him. On the bright side, they keep the film from being even more terrible. On the less bright side, they keep the film from being even more unintentionally hilarious. The two of them have good chemistry even though their characters express little affection for each other until the end of the film. However, every time that Vicki yelled Burt!, I mentally added Ernie! The only other actor in the film who gives a genuinely decent performance is R.G. Armstrong as Diehl, the aforementioned mechanic. Courtney Gains, whose career peaked the next year with his one line role in Back to the Future, is awful as Isaac's disloyal second-in-command Malachai but he is not quite as hilariously awful as Franklin. But, hey, he at least put everything into it! The same is true of most of the other child actors, none of whom went on to great success. Incidentally, Back to the Future is my favourite film of all time. This film did not threaten that status.I mentioned a few of the plot holes already but this is one of the biggest. In the early part of the film, Burt and Vicki exhibit genius level intelligence when they run over a child named Joseph who turned out to be already dead, having had his throat slit. It just wasn't his day. They then decide that it is a good idea to bungle his corpse into the boot of their car and look for help. Right...Did it not occur to them that if they were stopped by the police and they found the body, it might look just a tad suspicious? No one with half a brain would believe that he had been killed by someone else and they were on their way to the authorities. Besides which, wrapping him in a blanket and shoving him into the boot would destroy any and all forensic evidence that may exist. He is never removed from the boot, meaning that he is left there to rot. Very conscientious! Another notable one is that the cultists kill Diehl, admittedly without Isaac's permission, for no reason whatsoever as he seems just as willing to abide by the condition that he tells no one of their existence as he was before. Furthermore, Job describes the brutal murder of his father which took place within several feet of him in a very calm fashion. One would think that this would traumatise a child but he and his sister Sarah take their parents' deaths and all the other horrific events in Gatlin in their stride. They actually giggle at the end, amused by the fact that Burt and Vicki kiss. Oh, and Sarah has the unexplained ability to predict the future through her drawings. Sure, why not? When He Who Walks Behind the Rows manifests, he is killed by a comparatively small explosion caused by a Molotov cocktail. One would also think that a demon from the fiery depths of Hell would be made of sterner stuff but apparently not.Overall, this is a great so bad, it's good film. It may not be down there with Plan 9 from Outer Space, Troll 2 or The Room but it's still pretty far down there. "}{"Title":"Mediocre adaptation of a Stephen King novel","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Mediocre adaptation of a Stephen King novel. Had great potential. While it was still a children go insane, start killing adults movie, it was interesting. Then, at a point, the movie moves from thriller- horror to supernatural-horror and it loses all focus and intrigue. After that it is just a random mess.Decent performances by Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton in the lead roles. John Franklin as Isaac provides the unintentional comedic touch his shrill chipmunky voice and respect my authority routine had me bursting out laughing on many occasions. Courtney Gains as Malachi was irritating and over-the-top. This performance is probably the single biggest reason why people tend to have a natural dislike for red-headed kids. "},{"Title":"Great Low Budget Film","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is a 1984 low budget film starring Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton (The Terminator & Terminator 2). First of all this film was entertaining from start to finish the characters were really good and none of them didn't deserve to die and the movie is full of creepy kids with creepy music on the background. As always even tho the film wasn't a big critical success Hollywood decided to milk the cow and make more and more sequels so don't bother with those just watch this one and you will be fine. Many brag about the ending i thought the ending was good for a horror film and at the end i think it was a pretty good film with a good cast and a good story. "},{"Title":"A failed attempt at adapting the story","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is based on the short story Stephen King wrote and it tackles on some topics on the power of religion to influence people to do rather horrible things. However, despite the status the movie has as a minor classic, I think it fails at building an atmosphere and delivering on the promising premise.Good I think Linda Hamilton is the one that overcomes at the end. She delivers a likable performance. The setting for the movie was solid in placing a form of mood here. There is some unintentional humor here that makes the movie entertaining.Bad The movie fails in doing much to capitalize on the premise. First off, the kids are all bad actors that can't convey any form of intimidation. John Franklin who plays Isaac is particularly over the top and laughable which may be due to the fact that he was 25 at the time. The two good kids were also bad as well. Given the bad performances, the movie ultimately fails to convey any suspenseful atmosphere or scares. It all just feels hokey and silly and it takes itself too seriously that it becomes dull.Overall, this is a movie that fails in almost every aspect. The acting is mostly bad, the scares and suspense are nonexistent, and a recycled score reminiscent of better movies makes this a bust. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Stephen King film adaptation!","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the corn is a 1984 Stephen King book adaptation. Linda Hamilton was very good in her leading role, very enjoyable!! The whole movie was very suspenseful and interesting to watch. I loved the main child actor who was the other kids leader, he did a great job, he was very creepy and authentic. Also the whole plot and premise of the whole thing was very scary and intriguing. It's one of my favorite scary movies! I'm glad they delivered well on this! The ending was very chilling and cool to see! If you're looking for a scary, interesting scary movie to enjoy, might wanna consider this! 8/10 for children of the corn. "},{"Title":"Mixed emotions","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The idea of this movie is very creepy and original, but it fails to deliver on several levels. One wasted opportunity is that we follow this rather uninteresting couple trying to solve this mystery, which we as a viewer already know from the very beginning. Another thing is that the movie fails to make the children scary, the idea is creepy, but the execution not very good. The actors who are manly children are below mediocre of what to expect, even star actor Peter Horton makes a weak performance. The cinematography is also below par with a lot of close-ups of both people and sickles and corny angels, Gatlin town has great scenery and setting which they could have gotten way better use of. Not to forget mention the special effects, they are really horrible, even for 1984 standards, but it's not a very big part of the movie, but anyway, what where they thinking!Even this isn't a very good movie I must admit I have a weakness not only this movie but several of its sequels, I keep coming back to this movies, and this is at least the third time I've seen Children of the Corn. It's an easy watch and it is entertaining, I really like the story, but I feel it could have been much more. "},{"Title":"unscary uncompelling Stephen King","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's Gatlin, Nebraska 3 years ago. The religious town relies on the corn harvest but they are suffering from a devastating drought. The children following the boy preacher Isaac Chroner kill all of the adults. In the present day, Burt (Peter Horton) and his girlfriend Vicky (Linda Hamilton) are traveling to Seattle for his new job. The couple runs over a boy who's trying to escape Gatlin. Burt puts the dead body into the trunk. Somebody had just cut the boy's throat before he stumbled onto the road. Isaac and his second-in-command Malachai rule the town with an iron fist in a religious cult.It takes a bit too long to get going. The opening lays out too much and leaves too little mystery to be revealed. Horton and Hamilton are fine actors. The movie never achieves any true tension. The narration and the little boy Job get a bit grating. As for the gore, the story is violent but much of the brutality is suggested. Although there are some good bloody aftermath. There isn't anything scary in this. It's like a long Twilight Zone episode. It may be more compelling to not to know too much about the kids or the town until later. It's not cinematic or scary enough. Horton's character is annoying. There isn't enough to care about. It just moves so slowly. "},{"Title":"A whole new film once you've grown up","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I first watched Children of the Corn when it came out on video in the eighties, when I was roughly the same age of the child stars that were in it. I loved it. Now I've gone and watched it again as an adult - and with children of my own - it's a completely different experience! It's about a small American town in Nebraska where the children kill all the adults and start sacrificing each other to a mysterious god (did I mention it was based on a Stephen King book?). I used to love seeing the children attacking the adults (and no, I wasn't a hooligan, by the way). Now, I just wanted to send every last one of them up to bed and take away their portable DVD players (works every time with my daughter).It's certainly not the best adaptation of a Stephen King book, but it's certainly not the worst either. I guess there's a good half the film spent following the young couple of accidentally stumble across the deserted town, as they wander round trying to work out what we - the viewers - already know.However, what does make it pretty freaky is the lead (evil) children themselves. In recent Hollywood films, children have often been portrayed as the bad guys for added nastiness. Although, for example, just my making a kid's eyes glow red or have them dressed in ghostly clothes, doesn't necessarily make them scary. These kids are the real deal (and continue to freak the hell out of me without any false claws of glowing eyes whatsoever). All they needed was to be ugly enough! One has an extremely bad haircut (even for the eighties) and speaks like South Park's Eric Cartman. The other is like a young, ginger Mick Jagger. Even I would have my doubts about denying these two television privileges! Children of the Corn has sort of stood up to the test of time. If nothing else it's interesting to see Linda Hamilton in a completely different role to her most known part as Terminator's cyborg-killing Sarah Conner. I found the second half of the film more engaging than the first. My advice if you haven't seen this before and are watching it again for the nostalgia factor, know what you're getting. It's a bit cheesy in places, but still pretty good fun for a film that takes itself very seriously. "},{"Title":"Weak entry, could've been better","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Driving through the Midwest, a couple stumble upon a deserted town filled with kids worshiping a child prophet claiming to have control of a dangerous creature and must try to stop them before they're part of a town sacrifice.Overall this turned out to be quite a big disappointment. The film's main problem is that it's way too unbelievable to really register, the biggest of which is the fact that it deals with a cult that has acted independently in the town without discovery for three years. This suggests that every single adult who lived in town was related to every other adult who had no relatives that lived out of state. It would've been pretty suspicious when someone from town fails to take a relatives' phone calls, or the power company wouldn't think it kind of odd that every client in the entire town forgot to pay their electric bill all these years. We are further led to believe that the town drops off the face of the map with only one cop going in to investigate, and nobody followed up when they failed to report in. Furthermore, it rests solely on the underlying premise of finding little kids scary, which is the whole purpose for the majority of the chase scenes. For those that don't find this practice scary or chilling, there's little about the kids in here that changes your mind as all they seem to do is run and yell which can be done by just about anybody so it doesn't do anything special with the kids as the main target anyway. The other big flaw in this one is the fact that the opening to this is so incredibly dull and boring that it really takes a lot of effort to get interesting in what's going on in this and is incredibly boring to sit and wait for something to happen. That really makes for a troubling time as this one doesn't have anything worthwhile for a long period of time with this really getting interesting only in the final half. There's some incredibly tense chases through town as the kids pile on after the duo in all the different back-alleys and buildings, which are quite exciting for the most part. The big chase in here also leads to plenty of brawling amongst the two as he has to continually fight them off as the horde grows larger against him which adds to the action as well as giving it some additional suspense. The last good part to this is the finale which is highly exciting due to the rather frenetic paces, fully exciting moments and non-stop spectacle that's a lot better ending than a movie like this deserves. It's all part of what makes the final half so good though none of the segments makes up for it's flaws.Rated R Violence, Language and heavy themes of child violence. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror Flick!","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Peter Horton, Linda Hamilton, John Franklin, Courtney Gains, Robby Kiger and Anne Marie McEvoy star in this 1984 horror film based on Stephen King's short story. Horton (Thirtysomething) plays Burt, a doctor and Hamilton (The Terminator) plays his girlfriend, Vicky who travel through Nebraska and find themselves in a nightmare when they enter small town, Gatlin. They discover a cult of children who worship an evil god in the cornfields that forces them to kill adults. Franklin plays their leader, Isaac, Gains (The 'Burbs) plays Malachai, one of his followers, Kiger (The Monster Squad) plays Job and McEvoy plays Sarah, 2 orphans who help Burt and Vicky. This is a weird, creepy flick that isn't bad and features a decent cast & eerie score. If you're into supernatural or occult horror flicks, I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Children of the Corny","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a huge disappointment. I mean, I guess I was kind of foolish thinking I was going to get something halfway decent out of a Stephen King film adaptation that wasn't The Shining, but this...I mean, WOW. This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life. Things like Birdemic Shock & Terror, The Room, and Sharknado are at least laughably bad, but this isn't even on that level. The only thing kind of enjoyable to watch in this film for me was that kid, Malachi. The way he screams OUTLANDURRRRRRRRRR with his mouth wide open is pretty damn funny. Even then, though, do I have as much fun watching him as I do watching, say, the outright horrendous special effects in Birdemic? Of course not. Other than that, there's really nothing to enjoy in this film. In the end, the couple just escapes, along with those two kids. What kind of ending is that?!? Now, I get that this probably happens in the book as well, but that's exactly my point why was it in the book in the first place? It's a horror story. I read it because I'm a blood-hungry psychopath, not because I want to see everything get resolved in the end! Now, they could make this work by making you care a little more about the couple so you'd want to see them live through this. (Keep in mind, I haven't read the original novel, so King could have executed this better there than they did here.) But they don't. All we know is that Blandon DeGeneric and his girlfriend are going to Nebraska for some unexplained reason, and they get caught up in this mess. They give us NO reason to care about these people, and half the time, in the scenes where you're supposed to be like, Oh, man, are they gonna make it through this???, you're just like, Uh...are they gonna make it through this? Meh. Let's see what happens, I guess. Not that I even give two shits. So, in summary, Children of the Corn is a terrible movie, and I suggest avoiding it at all costs if you're looking for a good Halloween experience. Just watch Night of the Living Dead. "}{"Title":"Corny chills","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" King is nothing if not a smart guy. Not erudite, but knows what boxes he has to tick, here a few of them all at once. Children as the source of an unfathomable evil so kid readers can shiver gleefully, their parents worry. The children have taken over a small town but instead of unbound freedom have instituted a religious tyranny that forbids playing and music, the same stuff adults are supposed to restrict. The town in the corn-fed middle of religious America so we can have the commentary.It's something King would write about and so the only difference from all his other similar fare is the application of cinematic craft. When Kubrick arranged sparsely we got a cavernous doom. Pet Sematary instead had a silly portal of blue light. Cujo was unambitiously effective.So this has the smalltown setting in its favor, empty streets and houses. It has the air of a sinister secret hanging above it that a couple driving through find themselves caught in and set out to explore. And the lush green fields with rows of corn swishing in the breeze provide endless opportunity for concealment and danger, ideal for horror.This is what you'll get, ordinarily atmospheric in spots, silly in others, but I miss here a cinematic eye invested in place and presence that makes evil surge through the walls. It's horror as comfortable genre rather than as a matter of hazard to the soul. "},{"Title":"And a child shall lead them...","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Who would have thunk it, that one of Stephen King's short stories would spawn a gargantuan movie franchise? Children of the Corn is one of those movies that horror fans of a certain age, who started to blossom in the 1980s, remember fondly but agree that now it's a bit, well, corny.Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton get trapped in a village of the damned where the children have killed the adults and established a religious order that gives worship to the devil of the corn. Isaac Chroner (John Franklin) and Malachai Boardman (Courtney Gains) head the creepy kid cult, corn does sway, blood does flow, poor special effects do down the devil, yet it's atmospheric as heck fire and still a bunch of fun if you forgive it its dated foibles. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Childhood Favorite that I Love to this Day","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When we, as film fans, talk about our favorite movies, they can usually be broken down into two very distinct categories. First, are the timeless classics. These are the movies that have stood the test of time as great cinema and will be loved by generation after generation. Moves like FRANKENSTEIN and PSYCHO were classics on their release and will remain classics for generations to come.Then, there is the second category. These are the the time and place movies. What I mean by that is that a particular viewer's devotion to the movie is probably based more on the time and place it was seen, rather than the intrinsic quality of the movie itself. I have rated this movie with a 9, which is much higher than the average IMDb rank and I would, firmly, admit that my own favoritism of this movie probably has a lot more to do with the time and place I saw it and the impact it had on me then.You see, I was 9 years old when this movie was released. I did not, of course, have the privilege of seeing it at the movie, but my parents did. I remember distinctly my parents talking with the family members they had seen the movie with about how scary it was to them. As a young kid, anything that scared your mom you assume has to be outright terrifying for you. It was probably around a year later that I did see the movie, thanks to the wonders of HBO and grandparents who would late me stay up late to watch pretty much anything I wanted. The movie did, indeed, scare the holy hell out of me.There are a number of things going for this movie that I still find effective now. The first is that score, consisting of a creepy child's choir singing songs that sounds like hymns to a pagan god. There is something inherently unsettling about that mixture of innocence and occultism, which is of course the main theme of this entire movie. Secondly, we have the background setting of the corn fields themselves. Having grown up near to similar fields myself, there was always something mildly disturbing about them. Maybe the limited visibility that provided such a ripe hiding place for murderers, or the strange sounds that always seemed to emanate from those fields (knowing as an adult, they were just birds and animals, but as a kid they were frightening).Of course, as I have mentioned one of the most disturbing things about this movie are the children themselves. The idea of innocent children becoming murderers has certainly been used in film before and will be used again and again because it is that antithesis of innocence and evil that is so effective. This is carried out even further here because of their religious devotion. The almost Amish costumes worn, the religious ceremonies and symbolism, the desecration of the Christian symbols, all of these things are used to excellent effect to create a nightmarish scenario for our heroes to be stuck in. Then, there's Malachai, he is such a relentless, cold killer. We are introduced to him early in the movie as he leads the children in slaughtering their parents at the local cafe, then we see just how malevolent he's become as he stalks a young boy trying to escape the town and murders him in the corn fields. He is as good a villain as any slasher film has because he conveys the same sense of unstoppable evil.As I stated early in the review, though, I also realize that there are things that don't hold up very well about this movie, at all, yet I tend to overlook them because I probably still see the movie the way I did as a 9-year old. The main adults make dumb decisions (as most horror characters do I guess). The movie tends to really drag out in the middle, an inevitable results in turning a short story in a feature film. The special effects in the climax are not very good at all. Not only are they very indicative of their time, but weren't that good for the time they were released, highlighting the low budget of the movie.I can understand why someone who viewed this for the first time today may not like it, but for the children of the 80s who grew up with this movie, I think a good deal of us still consider this to be a horror classic. "},{"Title":"Strange and funny as well","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gatlin Nebraska is a small town where a farming community lives peacefully, until a child preacher called Issac moves in. He creates a cult of children, along with his lackey Malachai, who all kill any adult over 18 years old one morning. Next thing you know a couple is traveling and gets stranded in Gatlin, and their only hope is to stick with Sarah and Joel, a young sister and brother who don't like Issac's religious garbage or psychopathic ideas.Children of the Corn is a typical Stephen King film. As usual there's an aspect of religion gone wrong, a kid with a strange power (Sarah's premonitions), and of course, horror. All the acting was great, although the redhead buck-toothed teenager Malachai was incredibly hideous. The soundtrack was very creepy, a chorus of children that played throughout the film. The name sounded silly but the film was still very good.Children of the Corn is definitely worth viewing, it's funny and creepy and eerie all at the same time, and the ending, although very cheaply done, was suspenseful. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Why I Hated Corn Fields","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Children of the Corn for the first time since 1980-something. How I was allowed to watch such a movie back then I don't know. To be fair, maybe I wasn't allowed and I just found a way to watch it. One thing held true from when I watched it the first time until now I can't stand Malachai. In fact, Malachai ranks up there with Samara from the Ring as the creepy child that deserved to be erased from existence.Children of the Corn is a movie adaptation of the Stephen King short story of the same name. A band of kids lead by Isaac have killed all of the adults of Gatlin, Nebraska and live only to serve the one who walks behind the rows. After seeing this again I can see some parallels to The Village by M. Night Shayamalan.This was an eerie movie. It wasn't of the slasher type like Halloween or Friday the 13th but more of the scary religious cult type. I don't know where they found Isaac (John Franklin) or Malachai (Courtney Gains) but they were perfect for their roles. Isaac was spooky with an almost adult raspy voice that was still a bit whiny. Malachai was bafugly with his unattractiveness enhanced by his various scowls. They were two adolescents whom you'd figure to be part of a murderous cult.I see they've done a couple of remakes as well as some sequels; all which I haven't seen. This movie was slightly better than OK. There were some typical scary movie clichés and bad music, but other than that it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror Masterpiece!","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Released in the Spring of '84 Children of the Corn is another in a long series of classic horror movies based on a story by Stephen King. It mixes two popular horror sub-genres in religious horror and creepy killer kids. Although there have been numerous sequels, 7 to be exact. Nothing compares to the original in its iconic evil main characters Isaac and Malachi. It's a great story that really is pure evil.The story opens in the small Midwestern town of Gatlin, Nebraska in a little cafe where many of towns people gather. Little do they know that the children have planned a sort of reckoning and soon they will be left to fend for themselves. Their leader being the child preacher named Isaac. Isaac is probably about 12 or 13 and is short for his age. His voice is fairly high and has quite the violent temper. His second in command is the equally vicious red haired Malachi. They're a couple of little Christian fundamentalists that rule with an iron fist and warn to fear The one who walks behind the rows. They all congregate in the corn fields and listen to Isaac spew his sermons.Our adult hero's are Burt and Vicki (Linda Hamilton) who are traveling across the country back to Seattle when they accidentally hit a kid who ran out a corn field. They find that his throat was slit and stick his corpse in the trunk. Trying to find a phone (no cell phones it's1984) they run into one of the oldest horror cliché know to man. The run down gas station in the middle of nowhere run by a crazy old man. The station's phone is not working and is also out of gas for that matter. They are told to avoid Gatlin and to go to the next town over for help. Although they do try to find the other town, it seems that all roads lead to Gatlin. When they arrive they find nothing but a ghost town and no working phones. They search a few houses and end up finding Sarah, a little girl drawing pictures. She has the power to see the future and her drawings are very important to the group. Her and her brother Gob are two kids who want to get away from Isaac and the cult but are too afraid to do anything about it. Vicki stays with the girl while Burt goes to look for others. The house is then attacked by Malachi and company, taking Vicki hostage.The plot is pretty simple but the characters are memorable. Some of the visual effects are pretty laughable, but it's still a scary film even by today's standards. Just like the classic films Village of the Dammed or The Lord of the Flies the children form their own society and things get pretty intense. However the Children of the Corn have a bunch of help from the devil himself or is it an angry God? The movie is currently available on Netflix watch instantly. "},{"Title":"A mildly diverting hour and a half","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Prior to watching this, my only vague knowledge of it was the Simpsons spoof version that plays at the drive-in cinema when the kids are out after curfew. So I knew that it was about children killing adults, sort of a full length version of the end of Lindsay Anderson's If..., only without the machine guns. And with fewer public school kids. Set in Nebraska.Anyway, my expectations were duly met. Apart from the If... comparison. It really is not very much like If... at all. In fact there are definitely far more differences than similarities and I'm regretting this comparison a lot.Children of the Corn sees a good looking and paralysingly dull couple (one of whom happens to be Sarah Connor) caught up in the corn fields of Nebraska among youth with some unusual views. These views centre upon a real enthusiasm for human sacrifice to appease the gods of the corn. The lead boy, Isaac, possesses an alarming similarity to Paul Dano's preacher Eli from There Will Be Blood. Perhaps he's a direct descendant (presuming Eli had some kids before Daniel Day-Lewis bludgeoned him to death with a bowling pin).There are a couple of unanswered questions that I'd like Mr King to address. Firstly, why do the couple, after running over and killing a small child, put him in the boot of their car? This strikes me as an odd thing to do - surely an ambulance would have been more appropriate, or at least the back seat. But the boot? Dumping bodies in the boot (or trunk if you're American and have no idea what I'm talking about) seems like an activity reserved for serial killers and Mafiosos. Maybe it's a Nebraskan thing. The couple also seem remarkably sanguine about having a small dead boy in tow. If it were me, I think I'd be slightly more panicky. It doesn't help that the acting is about as dry as the dead corn blowing round the deserted town of Gatlin.It's not all bad. There are a few jumpy moments, and the soundtrack is genuinely creepy. But it falls short in almost every other area. It's not quite scary enough to succeed as a horror; not quite bad enough to be a cult classic (although it comes close, particularly some shocking special effects near the end). It is, at best, a mildly diverting hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Bashed King Adaptation","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who's seen a lot of movies adapted from the works of Stephen King knows that some of his stories don't always translate to the big screen very well or if they do, they're almost never as good as the printed versions. Be that as it may, there are some stories of King's that do translate very well to the cinema and despite what some might say, 1984's Children of the Corn is one of them. Based off of King's short story, it takes place in small town USA, Nebraska where the only thing people probably ever talk about is corn, what's going with so and so, and the weather. All that changes one Sunday morning when, in a particularly harrowing opening scene, all the town's adults are brutally killed by the town's children under the leadership of the mysterious Isaac (John Franklin) and his brutal lieutenant Malachi (Courtney Gains). From then on, the children are part of a bizarre cult that uses corn and human sacrifice as a way to worship some type of pagan god/demon known simply as He Who Walks Behind the Rows. Fast forward three years later and we find that a happy couple in the form of Burt (Peter Horton) and Vicky (Linda Hamilton) are passing through the corn fields of Nebraska for what they think will be a normal trip to Burt's new job as a doctor when they seemly hit a young kid standing in the middle of the road. But Burt, through his medical training, knows that the kid was already dead with a cut throat and from there, they reach (that's right, you guessed it) the strange town where nobody seemly lives, except the children of the corn and brother and sister Job and Sara, who for some reason are allowed to remain outside the cult. Will any of them make it out alive? Even though this movie has been unfairly dragged through the mud over the years, the film is actually kind of creepy, with the seemly abandoned town covered with tons of corn stalks at every turn, decaying infrastructure, and Isaac. Played by John Franklin (who was actually 23 but with a dwarfism disease looks 12) Isaac is a spooky character, partly because of his creepy demeanor but also because of the fact that one can easily find people like him in real life in the form of such infamous men like Jim Jones or Charles Manson. Unlike those guys however, Isaac's cult has real magic behind it in the form of Behind the rows deity, who we never actually see but through some creative effects know very well that he is real! Courtney Gains should also be congratulated for his role of vicious right hand man Malachi who with his cold glare and big machete, would make anyone obey Isaac. And of course, who can forget his famous line OUTLANDER! We have your woman!. Peter Horton is good in the role of hero as is Linda Hamilton in the part of damsel in distress, almost right before she shot to fame through the sci-fi classic The Terminator of the same year. The movie does require one to suspend disbelief a little bit, such as why the hell don't Burt and Vicky get the hell out of town right away when they have the chance? But the movie is never dull and manages to keep you on the edge of your seat right until the climatic ending. It's a movie that will entertain you while harboring the hidden warning about false prophets and religious extremism under its surface. In case you're wondering, Stephen King was not a big fan of this film but don't forget that King also didn't like Kubrick's version of The Shining and that was a great, creepy film, was it not? While I can't speak for any of the sequels that came after this, check this one out and just to give you a fair warning, you may never look at a field of corn the same way again! "},{"Title":"We want to give you peace.","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Good adaptation of Stephen King short story. This chiller is about a cult of murderous kids in an isolated Nebraska town who worship an unseen evil force that exists in the corn fields, He Who Walks Behind the Rows, and a young couple that finds themselves in the middle of the eerie goings-on. Peter Horton and the lovely Linda Hamilton star as the Outlanders and are relatable and likable protagonists. The evil kid cult is led by the mega-creepy Isaac (John Franklin) and his enforcer, the brutish Malachai (Courtney Gains). All of the actors do well, with Franklin and Gains particularly memorable in their performances.I love movies that take place in locales that are different than the usual. I especially love horror films that are shot on location. Some of the creepiest horror films take place in isolated rural areas and small towns. The Children of the Corn makes great use of the desolate lonely cornfields and the seemingly abandoned town.I've been a fan of this film since I was a kid. It has a lot of detractors, probably due to the fact it isn't gory enough or the ending not bleak enough -- two of the main requirements for some horror fans. But I think it's an entertaining atmospheric film with a nice score and some memorable moments and characters. "},{"Title":"Cult hell","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a scary one to see at the flicks, and I was just over fourteen. This is one of the best Stephen King novels transpired to film. It's an effectively scary horror film, especially in it's first five minutes, when a number of adults are massacred by sharp implements, what have you in a cafe by a religious cult, where if you're over 18, it's fatal. One old guy they don't kill, funnily enough. happens to be an old gas station owner. Yuppie couple (Hamilton and Horton, so surpassed by the much better performances of the kids, the kid who plays the cult leader, Issac, is brilliant) happen to be traveling down the wrong highway. They end up going around in circles, then hit a kid, a traitor of the cult, running from these evil doers, (the different angled shots of the cornfields are masterfully shot here) who jumps out onto the road, before them. Only their real troubles are just beginning. This is one of very few King novels to film that successfully work, two other ones that worked effectively were Cujo and Pet Sematary to some extent. Here is a real scare fest, especially when you consider the concept, which has you unconsciously imagining, What if? There are some ugly moments, none more than in it's start, where at the time, it had me wondering how it escaped an R rating. There are some nifty shock moments, that had me jumping, in it's first view, where this successful king horror maintains suspense, all the way. The kid actors are so impressive here, you really hope the two leads lift their game. And what's with all this corn. For King fans and all horror fans a like. "}{"Title":"decent horror","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" an adaptation, few good moments, a story who remind Lord of Flies, a Stephen King with few minor modifications and a happy end. so, a decent movie and this fact is important . because too many is dangerous. and the expectations must be satisfied. in this case all is part of rules. a story in few levels, inspired atmosphere, creepy crumbs, an ambiguous monster, Fiona and Charming Prince, bad kids and good kids, refuge, fights, night, a phantom city, religion, corn, cruel law, empty universe and sacrifices, music and Linda Hamilton in dramatic role. and, after 27 years it is difficult to attack a classic film. specially after new adaptations, strange, bizarre and not very smart. in fact, it is a memory. model. or just isle for nostalgics. "},{"Title":"Seize him!","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" all right, let's start reviewing this ridiculous movie. some preacher kid named Isaac gets all the children in town to kill every adult. then they all gather and listen to him give long winded biblical speeches. seriously. little kids, sitting still, listening to a preacher. this movie failed the reality check right off the bat. our hero, Burt, nails a little kid with his car. YEAH! his cry baby wife loses it, but Burt keeps his cool. for some logic-defying reason he decides to throw the kid in his trunk. then he and his wife drive around forever looking for a phone. the whole time they're crying where's the next town, where's the next town?! are you kidding me? there's corn fields all around you! farmers always live next to their corn. then they find some run down gas station. Burt sucks to the extreme at explaining himself. after a very awkward exchange with the grumpy gas station attendant, he decides to climb back in his car and drive straight into a corn field. i'm not making this up. they eventually wonder into an abandoned house and find a little girl all by herself. Burt puts his totally un-hip wife on babysitting duty while he runs off in search of a phone. his wife (not Sarah Conner) says to the little girl let's draw! but what she really meant was you draw while i sit over here in the corner and ignore you. then we watch Burt act like a clumsy fool for a while. he fights a whole pile of kids, but take some pretty heavy hits cuz he's a wimp. the story eventually ends without anybody removing the dead boy from the trunk. i guess they forgot.this movie has almost no blood, bad acting, no boobs, no comedy, and constantly insults your intelligence by making no sense. i give it a C-. "},{"Title":"Good start to the corn series!","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before i start, I have not read the book yet!I first saw this movie, about Seven years ago, at the time, I found the movie boring and found Isaac real annoying and it was putting me off! So I gave it a second chance, I like it bit better this time round, I did not find Isaac annoying as I did the last time!This movie is really entertaining from start to end, it not that boring but there are some quite moments. It was not that gory, there are some good jumpy moment, (I did Jump once in this movie, (I think I am getting old)Acting is really good from everyone, even two nice kids!I give this movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pretty fun, if corny, Stephen King film.","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When it comes to Stephen King's horror adaptations, the results have been incredibly varied. On the one hand, we have Carrie, Misery and The Shining; all great horror films that have become classics of the genre. Even recent adaptations of the Mist and 1408 have gained positive responses from critics and fans alike by obtaining the right mood and feel that the author intended.On the other end of the spectrum, there is the terrible film that is The Lawnmower Man. In King's defense, the story bears pretty much no recognition to the original tale and is essentially an adaptation in name only. Nonetheless, when watching a movie with King's name on it, one should expect it to be better then that garbage.Somewhere in the middle we have films that have gained mixed responses. Pet Sematary, for example, has a 50% fresh rate on Rottentomatoes.com from 18 reviews, with reviews ranging from Fred Topel calling it a Great Stephen King movie, to Gerry Shamray calling it Another awful Stephen King adaptation.Children of the Corn is another film that could fit into this middle ground, as it has even less critical acceptance at 36% on Rottentomatoes from 22 reviews. Despite this, it was a financial success, earning $14 million off a $300,000 budget and spawning 6 sequels and a telemovie remake. Granted, the majority of these sequels were direct to DVD, but it still shows that there is a loyal audience that existed for this series and enjoyed the films, regardless of the overall critical opinion. And let's face it, the critic's consensus never meant that much to most horror fans anyway.The story concerns a village that has been overtaken by children. The leader of these kids is a young boy named Isaac who acts as a religious leader towards the other children in the town. The boy claims to be able to communicate with an unknown force referred to as He Who Walks Behind The Rows. When a young married couple enters into the town (played by Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton) Isaac begins to dictate to the others how The Man Behind The Rows wants the couple to be dealt with.The acting isn't too bad, Linda Hamilton, being the most famous person here does her job relatively well, but Peter Horn I thought could do with being a bit less of a doofus. Then again, maybe that was how the character was written. John Franklin as Isaac does a pretty good job, with a creepy way of delivering his lines. Courtney Gains as Malachai, his second in command, was a bit more annoying. The way he spoke reminded me of Al Gore in South Park through his irritating whining.But acting isn't what this movie is about. The movie is meant to be creepy mindless entertainment, and it does a pretty good job. Then again, perhaps I'm just a man of simple pleasures. Dressing children up in adults clothing and getting them to speak all spooky-like is already going to do a somewhat decent job of entertaining me. Getting them to act violently towards each other and I'm totally there. The Children of the Corn is not the greatest Stephen King adaptation, but it doesn't need to be. It's a movie that you can put on late at night and just enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Horror Marred By Closing Special Effects","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *******Seven out of Ten Stars******* A young doctor and his wife fall off track on a cross country trip, winding up in a small town called Gatlin. It turns out Gatlin has been taken over by a cult of religious fanatics operated by children. The doctor and his wife soon find themselves running for their lives, as they look for a way to escape Gatlin and The Children of the Corn This is an 80's horror classic, whether or not you want to admit it. Most of the hatred this film garners is because of the closing special effects. I understand why people hate the F/X in this film, but I don't quite agree when people flunk an entire 90 minute film because of two minutes of special effects tacked onto the very end. In defense of the film makers, the budget for Children was pitiful. On the other hand, the producers just should have tried ending this film in a more appropriate way, namely a way that didn't include God awful special effects.The rest of the film is fairly well done, considering the large number of child actors involved. The sound score is delightful 80's horror creep-ness, the location used for shooting is quintessential small town America, and the religious child sect is pulled off with panache and style that Satan himself would be proud to be a part of. This writer also personally feels as if the cinematography was above average, as was the directing; it couldn't have been easy working with all those children. This film just has a great atmospheric 80's small town, satanic, feel to it; and I love it. The satanic corn folk art is worth a view as well. There are some quality jump scares and some of the special effects nearer to the middle of the running time are actually pretty decent. Linda Hamilton is fun to watch in the role of Vicki and the characters that lead the child cult, Isaac and Malachai, are a blast to see in action. This is a low budget horror flick with some really original atmospheric components, that's all. For me, I'll take this film and it's shaky special effects over any modern day CGI slop fest. "},{"Title":"One of the Better King Adaptations","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young couple, lost in the countryside, stumbles upon the town of Gatlin, Nebraska, where children have taken over the land, lead by Isaac and Malachi. But this is no peaceful kid commune -- Isaac is a preacher for He Who Walks Behind the Rows, a vengeful god who wishes death to all adults and those who wrong him.Stephen King's stories tend to get developed into fairly lackluster films. I could name a few, but I won't. Children of the Corn is a notable exception, being one of the staples of 1980s horror, and spawning numerous sequels. Featuring Linda Hamilton (before playing Sarah Connor in Terminator), this is a noteworthy story of evil children, in the vein of Who Can Kill a Child? and Village of the Damned. For truly, if children are innocent, how can one fight back against a bloodthirsty mob of toddlers? This film succeeds on the grounds of being an interesting story, without the need of gore or sex. In fact, despite multiple murders, the camera more often than not pans away or we are not treated to the actual vision of death. One of the most disturbing images -- a crucified police officer -- is still fairly mild and may even have a sense of black humor for the fans.The actors should be noted for creating a quality film. Aside from Hamilton and her co-star Peter Horton (who has long since been forgotten), the children deserve credit for giving mature and compelling performances. Isaac is a strong preacher, and the ginger kid Malachi is threatening. Sure, one looks like a young Patton Oswalt and the other should star in Pete and Pete, but we can excuse that. Even the girl who plays Sarah should be heralded for her shy and reserved display.Fans of 1980s horror really should have this in their collection, and now thanks to Anchor Bay, they can acquire a high quality Blu-Ray version with never before seen special features. Audio commentary, cast and crew interviews and more are on this disc. I cannot say how much the video quality has been touched up -- you can only do so much with an older film -- but the sound is booming quite literally -- the living room shook and kept me awake even though I watched in the late hours of the night. For those who have never seen it or those watching for the hundredth time, Children of the Corn is well worth owning. "},{"Title":"Good but very dated adaptation","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This adaptation was pretty cool but you can tell its dated.Good performance by Linda Hamilton and Peter Horton. The kids were OK but needs improving on the acting.John Franklin was OK, but very annoying with the camp voice. Looks when cool when he is evil.Still got pretty good suspense and and still keeps intact with the story.The last scene with the demon was fun, the cgi looked like an old computer game.Overall, pretty good film but there are others that are better. "},{"Title":"Fields of Dreams or Nightmares?","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first herd the synopsis, a town that has been brutally murdered and taken over by kids, I honestly thought it would be a comedy. It's not as funny as it sounds. This movie scared the hell out of me. This was the movie the turned me to the Stephen King Side of the Literary World. This movie had everything a horror should have and also a kid's best fantasy, aside from the whole killing your parents and slashing the entire town thing.The reason why this horror movie works is that it could happen. It's not so much jump out scary but more of the disturbing scary. Here are 12-year-olds and 9-year-olds all the way up to 17-year-olds killing their parents in the name of a false corn god. It could happen and there are religions that have brainwashed kids into murdering people in the name of their false god. Given the fact that this town is completely secluded from any major civilian population, that just adds to the sense of helplessness. You can't go anywhere because there is nothing for miles except corn.One of the other elements that make this horror seem more disturbing is the ritual and the ceremonies that these kids hold to praise He Who Walks Behind the Rows. The ceremony for The Man in Blue and the sacrificing ceremonies are all so crazy and weird. This movie hits so close to pseudo-Christianity it's scary. The casting and the acting are great. Courtney Gains who played Malachai did a great job playing the deranged teen that heavily believes in his false god. His catch phrase Outlanders! is classic. John Franklin who plays Isaac Chroner doesn't need to act, his character is elegant and quiet enough to where his looks puts the fear into you head.Overall, this movie is child's dream on ecstasy. If you enjoy disturbing horror and general weirdness, you'll like this movie. It gets gory pretty early and becomes hard to watch so I am warning you ahead of time. "},{"Title":"Good but Clichéd.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well i just watched Children of the corn on DVD. Before i saw the film i had heard from my friend that the film is truly terrifying & when i saw this for £5 i thought I'd give it a go. First things first considering they inly made this with $300 Thousand in the 80's they did a very good job. The movie is a bit slow for the first half hour with the exception of the beginning. However when the action picks up you will proberbly enjoy this. One down side about Children of the Corn is that it is clichéd & the ending is very Clichéd. Also John Franklin gives a terrific performance as Anti Christ Issac. Worth watching however could do with improvement. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Just Weird","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Firstly I feel that I must praise the originality of this film (even though it was based on a book). I have never seen anything else with a similar story line.Basically all the children in a deserted village (Gatlin) decide to kill all the adults and then a couple of adults arrive a few years later. Questions such as how after 3 years this mass murder had gone unnoticed and why all these children are prepared to kill their parents are unanswered.In many ways this film is stupid and slow in places. However it does have a sinister element and the characters of Malaki and Isaac are done very well. Quite enjoyable all the same. Just about worth seeing but not essential.My rating 6 and 1/2* "}{"Title":"not chilling not scary but quite good","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the corn came free in a newspaper and i watched it.I quite like stephen king films/books but this film was not chilling or scary in any way. And yes i know the film was made years ago but the special effects are terrible for the time. And basically no horror and millions of loose ends still not tied which they try to explain in the millions of sequels which go up to at least children of the corn 8.The film is good but can't be classed as a classic horror film because it dosen't pack any scares except a few kids with scary voices and gingerness.Not an essential purchase is all i have to say. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I agree w/ pretty much w/ what everyone said here so far. The only thing that I found mediocre or disappointing were the production values. This movie, being one of the first evil kids flick that I've ever seen, had a sort of goosebumps feel to it, though it was still a few years behind that. Otherwise, it was just another 80s horror flick though the blood is minimal and the tits are absent. ( And being that this is a loose adaptation of King's short story, I never did waste my money on the sequels whatsoever. But a couple of things no one's mentioned 1.) This reminds me of an episode of the X-files called, Second Coming. I think they ripped off Children of the Corn directly because the parallels are obvious. 2.) Exactly what the hell kind of monster was, he who walks behind the rows, supposed to be in the first place? An overgrown worm that's been nuked by too much pesticide or what? 3.) And how come two kids resisted Isaac's mind poison w/out getting hurt or anything? I wonder if these people got back to Seattle and got a little unpleasant surprise w/ their new adoptees? I wouldn't doubt it. Otherwise, I think that about wraps it up for this one, y'all. "},{"Title":"The big yellow car - just a funny story","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1978 Buick LeSabre. My girlfriend Erin drove it in high school. Her car was the exact same color with the exact same interior and the exact same 8-track tape player. She was born in 1975 so by the time she could drive, the car was funny and old- even then. Basically she and her girlfriends were watching Children of the Corn in high school, and when the first shot of the car came on the screen, they were like, Oh my God, Erin, that's your car!! and she said, No... wait.. let me get a better look. Then when they showed the interior, there was no question and they all freaked out.The car had before then been nicknamed The boat because of its boat-like handling and its size and its yellow color (like a banana boat) but after that it was affectionately termed, The Corn Car. The true Children of the Corn Car are Erin Matlack, Rachel Yancik and Marcia Gauvin of Granby, CT. "},{"Title":"Answer to the whereabouts of Fritz Kiersch","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a student of his at Oklahoma City University and no he's not from overseas, he's from upstate New York. He's a great professor and it's too bad he doesn't have anything else as famous as Children of the Corn, the guy knows his stuff and is really well networked. He is recently working with GreyMark Productions started by Grey Frederickson. Check him out on this website for his filmography. The two of them have done great things for the film industry here in Oklahoma and it is gradually picking up with each movie they make. Fritz has completed two movies since working with Greymark, with more on their way. "},{"Title":"So-So Stephen King Adaptation.","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Based on Stephen King's short novel, Children of the Corn is a fairly underrated horror film. The film begins with a peaceful Sunday morning at a small-town coffee shop. Everyone has gotten out of church, and enjoying their breakfast and coffee. But wait! A group of creepy children approach the diner, and the waitress poisons the coffee. The kids storm in, slashing and hacking all the adults in the shop, leaving one small boy in the midst of bloody corpses. We then cut to present day, where a couple, Bert and Vicky (Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton) are driving through isolated Nebraska. While driving, a young boy (who was just attacked when trying to escape his town) runs into the road, clutching his throat. Bert slams on the brakes, but it's too late, and they hit the poor kid. He's obviously dead, so they put him in the trunk and after trying to find a larger city, they resort to the empty ghost town of Gatlin for help. Little do they know, there is a psychotic brainwashed cult of adult-hating children who worship he who walks behind the rows...I found the story for this film, based on King's short novel, to be actually pretty interesting. Corn fields are a little eerie to begin with, but they're even creepier when they're hiding a group of scythe-wielding little murderous kids who belong to a bizarre, adult-butchering cult. The opening scene of the film (the coffee shop massacre) is brilliant, and goes down on my list of classic horror scenes. The movie from there on is pretty atmospheric and eerie, initializing scenes of the child cult conducting numerous rituals and the innocent young couple having trouble in the isolated countryside. These scenes are spooky and atmospheric.The cinematography here is nice and the natural eeriness of corn fields is captured well, but a complaint would be the extremely fake-looking special effects displayed in the final act of the movie, they are really laughable, and the lack of scares this film delivers. It really could have been creepier, and I felt it was a little flat in that respect. Aside from that though, the movie was visually good. The acting is pretty decent, Barton and Hamilton both gave worthy performances, and John Franklin (who plays the leader of the cult, Isaac) is one creepy looking little guy (as he is conveyed in the movie at least). And there are plenty of gore scenes and neat little touches to the film that should please most horror fans.Overall, Children of the Corn is a decent movie. It's not perfect and surely has it's flaws, but all things considered, it's pretty entertaining and has some good things to offer for the genre. This film seems to have been getting some bad reviews, but I don't think it's all so bad. Definitely see it if you're a fan of Stephen King. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining slasher","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this film much more than the Stephen King short story on which it is based. The film as a stark nasty tone that benefits the story being told.The story of the children killing the parents of the small town gets off to a very nasty and chilling start pretty much from the opening credits and only really falters in the last quarter of the film, where the pace slows to almost a crawl and unfortunately the film makers have gone for a happy ending rather than the one from the original story which would have made for a much more satisfying climax.For the most part this is a really enjoyable to watch though some of the children in the film look anything but. "},{"Title":"he wants you too malachi","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie scared the bejeezus out of me as a kid and I still find it a classic, while not as scary as I use to find it, I still enjoy it.However, now that I'm an adult and I sit back and look, there were some serious character development issues with Peter Horton's character.In the early parts of the film, he's mockin religion, by making fun of the preaching on the radio, then in the end he's standing up giving the children a religious pep talk?! Give me a break!And after hours in a hot, moldy car trunk wouldn't a corpse start to create a 'less than pleasant' aroma?I did however like the part where they shoot Issac up into the sky like a 4th of July roman candle.All I know is, if I could get a bunch of people to do whatever I told them because it was whay he commanded, it's wouldn't be, 'kill your parents.I'd be telling them to sign over your bank accounts.Anyway, still good for a few jumps if you watch it in the dark. "},{"Title":"A good opportunity gone wrong...","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could have been SO much better than it was.  The director shows no skill at all, and seemed to want to make a film that went for 90 minutes (the whole thing was just rushed through), rather than a film worth watching - that said, it was saved by an interesting story, and 'some' decent casting.The story development suffered from a total lack of background, and detail, and a whole lot of basic 80's cheesiness... a remake now would probably be too late - if only they'd gotten it right the first time! Very much a wasted opportunity.7/10 (for Stephen King's writing, and 'some' memorable scenes. Thanks Isaac!) "},{"Title":"It could have been a classic. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CHILDREN OF THE CORN has to rank as one of the most annoying horror films I have ever seen, simply because the first 45 minutes of so has to rank as some of the most effective horror suspense ever committed to film.A young couple (Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton) are out on a leisurely drive when they arrive in an area punctuated by cornfields. Little do they know that they are about to arrive in a township where the children have killed the parents and adults in an eerie opening pre-credit sequence......Those of you who have seen the film will remember the terrific shock moment on the road as Horton and Hamilton are talking and the more recent JEEPERS CREEPERS has a similar style to this one.The sad part is once the couple being to meet the kids, the story does go a bit haywire and doesn't have the ideas or imagination to pull it off.  "},{"Title":"This movie was bloody scary!!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After going through the Stephen King's movies, like Pet Sematary, Christine, Salem's Lot, Carrie, It, The Grave Yard Shift, Thinner, The Shining, Needful Things,Fire Starter, all that stuff! Now, I found Children of the Corn!This movie had some sick parts, like with the kids sliced up body was found dumped in the road! YUK!!!Isaac ( John Franklin) was SO creepy how the way he stared! I feel so sorry for the kids in this movie because, they are being controlled by some possessed kid!I own this movie on video, at home because, I love scary movies, especially Stephen King's films!Give this gory film 8/10 "}{"Title":"Stephen King Syndrome","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'd say that this suffers from I normally call the Stephen King Syndrome. It takes effect in almost all movies based upon his stories. What happens is that the story begins very interesting and you really want to know more about it. It's very exciting and creepy up to a point (usually just about half way through the movie). In this case it lasts a little longer. But when all the supernatural stuff begins to happen it's time to turn of this thing. ¨I wish they could just have used the first part with the children murdering their parents under the leadership of Issac. I thought this Child-sect-thing was quite interesting and could be developed more.But as I said Stephen King Syndrome... too bad 6/10Movie-Man "},{"Title":"Great horror from the 80's.","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children of the corn is a great horror movie. The beginning is classic when the kids take over the cafe of all the adults. John Franklin played the role of Isaac with unholy relish. There's alot of scary scenes. Even when the kids take over the home and say we want to give you peace. This is a real scarefest for anyone who loves horror. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Stephen King short story was truly terrifying. This movie isn't. If anything, it's funny. I even had a roommate at college that looked almost exactly like Isaac. King's short story had a dark ending with a valuable lesson of doing what your instincts tell you to do. I think what ruined this one was the insistence of some producer to give it a send everyone home happy type of ending.Yes, trivia fans, the Courtney Gains who played Malachi is the same Courtney Gains in Back to the Future who tries to step in on George and Lorraine McFly's dance. He also was the sheriff in Sweet Home Alabama. "},{"Title":"Another bad King movie","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoiler?)  Two adults arrive in a seemingly deserted small town to gradually discover that the town's children had sacrificed all of the adults to a corn god.  Stephen King's work has inspired a lot of really terrible movies, but this is without doubt one of the worst.  Now don't get me wrong, I like films about cultists sacrificing people to corn gods as much as the next guy, maybe even more so, but this film is just bad, bad, bad.  I would only watch it again if the only alternative was Maximum Overdrive. "},{"Title":"Very Spooky, Keeps you watching!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children of the corn is a very good flim. They picked the two children very well(Isaac & Malachi) The kids look evil and make the flim very spooky and weird I would watch it again and again and wouldnt get sick of it, well made.I would recomend it to everyone 10/10!! "},{"Title":"Every Adult's Nightmare","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         In a quiet town called Gatlin, Nebraska, there came a day that changed everybody's lives forever. It happened at a small coffee shop where young Job and his father went after church. There were other children in there too, as well as adults. Then suddenly, a young boy dressed as a preacher, name Isaac, looked in. That was the signal. The children in the room, headed by Malachai, took out knives and other cutting devices and murdered all the adults. The adults all over down were killed also. What a horrifying experience, especially if you were in Job's shoes, witnessing this.                                       Not too far away, a young couple, Burt and Vicki, were driving into Nebraska. They asked a gas station attendant, Diehl, for directions. He tells them to go to Hemingford instead of Gatlin. Burt and Vicki drive around for the longest time and just can't find Hemingford, so they head to Gatlin, which was deserted. The children all work for Isaac and believe what he says. They all worship an unseen God, He Who Walks Behind the Rows. Vicki is kidnapped by Malachai and he heads the kids to look for Burt, who discovers some very weird stuff around town. He, accompanied by Job and Sarah, his sister, go to rescue Vicki and put an end to Isaac and his crazy ways. He Who Walks Behind the Rows makes an appearence that night. Burt, Vicki, Burt and Sarah then get out of Gatlin as fast as they can.                                     A pretty good spine tingler. Like the tagline says, an adult nightmare. Peter Horton (director of The Cure) is Burt, Linda Hamilton (The Terminator) is Vicki. Courtney Gains (The 'burbs, Memphis Belle) is Malachai and John Franklin (can't think of what else he did) is Isaac. Children of the Corn was followed by an endless line of sequels. II, III and IV were pretty good. V wasn't really. Isaac would return in Children of the Corn 666 Isaac's Return, which was the worst movie in the history of anything! I haven't even seen 7. Please stop with the sequels, people. I think they're in competition with Halloween. Friday the 13th is at 10. Halloween is at 8. Children of the Corn is currently at 7 and I hope will stay there. But anyway, I recommend Children of the Corn! See the sequels too, if you're that inclined.- "},{"Title":"Scary, eerie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a very good horror movie because it presents a situation that is not normal in horror movies.  Kids are the bad guys.  Usually adult males or monsters are the bad guys in horror movies, not kids.  This movie is not for squeemish people or people who have nightmares easily.  It is very scary at some parts and just the idea of kids killing all the adults in their town is very scary.  Although scary this is one of the best horror movies I have ever seen, even though it could never happen..........or could it?  "},{"Title":"The Best horror flick EVER","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film, with the exact and precise genius of John Franklin, is a spooky one. A struggling couple, Burt (Peter Horton) and Vicky (Linda Hamilton) are driving along a deserted road in Nebraska when they are lead right into a spooky town, and locked in. after finding a body, they learn the towns adults have been killed off to be sacrificed to an evil god in the corn with the children the servants. and the only hope of finding a way out is two children, Job and Sarah, (Robbie Kiger and Anne Marie McEvoy). The evil boy preacher Isaac Chroner(Franklin) and his apprentice Malichi (Courtney Gains) however have ambitions of killing the two outlanders to fulfill a prophecy. there god, He Who Walks Behind The Rows is ready for the two sacrifices...  "},{"Title":"Not a scare-fest, but still a classic!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I admit, when I first saw this movie, fear was the farthest thing from my mind, but by the end, it didn't really matter.  Who doesn't love a really well-done, campy horror movie on a Saturday afternoon?  I thought the story behind the movie was very original and the cult leaders were exceptionally creepy.  Even though the main characters were decidedly flat, they were still interesting enough to get me through the movie.  I admit, the ending was a little disappointing, but if you enjoy an unconventional horror movie with memorable characters, just enough gore, and decent acting, rent this movie or catch it on the Sci-fi channel and you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A movie not scared","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a while since I've seen a movie where woman and children have been killed along side the men. This movie, while being far from reality, is very realistic in the sense that not only adult men can be psycho killing but children can too. It's not a very gory movie, its probably rated R more for the inference that a lot of bloody things are going on. Over all, this is a great movie for someone who wants to see a movie not scared by what the critics will think. "}{"Title":"One of the best King movies from the pre-direct to TV era...","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was little and being like what's up with this? For some reason it didn't scare me. I guess I had just seen too many horror films and didn't put myself in the place of the people and look at it in a real perspective. I recently viewed this movie again and man it was creepy. Issac....enough said. He is a creepy dude and Malachaih is equally as creepy in a more sinister sidekick sort of way. This movie was made back in the day when the Stephen King movies actually came to theatres instead of direct to TV or something like that. The old Stephen King movies were great but the modern stuff is horrible. Children of the Corn falls in the old category. I recommend this movie highly. Just look at it as if it is really happening and think of how you would feel and it can be quite  the scary experience. "},{"Title":"A scary, underrated movie","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is scary and freaky.  Isaac is a scary guy.  I read the short story before watching the movie.  Of course, the story is scarier and even more graphic than the movie, but that is Stephen King for you.  This is a good film.  This movie made me afraid of ever walking through a corn field alone and I am from a rural community.  This probably makes the movie scarier for me.  There is only one major flaw in the thinking of this story.  Why didn't any of the adults have family outside of Gatlin that would know they were missing.  This movie is very underrated as a horror film. It did spawn six sequels.  It's a good idea and film.  (If you are going to watch the sequels they have a problem in that the have no order.  They only common bond between the movies is children and corn.) "},{"Title":"Saw this movie when it first came out in 1984","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It was awesome. It's one of the best horror movies out there. I don't understand why the ratings are so low. It looks to me that all the people who rated the movie low, don't know what a real horror movie is. First off, the horror movies they have now a days are TRASH!!!!! 80'S was the BEST. Atleast back then, we could turn turn a channel on tv and find something good to watch.Don't anyone judge the bad ratings on this movie. Because it an excellent movie with and excellent plot and great acting. "},{"Title":"eerie movie","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  `Children Of The Corn' is an occult horror movie. The movie starts off in a small town with an eerie incident. Three years later it all adds up to what is happening. Two young travelers are caught in a mysterious web of events. The scene at the old gas station is my favorite. The children are portrayed well in the movie. The lead roles are played honestly. A fine all round acting with an equally good script makes this movie viewable. The special effects are nothing to write home about. Sound effects are pretty good. All in all, a movie with a different backdrop with the acres of corn fields and its mysterious happenings are sure to catch your imagination. "},{"Title":"linda hamilton dances","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie starts off scary enough, peter horton wakes up to the terrifying visage of linda hamilton dancing to some long-forgotten oldie throwaway in a manner that would turn children against their parents and corn against its consumers. The technique is absolutely flawed and proffessional dance instructors or choreographers with heart conditions should stay the hell away from this film. it's the kind of jiggle that could have never been fashionable. the kind that soccer moms purposely do in front of their kids to embarass them. and worst of all she sings along with the verses of a song that  the original writers of the song probably forgot years ago.i rented this flick because i saw the two subsequent parodies of it on south park and the simpsons in one week. i thought hey, this has gotta be a classic, right? south park AND the simpsons paid their respects to it. the rest is little more than memorable. most memorable are how creepy little isaac's voice is, which leaves you wondering if there are kids like that in real life and if you yourself could spawn something so ridiculous-sounding 2nd would be the sinister maliki whose appearance is straight out of deliverance. the casting director did an excellent job at finding the most alien-looking young folk out there.  3rd what parent in their right mind would let their children be in a movie where the majority of their screen time is dominated by their child running around with sharp objects in their hands?  and 4th is the already stated horrific linda-hamilton-beliaal-boogy scene.Sure the actual plot has some good ideas- the use of empty space. the suspense leading up to the entrance of gatlin. the lack of violent excess. taking something sacred (children) and turning into an object of fear, but it's really just not well-executed throughout the majority of the film. worse, the film seems to be preaching about religious fundamentalism. i liked the religious element, actually. i thought it was a strong point- but i don't like to be preached at.i mean, all in all children of the corn kept me entertained for however long it was and the acting was good enough (especially by child actors) to keep me concerned about the characters. so, hey it's worth a gander ...or maybe a glimpse. but i would hardly call it a classic. "},{"Title":"A disappointment.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a disappointing film, especially considering it carried the trademark of Stephen King and actress of Linda Hamilton.The film starts very well with the young boy telling the murder of all the grown-ups with such unawareness of what's happened. The tension is built up nicely with our two main characters driving towards Gatlin, but things suddenly take a terrible turn for the worst when Vicky is kidnapped by Isaac and cronies. Burt's refuge in the kid's hide-out is very unbelievable....why did they not ever look in there ? - It would seem to be a prime hiding spot ?And the end......well, mighty confusing, disappointing and all-round timid considering it's supposed to be a horror film.It's not horrendous, it starts very well and does have it moments. The acting is generally good and I'm a sucker for horrors anyway. I gave it a 7/10. If you're not a King or Horror fan, you'd probably only give it a 3 or 4.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic trash","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I thought it was going to be a really scary movie with a lot of suspence. Boy was I wrong! The movie was not scary at all! People always tell me that this is One of the scariest movies they have ever saw and all that crap. I don't see how it can be scary! A bunch of little kids running around in a cornfield killing people! That is the plot. Oh yeah. This is one of the best. HA! Don't see this movie. It's not worth the $2.00 you pay to rent it.  "},{"Title":"Yet another Stephen king tale that translates badly on the big screen.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It constantly amazes me that directors keep trying to adapt Stephen King short stories into full length features. Obviously, there is not enough story to create such ventures. The filler they add tends to reduce rather than enhance the effect of his tales. Such is the case with Children of the corn. It's a bland often tedious tale of a couple who comes into contact of a wacko children's cult who worship a nameless demon that dwells in an isolated Nebraska corn field.The original king story was decent but far from his best. Personally, I would have rather seen some of his more interesting Nightshift tales like 'battleground', 'one for the road' or 'Strawberry Spring' brought to the screen. Here there simply was not enough material to put into a feature length film. What might have better would have been to combine two or three tales from his nightshift collection into one film. This formula worked nicely in cat's eye. Why not here????? If they had done this with goofy adaptations like 'Graveyard Shift', 'Maximun Overdrive' and 'Children of the corn' they might have come out somewhat more like king's interesting stories and less like garbage.   "},{"Title":"One of the Worst","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst horror movies that I have ever seen. Illogical plot and bad acting add up to one number  Zero!Only redeeming virtue  Linda Hamilton is easy on the eyes. Avoid it this mess.  Hard to believe the number of sequels that have been made.  "},{"Title":"Nuke the cornfields!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What on earth was this movie?  Started out as an average film, then turned into c**p.  There was NO humour whatsoever, there was hardly ANY suspense, there was hardly any good acting, there was hardly any plot building, and there was hardly ANY gore!  What on earth were they trying to create here. If they wanted to do a stupid, no brainer horror movie the least they could have done is thrown in some gore, but they didn't even do that.  The original short story from Stephen King sucked too, it was one of the worst stories he's ever written, so God knows why they picked that out to make into a movie.  Perhaps the movie had SOME LITTLE symbolic meaning, but who cares!!!  Frankly the corn was more interesting to me than the rest of the characters and the plot, that says alot because I'm a very open-minded person when it comes to movies.  This is amongst the most over-rated horror movies to ever hit the screen.  The atmosphere and everything was just terribly planned.  The shooting methods had nothing original to offer, and in the end even if it had it wouldn't have saved it.  Don't bother with this unless you have a corn fetish. "}{"Title":"bad adaptation of a great story","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why directors feel the need to expand short stories into feature length films like this is beyond me.  Children of the Corn is a horror short story classic.  It's a brilliant early tale from Stephen King that will stand the test of time.  The film adapted from it, however, will not.  I would love to see this story adapted into an episode for a cable TV series, like Tales from the Crypt or something.  A half hour to hour long adaptation would be best suited for short stories such as this.  To make a feature length film from it lessens its impact (also see Graveyard Shift, The Mangler, and Maximum Overdrive to see other examples of bad feature-length films made from excellent King short stories). "},{"Title":"Mildly above average modern horror.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This mildly above average modern horror is actually one of the better Stephen King adaptations. This is quite a creepy film that is quite daring by giving away the whole plot right at the start by showing all the adults in a small religious town called Gatlin getting murdered one Sunday after church. This is quite a gory scene that manages to grab the attention of the viewer without making the rest of the film a waste of time. Children Of The Corn then manages an extremely promising and fairly gory opening half an hour as a young doctor and his girlfriend (parts well acted by Peter Horton and the very sexy Linda Hamilton) get lost and get closer and closer to wandering into Gatlin and finding the murderous cult of adolescents led by lunatic child preacher Isaac and his bloodthirsty sidekick Malachi. Sadly once the couple arrive in Gatlin the film seems to self destruct. The film begins to follow a very tired formula and becomes less and less convincing by the second as the film becomes little more than a series of unexciting chases up and down a town the size of your average back yard until the ending which sadly seems to  be little more than an excuse for some now fairly unimpressive special effects. The inconclusive ending will also infuriate viewers. Children Of The Corn is certainly not a bad little movie but then it isn't all that good either. The first half of the film is gripping and contains one truly heart stopping shock moment and is worth watching just for that, the second half of the film frankly is pretty poor and unsatisfying. Children Of The Corn is certainly fairly eerie but it sadly never even tries to be seriously scary. Taking into account the undeniably lurid and chilling central idea Children Of The Corn could have been an extremely disturbing film. Tragically it isn't but it still stylish and occassionally creepy enough to be worthy of attention. Beware of the awful sequels!  "},{"Title":"Weird horror flick","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children of the Corn is an unusual horror film from a Stephen King story. It's about a young couple who stumble into what looks like a ghost town in Nebraska. What they don't know (but soon find out) is that it's a town inhabited by murderous children who killed all the adults three years earlier, and any adults that find their way into this town are slaughtered on the spot by the evil kids. This is a ridiculous premise, to say the least, but there are some moments of sheer terror (especially the opening scene). Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton play the couple who make the big mistake of driving into this god-awful village. This is a movie that both Horton and Hamilton probably wish they never made. One excuse is that they were basically unknowns when they made this. But since this film they've gone on to bigger and better things. Horton starred on TV's Thirtysomething, and Hamilton's next movie was the original Terminator. Hamilton would later follow that up with the sequel T2, Dante's Peak, her own TV series Beauty and the Beast, and a husband in Terminator director James Cameron (they divorced shortly after Cameron's monster hit Titanic won 11 Oscars). Both actors rarely make an impression here, and neither does the young actors with play the children. Except for the two good children who befriend the couple. They're too cute. They should've had their own little movie to themselves. Children of the Corn is a preposterous film with some truly scary moments but nothing else.** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"An alright horror film that is ideal for kids","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While it may not be a great horror film, COTC has its moments. However, it is more ideal for kids than adults. Kids from ages 10 to 15 should adore this tale of children who form a cult and kill the adults of their small Nebraskan town. The film portrays kids as powerful, strong, and deadly, so adults beware! The scenes in the cornfields were quite scary, and the bit when the couple hit the kid on the road is memorable. Rent it for your kids on Halloween. 6/10. "},{"Title":"There was potential, but not much of it used.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's adapted from a not too great Stephen King story. It's got average actors at best, and they're NOT as their best. The production values are low, and all in all, the plot is ludicrous and full of holes. But then why am i drawn into this movie? Why am i interested in seeing what follows and what happens to these people? Why am i eager to root for the good guys? Because even if the movie isn't good, and the acting isn't either, there is HORROR in this movie. Being stranded in a small town, run by psychotic children, where all adult have been killed, and isolated from populated areas by miles and miles of cornfields, is stuff nightmares are made of. There's no way to escape, you never know when one of the children has enough and decides to kill you, especially with the help of the others.Maybe the movie would have been better had there not been a monster in the fields. Children who are victims of mass hysteria, influenced by a religious fanatic, would be slightly more realistic and therefor much scarier. And if this were directed by a decent horror director (John Carpenter, Wes Craven) it would have improved even more. So, all in all, not exactly good, but there was potential, and i'll give it merit for that. "},{"Title":"Good adaption","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   I never read the short story on which this film is based, but I sure like the film. There isn't a boring moment in the whole movie and the suspense never really lets up.!!!SPOILERS!!! A young couple gets stranded in the Nebraska town of Gatlin where the children have killed the adults for their God He who walks behind the rows.  The two team up with two children(Good children.)who know the terrible truth about what lurks in the cornfield and the hearts of the children. Suspenseful, good story, and acting. *** out of *****. Only complaint is that the film is kinda cheap looking, but that doesn't hurt it too much. By the way, I recommend the first 3 sequels, but stay away from parts 5 and 6. "},{"Title":"Not Bad !!!!!!!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about to adults who visit a town possessed by children. If anybody reaches 18 years old they must kill themselves. In the beginning the children kill all the adults and now two more adults visit the town three years later and the children are out to get them . It sounds stupid but its pretty good . Stephen King did a good job on this one . I give it ** and a half stars out of **** "},{"Title":"The best so far","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the best of seires. When I saw the scene of the town and it had no one in it. It just gave me a empty feeling inside my stomach.The 2 evil leaders don't scare me at all. I could take themAnyways the ending had me a little confused. Is Issac died then who brought him back for the last oneAnyways another scene I really turned away on is when the Kid is attacked in the corn feild and then gets hit by a car.Keep in mind don't confuse this movie with the ripp off version.There is a movie thats just the same as this. I don't remeber what it is by hand.  "},{"Title":"Effective shocker","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film has dated quite a bit and looks really cheap but still has the ability to build a chilling sense of dread.The film stars Linda Big Stick Hamilton which is about as big a star as the films ever had. The differs quite a bit from the short story by Stephen King, but since that wasn't very good the film benefits from this.I have only seen parts 1-3 and will say that if you want to watch cheap looking but effective horror films - watch one and two, but if you want to see some of the worst special effects in history and laugh at a silly looking monster - watch part 3 - in fact it should be a law that everyone has to see part 3. "},{"Title":"the best in the series!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the original is the best in the series,and it's scary too. the plot isn't bad,and the characters are good. john franklin is creepy in this movie,with his weird voice that is spooky at times. i can't wait to see him again in children of the corn 666. the next two sequels in this series are pretty good,but IV,and V are lackluster. i give children of the corn *** out of **** "}{"Title":"A mess...but a fun one","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, the screenplay is extremely weak--it could have used multiple rewrites...the plot hole count hovers around 10-15, and they are big. But who cares? The acting is for the most part terrible (but I did like Peter Horton's portrayal of Burt, I found him easy to identify and side with), and the story has been ridiculously padded out to an hour and a half, moving at the pace of a snail to spread out the relatively few plot twists.  But this a date movie classic. In spite of everything working against it, it is an involving tale of good vs. evil. An audience participation flick.  The evil children are terrifying, especially the lead henchman, Malachai, and the chase scene across town near the end is one of my personal favorites in movie history.  Yes, it could have been better, and yes, Stephen King's short story was better, but contrary to his public assaults on this film, it is much much more interesting and entertaining than his own feeble attempts at adapting his own work.  "},{"Title":"the best of the best","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when i was in 6th grade, four years later I still love this movie. I rent it as much as i can. I love all the characters, wonderful effects and great acting...    We'll start with Burt and Vicki played by the great Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton. I like Horton's courage and Hamilton's strength. My favorite characters were the cute Job and Sarah, though Job was annoying at sometimes i thought they were wonderful. Then there was Rachel, it assume she was in charge of the ceremonies, she was real creepy. Then there was the leader Isaac, his facial expressions and raspy voice fit the character of Isaac Chroner perfect. Then there was Malachi, it seemed like he was in charge, but he obeyed Isaac's word even though he was clearly two feet taller than him.    I give Children of the Corn 9.5/10 stars on the Jeff Scale. Thank you for calling!    "},{"Title":"Spooky spooky.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  > I rate Malachai just as much of a nightmare-ish character as Freddy Krueger. >  I watched this movie when I was four, and had nightmares about Malachai and > his knife for weeks! And I wasn't the type of kid to just have nightmares > about anything and everything. So, for the reason that it scared me out of > my wits and probably caused me serious psychological damage at a very young > age, I give this movie a ten.  "},{"Title":"i love isaac","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i love this movie, although there is a lot of bad acting.  my friends and i have made this one of our fav cult flicks, and we know all the words.  what upset me though was that john franklin (isaac) didn't get as much credit as the job and sara or adults did.  isaac was a great character, and franklin did a perfect job, i think he was the best in the film.  he's that fallen angel character with the cherub face and raspy choir voice, that you have to fall in love with.  he didn't seem to want to be the bad guy but he who walks behind the rows gave him no choice, so he is really innocent under all that bad stuff.  he protected the job and sara children- who turn on him and trys to stop frog-boy malachi from killing a lot of people.  in the end i always cry because he is basically crucified by the children, and he is broken.  i love the part when he kills malachi- the kid deserved it.  and i always knew that isaac didnt die, i was just waiting for the day they would bring him back.  plus i finally get to see what he looks like after all these years, since in children of the corn 6 they bring franklin back to play the part.  what a great idea.  cant wait!  "},{"Title":"Low budget entertaining tosh.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Like most Stephen King novels, this has been translated very badly to the screen.  It comes across as a low-budget B-movie.  The plot is unlikely, the acting is poor and the special effects are questionable.  Having said all that, I still found it entertaining, and I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"An all time favorite.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first and certainly the best. When part 2 was made, I knew they had gone too far. Now they're up to 6 movies. This is the only movie which I can't complain about. Don't bother to see the sequels. Just see this one.  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie a long time ago, but I still remember I thought it was terrible. I recently read the short story, by Stephen King, that this film was based on and was also offended by it. But I do remember Linda Hamilton, in an early role, being very effective as the heroine of the movie. Unfortunately, Peter Horton and the rest of the cast were bad. I give this one 2/10 "},{"Title":"An adult nightmare, not just a nightmare...","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children of the Corn, the first from the 6. This is the real one, the one which started the saga, written by Stephen King.Gatlin, Nebraska After the church all the people went to a café, except the children, they weren't there. Then everyone got killed in this café by the children.Three years later a young couple (Peter Horn, Linda Hamilton) arrived at Gatlin......(7/10) "},{"Title":"Very weird....but a good flick","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was based on Stephen King's short story (if you didn't know that already). The movie was quite freaky towards the end. It was very horror- like to see kids have the killer fun for once. If you really think about it we are scarier than we look!! But anyway it was many a story that goes like this, all the kids kill their parents, take over the town, and kill and sacrifice outsiders, or anyone who disobeys them. The one who walks behind the rose is their master and he is real! Although Issac (the leader) got betrayed by his followers...the one who walks behind the rose knows he had served him well so Issac is alive and comes back and kills Malickai (his betrayer) and that's the last we hear of him....Also they must fight the one who walks behind the rose....but the children still are there...** and a half stars (King has done better) the sequels are cool too. "},{"Title":"This Ain't Stephen King...","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...but that may be a good thing.  King's short story is totally adequate, although the husband-and-wife characters are pretty much unlikeable.  The movie is a much more standard horror flick, and there are some unintentionally goofy moments  He Who Walks Between the Rows burrowing through the fields like Bugs Bunny comes to mind.  And the feel-good ending makes you want to throw up.  But unlike its successors, the original CotC is still a chilling little flick, keeping the best elements of the King short story.  Yes, it is creepy when the zealous children turn on their parents and subsequently take over the town, preying on outsiders.  The creepiness is pretty good, and the horror so-so. "}{"Title":"CORN!!!!!","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  CORN!!!!!!!!!!!!! CHILDREN OF THE CORN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! >;0D This movie rules! The short story, by Stephen King, is in his book Night Shift if you're looking for it....seriously scary stuff! "},{"Title":"This is cool","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably Stephen King's best (Next to the Dark Half). Scary sometimes too (The ending kept me on the edge of my seat!). "},{"Title":"Slightly frustrating.","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Personally, I'm surprised the couple survived! They were given plenty of warning not to go to Gatlin. They went anyway. The old guy told them not to go to Gatlin. Then the crazy road signs, which if he thought someone was messing with the signs, he should have gone back and gone down the other road. Then the fact that everything was messed up and no one was around should have been a sign to get the heck out of there. Vicky was sort of getting the idea but Bert was oblivious to everything. Even after going into a house and talking to Sara, he thinks it's okay to split up and stay in the town?? Seriously, if it were me, I would not have even gone into Gatlin. If I ended up there, I sure as hell wouldn't stick around to find out why I shouldn't be there. That is just stupid. It amazes me that in the end Bert actually does something smart considering the whole first half of the movie he was a major idiot! I mean, so what if someone got murdered. You shouldn't stick around a creepy town just to report it. Go somewhere else. This is just one of those horror movies where you want to scream and yell at the characters for being stupid. I give it a six out of ten though because the second half of the movie was decent and there were some pretty cool effects. The whole set up of things was creative. "},{"Title":"Laughable Corn.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Based on Stephen King's short story from the Night Shift collection, this horror tale involves a young couple(Peter Horton & Linda Hamilton) who end up stranded in a remote Nebraska town that has been overtaken by murderous children who worship a mysterious creature from beneath the corn fields. They find themselves pursued by them, for a ritual sacrifice...Laughably inept film is overacted and poorly scripted; good only for camp value, with no real suspense or tension, and an anti-climatic end, though inexplicably became a big hit spawning a franchise!(Wow! Go Figure...) "},{"Title":"I ain't got no gas......","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A boy preacher named Isaac goes to a town in Nebraska called Gatlin, and gets all the children (especially the ugly ones) to murder every adult in town. A young couple have a murder to report and they go to Gatlin to seek help but the town seems deserted. They are soon trapped in Gatlin with little chance of getting out alive, or having a decent adult conversation......Another film I haven't seen in nearly twenty years. I remember loving it when it was first released, and it really creeped me out. Seeing it now, I just get annoyed as to why Horton didn't just punch every child in the face, and rule the town himself.Isaac stares in glee most of the time, and if he isn't doing that, he's staring into the sky or shouting at the other children. Eg. He's very annoying throughout.Hamilton is the best thing here, but ruins it by singing at the beginning, and although the film doesn't hold up (effects are poor, acting is bad by kids) the first fifteen minutes is still very creepy, although I don't know why they didn't poison the stronger adults.Plus we get a special appearance from the Tremors worm near the end.Another average King adaptation. "},{"Title":"Corn corn corn corn corn. Corn.","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This stiff-as-a-board horror wants to be a cross between 'The Wicker Man' and 'Village of the Damned', but those are good films and this isn't. Based on a short story by Stephen King, the movie stars Linda Hamilton and Peter Horton as a nice couple who arrive in a town beset by a cult of murderous children. You can see the gaping hole where the atmosphere should be, and the movie resolutely fails to round up any level of creepiness or tension, plodding through its story with little enthusiasm. Admittedly some of the final scenes are weird if not that interesting, but once corn starts popping up all over the place I'd had more than enough. I'll have to get round to reading King's story some time, it's bound to be better than this. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not surprised that Children of the Corn was from the mind of Stephen King. It wasn't really scary, more freaky and psychological. It makes you think what would happen if the situation portrayed in the film happened in today's world (of course it wouldn't). I give Children of the Corn an 7 out of 10 because while it had an intriguing story line, the special effects were pathetic. The whole idea of the one who walks behind the rows being real also made my review drop in rating. It would have been better if the whole cult was worshiping something that didn't exist (which most cults do). In summation, if you like outstanding special effects which create the illusion that the events in the film are real, don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but still a cult classic","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie's strengths are the effectively creepy mood in the beginning, which builds nicely to a point near the end, and the repulsive charisma of the two villains Isaac (cult leader) and Malachi (ambitious 2nd in command, all-around bad apple). Apparently it was the producer/screenplay writers's idea to use biblical names for the cult leaders rather than the more common names in King's original, good call. But unfortunately, that was the only positive contribution they made over King's original story. Actually, that's not true---they did manage to find the right person to compose the very creepy theme song, which has been in my head for the last hour as I've thought about this movie and review!!I was in the age range of some of the younger children in Isaac's group at the time this was released on TV, so it seemed much scarier back then compared to when I recently watched it for the first time in many years. My mum probably wouldn't have let me see such a movie in the theater at that age, even if I would have been allowed in! I had the same immediate reaction to the movie as an adult----Malachi makes the movie! He is the one that gives true menace to the scenes. He was dangerous enough to keep all of the children in line, but not quite enough to easily challenge the adult hero of the movie (Peter Horton), so not knowing if the hero can overcome him or not creates tension, because there is no one else that appears to have a chance of saving the day.All of the elements for a true classic are in place, and it could have made it to that level if not for the weak ending. There was really no need to attempt to give a face to the evil force worshiped by the children at the end, it would have been better implied (and no, CGI wouldn't have helped, either). To add insult to injury, after all the danger is over, the last seconds of the film are an unnecessary, dopey feel-good segment, which takes away from the dread that hung over the entire film to that point. I've been inspired to read King's original now after seeing other reviews here, as his ending is apparently MUCH less upbeat, which makes sense to me for this story.... "},{"Title":"Chilling, a cult classic","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You need to take my 8/10 rating with a pinch of salt here. Having grown up watching this film, and being obsessed with horror, I suppose I am a little biased when reviewing Children of the Corn. Yes, the script is flimsy. Yes, the special effects are dire. Yes, the story doesn't make a great deal of sense, particularly towards the end. But somehow, there is just something cool about this film that secures its place in my collection as a cult classic.First of all, it's pretty chilling. Linda Hamilton's great to watch, and John Franklin and Courtney gains creep you out like they're supposed to. The opening massacre in the coffee shop of all adults carried out by children is possibly the most disturbing of all. The first two acts of the film, in spite of the daftness, keep you with it.But in the third act of the move, this is where things start to get a little messy, and its high concept deviates into silly religious hokum. The plot deviates greatly from its source material, the original short story by Stephen King, and the movie ends with what seems to be a hastily thrown together action-sequence, where our heroes battle 'He Who Walks Behind The Rows', the demon that inspired the children to slaughter their parents. Complete with very questionable special effects, poor dialogue and nonsensical biblical passages, it brings what has been a fairly fun and chilling ride to a less than interesting conclusion.This is the best one of the lot. Just give it a go, laugh at its badness, and call it a night. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining idiocy","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Corn is as high as an elephant's eye....or so it has been sung. It can also be as low as an elephant's toe.Although it is pretty easy to argue that Children of the Corn is low (what with it being unscary, unholy and epically unintelligent) it is not necessarily unwatchable. This is one of those B-grade features that gets away with being 'amusing' if nothing else. The town of Gatlin, Nebraska is over run by religiously psychotic children, who kill anyone who enters town. They have been doing this for the last three years, since that one day when they killed all their parents. Three years later, at the (literal) height of the corn season, Dr. Burt and his girl Vicky are lost on the Nebraska highway trying to their destination. After a couple of bizarre encounters, they end up in Gatlin, and they are about to learn its deadly secrets.As is the case with much of King's work, This story is extremely subversive toward the church, which affects the screenplay a bit by making some of the dialogue very hokey. Rather than getting annoyed however, I was kind of able to laugh at it (not out loud of course). Children of the Corn, actually got me to care a bit for (some) of the people. Burt and Vicky are nice, quirky folks, not the kind of people you wanna see get bumped off. About 90% of horror films make protagonists out of idiotic teens or post teens. This was especially true during the eighties with the rise of such works as Friday the 13th, and A Nightmare on Elm Street, (plus their sequels). If I had to guess what most people have against Children of the Corn, in addition to it's anti- Christian stupidity, it would be the film's lack of atmospheric subtlety. Children of the Corn sometimes feels like it came out of the 1950's back when large chase scenes were supposed to be scary and the presence of evil came with a blare of music. (here it is a children's choir). There is nothing particularly scary about the kids, once we see them (and we see them almost right away). They are just kids with sickles and knives, and their strength in numbers doesn't necessarily make them any more intimidating. Well, you can love it or you can hate it, but you won't know until you try. I'm not necessarily suggesting that you do. It almost impossible not to find this stupid, but it is watchable stupidity. "}{"Title":"Cheap, average horror show","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I must admit, ashamed though I am, that as an impressionable young teenager this below par horror-chiller was one of my favourite all time films. Nine years after first viewing Stephen King's frightening story however I have now come to my senses, and am able to assess Fritz Kiersch's work more reasonably.Indeed King's tale of a small Nebraskan farming community that is turned upside down by a young demonic preacher boy and his sadistic sidekick is truly disturbing on paper, but it makes for a cheap, average horror show on celluloid. A lot of this outcome can be attributed to the fact that Kiersch almost allows the beginning of the film to become a hacker-slasher show, and then turns the finale into a hocus-pocus special effects nightmare.The cast are reasonable, but they can only portray as much credibility as this rather incredible, over the top movie will allow them, and the soundtrack by Jonathan Elias is spookier than the pictures.A real shame that George Goldsmith's screenplay turned Stephen King's haunting short story into a shocking horror. Isaac, Malachai and all the other Children of the Corn aren't really all that scary.Sunday, August 7, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"Great Horror Flick","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Recently I watched Children of the Corn. I enjoyed it very much, and I do not like horror movies! The acting is good, the plot is new and interesting, and the eeriness is great.The movie keeps you entertained the whole time, partially because of the mysterious events and because of the creepy soundtrack. If you are a fan of horror films, classic or recent, this movie is a must see.A simple summary of the movie is that Burt and Vickie become lost while traveling and end up in the small town of Gatlin. Strange things are going on in Gatlin, and before long they find out what evil really looks like! You will enjoy this movie very much, horror fans. "},{"Title":"Ya Got Trouble, Right Here In Gatlin City","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Maybe if those kids in Gatlin, Nebraska had gotten a visit from Professor Harold Hill and a boys band out of it, maybe they might not have killed all their parents. This Stephen King view of the mid-west sure makes one nostalgic for The Music Man.It's one strange place that married couple Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton have come on their cross country journey. It reminded me of driving through Pennsylvania and the Amish country where you cannot get off the Pennsylvania Turnpike for ages, but on either side of the roads, nothing but woods and on the overpasses, Amish carts. Here it's nothing but corn and when Peter Horton thinks he's hit a child on the road he goes for help and there's none. The town has been taken over by the devil himself working his evil through a young child preacher played by John Franklin. All the adults have been killed and the children are his disciples.Of course some of the older ones are reaching puberty and the guy who was the high school bully Courtney Gains chafes under Franklin's leadership. He tries a palace coup d'etat, something along the lines of what old Lucifer himself did in heaven and everybody pays.Children of the Corn is a good adaption of the Stephen King novel, it will please his legion of fans and maybe convert a few others. "},{"Title":"Fields of terror.","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Even before the opening credits this movie starts off as terrifying and doesn't let go. It opens to a child's voice telling a story of how he went to church and the other children went into the corn. Then when he is at the coffee shop, a super scary kid named Isaac looks in the window. This is no ordinary look. We know something is going to happen and it isn't good. The hat that Isaac is wearing just adds the right touch to his evil ways.The movie goes into drawings, a lost couple and a fearful gas station attendant. I don't blame him for being scared because this is a scary movie. The special effects are a little cheesy for todays standards but overall the movie will make me think twice the next time I drive alone in the country side. "},{"Title":"really good movie","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" With the exception of the bad graphics and special effects(what can you expect, it's a 1984 movie) This is a frightening movie with a great setting and atmosphere. Pretty good acting all around. There are also some very good quotes in this movie, for instance when Isaac rises from the dead and takes Malachai by the throat and says He wants you too Malachai, he wants you too. Very good acting by a kid on that part and pretty creepy. Not quite like a Halloween or Friday the 13th but right up there with the horror classics. So if your really into horror movies, like myself, and you've never seen a Children of the Corn because it may look kind of dumb, just check it out because that's what I thought, but I have to say I was wrong. "},{"Title":"'Alien' with Children","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie with very little violence, most of which happens in one scene at the start, so don't worry if you're put off by gore. Very little is seen, much is implied, allowing the audience to imagine the horror themselves, which is much scarier! It starts slowly, building tension, in the same way as in 'Jaws', with it's music and underwater shots of swimmers and long distance shots of that fin. 'Children of the Corn' allows the suspense to build slowly, so that the audience are left cringing and shouting out warnings to the characters.This is a movie that gets it's power from the psychological terror, and the stark contrast in it's plot Children who kill.It's well acted, with the main cast turning in great performances. You truly can believe that these are killer children, that these really are two strangers caught up in this hellish situation. It's also Linda Hamilton's first starring role, and she shows why she deserved to be in The Terminator! An eerie soundtrack, slow and gentle, sung in the delicate voices of a children's choir, adds to the tension, and underlines the eery macabre of scythe wielding 10 year olds.For horror fans, this is a must see movie. One of the first 'psychological' horror movies, well made, and the first to give us the innocence-evil theme, this movie is the foundation of the modern horror and slasher genres.For non horror fans, this is still an enjoyable and scary movie. With little gore and few of the cliché's that riddle the genre, this is an intelligent and intense thriller of a movie. The best way i can describe this movie?....It's like the original 'Alien' movie, except with children. In the middle of Nebraska, as in space, no one can hear you scream. "},{"Title":"* Out Of Five","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A traveling couple (Horton and Hamilton)stumble onto the town of Gatlin, where kids have slaughtered the adults and are always eager to slaughter more, along the way they're separated and Peter Horton of course must save his wife from these tiresome, er terrible tykes in this very bad adaption of one of King's best short stories. In the original story King managed to create tension and draw personality of his characters, however all of that has been zapped from the production and all that is left is a repetitive bore which is far too predictable to be all that suspenseful. Also the effective ending used in the story is in favor dumped for a happy ending which makes the overall impact mute. There is some atmosphere and stylish directing but no plot to back any of it up. The kids are woefully unconvincing also.1/5 Matt Bronson "},{"Title":"A wonderfully crafted series, that is so gruesomely beautiful","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn was a truly amazing film, at times, it echoes the novella continually and has us on the-edge-of-our seat, for the most part. I must warn movie-lovers that even though this is not a masterpiece of film making, it is an addictive series! There is something so gruesome about The children of the Corn that it encompasses you, and doesn't let you go. You will notice there are some big name actors/actresses in these very well made films, considering there all based on one short story, crammed into a book of four! I give credit to the directors and producers of these movies, they have shown that they are able to scare us, with similar things, over and over again! I will soon write a fresher review on what I think of this film in particular very soon, but for now&#133; JUST BUY THEM ALL!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites...","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is awesome! It blew all the sequels away! Ever single time I've watched it, I never got bored! It is a great movie... Surprisingly, the kid actors were better than the adult actors. My favorite character was Malachai, the rebel with the red hot hair. Every single time I watch Children of the Corn, I never want it to end. By the way, all the sequels are absolutely ridiculous! If you are religious, then this probably isn't a movie for you.... Even though this movie wasn't scary at all, it is suspenseful the first time you see it. It doesn't contain that much gore. Thank you for writing this story, Stephen King! I am a lucky corn kid that owns this totally cool DVD. You need to buy one for yourself!!! "},{"Title":"From a real Nebraskan","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I actually liked this movie. With the occult, satanism, and sacrifice, they almost made it look real enough to be believable. Not that those three fore-mentioned things really interest me or persuade my lifestyle, but it definitely gave people a new insight to what can happen in the middle of a cornfield. I've actually heard rumors that this movie scared people away from Nebraska, which is rather funny because Nebraska is nothing like the nice, weathered little place they show here... during the time of year in which this movie was portrayed, Nebraska is hot and muggy. THAT would keep people away. All in all, this movie might be... corny... (sorry, had to put it in), but it's not a half bad movie. "}{"Title":"Children of the Corn-Flakes!!!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There's many bad adaptations of Stephen King's stories; but CHILDREN OF THE CORN is one of the worst of all. Almost everything is bad here. The acting, the dialogue and the direction (which by the way doesn't exist in this film). More amazing is the fact that this movie has six more sequels. For me it's a big disappointment because i love the work of Stephen King (and of course, it's not his fault... he's not the director). The only good thing if this film is the soundtrack composed by Jonathan Elias, but the music is not enough to make a horror film worth enough to watch. The next time that someone ask me about this movie all i can say is You must see CHILDREN OF THE PORN... there's not a good plot (like the original CHILDREN OF THE CORN), but the sex is real good!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"WHAT?","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!I know that everyone is entitled to their own opinion but when reading that some people on this page have called this a classic i just laughed because i thought they couldn't be serious. To my horror i found that they WERE serious and my laughter turned into muddled confusion. I would just like to ask what is in this film that makes it any good let alone a classic? Sure it has a creepy concept but I'm afraid to say that in MY opinion that is all it has going for it. Hell even the trailer was scarier than the movie itself.OK i'm getting ahead of myself here, this movie isn't as bad I'm making out to be but it suffers from what i like to call Jeepers Creepers syndrom. This is when a very promising first half is let down by an absolutely god awful second half (in Jeepers Creepers the second half is crap coz you realize the monster is actually a man in a latex mask).This film also takes far too long to get going (ala Dreamcatcher). There is a decidedly grim opening in which the children of the town kill all the adults, and a scene where one of the kids tries to escape through the corn fields only to have his throat cut up, but pretty much from then on in (20 mins and onwards) the film goes from being dull, to boring, to stupid, to laughable and then starts all over again. And Linda Hamilton, what are you doing? You've made two of the greatest sci-fi movies ever made along with the crap yet strangely fun Dante's Peak and you chose to do this? And so early in your career too, I'm surprised you were able to work in Hollywood again. It's as if your name on the poster (after the success of The Terminator) would add some credibility to the film but alas no, it seems that nothing can save this film.And can i just ask what makes and man with long ginger hair, a mouth like Steve Tyler's and gangly teeth scary? And the fact that he's taking orders from a kid half his size, i mean how does that work? I was surprised he didn't mutiniy earlier on in the film. It also has one of the most laughable endings on the planet. Oh a red cloud coming out of the corn field. Come on I've seen episodes of the Teletubbies that a more terrifying.This movie is low, boring and crap. I would advise you to stay away from this one.1/5  "},{"Title":"A lot better than I expected...","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit, I usually hate Stephen King films. I've seen The Shining, Carrie and It. I hate all of those. But this one was really good. It was scary and atmospheric, all the way through. The music was great, very moody and scary, the basic theme was pretty good, and the acting was, if not great, sufficient. The effects were mostly good, though I thought the moving corn, was, well, corny(no pun intended). It's interesting, all the way through, and has more likable main characters than your everyday horror movie. Both main characters are pretty well developed through the movie, and you actually care about them. This is a movie you should watch, at least once, if you like horror movies, even if you hate Stephen King(I do, and I loved the movie). 8/10 "},{"Title":"Those Children deserved a good Beating","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Something is very wrong in a small town called Gaitlin. Every adult is being brutally murdered by children who are in a dangerous cult which is led by a preacher boy named Isaac(John Franklin) Now it is up to Burton(Peter Horton) and his girlfriend Vicky(Linda Hamilton) who accidently stumble across Gaitlin to save the town and the rest of the children from Isaac and his cult. This was a very creepy movie, those kids scared the hell out of me and I think the only way they could have been stopped is with a good beating. The soundtrack is also quite frightening and the acting by the children is both impressive and scary. I would give Children of the Corn 7/10. "},{"Title":"Classic Classic","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Of course, horror movies are usually not scary. I have an extremely high tolerance for 'scary' movies, and I am usually not scared quite so easily. The most recent film to make me shiver with fear was WHAT LIES BENEATH and I saw that quite some time ago. CHILDREN OF THE CORN, did not really scare me, however, it did have a very good shock factor. It made me jump once or twice and I was generally enthralled with the story.Having not read the Stephen King short story (I can't find a copy of the book) I found this film to be wholly original and terrifying in the film's idea. I just watched this movie for the first time last night, which is really something because I have already seen most of the classic horror films that people say are really good. CHILDREN OF THE CORN is probably one of the last really *good* horror films of the early 1980s that I have just seen.I thought the film's ideas were creepy and the execution is done wonderfully. You will never eat corn the same way again. CHILDREN OF THE CORN gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"This movie was scary","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie came out when I was nine years old. It scared me, even the music. It's about a lot of kids who slaughter their parents because anybody who is over the age of 19 is evil and must die. They have services in the middle of a cornfield and worships he who walks behind the rows. Burt and Vickie are driving and they hit a kid who's throat already has been slashed. They stop in Gatlin and notice something is terribly wrong. Burt leaves Vickie (that's my mom's name) in an abandoned house with a little girl while explores City Hall. Some of the bad kids came to the house to get the outlander  They tie her to a corn cross.  Burt rescues her and they beat the devil. This is a good movie considered it's an old movie. I wish they showed more of Rachel because i really liked her. And who exactly is Diel? is it the guy that works at the gas station. If you know would you please hit my name here and send me a private message telling me who he is, I would appreciate it. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's 1984 masterpiece","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first in the rather mediocre Children of the Corn series, that has up to now spawned 6 sequels (2 of them being pure s**t) It sees a couple (who's opinions of each other changed wildly from the original novella), Burt and Vicky. They get stuck in the town of Gatlin to find out that......there's no parents! Then you see there's a cult of parent-killing, He Who Walks Behind the Rows-worshipping kids, who scared the boo-boo-jeebie's outta me. The leaders are Issac (John Franklin, who returns in COTC 666) and Malachai (Courtney Gains), both two very scary kids, who drone on and on about some cult that they all must worship. Oh, did I mention they killed all their parents? And there was a shocking opening scene, which was quite gory actually, and was cut from a lot of video/DVD releases. What else can I say about this movie? Here's a rundown on its sequelsCOTC II The Final Sacrifice (1992) is not bad, picks up after the first part, 8/10 COTC III Urban Harvest (1994) is the best in the series, it stars Daniel Cerny (Eli, also in Demonic Toys) and is the goriest entry, as well as the most offensive and had 13 seconds cut from its original BBFC release, 10/10 COTC IV The Gathering (1996, V) was the first straight-to-video COTC flick, and it shows, 2/10 COTC V Field of Terror (1998, V) was quite good, it sacrificed scares for light teen comedy, 8/10 COTC 666 Issac's Return (1999, V)was just....well, if you saw it, you'd know. 3/10 COTC  Revelation (2001, V) is the newest flick, and I haven't seen it yetOverall, COTC is a good spooky flick, worth renting (or buying in my case - I own the whole series, bar COTC 7) if you are a Stephen King fan, or a horror fan in general. Rated R for some violence and gore, and language "},{"Title":"The best horror film ever!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film straight after watching a terrible film called Shriek. This was brilliant. Two minutes into it and there had been countless scares! The scariest part was when Malachai (Courtney Gains) appeared in the cornfield. Then two minutes after that came what I see as the scariest shot in cinematic history. Anyone who isn't scared by that road scene is made of stone or they are a robot. Even when its rewound back people jumped even when they knew it was going to happen! It starts out when the corn crop has failed in a small town in Nebraska called Gatlin. A sinister boy preacher Isaac Chroner(John Franklin) says only human blood will restore it. So they kill all the adults in town to obey Isaac and his hatchet man Malachai.3 years after partners Burt and Vicky stumble upon Gatlin but in Gatlin every adult must die!What really set this film apart is the score, direction and the cinematography. Jonathan Elias made bone chilling music along with the children singing as haunting as Gregorian chanting. Kiersch knew what camera angles to use and when not to use Elias' score to create a haunting silence. Also the lighting and look complimented the excellent shots. 10 out of 10 no doubt. "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Adaptation from the Master of the Macabre...","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, this is one of the more mediocre Stephen King adaptations to ever make it to the big screen. The film is based on a 30 page short story King published in his 'Night Shift' anthology. The story revolves around the town of Gatlin, Nebraska, where the children have formed a cult worshiping a deity who lives among the cornfields. As a result, the children have all been driven to murder every adult in town at the whim of Isaac (John Franklin), the leader of the children and the one who acts as a prophet for the corn-god. Linda Hamilton and Peter Horton play a couple who stumble across the desolate, cursed town.The story itself plays out nicely, but since it is adapted from a mere 30 pages, George Goldsmith must have had his hands full drawing it out to last 90 minutes. It does tend to slow down a bit in the first and second acts and I was left wishing something would happen to advance the story. There's a long period where we follow Burton (Horton) and Vicky (Hamilton) as they wander around searching for a phone. Once the third act kicks in, the pace quickens and I was drawn back into the story.Surprisingly enough, for a movie where the bulk of the cast is child actors, the performances weren't that bad. It's not often that I see decent acting out of children (I still resent Jake Lloyd for his performance as Anakin Skywalker). John Franklin did a great job as the demented corn-god prophet, giving a stern performance without going too over-the-top. Courtney Gains seemed to ham it up a bit as Malachai, Isaac's enforcer, but it was never annoying. For some reason, the kid kind of reminded me of Hugo Weaving at some points...The real weak spot for the film is it's CGI. Keep in mind, the film only had a 3 million dollar budget. So, while the CGI seemed weak (even by 1984 standards), it was the best they could do on their budget. The corn-god's final wrath-fest looked like something out of an OLD arcade game and weakened the overall effect of it all. It's hard to feel tension with graphics like that portraying this powerful being.The movie does suffer a bit in pace and appearance but it still makes for an overall decent movie. Hamilton and Horton turn in good enough performances and the kids do a fantastic job. While it doesn't seem all that scary to modern crowds, I'm sure it was a great thriller in its time and it's worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"I happen to disagree.....Children of the Corn is...........","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I guess when you're younger it can be really frightening. My brother told me that when he was younger he took out the soundtrack of Children of The Corn from the library. He listened to it for about 5 minutes and had to turn it off. He told me it gave him nightmares for about 3 days. He then turned it in and hasn't listened to it since I guess. I actually got the movie on DVD, because I think the movie was well done. Just my opinion. I just don't think movies today are quite like they were in earlier years. (60's, 70's, 80's and 90's) I don't know I just don't think most of the movies have what it takes to scare me anymore. They would rather have lots of gore then scare me psychologically. What you don't see can scare you more. Anyway I'm a big Stephen King fan and I have the Night Shift book and I'm gonna read all the stories in the book. I thought Children of the Corn was good. Just my opinion. "}{"Title":"The movie that changed my life...","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh my gosh! Children of the Corn is my all time favorite movie and probably the only Stephen King movie that I'll ever watch.I first thought of watching COTC when I saw it on vh1's I Love the 80's. It just looked so interesting! It is so not scary, although the first time you see it, it's really suspenseful. This movie gives you a creepy and lonely feeling when the young couple is driving through the deserted town that seems to be only populated by children. The music also adds the eeriness and the theme song is really catchy! Even though there's minimum gore, there's a few startling spots.All of the characters are really likable; even the villains! My favorite character would have to be Malachai, the hot red headed killer. He is just so hot and since I've seen it so many times, it's just really sad when he dies. I also like Isaac, the really short leader who does everything He Who Walks Behind the Rows says. Sarah and Job are so cute, and Rachel (I think) she's hilarious! Sometimes I just want the kids to win for once, you know? Ever since I first saw this, I became an obsessed corn kid. I love quoting lines from the movie. I even decorated the front cover of a spiral pictures from COTC. No matter how many times I see COTC, I never get bored. If you are just as obsessed as I am, you should buy the 20th anniversary DVD and I am very lucky to own it! Thank you Stephen King for writing such a great story! I would totally recommend COTC to anyone, but mainly kids and not adults because what I've noticed is that kids tend to enjoy it more. So, anyone who hasn't seen it should. "},{"Title":"When children attack....","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of these days, when Stephen King is sitting down in his vault, counting all the millions of dollars he has made as the McDonald's of horror authors, I hope he remembers that one of his books foisted a travesty known as Children of the Corn on the movie-going world, and that he then hangs his head in shame.I know it'll never happen.  But here's hoping.I spoil nothing by saying that in this film children do indeed kill their parents in a secluded farming community at the urging of He Who Walks Behind the Rows, and that a young couple happen upon the town years later and discovers the truth and what is behind all the evil....But despite some effective moments of shock and chills here and there and very creepy-looking kids, this is just another excursion into the fast-food world of movies with extra cheese and fries on the side.  Hamilton and Horton are as bland as ever and even the special FX are about what you'd expect.  Even the title describes the proceedings there are Children in it, and if you're looking for Corn....One star.  I've never seen the sequels.  After this, I don't want to.  "},{"Title":"Movies just don't get more bogus than this!!!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having loved Stephen King's novels and short stories for many years, I, like most reviewers, have been consistently disappointed in the adaptations to film from his printed works. A few notable exceptions are Stand By Me from The Body, Carrie from the novel of the same name, and The Shawshank Redemption from Rita Heyworth and Shawshank Redemption.  This movie is by far the worst thing that has ever been produced with Stephen King's name attached to it in any way.  It is no surprise that Mr. King has pretty much disavowed any connection with it. I feel the thing that most offended me about this poorly acted, cheaply filmed, hideously directed piece of garbage is that they had the audacity to COMPLETELY change the ending Don't waste your time or money on this amazing bow-wow of a movie!!  "},{"Title":"A-Maize-Ingly Bad?","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is an obvious example of what happens when film makers take a short story and turn it into a feature length film. With very few exceptions, the almost inevitable result is a film with major script problems. Children of the Corn has such major script problems. A young couple driving on their way to a new home accidentally hit a child standing in the middle of the road amidst corn fields on all sides. The couple stops and sees what they can do, realize the child is dead, and look for help. Eventually they realize the nearby town is completely void of any adult population. Strange corn crucifixes and husks of corn are all over the place. Then things get ugly... I liked the concept behind the film of the kids having taken control, but I had major problems with its execution. The hokey explanation at the end just does not satisfy me. Why was Issac the way he was? By the way the kid with the adult-like face playing Issac was indeed creepy. The kid playing Malachai was more annoyingly inept rather than creepy. How did the kid with the suitcase in the beginning, after having his throat sliced, manage to walk and STAND in the middle of the highway just as the car was careening down the road? I have many other like questions. This film for its time has some violent scenes. Perhaps the most violent is the first scene in the flashback of what happened three years ago at the very beginning of the film. In that scene an adult helps the children with their mission...what happens to her later? The empty streets of Gatlin, Nebraska are effective in creating much of the mood in this film. Actors Peter Horton and lovely Linda Hamilton as the couple do a competent job, and Robby Kiger as a good kid named Job excels, but the plot for this film is just too ridiculous. We see the sky inexplicably darken and wind manifest itself. We get no explanation really for anything. I am amazed that something so superficially bald in storyline has fostered at least two theatrically released sequels and at least four video sequels. (Now, that is AMAZING!) For me the best part of the film is the interesting, eerie score by Jonathn Elias. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   I  have seen this movie an un told amount of times. I really don't know what it is. Maybe the cool music or maybe that no movies has ever quite been like this movie before. I must be popular since they have made at least 5 sequels. I would rank it in the top 5 of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Well, It has good moments...","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn, another translation of one of Stephen King's short stories, is a movie that even when it has some good moments, it never really makes a good impression. Let's focus on the good things first.A young couple travels across the U.S. Suddenly, they hit what looks like a boy. When they return and examine the kid, they discover that the kid was murdered in the corn fields. They take the kid to the nearest town, Gatlin, where they discover that something has gone horribly wrong ads they found that the adults have disappeared, and the children act really strange.No doubt it's a good premise, having children as the evil was done previously in Village of the Damned, but here it's to the next level by having the children killing the adults following the orders of a bizarre religious preacher. It's like Village of the Damned meets The Wicker Man.Sadly, the movie never turns that good. The good parts are, the amazing score used in the movie, it's very haunting and eerie. It goes well with the subject and the atmosphere of the town. That is something which also deserves recognition. The choosing of the location was excellent and the crew knew how to give the town the atmosphere of isolation and mystery the film demanded. Too bad the director could not manage the actors as good as he did with the crew.The acting for the most part is bad; although John Franklin, in the character of the creepy preacher Isaac deserves credit for giving the best acting in the movie. And maybe of the entire series.For the most part the movie is average, but in the ending it falls apart when it breaks the atmospheric tone it was using and goes for an ending that the low-budget SFX could not afford.To summarize, it's a movie that will give you entertainment if you don't expect too much, and the great score and the acting of John Franklin may worth the rent.6/10 "},{"Title":"Question the Hound not, Malachai! This film is a stinker!","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn is one of many Steven King stories that has not been translated into a good movie. How on Earth did this little 3 million dollar monstrosity generate so many sequels? Our story centers around a young couple (Horton & Hamilton) who stumble across a rural town where children have taken over and killed off all the adults. The children are led by a self-styled boy preacher named Isaac, who ordered all adults to be killed three years earlier. The children practice some strange new religion that has something to do with a demonic being who lurks out in the nearby cornfields. Once a child reaches their 18th birthday, they are sacrificed to this god known as he who walks behind the rows. It's up to this young couple to break the young preacher's spell and fight off his top assassin known as Malachai.After a very creepy and effective beginning in which we see a café of adults butchered and poisoned by some of the kids, the film quickly gets mired in poor pacing, wooden acting, and terrible effects. The film is talky, and the technical goofs are easy to spot. The film is so poorly paced, that it's hard to distinguish an actual climax toward the end. A poorly filmed explosion in a cornfield is all we get. With a budget so small, the filmmakers would have been better served to create some type of final battle between only the human characters. Those effects really looked terrible.I would have also liked to learn more about the religion these kids practiced. There are some Satanic-looking images, defamation of Christian paintings, and corn husks strewn all over the place. But we the audience are left to guess as to what exactly that thing is out in the cornfield.Though it takes place in our beloved state of Nebraska, it was actually filmed along the I-29 corridor of northwestern Iowa. Why is this significant? I don't know. It's just an interesting point of trivia. Children of the Corn has a few recognizable faces in it. Linda Hamilton had not yet hit the big time, and neither had Peter Horton. Courtney Gains has gone on to have a pretty good career, and R.G. Armstrong is perfect for little bit parts like his one in this film.Proceed with caution on this one. 4 of 10 stars is about all it's worth.The Hound. "},{"Title":"I f.ucking LOVE this movie!","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Man, I truly LOVE this movie! It is without a doubt one of my all time favorites. I remember watching this movie as a little kid and it scared the hell out of me! The key of the movie is the atmosphere that the movie creates. The actors are great, it has Sarah Connor before The Terminator, and the kids are surprisingly very good. John Franklin as Isaac is a great performance and a great character, he's magnific and creepy. Courtney Gains as Malachai is a great character, with a great look, memorable face and lines.But the best thing about this movie is the music! The music here is absolutely genius! It gives me chills every time I hear that tune, especially the scene with Linda Hamilton's dream. That scene gave me nightmares as child and it still scares me! It's a great movie, with great story, great actors, great characters, great lines, genius music and great atmosphere. I LOVE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"The horror, the horror...","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Can you guess what I'm going to say? The adaptations of Stephen King's works tend to place themselves among the worst, most laughable horror movies ever made, unless a great director is at work (John Carpenter and Stanley Kubrick being good examples). Children of the Corn is probably the worst of all those adaptations. It takes King's magnificent short story and stretches it impossibly, to end as a long idiotic bore, with actors either wooden or hammy, moronic script, preposterous plot, lame effects and brainless directing. The only good thing about it is the truly atmospheric score. Too bad so good a soundtrack was wasted on this trash.  "},{"Title":"hate or love it, the under dog.... i hate it","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Malachi or whatever the crap his name was, just ran around screaming at the kids with his insanely huge ass mouth, generally pissing me off. I'm no professional film critic, but I know what I feel, and what i felt during that movie was utter and complete sadness for Stephen King, one of my favorite writers. Whenever the annoying big mouth guy had the chance to do anything, he would stall, and the main Outlander guy would half ass his way out of an impossible situation. This movie is like (however long it was) of running around and watching the big mouthed idiot scream OUTLANDER. The book which I actually read was much better. Simply because of the fact that it happens in your head, and in your head, the characters has much better acting... "}{"Title":"whatever happened to this director?","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  with all the recent fuss over horror/supernatural, it's surprising (or isn't it?) how some of the originals still hold up.  the pacing is terrific, the cutting is brisk, the acting is, well ... what you might expect.  the surprises out in the corn field are occasionally predictable, though unnerving - and i guess that's a testament to the director, fritz kiersch. where is he now?  sorta' like paul brickman after risky business - good first movies, but where'd they go?  i've seen the titles in imdb.com of a few films fritz kiersch did since then, but i don't remember them.  who knows, maybe it was just bad management.  this director's name sounds like maybe he's from overseas, so maybe he just packed it up after this and left. which is too bad.  he could be working big time right now. "},{"Title":"Serviceable","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here's a tip. If you are a couple whose marriage is in trouble, it is something of a mistake to drive through the endless cornfields of Nebraska at night and then run somebody down near an apparently deserted town where the locals have a thing for blood sacrifice with a view to aiding crop fertility.Yes, I know I just spoilered the plot, but honestly. This movie - which spawned a franchise of increasingly poor sequels - illustrates the problem with adapting Stephen King to the screen the story itself, in terms of plot, is serviceable. But the magic comes from the words on the page. King's prose conveys things which movie conversions do not. Oh, the plot works well enough, but it is simple and, dare I say it, filled with cliché. The short story from which it is adapted - ah, well that is another story! Peter Horton and Lina Hamilton are fine as the couple beset with problems, and a nice sense of atmosphere is built up. But, as a viewer who has not read the story or seen the film before - well, I bet you can guess what's going to happen. "},{"Title":"A decent horror movie","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie rather intriguing, the idea of killer children is rather fun and can be terrifying, I do quite enjoy these types of movies, like (The Children & Village of the Damned). In Children of The Corn we get a travelling couple Vicky (Linda Hamilton) and Burt (Peter Horton) stumbling across a deserted town where all the adults have been murdered and the kids are responsible and they follow a weird cult leader in the cornfields where the truth is explained. The eerie silence throughout this movie is rather unnerving and very effective, I really rather quite enjoyed this movie, the atmosphere was spot on and the suspense and characters really makes this movie work, but there are a few flaws, like there aren't enough kill scenes which isn't a terrible thing and this movie does feel a bit overlong and dragged out. But the inclusion of the final battle scene was a real highlight and is what really lifts this movie up into a whole different direction.The cast were really good John Franklin as Isaac was really creepy and scary and Malachi played by Courtney Gains was really sick and twisted. Linda Hamilton is a pre fame role displays true ability in her role and a character that you can relate too and Peter Horton also does well as the unlikely hero but does make some rather stupid mistakes.All in all Children of the Corn is an effective and creepy movie that makes it a decent horror movie, just don't bother with the endless stream of sequels. "},{"Title":"I watched from behind the rows","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The 1st film in the Children of the Corn series. Starring Linda Hamilton who is pretty hot in this flick...at least to me.Plot is pretty simple. We have a town of children who kill all their parents. Many years later a couple driving the back roads of Nebraska when they accidentally hit a child. They of course try to find help in nearby Gatlin (the town with no adults). Well all hell breaks loose and the leading man has to find Linda Hamilton who was taken hostage by that Outlander guy who betrayed Isaac.Pretty good 80's film. Probably one of the best Stephen King films although he doesn't like it. I mean what does it take to please Stephen King? I mean he gripes about practically everything. But it's a good flick and I would appreciate that you watch before I sacrifice you "},{"Title":"Not a good movie","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Terrible movie. Horrible adaption of story to movie. Bad acting. The only reason i give this a 2 out of 10 as opposed to a 0 is because of the cool beginning and the Issac character who is somewhat creepy. Awful special effects. The acting and special effects ruin a possibly creepy concept. The concept of kids killing adults or other kids is usually a sure fire way for a horror movie to succeed (i.e. the exorcist, the omen)but it is horribly done and ends up just seeming stupid. A pathetic attempt at a final scare really was the thing that made me hate this movie. Like really? None of the mysteries are explained, leaving you very unsatisfied.-JQ "},{"Title":"Hardly a genre classic, but an enjoyable enough watch","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the case of some films it's easy to see why they've had such longevity. Classics like 'The Exorcist' and 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' find new fans with each generation. Why? Well, largely because they deal with universal themes such as loss of innocence, death, and good vs. evil. Then there are some films that were not hits in their day and have received minimal praise. Based on a short story by Stephen King, 'Children of the Corn' is one of those films that a lot of people saw when they were younger and they remember it being better then. It's since spawned eight sequels and a remake, but was that really necessary? The first film, after all is said and done, is not at all a bad film and is worth a look. It just isn't in the same league as the greatest hits of Horror.Pros Good performances by all. Good score, including an eerie main theme. A few chilling sequences, especially the opening moments. Fritz Kiersch gets some really good shots and inserts some style. Moves at a good pace most of the time. Decent, if a tad dated, visual effects in the finale. The kids really are creepy, which had they not been would have really broke the film.Cons Pace could have used some tightening at times. Lacking suspense. A not totally satisfying conclusion. Word has it the budget was reduced during production, which could explain that. Hasn't aged too well.Final thoughts There is plenty to enjoy during this films near 90 minute running time. It's certainly better than most of it's straight to video sequels, which are pretty dull and forgettable. Won't knock your socks off like other King adaptations, but has enough going for it to be a good, at times spooky viewing experience.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Response to After reading some negative comments on this film it seems to me that many of those reviewers hate horror movies.","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Excuse me but I love horror movies. The over 1000 horror DVD's I have attest to this. I even love terrible horror movies that you can sit back and laugh at. However this movie has a fatal flaw that kills any fun. A total lack of internal consistency.These children have no extraordinary powers (at least as displayed in the film). They have no real plan, yet from the smallest to the oldest teen they kill ever able bodied adult in reach. No adults try to fight back (except the gas station owner who is killed how (?), when he is armed but the children are not). Had there been even a try at an explanation as to why every adult could be mowed down like grass, I'd at least say they did try to explain it, but there was nothing.There was no attempt to make the story make sense within it's own world. No sneaky kids. No well planned plot. Just a very few kids with knives. Give me a good shotgun and I'd win. Apparently no adult in the film had one. Boooo. "},{"Title":"Children of the Corn (1984)","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Famous last words Let's check it out.This is the story of a small American town invaded by a demon and it's minions children. The movie is low budget, the cast is made up of amateurs, and the script is terrible. The music is satisfyingly creepy.This is one of those movies with a very exciting title and a great poster. The name is full of promise, the mayhem and creepiness are pretty much guaranteed, yet the end product is incredibly dull. Based on a short story by Stephen King, it had a great potential right from the start. Unfortunately, the name and the title alone do not a movie make (and it seems Mr. King felt the same way and disowned it).There are only a few memorable moments, and they have to do with Linda Hamilton, the only professional actor in the cast, apparently. There is a scene where she sings School is out and it is pretty much the only bit of this movie that is worth watching. Her partner in crime, Peter Horton, is a tall, blond, white version of Carl Lewis he can run fast but that's about all he can do. Actually, I've seen Carl Lewis act and he is a far better actor.The script is not worth mentioning. Maybe just to say that taking one line from the Bible and making a movie out of it is not all that fantastic. Other than that, the conflict is impossible, but the idea of what children might do if left to their own devices - or worse, in the hands of a religious fanatic - is interesting. Not very believable but interesting, nonetheless.Children of the Corn. Apparently it was good enough to squeeze two or three more sequels out of it. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Only for cult film lovers.","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The short story this is based upon was a dark, brooding tale with plenty of shocks. This film has a few creepy moments, but it can be extremely boring. None of the characters are very likable, and our heroes aren't the kind of people you'd root for. Call me crazy, but the only one I cared for was Job. Let's just forget the annoying, pointless narration he offers us. His comedic timing was good, and he was helpful instead aggravating like most movie kids in this type of picture. The two leaders of the cult, Isaac and Malachi, give looks that can chill, but they become laughable after opening their mouths. The scene where Malachi overthrows Isaac could fit well in Revenge Of the Religious Nerds. I understand the director wanted Hitchcockian violence, but the film can be too cutesy and appears as if it was intended to earn a PG rating. Burt and Vicky don't seem disturbed at all by the deserted town, and you hope to see them offed because of their stupidity. Why not have the kids destroy the car when the couple are exploring the diner? That would've given them a legit reason to stick around. The way the kids turn away from the cult was highly unconvincing. How could Burt who mocks religion preach about false religion? Maybe the creators wanted us to use our imaginations again to figure out the demon's secrets. Still, non-readers of Night Shift will be puzzled as to why it wants adults dead. I'm not too hard on this film because I find myself watching it over and over. It's one of those bad movies that will grow on you. Overall, it deserves credit for originality and the attack scenes. Watch it strictly to see major camp and something different. "},{"Title":"Poor, like too many King adaptations","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like too many King adaptations, Children of the Corn leaves too many questions unanswered and features gratuitous blood and violence as a poor substitute for real terror. I couldn't help but think of the Twilight Zone episode It's a Good Life where 6-year-old Billy Mumy kept an entire town of adults terrorized with his supernatural powers. Now there was real shock and suspense. In Corn the kids were just murderous zombies led by one whose only material power was an unusual ability to throw knives. Their powers were shown to be impotent against a physically-fit adult male, with only the unseen He who walks... for their back-up plan. With no outside contact for three years, who was keeping these kids fed? Besides, since their succession plan calls for a Logan's Run style of population (and mind) control, more of these kids had better started getting busy at an early age. I have no interest whatsoever in watching any of the aforementioned sequels. "}{"Title":"More like Children Of The Corn-y... Who didn't see that one coming?","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King's short stories have rarely fared well upon adaptation, so it's not surprising that Children Of The Corn doesn't knock it out of the park. The source material itself is one of King's merely decent moments, and only presents a sketch of the events that are fleshed out here, so we're left to trust the film-makers to put some meat on the bones of this tale about a cult-like band of religious zealot children who murder any adults they come across to appease an unseen god that lurks in the vast cornfields surrounding their desolate town. Though the core concept is rather intriguing, the execution here leaves a lot to be desired, and while Children Of The Corn isn't awful, it also isn't good.The bulk of King's original story is represented here, and the set-up that leads our hapless couple into the lair of the murderous children is portrayed quite well. But the film uses one of these children (a non-murderous one, luckily for the couple) to narrate the tale, which allows the film-makers to delve into elements of King's story that were only hinted at in the text, but also confuses the entire plot as we try to make sense of why only the narrator and his companion have managed to reject the religious fervor that grips every other child in the small Nebraska town.The source of this spiritual mania, only alluded to in King's story, is given full reign here, and that's ultimately what makes this film so utterly goofy. You see, our titular Children aren't just moved by their sinister saviour (He Who Walks Behind The Rows, natch) to murder all of the adults in town, but also to gather in the cornfields conducting religious sermons in wildly antiquated language. If the humor in these lengthy interactions between the psychobabble-spouting children was intentional, then we have to praise the film-makers for getting their point across, but one suspects that the kids are mostly playing things straight. This makes clunky dialogue like question me not, Malachai, for it is I who has been chosen and the classic Outlander! We have your woman! She still lives, Outlander! inherently hilarious.Since we're relying almost exclusively on a cast of children, it isn't surprising that most of the acting in this film is atrocious. The afore-mentioned dialogue certainly doesn't help in this regard, and we can see the Children struggling to make sense of the Victorian language they are asked to emote (seize him? Who EVER says seize him?). The lanky lad portraying the evil Malachai has a particularly hard time keeping a straight face while spewing his hateful machinations, which is particularly fitting since we end up having a hard time keeping a straight face while we watch him spew them. Ditto with Isaac, the de facto leader of this crop-worshiping cult, thus the source of most of the silliest passages of lugubrious religious rhetoric.While a massacre in a diner starts the plot off, since the MPAA zealously neutered this film this expository sequence loses much of its horrific value. Most of the movie beyond the onset is relatively bloodless, which strips away the implied menace of the blade-toting kids, since we rarely see the results of their handiwork. Clearly there wasn't a big budget for effects, and this is never more evident than during the scenes where He Who Walks Behind The Rows manifests Himself, which integrate live footage with some very cheap and shoddy fire animation.Wisely, the film-makers have the sense to keep their apparently subterranean beast under wraps, but one of the ambiguities of King's original story was whether the children actually were in service of some dark presence, or if a collective insanity settled over them and prompted them to create a myth to support their murderous deeds. Personally, I find the second scenario more frightening. Apparently, the film-makers disagree with me, and they make it clear that there is something dwelling underneath the cornfield (shouldn't it be He Who Walks BELOW The Rows, then?). This sort of negates the sensibility of the climactic showdown with He, since laying waste to the cornfields with fire wouldn't do much to destroy a creature that lives safely burrowed under the cornfield, would it? Of course, this leaves definite room for a sequel... no less than six, in fact. I've never invested my time in any of the follow-ups, so I can't judge those objectively, but despite the few bits of inspiration here, Children Of The Corn is barely worth visiting once, let alone returning to for multiple harvests.But we do have to thank the Children for providing satire fodder for a particularly funny episode of South Park. Indeed, seeing this film makes a great deal of The Wacky Molestation Adventure that much more hilarious, so I can certainly recommend it for that purpose.However, as a horror film, Children Of The Corn is just too silly to have much impact. The premise here is decent, however, so perhaps the 2009 television remake did better things with it. I'll let you know when I see it. "},{"Title":"We must sacrifice them tonight when Amos leaves!","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Rural horror movie that takes place in the corn country of Nebraska about this gang of juvenile delinquents who in a fit of religious fanaticism wipe out the entire adult population, including their parents, of the town of Gatlin.These wild eyed and snot nosed killers are lead by their teenage Jim Jones-like leader Isaac played by, in his movie debut, John Franklin who's no teenager at all but , in real life, a 25 year-old midget! It's now three years later and one of the group of teenagers Joseph,Jonas Marlowe, has gotten a bit disillusioned with Isaac and is policies of killing, or in his words sacrificing, any one of his flock who reaches his 19th birthday. This is in order to satisfy the grand spirit known as the One Behind the Rows, or Mr. Cornman for short, whom Isaas and only Isaac is in contact with.As things turn out Joseph ends up getting his throat slashed by Isaac's #1 man Malachai, Courtney Gains, only to make his way to the main highway through the cornfields. It's then that Joseph gets hit and killed by a car driven by medical student Burt, Peter Horton, and his fiancée Vicky, Linda Hamilton. Not realizing what their getting themselves into Burt & Vicky drive to the nearest town-Gatlin-in order to return Joseph's body to his next of kin, if that's where he came from. To make a long complicated as well as confusing story short Burt & Vicky run smack into this gang of underage killers who are preparing that evening, The Night of the Harvest Moon, a human sacrifice to the One Behind the Rows conducted by non-other the Isaac, who else, himself. Now with Burt & Vicky unexpectedly showing up it, the sacrificial ceremony, will be three for the price of one!Ridicules movie about human sacrifices, and the drinking of the blood of those sacrificed, that seems to lose itself in its own absurdities. We also have the usual second in command Malachai making a grab for power from his boss Isaac whom he feels has gotten too soft, in not being as blood thirsty as he is, in the head! With all this infighting between Malachai and Isaac both Burt and Vicky are able to makes their escape but only after the One behind the Rows makes his grand appearance in the movie and , with fire and brimstone, finally puts an end to this whole insanity!You can just see how crazy these teenage followers of Isaac are in one of them Amos, John Philbn, preparing himself to be sacrificed to the One Behind the Rows as he's about to celebrate his 19th birthday. With a stupid and brainless grin on his face and his eyes almost popping out of their sockets Amos looks like he just gulped down an entire bottle of Quaalude with a triple shot of LSD as a chaser!***SPOILERS*** As things were soon to turn out the what looked like brain-dead Amos wasn't going to be the only one in the film celebrating his own demise. He'll have Isaac Malachai and the rest of his corn-ball following friends join him. The One Behind the Rows who Amos & Co. so eagerly and faithfully worshiped was going to make sure of that! "},{"Title":"An adult nightmare.","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Young lovers on a cross-country trip stop in a small Nebraska community and make a shocking discovery. One day, three years prior to the couples' arrival, the town's children killed all of the grown-ups at the apparent behest of a demon simply dubbed He Who Walks Behind the Rows. Based on a short story from horror scribe Stephen King's Night Shift collection, this film spawned a slew of bloody sequels.I was ready. I was ready to give this a 1 on a 10 star scale and an F on the letter grading scale. I almost came that close into giving the film that rating. The first few scenes in the film was absolutely atrocious. I wanted to cut my eyes out and wanted to wish I were deaf rather than hear some of the worst dialogue ever written in man kind. However, Linda Hamilton came onto the screen. She made the picture bearable. I wanted more of her and her husband, played by Peter Horton, and much less of the children.Sadly, this movie is as much about the kids as it is about the couple getting terrorized by these kids. This is a bad thing because the filmmakers got some of the worst child actors to have played these villains, with an exception of Robby Kiger and AnneMarie McEvoy. On top of that, the film takes so much time setting up everything. In fact, it's not until the 55 minute mark where something finally happens, but this is so very unfortunate because the movie is about 93 minutes long. If my calculations were correct, the film spent about 60% of the time setting up. That is a long time.However, there are some good news to this story. Right after the 55 minute mark, where things really start to happen, there comes a miracle The movie is actually pretty funny, in a corny, campy way. Hell, even the last scene had me rolling on the floor laughing. It's CLASSIC. But this brings me to another problem The film doesn't know whether to be a demonic child horror flick or a campy B-movie. It has some sort of bipolar disorder. Since I obviously didn't get scared by the scary scenes in the film with the scary kids, I really wished the film was a full on campy B-movie.If there's anything good to say about the film, I really enjoyed the last few minutes of the film and for that, the film isn't the worst film I've ever seen. However, there are many unintentional funny scenes in here as well, with some not-so-good performances by most of the kids and a lot of atrocious dialogue along with a laughable plot. It's not as horrible as I had expected but it wasn't really good either. It is a cult classic, so it has something going for it. For me, it was too little, too late. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Brilliant !!!","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What else could i say?? I've been waiting for more than 5 years to watch this movie because i couldn't find a single copy in my country. Therefore, i'll just have to watch all the sequels first.I really thought that this movie will be a pure s**t after watching all the sequels.From 2-7,not even one is good or average. It is all very very very bad! They're not even qualified to be above average movies!! Before i can conclude that COTC movies are sucks, i decide to watch the original COTC (1984), and there...i was absolutely surprised! It was a very very good movie after all!! Not to mention that it is the best horror movie ever,for it is not...but it is still a good horror slasher movie even after a decade! For all fan and non fan of Stephen King's movies, you all should watch this movie and give it a chance. It does not deserves to have a rating of 5...but not also qualified to be in the top 250 movies ever..but it deserves a rating of 6.5 and above.Trust me..you will never regret after watching this movie! 10/10 *** ( Excellent ) "},{"Title":"creepy music,but no real scares","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" not bad,i guess.it had some creepy moments,courtesy of some 'Omen' type music.you know,the chanting in Latin.it wasn't really scary,though.the concept is neat,but not wholly original.there was an original Star Trek episode that may have inspired the idea for the short story.and it also has elements of the 70's movie The Wicker Man.anyway,it's certainly got Stephen King written all over it.it's quite twisted,to say the least.it's not very graphic at all though.in fact,it's quite tame. i thought it could have been a TV movie,actually.i even checked this site to see if it was.the effects are cheesy,but i've seen a lot worse.the acting is OK,for the most part.but the guy who played the cult leader was very convincing.he exuded evil.the acting by the children was adequate,i guess,although one of the girls was very good in her role.i did feel that the guy who played the second in command tended to overact a bit.he was kinda creepy though.there have been countless sequels,and watching this movie doesn't inspire me to run out and watch any of them,though i may watch them in time.for me,Children of the Corn is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"This interesting premise of an horror film was more effective, back when you were an kid yourself watching this film.","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Something happened in one horrific day the small town of Gatlin, Nebraska. When an mysterious boy preacher Issac (John Franklin) convinced the whole children/teenagers to kill their parents and other adults in their town. An few years has passed, when a traveling couple Burton (Peter Horton) and Vicky (Linda Hamilton) are stopping in this seemingly empty town. But they find themselves stalked by evil children, especially Malachai (Courtney Gains) wants to kill these outlanders. But when they captured Vicky to be an sacrifice for something unspeakable evil in the cornfields for their unholy god. Burton finds help from two normal children (Robby Kiger and Anna Maire McEvoy), who agreed to help Burton to save his girlfriend from these evil kids. But that night, they meet He Who Walks Behind The Rows and Judgment Day might come for all of them.Directed by Fritz Kiersch (Into the Sun, Tuff Turf, Surveillance) made an watchable Horror movie, which is based on a short story by Stephen King (Cat's Eye, 1408, The Shawshank Redemption). I remember seeing this film as a child. I thought this film was extremely creepy and scary as well. But watching this today as an adult, u could see their flaws on this ambitious film. Good performances by the cast saved it from being an complete disaster. This is an well directed film with some strong moments of violence but falls apart in the third act. Even Stephen King was disappointed with the adaptation of his short story. This had some controversies, when the picture was out. The scenes, where kids are murdering adults in the movie but it's done so tastefully that the director made it suggestive instead. Some of the dialogue is unintentional funny as well. But the film went on have Six Sequels! (Children of the Corn 3 is actually quite good, however) and this picture went on to have an major cult following over 20 years is been out.DVD from Anchor Bay is the 20th anniversary edition. DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine, digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an fine sometimes humorous commentary track by the director, producer and actorsFranklin & Gains. DVD also has fascinating featurette with interviews by the director & two cast members, original theatrical trailer, poster & still gallery and more. Although i would love to hear production stories by Horton and Hamliton but they are probably embarrassed with this campy/cult classic. This film also has an memorable music score by Johathan Elias (Pathfinder 2007, Shakedown, Vamp). Still, it was one of the most bizarre movies to come out in the early 1980's. Die Hard fans of King's work will certainly find some amusement here and others should beware. Not for all tastes. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"An 80's classic!!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes I thought some of the acting was corny, and the special effects were bad, but what do you expect out of an 80's horror. I personally loved this movie. I remember hearing about children of the corn when i was a little kid, and i thought it sounded scary so i didn't see it, and now i am older and a big fan of horror movies, so i decided to give it another chance, and now i don't know why i was so afraid to see it all my life. There are some scares, and jolts, but nothing to where ill have nightmares. Back when i was younger i found the idea of little kids killing all the adults scary and i still find it scary. Children of the corn is a perfect example of a horror movie that was more effective and scary as a kid. But im still giving it a 8/10 because i love the genre, and i did find some scenes scary especially the opening coffee shop massacre, and Malachai (i still find him scary). Children of the corn is entertaining, a cult classic, memorable, and still one of my favorite horror films. "},{"Title":"A great horror movie!!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is special because it has something to do with children's, i mean the movie is about these children's which are killing the grown up people the adults. On the beginning of the movie there are 2 adults which are going to a city or a small village called Hemingford but they did never get there. When they tried to get there something stopped them, it was the cornfields which blocked them from the city (Hemingford) and turned them into Gatlin. What is it about those cornfields? What could be in Gatlin, watch the movie and find out. I sure recommend this to everyone, but i'm warning you, the movie has a scary start. "},{"Title":"Obviously, someone's not eating their vegetables...","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, we all know that when a book gets turned into a movie, they're bound - to play off of a movie title - to lose something in translation. I've never read Stephen King's story Children of the Corn, but the movie comes out silly at best. Portraying couple Burt (Peter Horton) and Vicky (Linda Hamilton) stopping in a Nebraska town where the children have murdered the adults, the movie makes you wonder if it's trying to be tongue-in-cheek. If not, it's just plain weak. The only other cast member whom I recognized was Courtney Gains, who later appeared in Joe Dante's underrated movie The 'Burbs. All in all, if we just accept this movie as a ridiculous '80s movie, it's not all that bad; otherwise, it makes our eyes roll. "},{"Title":"Stupid and unrealistic","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There were so many things in this movie that made me think Aw, Give me a break! It would have been better if they made some of the scenes a little more realistic. For example There were some bloody scenes in the movie, but they never show it when it is necessary to make something look realistic. When the adult and is fighting one of the teenagers and has him pinned to the ground, the adult hits him in the face five or six times. Immediately afterward there is not one bruise on that teenagers face or one drop of blood coming from his nose. Be real! That is just one example. Another scene shows him running on flat ground, with nothing in his way that he might trip over or anything, then he just stumbles and falls on his face (very convenient to the children who can catch up to him now). There are lots of unrealistic things like that. It also would have been more realistic if the leader of the children was one of the older ones, 17 or 18, not some little kid who only appears to be about 11 or 12! "}{"Title":"The movie that started all the  unnecessary  sequels","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn the film that started all the unnecessary sequels. Cotc wasn't a bad movie but wasn't good either it was just OK a movie that if you had some spare time you might as well watch it you might like it. The story is about in a mid western town called Gatlin a preacher named Isaac gets all the kids to murder all the adults in town, then a couple who are traveling knock a kid over and go to the nearest town which is Gatlin to report it. I was looking forward to watching this movie but was disappointed because I thought the acting was bad, it wasn't long enough and the main characters got out of the situation quickly and easily with not much effort. Overall i think this movie is OK and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A waste of 90 minutes.","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This probably ranks among the top five worst movies I have ever seen. I would have to honestly say that an ultra cheese movie like Bride of Re-animator blows this movie out of the water simply for the fact that at least Bride of Re-animator is funny because it is so stupid. Children of the Corn has no redeeming qualities to it whatsoever. No matter how menacing a weapon you put in a kids' hands, its just NOT a scary premise for a horror movie. The two protagonists for the evil kids give laughable performances and are both annoying more than anything else. The only good part of the movie is when the adult protagonist (Burt) bitch-slaps Malachai and finally shuts him up. Malachai's character reminds me of the 5th grade bully that only picks on 1st graders. The monster He Who Walks Behind the Rows, or something like that, couldn't scare my 4 year old cousin. Do your self a favor and skip this one. I give it an F. "},{"Title":"Nothing amazing but watchable.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children of the CornIn a small town called Gatlin in Nebraska a young child preacher by the name of Isaac persuades the children of the town to kill all of the adults. One of the kids who is sick of Isaacs preaching tries to run away but is caught and stabbed. He stumbles into a road and is hit by a couple that happen to be driving through. They see that he had been stabbed and put him in the boot of their car to take him to the next town to report the murder. It just so happens that the next town is Gatlin. When they get there it seems the place is deserted. They soon find that it isn't and the kids of Gatlin kidnap the female and take her to the corn field to be sacrificed. They guy then, with the help of a couple of good kids tries to save her.The kids in this film do a superb job and some of them are really well cast. Isaac for instance is very suitably freaky and weird. Malachai is also really unique looking and does the mean killer part really well. The acting was fine by all Infact. The film has a good pace and doesn't really get to boring. The locations are great. I love a good deserted town and Gatlin looked great. The directing was ok nothing amazing but it did the job. Not the goriest film I have ever seen. A few more nice bloody scenes wouldn't have gone amiss. I have never read the Stephen King story so I can't tell how well it compares to that. I didn't have many problems with the film. Lack of gore was one and the fact that by the end of the film they had seemed to completely forget the fact they had a dead kid in the back seat of the car. I'm guessing they just wanted to get out of the town by then. While the film is watchable throughout, it never goes above that. By that I mean there was never anything that blew me away or would me want to watch it again.6/10  "},{"Title":"Low budget, cheap thrills","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've dug this DVD from the discount rack in local TESCO. King?? Ohhh, I like this guy and 10 polish zloty (ca. 2 euro) is not too big for good movie. But this movie isn't good. It's rather mediocre, low budget production. Characters looks like never saw any horror movie (who with the IQ more then 50 tries to visit and explore such town? Who escapes to the room on the floor ? and many such questions). Two main bad guys were not bad, especially Malachi and Linda Hamilton looks nice. Final battle with the Evil reminds me some moments from cult serial McGyver "},{"Title":"the best movie i've ever seen!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I don't agree that this movie should be rated 4.8/10. This movie had great acting, wasn't fake, wasn't lame, and was very scary with alot of blood and gore. It has an exceptable plot outline, and the plot outline was very unique. It's about a religon of children who believe that terrifying sacrafices are what he who walks behind the rows wants them to do that.And when a couple get stuck in the deserted town, they discover that it isn't just wierd. The children worship a kid named Izak who made it as thier leader because when he was a child he was a preacher and said he had visions of the lord. Izak has the biggest killer Matickye, who over-ruled Izak and killed him.Then the worst destruction happened. Over all, this movie is awesome and way under rated. STEPHEN KING RULES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Should be 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Some good stuff in the cornfield.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There are some rather good scenes in this one though it is nothing special.  The best scenes are when the kids first go on the rampage and another is when the one kid tries to escape through the cornfield and the corn opens up a lane for him.  For the most part though not too much happens till the end and there isn't much in the way of killings after the two scenes I described.  If you ever read the story though you know that there wasn't much to it so they did an all right job with this movie version.  Though I definitely would not recommend this one be shown to kids like the one poster does.  Not that it would scare them, but to show kids killing parents and being in a cult might not be such a good idea.  Quite a few of the kids in this one look older than what they are portraying in this one.  That isn't too strange though as it is done quite often.  Though the kids that help the two adults who are passing through are most definitely kids, and they do a pretty good job.  This one needed more though to be really good.  More atmosphere, more mystery, and more killings. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children Of The Corn is a great movie and a Stephen King masterpiece.I liked the part when they killed the grown ups.John Franklin was amazing. All in all,I'll give this movie 5 stars.It had an amazing cast.It was a great movie. "},{"Title":"Mindless and too mean spirited","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is another movie I was forced into watching with a friend, and I was very disappointed. Not only does this movie insult my intellegence, but it is very offensive. First of all they never explain why those corn kids were doing all of those horrible things, second of all they dont even make it believable!!, nobody else ever goes in before to try to and get rid of them or anything, just doesnt make any sense. If you want to see a scary, intellegent horror film, see John Carpenter's The Thing(1982), or Predator(1987) I give COC * out of ***** "},{"Title":"SAVE YOURSELF, DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE!!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      I hated this movie and i regret spending my 99 cents.  I wanted to see something scary and i thought this was going to be scary and it was, but it is also the work of the devil!!  Im sorry if i offend anyone, but everyone who worked on this movie is going straight to HELL (children included.  And i can not believe the parents of the kids who are in this movie let them sell themselves to Satin.  The second one is even worse, a child kills a human being in a church, I TURNED IT OFF AS FAST AS I COULD AND QUICKLY SAID 10 HAIL MARY'S.  It is really sad that we watch these kind of things for entertainment.  So to anyone who believes in God please save yourself and do not watch this movie.                                    ...........last "},{"Title":"This movie shoulda been called Corn Nuts...","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ... because there are some nutty people in this movie. The original short story by Stephen King is a thousand times better than this chock and a lot darker too. This movie really sucks and I'm saying that liberally. I mean, how many movies have you seen where they stab someone in the ribs and he runs away as if trying out for the track team without so much as a stitch in his side? This movie is about as scary as a dirty pair of drawers. The undeniable best part in this hoofery is when that old geezer gets his hand put in a deli slicer. Any movie that has that gets it's props. This movie gets a rating of * out of ***** because it sucks!  "}{"Title":"The original, the classic - surpasses all","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say about the original Children of the Corn? It was betterthan Stephen King's short story. It was more horrific than any of thesequels could ever dream to be. The thought of children turning onadults is probably one of the scariest ever concieved, and rightfullyso. They greatly outnumber us. They are not very bright, and can easilybe swayed, as is shown in the film. What sets this film apart from somany others in the horror genre is the fact that something like this ISpossible to happen (I'm not talking about what happens at the end) and alot of people don't want to have to deal with a thought like that, sothey pass it off as just a film. It is so much more, and anyone whodares to view it will know that. Another atmosphere of this film thatgets overlooked so much is theexcellent soundtrack by Jonathan Elias. The haunting melodies ofchildren's voices combined with a classical theme mixed with NativeAmerican beats is utterly terrifying! It's very, very sad that thissoundtrack is out of print and so hard to come by, being only releasedon vinyl (luckily, I have a copy and a working record player). HeyVarese Sarabande - I know you're still around, I know you're stillreleasing new movie soundtracks, so how about finally cutting thisclassic a break on CD? I think Jonathan Elias's classic work should berereleased for all to hear. Anyone who hasn't seen Children of the Cornyet, avoid all sequelsand just rent it. Don't go by what any movie guide tells you (they'reall ignorant to anything other than dramas or independent films) andwatch it for yourself. Be your own guide. When you allow others to makeyour decisions for you, that's when you become just like the Children inHe Who Walks Behind The Rows's  cult.......................................................... "},{"Title":"the greatest","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this is one of the best films i have ever seen. very true to the story by stephen king and had adiquit if not fit rateings the villians are very well sought and the deaths are really very scary. a must see for horror movie fans! "},{"Title":"THE BEST","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is BY FAR the best demon-horror flick in existence. Add the whole plot revolving around kids and what they're REALLY capable of, and you have one helluva thriller. All in all, I give this movie **********. The sequels were superb as well, and followed the original Children of the Corn plot.  "},{"Title":"Slow but still has got some good cheap scares 7/10","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie would make a good sleep-over movie, it will make people scream with the quick action scares. The special effects well...I guess there ok if you consider that its a 1984 movie with a budget of just 3 million. Its not a movie im going to watch a lot but I'll watch it a few times. I'm watching the second movie in the series tonight, I hope its scary like this one. "},{"Title":"One of King's lower-scale films.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why everyone calls this one of the scariest films ever made is beyond me. I admit - when I first saw it I was young and it scared me (because it involved violence being committed by, and to children). I watched it again recently and I realized how dopey it really is.The first half hour, with Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton stumbling across the deserted Nebraska town - was pretty creepy. It's like a ghost town, and Hamilton keeps seeing children running around. Then, the film goes to the pits. The lead bad kid, Malachi, is so cheesily acted that I just laughed instead of shuddered, and the ending is rather stupid (with Hamilton about to be fed to He Who Walks Behind The Rows). Why there's four sequels (to date) is also beyond me. This one's for die-hard King fans only. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie a few years ago on New Years Eve. This was maybe the third or fourth Stephen King movie I had seen, but the ones I saw weren't scary. But this movie scared the daylight out of me. I was never so scared by a movie since The Exorcist!!!!!    "},{"Title":"He wants you too Malachai...","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm usually a fan of Stephen King movie adaptations, so I knew this was going to be good from the start. And it was. I enjoyed this movie very much. I always missed it on TV, so I finally bought it out of curiosity. I was not disappointed at all either. The characters were all very likable. You rooted for the good guys, but at the same time wanted to see the bad guys doing their thing. There were only 2 big things that made me give this an 8 rather than a 10. One thing that knocked a star off of this movie's rating were the special FX. They seemed very unnecessary and were ridiculous also to the point of giggling at them. Another star-killer was the movie's pacing. Some things in the movie went by in about 30 seconds, while others took almost 2 scenes to complete. However, this movie didn't have to use the night tactic to be eerie. The eeriness was that it took place in the middle of the day. Now I'll be sure to carry a knife whenever going into a cornfield. I give this 8/10, a true Stephen King classic. And more deserving than the 5.0 rating (as of 2/22/08) "},{"Title":"Children of the Yawn","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In some cases, Children of the Corn could be considered a horror classic. In other cases, it could be considered one of the most tacky, clichéd horror movies ever. The start of the film is gripping and it builds you up to expecting an awesome, thrilling movie. But the beginning is misleading. The film slides downhill in the final 20 minutes, concluding in an awful ending, complete with tacky SFX. The acting is very good, especially Linda Hamilton who went on to star in Terminator afterwards. The main problem with this film is the plot, which is rather ridiculous. The fact that a load of children and teenagers would listen to a crazed ten year old freak called Issac, and then do everything he says. This would just not happen in real life. Overall I think children of the corn is an average horror movie which could have been much more better if it had a different ending and perhaps a bit more of a believable plot. "},{"Title":"One classic of Stephen King","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you don´t watch this before, watch before you die because is a very good movie made by Stephen King.Anothers Children of the Corn are good too but this one is very good because the killers is very  nervous. Who made good in this film (Courney Gains) look to this movie and send 10 in vote! "},{"Title":"If the book were this bad the movie would have never been made","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I remembered watching this movie many years ago and being entertained. I must have been mistaken, because after viewing it again I know that I hadn't seen this movie. And I wish I could still say the same.Basic plot outline After killing off all of the adults, a town full of children manages to live unnoticed in a small town. (Apparently no one from outside of the town has noticed the adults have been dead for quite some time.) A young couple wanders into town after an accident on the highway and are terrorized by the town children. One pointless - and often silly - escapade after another eventually leads to a happy ending.There isn't much redeeming about the movie. I can only imagine the book is superior because if the book were this bad the movie would have never been made. Two out of ten. "}{"Title":"Two problems with Stephen King adaptions","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  1) When they add or change material from the source novel or short story.2) When they don't add or change material from the source novel or short story.This is one of the latter and shows the danger of stretching a 20 or so page story to an hour and a half. Oh yes, it was pretty terrible too. (1/10) "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This seems to be one of those movies that people see as kids and get real scared by, without realising that the really frightening thing is the lack of quality. The opening five or ten minutes is quite creepy, but once the film properly gets started, it turns to mush. The concept is very spooky, but never used in a remotely effective way. The children's leader Isaac is given some dreadful dialogue, which actor John Franklin delivers in a ludicrously overblown theatrical manner. His henchman Malakai at least looks mean, but still doesn't get good dialogue, or the chance to do anything particularly menacing. The rest of the kids convey virtually no menace, and the relentlessly weak direction snuffs out the chance for even mindless thrills. Its rare that I don't root for the bad people in horror movies, but I found the children in this more annoying than anything else and I kept wanting the heroes to clip them all round the ears and send them to bed with no supper. I mean, for pity's sake, they're just a bunch of idiot unruly kids and the fact that they're supposed to be evil and murderous barely registers. I never once believed them capable of such acts unless murder by force of sheer irritation is possible. With virtually no gore or suspense, no nudity and a bunch of lame special effects making up the climax, there's not much reason to watch this past the opening. Once the beautiful Linda Hamilton and husband Peter Horton arrive on the scene the movie commences spiralling down. I actually found their performances to be sympathetic, although this might just be my own sympathy at seeing likable actors in such a poor film. My verdict is avoid, no matter what anyone says, and go straight to the ludicrous but infinitely superior first two sequels. "},{"Title":"The Corn -- The Really ALIEN Corn.","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Steven King makes an effort to get out of East Quoddy fairly often -- Colorado or someplace. Here, it's Gatlin, Nebraska, a town in which all the adults have been slaughtered in the bloodiest fashion by their children. Gatlin is now depopulated, the streets littered, the shops closed, no services -- just kids sneaking around and worshiping a god of the corn. They got religion. The religion they got seems lifted from Sir James Frazer's The Golden Bough, which described pagan religion as fertility rites in the crops, and periodic sacrifice.The kids here have the sacrifice part down pat. Their last sacrifice, the blue man, is a dead cop whose shrunken corpse is strung up on a cross made of wood and cornstalks. They screwed up the fertility part, though. Instead of copulating in the cornfields like decent law-abiding pagans, all they do is kill anybody who crosses them. That's no way to grow corn.It's into this stagnant pit of religious retrogression that newly minted doctor Peter Horton and his wife Linda Hamilton gaily stumble. They're driving through the flatlands of Nebraska on the way to Horton's internship out west but they slam into a kid who is standing in the middle of the deserted road with his throat already cut. This causes them to lose their élan. And they do everything wrong. All the roads seem to lead them to Gatlin, a place they've been warned against visiting. Instead of gaping for a moment at the ominously deserted town and then speeding away towards the sun, they begin to explore the place. They don't know it, but one of the members of the kiddie cult has had a vision identifying them as the next sacrifices.I won't go on with this silliness. I don't know what King's original story was like, but the director of this film can't WAIT to shock us with blood and violence, and he does so without nuance or originality. The pre-credits opening scene is filled with blood letting and poisoning. And just after Horton and Hamilton run over the kid, Hamilton falls asleep in the car (if you can believe it) and has a horrible dream which is presented to the viewer as reality -- until she awakes with a yelp and a big BANG on the sound track, called a sting in the industry. R. G. Armstrong and his dog Sarge show up for a few moments, only to be butchered like everybody else.The thing is, if this had been handled differently it might have been so much better. The photography and location shooting are fine. The uniform countryside seems to run on forever, an ocean of level crops. There really is something eerie about miles and miles of cornfields. You can't help looking at this sea of pea-green leaves, brushed by the occasional soft breeze, and the scattered tiny towns with shops that sell farm implements, used pick up trucks, and Redman chewing tobacco. Everything is so tranquil that you can't help but wonder what the hell is GOING ON! But the rush to get into the bath tub of gore ruins it. Good horror stories let you in little by little. They don't stuff your face into it right off the bat, the Berlitz method of movie making.The acting isn't bad except for one of the kids, a tall pale red head with a protruding jaw, whose looks are repellent enough but who speaks with a Valley accent and, not to be too blunt about it, can't act. Peter Horton does okay by the doctor. He's rather tall and lanky. He looks like he runs daily, which every doctor should do. Linda Hamilton looks peachy with her robust features, broad ramus and plump lips. She was my supporting player in the classic commercial and critical hit, King Kong Lives. She was a little nervous at the time but I helped her over the rough spots. She was grateful enough to send me Christmas cards each year with personal checks for fifteen cents enclosed.If you want to see a much better movie about modern pagans worshiping their crops, try The Wicker Man. If you want to see a better movie about mysterious cornfields, watch Field of Dreams. Children of the Corn is a grindhouse product. "},{"Title":"Cult classic horror shows how great the cheesy eighties horrors really could be","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the mid to late nineties I suddenly became completely enamored with the Horror Genre, especially the 70's and 80's and the horror films that spawned sequel upon sequel...no matter how bad...I was a sucker and this was one of my all time favorites. Watching it again years later it didn't have quite the same effect on me but it still holds it's own as a cult classic. First of all you have the benefit of the original short story being written by one of the greatest modern day writers of our time...Stephen King. And although Children of The Corn strays a little from the typical Stephen King recipe there are still a lot of things in tact from his usual genre. Isolation, disturbing religious fanaticism, an unsuspecting hero making a change in his or her life. The idea behind Children of the Corn is just downright disturbing and the portrayals of the children and their twisted world will keep you riveted. They do a terrific job of making sure you understand this strange religion they are involved in but still leave a certain element of mystery to it which is great. The film balances horror with a psychological aspect and despite a low budget and some terrible special effects the film is a classic.Multi talented actor director and producer Peter Horton plays the lead hero in one of his very early roles. Horton is really terrific in the role. He has a certain amount of down to earth quality while still maintaining this touch exterior that makes him a worthy hero. He has this level of intensity to him and he really does a great job. I'm kind of surprised this role didn't gain him more big screen main roles. Probably minutes before changing the world as tough as nails screen hero Sarah Connor Linda Hamilton played the more soft spoken Vicky. We know now what kind of a screen presence she can be and she's kind of underplayed as more of the damsel in distress in this film. Her and Horton are a great couple and have good chemistry and the thing with both of them is that they are very down to earth and very believable. They are just average people in an extraordinary circumstance. John Franklin is kind of the mascot of the series and this film as enraged god-filled Issac. His role is kind of subtle but he's so important and really does make a difference in his role and didn't return to the series until fifteen years later but this first performance was his claim to fame. He fits the role perfectly. Starting a very lucrative career in this first role is Courtney Gains as the deranged killer Malachai. His performance is probably the highlight of the film and is really the true villain since Franklin's character never actually performs any violence against anyone. It's a shame the character of Malachai didn't return in future installments and especially Gains in the role because he was awesome.There were a few things that really make me love this film. First of all the empty town...I love the whole isolation and wiped out apocalyptic feel and they do a good job with small shots of empty stores and such. I also think they do a terrific job with explosions in the film considering the special effects they use for 'He Who Walks Behind The Rows' is simply god awful period. It's terrible...one of the worst effects I've ever seen but it's tolerable since they don't use it a lot. Although apparently not it's original ending I really did like where they went with the ending because it breaks the mold of the typical slasher horror flick where you're practically guaranteed not all of the main characters will live and Children of The Corn actually gives you more of an action film type happy ending and I liked that. Regardless of what some think the film is a cult classic for a reason and I will always fondly remember it as one of my favorites. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Political Horror, Don't Be Mistaken","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie scared the crap out of me when my dad took me and my older sister to see this. I was only 5\6 when I saw this in the theater. Wow, this film scares me. Don't be confused though, this film has a lot of politics involved. For one, worry not about the communists but about the Christian religious extremists. What is the issue of the east coast city slicker with his unmarried companion going to Seattle but gets stuck in America's heartland. We are not stupid, there are clues that tell us there is more to this than a busy year in Linda Hamilton's life. Remember she starred in Terminator the same year. Many stars are in different films as precursors to big films such as terminator. It is no mistake that Arnold is the gov of the biggest richest state in the union. If you think I am crazy, send me money for help. If you think I'm brilliant, please send double than if you thought I was crazy, If you think I'm retarded, f++K off. Regards "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's  Stephen King adaptations","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn (1984) is a lame 80's horror film. One of the many stories of Stephen King's to be adapted for the silver screen during the 80's. Like many of them instead of making a movie solely based upon the written material, the film-makers decide to take only parts of the story branching out into something that barely resembles the original concept. Instead of a truly scary film about religion gone mad, we're treated to a very lame movie filled with a bunch of bad actors and a wretched script that only a mid-level hack could spew out.A yuppie couple traveling cross-country runs into a small farm town that's populated by a community of children all hopped up on religion. What will happen when the lovebirds come into town? Check it out for yourself! Sounds better than it really is.Recommended for true 80's nostalgia fans. "},{"Title":"4.7 something must be wrong","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is so original, only King could think of this.  An evil presence in the corn field affects all, but 2 of the children.  The town follows this evil creature.  Two adult drivers end up in this hidden town, and find it void of any adults.  This film is scary in a twisted way, a more scarier way than your usual horror movie, because of these children's twisted religion.   "},{"Title":"Corny King clunker.","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nearly everything that Stephen King has ever written seems to have been turned into a film or TV series; in fact, I'm surprised that no one has tried to make a mini-series from the guy's grocery list. Let's face it, if they did, it couldn't be any less interesting than Children of the Corn.Based on one of King's many short stories, this 1984 horror flick sees Linda Hamilton and Peter Horton playing a couple on a long car journey who run into a spot of bother when they chance upon the sleepy Nebraska town of Gatlin, where all of the adults have been murdered by children who worship an ancient evil that lurks in the corn fields.Although director Fritz Kiersch does manage to build a fair amount of atmosphere at the beginning (after Hamilton's silly song and dance, but before we get to meet the freakish Isaac, leader of the killer kids), he completely blows it with endless unexciting scenes in which Hamilton and Horton are hunted down by the town's homicidal half-pints. Courtney Gains, as violent redhead Malachai, manages to appear genuinely menacing, but the rest of the children are not the least bit threatening; as a result, many of the film's 'scary' moments fail to work. Towards the end of the film, when we finally get to see the malevolent force that inhabits the field surrounding Gatlin, the film descends into a glut of terrible 80s visual effects that probably looked pretty ropey almost 25 years ago, but look positively laughable nowadays.Children of the Corn might be of interest to King fans keen to see how the writer's work has been translated to the big screen, but your average horror-film fan will be most unimpressed. "},{"Title":"That's an hour and a half of my life WASTED!!!!!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't be mistaken, I haven't given this ANY stars!! Too bad the system doesn't let you go to 0, this deserves it!This movie is pathetically weak. Usually a Stephen King novel turned movie is very good. Carrie, The Shining, Misery, The Green Mile and Dolores Claiborne made extremely good movies. This is a load of pure CRAP!!! This is predictable, boring and uneventful. The story moves too fast, the acting is weak and the special effects are appalling. The classification is WAY too high in numerous countries. Their is very little blood or language to warrant an R rating. The only reason would be because of the child's death.King's short story is scary, dark and has a killer ending and the movie completely butchers it. Everything is toned down and cut out.I do NOT recommend this movie to ANYONE. Go watch some of the other Stephen King movies I mentioned, they are actually good!0/5. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen!","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Linda Hamilton.Horrible. Really bad acting. Really bad special(if you can call them that) effects and gore effects. Really ugly kids that make you want to puke. Really stupid premise. Really overlengthed(90 minutes is way to long for this one). No plot to speak of. No scares at all. Horrible scripted dialog(OMG how horrible can you get.) I would never recommend this stupid film to anyone. It was really, really bad. Horrible. I almost couldn't even finish it. I've seen at least a couple thousand pics, and this is the bottom of the barrel.I had to give it a one on the vote, but here I give it a-1/4 "}{"Title":"As bad as they come.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Children of the Corn is based on a Stephen King novel.  It has to be one of the worst of his adaptions, if not the very worst.  A patheticly acted, directed and shot film.  It is corny, boring, and cheap.  There are no effects and no real movie skills used to bring this movie to life.  I am baffled at how there are 5 sequels.  RANKING = 1 of 10 "},{"Title":"I know this is considered a classic, but I couldn't stop laughing","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm sorry, but for a movie that has been so stamped as a semi classic and a scary movie, but seriously, I think when the director has me laughing unintentionally, that's not a good thing. The characters in this film were just so over the top and unbelievable. I just couldn't stop laughing at Issac's voice, it was just like a high pitched whiny girl's British voice. Not to mention Malicai's over dramatic stick up his butt character.Children of the Corn is about a town where all the children have killed off the adults and worship a God that commands them to sacrifice any 20+ aged people. When a couple has a bad car accident they come to the town for help, but of course they get caught in the kid's trap and are getting sacrificed! But Malicai has other intentions when he is sick of following Issac's orders.Children of the Corn could've been something great, but turned into a bad over the top movie that you could easily make fun of. As much as I love Stephen King, I'm sure this is not what he intended and it was a pretty lame story, or at least the actors destroyed it. Like I said, for a good laugh, watch it, but I'm warning you, it's pretty pathetic.3/10 "},{"Title":"Gatlin! What? Do they have a monopoly on road signs? One of the better King adaptations? I think so...","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn starts in 'Gatlin, Nebraska Three Years Ago' where, suddenly & without warning, the town's children brutally kill all the adults seemingly orchestrated by a creepy young preacher boy named Isaac (John Franklin)... The film then switches to the 'Present Day' as lovers Burton Stanton (Peter Horton) & Vicky Baxter (Linda Hamilton) are on a long journey through the middle of nowhere when a teenage boy named Joseph (Jonas Marlowe) stumbles out into the road, Burt cannot stop in time & hits him head on. Burt & Vicky rush to help but find him already dead & even worse he has had his throat cut. They decide to head to the nearest town & report the incident, the nearest town being Gatlin. Once there they discover the place totally deserted, in a state of ruin & corn lying around everywhere. The also quickly discover that Isaac has created his own religious cult by convincing all the town's children to worship a god known as 'He Who Walk's Behind the Rows' where adults are offered as sacrifices. Isaac says that Burt & Vicky will do nicely, he sends the murderous Malachai (Courtney Gains) & the rest of the children to get them, however not all the children in Gatlin believe Isaac & young siblings Job (Robby Kiger) & Sarah (Anne Marie McEvoy) set out to try & help the stranded couple...Directed by Fritz Kiersch & despite it's bad reputation I actually rather liked Children of the Corn. The script by George Goldsmith is based on a short story (about 15 pages long) by Stephen King, although I have not read it so I cannot compare the two, & while it goes round in circles a bit I though it was effective enough. The film moves along at a nice pace although during the middle not much seems to happen & that's probably where the padding comes in to stretch the film out to 90 odd minutes. I really like the basic story of children turning against adults & setting up their own religion but the film doesn't go into much depth like for instance at the beginning when the children start to kill the adults I was asking myself what could a freaky looking kid say to everyone to get them to murder their parents, alas it is never explained. Neither do we actually get to see 'He Who Walk's Behind the Rows', I guess it's supposed to be some sort of demonic creature as it burrows under the ground. I did like how it builds up & tries to retain some mysterious elements & for some reason Children of the Corn is just one of those films that I enjoyed but don't quite know why, overall in my eyes it just added up to more than the sum of it's parts.Director Kiersch does a good job here & gives the film a great atmosphere of isolation & eeriness, there was just something about the whole idea & notion that unsettled me a little bit I mean any film that can make a corn field seem creepy is doing something right. While Children of the Corn doesn't have fantastic style to it there are some impressive scenes like the opening massacre, when Joesph is run down & it has that nice unique horror feel throughout & I especially like the shots of the children armed with various dangerous looking farming tools like hooks, scythes, pitchforks & machetes. Disappointingly the violence & gore is somewhat restrained with only a few slit throats, some splattered blood, a few stab & cut wounds & a rotten corpse.With a supposed budget of about $3,000,000 Children of the Corn is technically an accomplished film with good photography, decent enough special effects although don't expect the latest CGI & it has good solid production values throughout. A special mention for the music by Jonathan Elias which I found particularly good & moody. The acting is pretty good by everyone, Hamilton & Horton do OK & surprisingly the children didn't annoy me as much as child actors usually do & where did they find Malachai & Isaac? They are two freaky & creepy looking kids, well their adults now obviously.I liked Children of the Corn, it seems to get a lot of stick which I can understand I suppose but films are all about personal opinion & I'm going to stand by mine. I think it's definitely worth a watch & at least it's ten times better than the adaptation of King's Graveyard Shift (1990), isn't it? "},{"Title":"Beware of Dude Who Walks Behind The Rows...","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horror movies based on Stephen King's writings are often very overrated and especially the ones inspired by his short stories are difficult to endure. It's pretty logical, I suppose... King made it a SHORT story, so a long-feature film handling about the same matter is likely to be tedious! Children of the Corn is an excellent example to state this 'theory' the idea is good and the atmosphere is creepy but the script is far too weak to make the film memorable. Vicky and Burt are a young couple on their way to a new life when they're driving through the lonely state of Nebraska. They strand in the grisly town of Gatlin; a place where the children murdered all the adults and formed a satanical cult that gathers in the immense corn fields. The premise contains many good aspects, like the isolated filming location, the compelling musical score, the appellation of the supernatural 'evil' character (He Who Walks Behind The Rows) and the casting of the town's two main freak-boys Isaac (John Franklin) and Malachai (redhead Courtney Gains in his debut). But, regretfully enough, there are too many clichés and predictable twists that ruin everything! The cheap visual effects during the finale destroy all the suspense which was build up rather ingeniously.Children of the Corn certainly wasn't the first horror picture handling about murderous youngsters and by no means it is the best! In 1976, there was this creepy Spanish gem called Quién Puede Matar a un Niño, which easily qualifies as one of the most disturbing horror efforts ever made. The reason why this film is so successful compared to Children of the Corn is partly because of the evoked feelings of total hopelessness AND because it constantly remains unclear why the children suddenly became violent. "},{"Title":"Not really fast enough or anything interesting happening in this movie really.","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" More than halve of the Stephen King adaptations are really disappointing ones. As horror movies they are often lacking and the stories on the silver screen rarely work out as they were intended. Children of the Corn is one of those disappointing movies. It's nothing too horrible but it's all pretty standard stuff to watch.Thing about this movie is that it just never drags you into it. It's far from a compelling movie that just never succeeds at becoming an interesting one. It's because the storytelling is quite poor at times. The movie has far too many slow moments in it and really not a lot is ever happening in this movie. They could and should had really added some more suspension and action to the movie, in order to make it and its story work out more effectively. In the end we also still have no idea what was going on all in this movie. The story is even more of a mystery at the end than it was at the beginning. It explains absolutely nothing. The many sequels probably do but I don't think a whole lot of people will be interested in those movies anymore after seeing this one.The story and how certain characters react to the situations they are in are far from likely. This is something I often have problems with in Stephen King adaptations. They don't even seem scared or shocked at anything that happens in the movie.It's also pretty simple to me why this movie did not really work out as a creepy or atmospheric one. Blame it on the children. I'm sorry but having this many children as the evil ones in this movie is just not a scary thing. You're just never scared for any of those kids because well, no matter how you look at it they are still kids. Children of course also often are lacking the right acting skills to let their characters work out believable enough, as is the case in this movie.A movie that just doesn't work out too well.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Poor Adaptation","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Children of the Corn (1984) * 1/2 (out of 4) Peter Horton and Linda Hamilton play a couple driving through Nebraska on their way to a new job when they run over a child in the street. Turns out someone had already slashed his throat and soon the couple find themselves in a creepy town ran by satanic kids. The films taken from the work of Stephen King were always hit and miss but for some reason this one has become a cult favorite over the years. I'm really not sure why that is because I've always found this first entry to be rather boring, bland and at times rather laughably bad. I know it might be a sin for a viewer to put logic in a horror film because I'm sure 95% of them could be ripped to pieces if you did that. However, it's really impossible for me to overlook the logical problems here and a lot of these are the reason why the film doesn't work as well as it could have. I think the atmosphere is about right as we get that deserted town feel but very little is done with it. It seems like the director is stuck between a rock and a hard place as they want to go for creepy thrills but at the same time they're obligated to throw in cheap gore to please the slasher films of the time. In the end I think the film fails on both levels as its not scary and it's too slow to work in the slasher mode. Horton and Hamilton are decent, if nothing special while most of the kids come off quite annoying. To make matters worse, the screenplay has way too many loose ends, the music score is downright horrid and the special effects are eye opening bad. "}]