[{"Title":"Life-altering.  The greatest film of all time.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"188 out of 231 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film almost fifteen years ago and thought about almost nothing else for at least a month.  I have never seen a film before or since that presents the extremes of love, pain, and loss with such immediacy and ruthless candor.  Watching this film with openness, identifying with the characters, made me wince and writhe in sympathetic agony.  I didn't cry; rather, I was reminded of all the times I have wept in my life, and why.Perhaps each person person has a film -- usually a masterpiece -- which affects him or her so strongly that it is beyond description.  This is mine. "},{"Title":"Do I envy people who don't like this movie?","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"163 out of 201 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard for me to select just one movie as my very favorite, but if I had to, Paris, Texas would probably be it.As I recall, I first saw it while I was a student in a small theater in '84 or '85; a year or two later I recorded it from cable to Beta tape.  After not having watched it for years, I've played it again a few times over the last couple of years.  Many movies I recall having liked in the past are just big disappointments when I watch them years later.  That's not the case with this one!  Then I was single; now I'm married.  That alone makes a big difference, but I also find that even some small elements now have more meaning.  I previously attached no significance to the scene where Travis was determined to find the same rental car in which he and Walt had previously driven.  But how often people do sentimentally and fiercely cling to, objectively, unimportant things in reaction to having had their hearts and spirits broken more than a few times over important things.  I often recall this scene when observing some instance of this in myself or others.I am struck by what opposite opinions people have of this movie.  If you have few problems relating to other people, or you don't care much about relating to other humans, and little in your life disappoints you over long spells of your life, you will probably find this movie very boring. I sort of envy people in this situation, though before I would want to wish myself to be like that, I pause at how much my life would be changed and how little of my personality would be left, if I did.I, too, eagerly await the release of this movie on high quality DVD, and hope that my still barely viewable Beta will last til then.Oh, Travis.  "},{"Title":"Second American best film of the eighties","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"109 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It might seem odd to call this an American film, as its director, Wim Wenders is a German film director, who , unlike his predecessors, Lang, Murnau, Pabst, Von Sternberg , and Billy Wilder, has chosen to remain aloof from the Hollywood film industry. But Paris Texas is as much an  American film as Tocquevillle's Democracy in America is an American book. Sometimes it takes a foreigner ( In Wim Wenders' case, a foriegner who loves American music, American movies and American literature.) to look  into the American soul. In this case,it helps  that he is working with a great-and misunderstood- American  writer, Sam Shephard, and a great-and under appreciated- American actor, Harry Dean Stanton. I can not begin to convey who poetic, how haunting, and how beautiful this film is, and how artfully it probes the American heart. The scene where Stanton confronts his wife, and tells what he did and why he did it, must rank among the supreme scenes, not just of film, but of human life. It echoed  the great scenes of our literature, such as Ulysses meeting with Penelope, and the return of the prodigal son. In short, the only film which goes beyond it in the eighties is Raging Bull, and that is largely because of the volcanic power of Scorsese, that most self-crucifying of auteurs. in short, I would go so far as to say that Paris Texas is more than a ten'...Like Citizen Kane, like 2001, like Andrei Roublev, like Raging Bull , like the Searchers, like Pickpocket, Tokyo Story, Seven Samurai and Ordet,it is an ELEVEN. Sublime AND beautiful.   "},{"Title":"A tale of redemption","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"69 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris Texas is a slow, moody, and delicate study about a man who once ran away from everything and now is coming to terms with himself and learning to forgive himself, by finally facing he people he turned his back on. The Wim Wenders directed movie still today rests in a fairly under recognized status, which doesn't stretch the term cult classic when applied to it. Paris, Texas is about redemption, the road, family, and the bleakness of the American Southwest. It contains one of the most memorable and unusual openings ever. We hear Ry Cooder's lonely single note twangy guitar on the soundtrack with cinematographer Robby Müller (Barfly, To Live and Die in L.A. , Dead Man) capturing the majestic vistas, rock formations, and the open desert in his camera. Actor Harry Dean Stanton walks out of the dry and desolate landscape, wearing a wornout black sports jacket and dusty red baseball cap. It's a beautifully staged opening sequence. A perfect start to a perfect movie. This man is lost and in need of being found. It's his brother played by actor Dean Stockwell (Quantum Leap, Blue Velvet) who gets word of Stanton's whereabouts and goes after him, which begins the journey of redemption. Nastassja Kinski plays Stanton's young x-wife and the true love of his life. Kinski, the daughter of legendary German actor Klaus Kinski, doesn't make her entrance into the film until the later reels, but her lingering presence is felt throughout. It's almost the same type of thing that Coppola did by not having Brando appear in Apocalypse Now until the conclusion. The scenes that Kinski does have in the end with Stanton are some of the best moments ever captured on film. They're highly emotional and will cause even the most hard-hearted to shed a tear. Both Stanton and Kinski are very subtle and understated in their acting. It's true to their characters. Eight year old Hunter Carson plays Stanton's biological son, who was raised by his uncle (Stockwell). Carson certainly deserves mention in any conversation about great child performances on film. Paris, Texas is a masterpiece. There's no way around it. It's a movie that slowly reveals itself putting the audience right in the shoes of Stanton, who also is trying to remember his past and face it. The story was penned by playwright and actor Sam Shepard, though he doesn't appear in the film. Shepard, a very good playwright, has outdone himself with Paris, Texas surpassing his perhaps more well known, True West. Paris, Texas is a film that must not only be seen, but experienced. Sure the pacing is extremely slow, but as an audience member, use that to your advantage to suck in the picturesque orange southwest desert against the deep blue skys, and the poignant acting, and haunting soundtrack. There's no reason not to treat yourself to this uniquely American masterpiece meditation. It would make a great nightcap for a triple feature with two other simular themed American films, The Searchers and Taxi Driver. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Anti-Romance.","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would say that Paris, Texas is not for everyone, but, truly, that can be said about every movie. But I will say this fans of methodically paced, beautifully shot, existentially rooted, and purely experiential cinema will not be disappointed. Paris, Texas is virtually my favorite movie, and a movie that, whether you like it or not, will leave some impact on you. It is a journey, an experience, an odyssey. Yes, it is long. Yes, it is slow. Defined plot points? Please.But what this movie does do is place into the mind of it's lead character. Travis Henderson, an older man, gruff and worn out with age, wanders out of the Texas desert after missing from his family for four years. He is mute, and apparently unaware of who he is. His brother Walt finds him, and tries to rehabilitate him back into sanity. The film then covers Travis's journey to reconnect with a past which he has long since forgotten. He reunites with his son, his sister in-law, and eventually, in a scene which I tear up just thinking about, his wife.But that is all I will divulge about his wife. That is a scene which you really have to see to believe. While this film really doesn't rely on plot, it does have structure and tone. And what carries us through this mystical story is the unbelievably beautiful photography. We see the world as it should be seen a starkly beautiful, but uncompromising, place. The use of color and motifs really makes this film a marvel to look at. And then we get to performances. Everyone's great, so I will focus on our two truly main characters. Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis, a gentle, kind man, that, despite having personal demons, is a great fatherly figure (fine, maybe he isn't the best father...but there's no denying he left an impact on his son's life). And seeing Stanton bring this character to life in the most subtle and somber way possible is amazing. And then we have Natassja Kinski, who plays Jane, his wife. She doesn't show up until the third act, and 95% percent of her performance takes place in one room. But Kinski's portrayal of emotion...and her quiet, yet powerful demeanor...and the way she talks...god, it's unbelievable. Stanton and Kinski have some of the best chemistry ever, which is even more impressive considering they're never in the same room (see the movie...you'll understand). In the end, these two carry the movie on their backs, and do an amazing job doing it.You may not cry, but you will think about crying. You will think about all the sad moments in your life. And it will all be washed out of you by movie's end. Believe me, I know this from personal experience. This movie is almost therapeutic in the way. Because the story is healing our own souls at the same time as it is healing Travis's. So. What's more to say about Paris, Texas? It's a beautiful movie, one that relies on photography and performances to tell it's story, and a movie that portrays emotions on a master class level. And what do I mean by 'Anti-Romance'? It's not worth explaining here. See the movie, you'll understand. "},{"Title":"Unique portrait at family life in early 'eighties America.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"46 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paris, Texas is by far one of the best films ever made. It's a well-photographed film; it's almost like a portrait. In the center you have the characters Travis, Walt, Hunter, Jane, and Anne; and all around them you see the desert and the empty space and the places they inhabit. The major characters are all memorable, especially Harry Dean Stanton as Travis and Dean Stockwell as Walt.The film is about reunion. The first third of the film, dealing with the reunion of brothers Travis and Walt in the Texas desert, is both very touching and very real. You can sense the frustration on Walt's face when Travis doesn't want to talk to him about anything, and throughout the road trip, you begin to get more interested in Travis' ramblings to Walt about Paris, Texas. The second third deals with the reunion of Travis with his son, Hunter, and, to a lesser extent, since he's only been gone for less than a week, the reunion of Walt with his wife Anna and Hunter. This is by far my favorite part of the film, because it shows a young boy (Hunter) trying to readjust after his father returns after a four-year absence. Hunter (by the way, he's a great actor) is nice to Travis at first, but refuses to walk home from school with him because Everyone drives. The fact that director Wim Wenders focuses on this little portion of the film shows true family life--it expands the little sin that Hunter has done. This event sets up perhaps my favorite scene in any film Hunter and Travis walking home together--on opposite sides of the street--with the boy mimicking the movements of his real father. In the following scene I'm touched because the neighborhood reminds me of home--Hunter stops and allows his father to cross the street to join him. There is also a scene (also with no dialogue) that deserves mention--the family watching Super 8mm film of a family fishing trip. Here we see Jane for the first time (a beauty), and we get a portrait of the happy family while the film plays background music for us. It's a wonderful scene that's executed beautifully. The film of the fishing trip allows Hunter to make an observation to Anne about his father--he sees by the way Travis looked at Jane that Travis still loves her very much.The last third of the film comes as a real shock, and I won't spoil it for anyone because this third of the film is what made me REALLY love the entire film. The sequence of events in the final third actually came out of left field, because I was never really expecting that. You should have figured out, though, that there is a reunion between Travis and his estranged wife, Jane. Harry Dean Stanton's monologue is perhaps one of the best ever caught on film. It's really long but you hear every word and every pause. And what I like about that particular scene is the lighting--notice how the sunlight comes in through the window in Jane's room, and suddenly near the end you realize that it's been artificial light after all. There is a similar lighting effect in A Clockwork Orange--during Alex's chat with F. Alexander and his two co-conspirators over wine and spaghetti.Overall, Paris, Texas is a great film that should be noted both for its photography and for its realistic look at family life. These are people who are a real family--opinionated, angry, happy, sad, melodramatic, judgmental, high-strung, incommunicado, etc. They refuse sometimes to admit their true feelings and that is exactly what makes a family a family sometimes, the fact that you can't say what you really want to say at a certain time.This is the kind of film directors really want to make--small, realistic, poignant...and with zero special effects. "},{"Title":"Slow paced film of cinematic excellence","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a classic in my opinion.  The story is very strongly influenced by its writer's, Sam Shepard, exploration of the human condition.  The film is not for everyone.  Wim Wenders paces the storyline accordingly to the psyche and struggle of the main character, and the concept of searching for answers to his natural state of mind by returning to the place of his conception is a well thought out and intriguing premise for this film.I have seen this film more than seven times, and love the slow pace because it allows me to be drawn into that world completely and really have the chance to get to know each character.  Recommended to anyone with an interest in psychology, cinematography, Sam Shepard's style of story-telling, and movies that walk to their own beat.  Natascha Kinski and Stanton are excellent.I give it 8 stars (9 if they would release it letterboxed on DVD) "},{"Title":"A European View Of America","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"57 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At face value, the screen story, about a dysfunctional family, is weak. The plot is not really credible. The lead character (Travis) is an older man who in the first ten minutes of the film wonders alone in the desert like a horse with no name, seemingly suffering from severe trauma. But Travis' later behavior and the behavior of other characters in the film are not believable, given this opening gambit.However, if we discard our need to interpret behavior rationally, then the film works, either as a dream or, more generically, as a parable of modern day America, from the viewpoint of a European film director. The characters and their journey through the film's story are symbolic of American culture as a whole, with its ever-present loneliness, urban alienation, emotional separation, and general rootlessness.The film's visuals and music combine to prop up the thin story, and give the film its enduring cultural theme. Cinematographer Robby Muller's images are stunning. His location shots both in the desert and in the urban jungle, using polarizing filters, are works of true photographic art. The images, with their florescent greens, reds, blues, and yellows in dim light are just terrific. More than any dialogue could, these visuals effectively convey the loneliness, alienation, and lost love that are so characteristically American. And Ry Cooder's simple but haunting Tex-Mex guitar sounds amplify this grim mood.The film's main flaw is its length. With a runtime of 150 minutes, some parts of the film could have been edited out, without loss of the film's message.Paris, Texas is a memorable art house film about the modern American experience. Like other art house films, the story is not necessarily to be taken literally. Instead, the story provides narrative support for the visuals, the music, and other film elements, the combination of which imparts some broader or deeper social message than could be conveyed by story alone. "},{"Title":"Starring the landscape...","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I felt so tired of all those comments saying how beautiful the photography is or, for those who havent enjoyed the film, how the photography isnt enough to sustain the whole silentness of the first 2/3 of the movie.It just sounds like a hollow praise for a hollow minded cute, blonde and gorgeous girl. In fact, it is an offense.For a director that first was inspired by images and then looked for stories to fill them and give them reasons to be released as films (he says this in a book). Wenders achieves his high technical and vision point concerning his way of thinking, not just film but life in this masterpiece.He had before discussed the production of images and how this affects our way of seeing and perceiving life. But in Paris, Texas the image, the landscapes really becomes a character, not just to give a good photography and make those 2 1/2 hours that the movie lasts oh!!, so beatiful to watch!!, or to make us get in its atmosphere... The landscapes are so important as the words, or actions, between the characters are, it really touches people surrounded by it, it influences some how their personalities. I mean, each photograme tries to bring this relation.It is beautiful how Wenders can build his caracters personalities, not by the way they think or act, but what impresses them, what visually interests them - like when Travis is watching not the airplane, but its shadow on the ground while it takes off.After all that, i can just say that the rest of the whole story is made by really beautiful, touching and delicate situations of a man's life trying to reorder the lost pieces from a puzzle.And, yes, the conversation between Travis and his ex-wife by the last half hour to the end is one of the most touching moments seen on the screen. "},{"Title":"An experience not to be missed","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"41 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Moody, slow, absorbing, you lose yourself in this 'love lost' and in many ways tragic story. This film was probably an early warning to us all of how life can easily overwhelm without us realising it. It is also virtually unique in the successful portrayal of a man who is deeply lost in his innermost thoughts that the outside world becomes almost a minutiae. Mr Stanton encapsulates this mood perfectly and this is probably his best performance ever. The most moving scene (and there are many) might be when he reviews some old cine film of his life (a normal happy love story which surely could not have gone wrong so badly)before he walked away from it all. I can't help but think this is a real life epistle which could be a marker for how life has overtaken the human race in the last 20 years. "}{"Title":"The Continued Development of the Dark Romance with Cinema","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by cinematic lyricist Wim Wenders, Paris, Texas is a slow-burning masterpiece. Marked at first by stark, beautiful photography of the American Southwest, later by memorable dialogue and conversational intercourse, and lastly by sublime and emotionally involving character development, the film transcends the idea of an atmospheric mood piece to deliver an engrossing meditation on loneliness, alienation, family, and redemption.Character actor Harry Dean Stanton is fantastic in the lead role of Travis -- a man who had fallen into an emotional black hole and is then reunited with his brother (Dean Stockwell), who has been raising Travis' young son, Hunter (Hunter Carson), in an idyllic and loving suburban landscape with his foreign wife, Ann (Aurore Clement). As Travis slowly begins to grapple with his past and bond with his son, he soon realizes he must find his long, lost wife, Jane (an excellent and understated Nastassja Kinksi), whom he still deeply loves on some level, and abandoned their son years ago shortly after Travis went off the deep end.This all could've been the plot of Lifetime TV movie, but the European filmmaker's perspective on an all American slice of melodrama adds an undercurrent of intrigue in that you never know what these characters are going to do next. We soon find Travis practically abducting his son (who eagerly plays along) from his happy new family life to go on a trek to Houston to find Jane.The closing in scene in a Houston hotel where son and mother are reunited is one of the most fascinatingly rich scenes ever put on screen. Rarely does any one scene work to engage a viewer on so many levels Firstly There is a complex psychological framework that is set into place in the scenes prior between Stanton and Kinski in the peep show booth where she now works which are two of the most expertly photographed and brilliantly acted scenes I've ever witnessed. Travis has confessed all to his lost love, Jane, and she is clearly in dire straits. His attempt to reunite her with their son is both selfish (in that it is clearly not in the child's best interest to be raised by his emotionally troubled mother when he has loving foster parents waiting for him back home) and selfless, in that he truly feels his only way to repair the damage he has done is to leave after getting mother and son back together.Secondly It is beautifully acted with Kinski's ghost-like entrance and young Hunter Carson's trepidation. Witness his hand slide across the wall looking for something to grip, and then his hands running through his hair before he finally decides to embrace her.Thirdly It is exquisitely photographed. Earlier we see scenes of stark isolation as the child waits in the hotel room. Sofia Coppola later used a similar photographic technique in Lost in Translation to show how being alone in a big city and looking down from an anonymous hotel room window can be one of the loneliest things in the world.The final scene is both beautiful and emotional, and at the same time makes the viewer wonder, how will this all end? Yes, it is wonderful to see the child and mother reunite, but their new life could easily turn into an emotional hell because of the now absent Travis' misguided attempt at his own redemption.A film working on so many levels like this is best summed up in its own dialogue. In one scene where Travis is drunk and telling his son some family history, he essentially says that his father was more in love with an idea of her than with his actual mother. This is a fantastic movie for people more in love with the romantic idea of movies and their potential power as an art form than with any one movie in particular. As such, this ranks among the best I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A great film about love lost","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time that I saw this movie, it didn't really have an impact on me. I think that this was because I wasn't giving it my full attention. But the few times that I have seen it since it has made deep impressions on me that only a few films have done. Harry Dean Stanton's performance should be ranked among the great performances of all time in the movies. He doesn't have to say much in the first half of the film but the expressions on his face tell us he is in pain, almost like his soul has been ripped from his body. But we only find out later the reason for this.(Spoilers) Travis (Stanton) we find is suffering from guilt and the pain of losing the things in life that he loved the most. Most men that have loved will see part of themselves in Travis' stories of how jealousy drove him to not let his wife out of his sight, but we don't take it as far as Travis, drink drove his jealousy to new heights. Even though some of his stories would appall us, now we have seen how he destroyed his life, or the drink destroyed him, we now feel sorry for him. The two monologues with Jane are, in my opinion, two scenes that will stay with every viewer for a long time. Travis cannot even look at Jane because it would cause him too much pain and break him even further. But before he leaves Jane he needs to tell her why he did the things to her that he did, only then could Travis find some peace and maybe regain a part of the soul that he lost.Like John Wayne in The Searchers Travis realises at the end of the film that he has to go and leave alone, that he ruined his chance of a happy life with Hunter and Jane, or he realised that he could never be happy with her, for the intense love that he felt for Jane would always bring jealousy and suspicion would that would always be at the front of his mind.The music also deserve a mention. The southern, bluesy slide guitar by Ry Cooder is so simple but so effective in adding to the lazy pace of the movie. "},{"Title":"bleak and brilliant look at a man from the inside out","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Harry Dean Stanton gives the performance of his life in this stunning and bleak journey into a mans soul and whats left when everything thats ever mattered is gone! yes it really is that desolate as stanton creates a feeling of utter  loneliness and reaches out to the audience with what can only be described as inner pain, as the film unfolds the story of how he came to be so alone and why he in fact wanted this isolation is told intelligently and sensitively, Natassa Kinski, is excellent in an understated role as stantons estranged lover, the  film  might  be  seen as a  downer  by  some  but  it  ends  in  hope  as stanton  faces  his demons, and the son that stanton had in his relationship with kinski is reunited with his mother, if this had been  made  in  the  usa  i  fear it would  have ended up  being a terribly corny affair, but wenders brilliant direction and the haunting soundtrack by rye cooder make it a must see for any leonard cohen devotee) "},{"Title":"Despair and desire in the desert","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Throughout the entirety of Paris, Texas's two-and-a-half-hour running time (and not one minute of it wasted), it's nearly impossible to take your eyes off Harry Dean Stanton. When he first appears, he's animalistic, not talking, motivated only by his strange, unreadable desires. Later on he starts talking and starts having more conventional desires, but there's always that wild, uncertain edge to his performance, so that there's always a step remove between us and him. His Travis is a dangerous character, as much for the audience as the other characters. He's entranced by spectacle -- the vast emptiness of the Texas horizon, the story of his own conception, the falsity of a peep show, the million artificial lights of Los Angeles, and the obsession that gives the film its name, the story of his conception in a fake Paris. He tries, but is ultimately unable to deal with the reality of his actions, and in the end is reduced to passively watching a spectacle again, seeing his son end ex-wife embrace from a distance.Travis's brother Walt seems to be the opposition to his wild ways, someone the audience can relate to in their attempts to deal with the strangeness of Travis. But Walt also lives in a world trapped by images he creates billboards, simulacra if there ever were any, and creates a model family that is ultimately an untenable attempt at playing house (his wife is notably French, tying in his obsessions to Travis's). We are presented with two quintessential American images the warm suburban nuclear family and the rugged loner prowling the frontier, but both are illusions and both bring only suffering.All of this is to say nothing of the technical excellence of Paris, Texas the gorgeous cinematography, the note-perfect acting from not just Stanton but the rest of the cast as well, those two heartbreaking long scenes near the end... but all of this is also spectacle, and at the same time the film is drawing us in with its execution it's warning us of the dangers of the seductive image. My favourite films are, for the most part, films that are at least in part about the act of watching. Paris, Texas falls into these two overlapping categories neatly. "},{"Title":"Bound for a ticket without a train","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of two films by Wim Wenders that focuses on a child. Alice in the Cities, the earlier film, focused on the relationship of a young child with a depressed wanderer, but Paris, Texas is more about the wanderer himself. This time, he (played by Harry Dean Stanton) is more than just lost, having gone into the wilderness in an apparent amnesiac stupor. He is found by his brother (Dean Stockwell), who brings him somewhat back to reality. The kid (Hunter Carson) is a central, meaningful key bringing everything together. He is the innocent victim of a confusing circle of jealously and violence that only becomes clear in the final scenes of the film.Paris, Texas is a quiet, quiet film. Sam Shepard wrote a script that is more about actions than dialogue, which makes it all the more curious that the final twenty-some minutes of the film feature little but conversation. The final scene between Harry Dean Stanton and Nastassja Kinski drags on into the heart of darkness, the deeply painful memories of two terribly broken individuals and how they go on with life. This isn't a quick interaction that draws tears to the surface and lets you continue with your life. It dives in deep and doesn't come up for air until every last inch of emotion is pulled to the surface.Robby Müller, the cinematographer who worked with Wenders on many of his films, helps to make Paris, Texas one of the most breathtakingly beautiful visual experiences ever. The colours are so vibrant yet stunningly realistic. For all of its emotional depth, this is a thing of great surface beauty. Inside and out, it is achingly powerful film. "},{"Title":"Bleak Brilliance","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is so much to say about this film that saying anything at all would undermine it. I haven't met anyone who wasn't proufoundly touched by the humanity director Wim Wenders and his amazing team captures. I'll go a step farther and say that this film is, to me, what America is all about; that is, the Johnny Cash kind of America of hidden pasts, broken hearts, and tiny moments of redemption. Wim Wenders obsession with the American West is apparent in the bleak cinematography and simple yet effective dialogue. A German doctor and French wife infuse a curious European mix that is markedly congrous with the universality of the story. I am madly in love with this film. You don't hear much about it except in certain independent film circles, but I believe it is one of the most effective English language films next to Citizen Kane and Midnight Cowboy. "},{"Title":"Very slow but beautifully shot, excellently scored and builds well to a good ending (spoilers)","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Presumed dead having gone missing over four years ago, Travis arrives in a small desert town &#150; thirsty and mute and passing out on the floor. A doctor identifies him and contacts Travis' brother, Walt, who makes the trip to collect his dead brother and bring him back home. Walt also brings bad news &#150; he has been raising Travis' son (Hunter) as his own since he was dumped on his doorstep by Travis' wife Jane &#150; who then just disappeared herself. Trying desperately to build a relationship with his son, Travis also decides to track down Jane and make his family whole again.Over the years this film seems to have grown in stature and reputation, partly because it is perhaps not as widely seen as it once was. For that reason I made sure I watched it when I got the chance recently and was struck immediately by one of the main reasons that I kept watching the film at times, that being the blend of beautiful visuals and haunting score. Normally films that have weak narrative will not suck me in but strong visual style (isn't that what the complaint about most summer blockbusters is?) however the striking look to the first parts of the film really drew me into it even when the plot did not. As everyone else in the world says, Ry Cooder's score was very well used and that's all I'll say on that issue since too many reviews seem to focus on this as if it were the most important part of the film.The plot is, lets be honest, very slowly delivered &#150; painfully slow at times; but yet it managed to fill almost 2½ hours quite easily and surprised me by how it suddenly became an impressive film when, for large sections of it, I felt left out, disinterested and distracted. Of course many younger viewers may not make it that far because it is very slow at times and this will put many off before it gets better. It does build well and it is really with the scenes between Travis and Jane that the film is at its strongest; I'm sure others have different interpretations but I do like to think that Travis was dead and only returned to reunite his family &#150; whether dead to them or really dead is another matter but the ending was nicely low key and lacking the sickly sentiment that could have killed it. The cast are a big reason this works because many of them do play really well. Stanton is great and he does tend to steal the film from those around him &#150; whether mute or unseen behind mirrored glass. He is excellent in his scenes with Kinski, who more than holds her own in a smaller role. Stockwell is good in support and Carson turns in a likable performance that pretty much manages to avoid cute kid destruction.Overall this is not a perfect film and many viewers coming to it on the back of its reputation may struggle to stay with a plot that develops very slowly indeed without a great deal of explanation. The acting is good, the score is very well used while the direction and cinematography is close to mesmerising at times. The script does deliver but I was never totally into it until the final third; fortunately at this point things become much clearer and much more interesting and, despite taking an age to get anywhere, I was ultimately glad that I had watched it and had enjoyed the total film more than I had enjoyed individual moments of it. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, searingly emotional examination of relationships and life","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A brilliant, searingly emotional examination of relationships and life.A man stumbles out of the desert in southern Texas. He appears to be mute, and doesn't respond to questions. The hospital he ends up in calls his brother in California, who comes to take him back to LA. His brother hasn't seen him in four years. What caused him to be catatonic and wandering around in the desert?Directed by Wim Wenders, Paris, Texas is an incredibly emotional journey, with a great deal of mystery attached too. Wenders drip- feeds information, slowly building a picture of the characters and their stories. The dialogue is rich with symbolism and allegories, giving hints to characters' situations...and lessons in life.The air of mystery and emotion is heightened by hauntingly desolate yet beautiful scenery and cinematography and a superb soundtrack by Ry Cooder.The conclusion is incredibly moving - one of the most emotional passages in any movie I've ever seen, and is a great insight into the pressures on modern relationships.Might feel slow sometimes but it is never dull, especially if you like character-driven dramas, and the ending is well worth the wait. "},{"Title":"The 3rd greatest film of all time.","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What is it, where is it, how will it affect me? A man stumbles out of a desert after 4 years gone missing, and travels back to Los Angeles with his brother to reunite him with his son, before leaving again to find his past lover and the mother of his son. Behind its endlessly clever jiving title lies a totally complete, sentimental and sophisticated work. Seeing Paris, Texas through developed, hardened and scarred eyes is just as poignant as when it splashes over the tabula rasa mind of a supple and innocent child. One of the most wondrous aspects of this film is how Wim Wenders sets off from Europe to the south-west and immediately captures its natural beauty. I remember the opening shot well. When I sat down to watch Paris, Texas, aged 12 or so, my dad came in and said Oh that's a great film. But you have to turn up the volume (on the tiny TV). You can't watch a film with that good a soundtrack with the volume that quiet. What follows has become a very personally affecting journey. Analytically, Paris, Texas bears no fruits of profound wisdom or revelations, but then it never sets out to. I'm drawn powerlessly to the way that Wenders treats movement as a completely different entity throughout Paris, Texas, changing his cinematographic aura and mood whenever the characters in focus are travelling, seeking panning shots of everything that the non-studio surrounding has to offer the lens neon, alien landforms, concrete, scrap metal, cars and interchanges, all with the blissful haunting and chilling score by Ry Cooder truly one of the most masterful pieces of music ever written. However, when the characters are still in monologue, in deep conversation, or in thought, the tempo and mood instantly change. Such chameleon-like versatility is immensely impressive, regardless of its content. Taking my two favourite scenes in the film starting with movement the protagonist, a closed and intriguing man that silently infatuates the audience from the very beginning, crosses a bridge over a freeway whilst a deranged man screams rapturous gospel in a piercing, timeless voice, whilst Cooder's slide guitar becomes agitated, and Wenders' camera sticks tightly to the protagonist's steps. I read a conversation with the actor who played he who is dubbed Paris, Texas's 'screaming man', and he told me most of the scene was adlibbed. I like that. Don't you? By contrast, the film's climax, its most hailed stationary scene, begins with the protagonist walking through a club, draped in a low and fuzzy light, to a booth, where his past lover comes to join him, unaware of who she is talking to. Her (Natasha Kinskji) and him (Harry-Dead Stanton) play out an overwhelmingly intimate and emotionally power screenplay, whilst the camera doesn't move a muscle. Preamble over the point I'm getting it as that most scenes in Paris Texas are like this. They're ridden with charm and accessibility whilst still managing to be of breathtaking aesthetic beauty. "},{"Title":"Paris,Texas. WIM WENDERS MASTERPIECE!","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all i just want to say WOW,what a great movie. I,ve seen a lot of them and this one just blew my mind completely. The beginning is a marvelous opening with Ry Cooder's wonderful blues guitar (it is one of the best soundtrack's iv'e ever heard). And who's that? Well if it isn't the presence of Harry Dean Stanton in his best role to this day(the performance is really captivating),as he wanders to the path of nothing in the lonely desert. He soon makes his way in to a bar and passes out,and thats when the movie begins if you know what i mean. The man we just saw has no name,no past,nothing. Soon the doctor that takes him in finds a number which is his brother(Dean Stockwell). The brother rushes down to the deserts of Texas and finds a hurting and scarred man with no life in him. One of the many brilliant things about this movie is that Stanton doesn't say a word until 20 minutes in to this film,and you get to do some real character study of him in this time. We soon find out Stanton has a son and that his brother has taken care of him for the years Stanton's been gone. When they arrive to LA,many things happen very quickly for Stanton. He meets the son that doesn't remember him(Hunter Carson),Stockwells wife(Aurore Clement in one of her best roles,i haven't seen her in much,and she deserves more,because she is a very good actor) and later,when they see film clips,we find out that Stanton also has a long lost wife in which he remembers. But Carson and Stanton really hit it off as father and son in a memorable 3 minutes where Stanton jokes around with the Son. Stanton is determined to find the wife but only hear rumors of where she is which is that she is working in Houston.Pretty shockingly,Stanton and Carson make there way to Houston without telling Stockwell or Clement. The finest scene of ALL,is when Stanton finds The wife(Nastassja Kinski in such a gripping and flawless performance that makes this movie a masterpiece). There is a long talk with the two of them that you just can't explain on a computer,and the tension is marvelous. The ending is just to good to be true and you can really see that Wim Wenders has put a lot of work in this movie. And yes i started crying. A LOT. Please see this movie. Everything about it is great,the cinematography,the acting,the soundtrack,the melancholic thing about it.It is really worth it. "}{"Title":"Green Grow the Rushes","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas is almost too beautiful for words - a sublime poem of love, loneliness, loss, alienation & redemption. Superbly acted by Harry Dean Stanton, Nastassja Kinski, Hunter Carson, Aurore Clement and Dean Stockwell; written by Sam Shepard and L.M. Kit Carson, and directed by Wim Wenders (Wings of Desire), this is one of the best films of the 80's and, well, of all-time.Well-deserved winner of the Golden Palm at Cannes '84, the story of Travis Henderson (probably the best performance of Harry Dean Stanton's long, underrated career - the man's a real American treasure, yet is never mentioned in most Great Actors' list) and his little son, Hunter (Hunter Carson), as they hit the road looking for their ex-wife/mother (Nastassja Kinski), respectively, paints a picture of tortured lives in southwest America. The feeling of the very German Wenders's narrative, though, is universal. I'd compare it to the fantastic Taiwanese Ang Lee's vision of America in masterpieces such as The Ice Storm and Brokeback Mountain. Ry Cooder's score is also spotless and helps create the perfect mood for the story. A film to be seen over and over again. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film left me totally stunned in the cinema. I really felt like I had cried through large parts of the film because it was so gripping.In my opinion it features some of the best photography ever in filmmaking with long lasting shots on the huge landscapes that the poor characters wander around in. The music by Ry Cooder is simply perfect, it gives you a wonderful feeling of melancholy (which I think could be the word that really describes this film).Paris Texas is very slow paced. I remember sitting in the chair in the cinema, thinking what would happen next. And every time I thought that I knew what Wenders was up to - he did exactly the opposite. I loved it every time, it felt as if the director was reading my thoughts - or at least, knows how an ordinary film is usually set - and since he makes quite the opposite - I dare call the film extraordinary.It would be interesting to know if others who have seen this film also are buffs of Dr. Zhivago because these two films have a lot in common. (Yes, I like it! -)This is a film I saw in 1994. I still haven't seen anything better and I doubt very much that I will. "},{"Title":"Patient Viewers in for a Beautiful Treat...Unique Movie-Going Experience","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The American Southwest and the suburbs of Los Angeles are the Beautiful backdrop of this Contemplation by acclaimed Director Wim Wenders. It's Minimalist Script and Story are rendered Masterfully. There isn't a False Note from the Actors and Ry Cooder's sliding Score is superb. The Cinematography is at times Breathtaking and Glows gloriously, awash in an amazing display of Soft toned Colors.The Film's Detractors are all over it because of its Length and Simple Story, Long Scenes of Dialog Pausing, and Pacing that is nothing less than long Stretches that are meant to be Thoughtful and Thrive on Gazing.It is Harry Dean Stanton's Film as He center Cuts the Story suffering from slight Dementia and OCD. But the support from Dean Stockwell and then Nastassja Kinski are Remarkable. Child Actor Hunter Carson in a Debut that is Intelligent and softly Underplayed. Aurore Clément as Stockwell's Wife has the least impact but manages a Small Heartfelt Part.Overall, it is an Art Film for sure. A European Eying America up Close and is Not a Movie that Everyone will Enjoy. It is Longer than most, Slower than most, and the Story is Less Extravagant than most. Patient Viewers are in for a Treat as the Movie Methodically unfolds an utterly Unique Experience in Movie-Going. "},{"Title":"Excellent and potent tale of loss","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas is my first ever taste of acclaimed director Wim Wenders, and while the film isn't exactly sweet; it's certainly not bitter enough to steer itself away from the realms of the masterpiece. Paris, Texas is very much a character driven story and it follows the account of a man that wanders out of the hot desert sun with an acute case of amnesia. When his brother, Walt, finds him, he helps him to remember his life, and we then watch as our protagonist rekindles his former relationships first with son, and then with the mother of his child. Wim Wenders handles this story with the utmost skill, and it works thanks to the tentative way that he portrays the characters to the audience. Just like the town of it's title; Paris, Texas is basically a film about being lost. I (and I'm sure many other people) didn't even realise that there was a place called Paris in the middle of Texas, and this little place is symbolic of the substance that is at the core of this movie.The film doesn't benefit from any big name actors, but the actors in the movie do give it their all and ensure that it doesn't fall down on the acting side. Harry Dean Stanton takes the lead role, and does a good job in, at first, portraying a man consumed with amnesia; and then consumed with the time he has lost. Nastassja Kinski is the only member of the cast that has a really notable list of film credits other than this movie, but ironically she has the least screen time of the five leads. Every minute she is on screen is a delight, however, and she lights up the screen with both of her talents; looks and acting ability. The young Hunter Carson gives a rare child performance; i.e. one that isn't incredibly annoying, but strangely he didn't appear in very many movies after this one. The climax to the tale is more than satisfying, and is easily one of the most haunting and potent I've ever seen in a film. Wenders shows his talent with both the execution and the implications of it, and it's a satisfying end to a very satisfying movie. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Broken hearts walking the tightrope.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No one knows better than we do how difficult it is to fix past mistakes.However, with determination anything it is possible, and what seemed hopeless, turns out a possibility.When i saw Travis, looking like a beggar in the desert, I could not imagine the reasons for their appearance. However, we all have a story, a past. The way in which the film develops the outcome is extremely intelligent, and it's like reality itself. This is why the film is moving and intense, despite of it's apparent lack of pace.8/10 "},{"Title":"Just great!","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If action movies are your thing, you'd probably best steer clear of this one.This is a wonderful poignant story of a failed relationship and human flaws re-lived in hindsight. It is a bit of an art-house movie that won't appeal to the masses. But for those of you who like a movie to slowly unfold and tell a simple story in a tender way, you will love it. The movie cleverly allows the audience to absorb the story at their own pace.I re-visit this movie every few years and it still evokes tremendous emotion for me. The one scene where they are talking through one-way glass and their heads appear as one is one of the most beautiful cinematographic images ever seen. The way the two characters talk about their failed relationship in hindsight is just heart-wrenching. Have a box of tissues handy - you'll need them! There's a lot of raw emotion and a young child involved. The re-born relationship between father and son is delightful - maybe not very realistic, but that doesn't matter!! This is my idea of a great movie!! "},{"Title":"A heartbreaking and emotional triumph","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders' Paris, Texas is one of the best movies that I have seen in along time, as well as being one of the most heartbreaking. The movie tells the extraordinary story about a man named Travis (played by Harry Dean Stanton who gives the finest performance of his career) who is nowhere to be found for 4 years until his brother Walter (played by Dean Stockwell) finds him and takes him home with back to Los Angeles where he encounters his sister in law Anne (played by Aurore Clement), and Travis's son Hunter (played by Hunter Carson). Then after a few days Travis and Hunter spend a lot of time together, and then start heading down to Texas to find Travis's wife and Hunter's mother Jane (played by Natassja Kinski).This movie is not only heartbreaking it is also heartwarming, the movie is one of the best road trip movies that I have seen in along time including Rain Man (1988), and Nebraska (2013, especially for that reason because of the wonderful screenplay by Sam Shepard. But in the end I really do think this movie is for everyone to watch depending if you really want to see it or not, it also depends on what type of genre you like for movies. "},{"Title":"An American Movie Directed By A German Director","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas is a slow-paced movie which does not have a lot of dialogue for much of the film. However, silence is a powerful tool. The cinematography by Robert Müller of the dry arid landscape and beautiful lighting combined with Ry Cooder's guitar playing really accentuate the emotions this film will draw out of you and the long static shots of scenery and scenes are very beautiful.Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) is found wandering the desert aimlessly. He is, at this point, a mute. Luckily, Harry Dean Stanton acts this out wonderfully, despite having very little dialogue, Stanton's face is a road map of emotions and dialogue is not needed to transmit these emotions to the viewer.His brother, Walt Henderson (Dean Stockwell) finds him and brings him to his home. Walt mentions to Travis that it has been four years since they last saw him. During this time, Walt and his wife, Anne (Aurore Clément), have raised Travis's son, Hunter (Hunter Carson), as their own. This is due to the disappearance of Travis, and Hunter's mother Jane (Nastassja Kinski).The relationships in this movie are very powerful. Love can be a wonderful thing. However, life also has its share of chores and duties. Which, unfortunately, sometimes can leave some relationships at the wayside until it is too late and you end up wondering What happened?.That is why I believe this film resonates with so many. We have all had relationships, whether it's friends or lovers, where you can't pinpoint exactly where it went wrong - but that eventually you are left without them and in a state of minor amnesia as to what exactly happened. The signs of it failing were there, but you paid no heed. All you have are the nostalgic memories and things can never return to what they were.Maybe not to the extent of Travis Henderson, however, symbolically I think this is part of what makes this movie shine. Travis and Jane both needed closure, and to an extent, their son as well.I will not spoil the ending to the movie, however, it is a controversial one. I would have preferred a different ending, however, sometimes the ending you want to see is not the best ending for the movie. "},{"Title":"Two Beginnings","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wenders, Müller, Shepard, Cooder, Stanton, Stockwell. Could there be a better combination &#x96; and concentration! &#x96; of talent?Film is indeed poetry, and this is one of the most beautiful poems of parenthood I've seen. Not explicit, preachy, but otherworldly, subtle, comic, bittersweet. The alienation from one's own self, all of this internal, has its visual counterpoint first in the concept of walkabout in the open space, the desert, the quiet; then in the urbanity of modern life, the closed space, the airplane, the noise. Change, both internal and external (appearance such as the rugged beard, mutism), reflected in the road movie. His self-discovery is actually our discovery, not only of him but of the movie. Travis has two beginnings as explained by him, he was most likely conceived in Paris, Texas. It was his first beginning, the film his second.Stanton is sublime. His ability to convey meaning and emotion through the slightest gestures and expressions is unprecedented. And yet, at the same time, his ability to conceal meaning and emotion is just as evocatively effective &#x96; his face is a blank, his eyes devoid of anything one might connect to, finding meaning from. That lunch they're having together before hitting the road, father and son, somehow reifies the film's many narratives for me. There we have the walkabout/journey/highway and family/loss/past at an intersection. And it's a perfectly beautiful moment. "},{"Title":"Literally Made My Heart Ache","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders' Paris, Texas is heartache put on screen.Harry Dean Stanton, in a quietly powerful performance, plays Travis, a man who emerges stunned from the Texas desert at the film's beginning and embarks on an odyssey that sees him reunited with his abandoned son and his estranged wife. The film plays out like a mystery -- we know that Travis's son has been living with Travis's brother and sister-in-law for the last four years, but we don't know why he was left behind by this mother and father. That mystery is eventually unraveled when Travis and his wife, Jane (played by Nastassja Kinski), meet again and we learn more about their sorrowful and bruising history.Paris, Texas is largely about two people who are capable of extreme passion and emotion but who are unable to cope with what those passions and emotions bring out in them. Travis and Jane were overwhelmed by their responsibility to each other and their son -- a life voluntarily chosen became a grim trap from which one would literally kill the other to escape. This part of the story is only told to us, never shown. What we see are the regret, remorse and nostalgia felt by two people who will always have a strong connection -- both emotionally and literally through their boy -- but who know they can never again be together. At the end, Travis drives away into the night, and though his ultimate fate is ambiguous, we feel that he's leaving his wife and child for good. Whether to protect them, or himself (or maybe both) is for us to decide.Grade A "}{"Title":"A movie unique in its own way","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the first minutes of Paris, Texas you realize that this film is a little different from the others of its kind. Starring Harry Dean Stanton as Travis Henderson, a man who suffered a nervous breakdown and estranged himself from his family as a result, the film is both a deep character study and an effective family drama in the same time.The movie begins with some beautiful images of the desert, vast and desolate. We are then introduced to Travis (Stanton) a man wandering through the desert for reasons unknown to the viewer. As he enters a bar, he collapses due to dehydration and is taken to a doctor by the bar owner. He is later reunited with his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell), who came from California to his aid and had not seen him for 4 years. We know little about Travis' character and the fact that he initially refuses to speak to anyone only adds up to this mystery. As the story progresses, we slowly find out more about his background, we find out that he has a son named Hunter who is in the care of Walt and his wife, Ann (Aurore Clement).Harry Dean Stanton plays the main character and this is probably his best role. His best moment in the film is his conversation with Jane (Nastassja Kinski), a scene in which he showcases his whole talent. His performance is all the more impressive as he is supposed to express a full range of emotions in the beginning of the movie when his character is not speaking. I also thought that Nastassja Kinski was good in her role, despite the fact that she had quite a short amount of screen time.The film is character driven and we are interested in Travis' actions because we really care about him. Wim Wenders manages to direct the movie with precision and manages to keep the viewer connected. We want to find out why Travis wants to go to Paris, Texas, or why he was wandering through the desert in the first place. What I liked about this film is that you don't know how it's going to end, there are actually moments when you don't know what the main character is going to do next. This is probably the merit of writer Sam Shepard, who is probably better known to the public as an actor. I also found the movie's score to be great. Far from being very elaborate, it manages to bring the audience to where the action takes place. As a downside, the film might seem a little slow at times, but this is necessary for the build up.Paris, Texas is an art-house film that presents a realistic story. I believe Wenders was just a little short of creating a masterpiece here. Nevertheless, this is a great movie and I think that it deserves more recognition.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"a place without language ...","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" in 1984, Wim Wenders brought his European eyes to America's Los Angeles, and a modern masterpiece of a film was conjured from his many-nuanced observations. Through the character of Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) and his haunting tale of redemption, Wenders subtley explores themes of obsession, possesiveness, familial bonds and the ability of people to adapt to their circumstances and surroundings. Essentially a 'road movie', Travis's travels allow the audience a sense of the vast expanses of Los Angeles, captured and enhanced by the stunning cinematography and Ry Cooder's beautiful-but-minimal soundtrack. Wenders contrasts the cultures of the Spaniards, who once owned Los Angeles, with that of the European settlers in a poignant and sublime way; Travis's half-learnt Spanish heritage is no more apparent in his character than the obsessiveness he obviously inherited from his white father, the angst Walt and Anne develop concerning Hunter's future with Travis differs greatly from the practical advice a Spanish maid gives to Travis to 'fix' the problem - Wenders doesn't make a direct statement on the co-existence of these different cultures, but he certainly identifies and explores those differences. The entire cast is uniformly superb, Dean Stockwell and Harry Dean Stanton are a treat as always, but they shine no brighter than Kinski, Clement or Hunter Carson. And I haven't even really touched upon the mysterious story of the iconic Travis ! "},{"Title":"A Classic Piece of Cinema","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A 2001 beautiful desert scene as the start features the Wandering Man dressed in a City Slicking suit with a suitably intelligent tool, a bottle of water.The Established Brother starts the film with the aspects of the establishment, a wife, a caring wife, a house, a car, an adopted child, a business. He ends the film in the same established position. Unmoved by his often-careless, restless brother's plight.The film is a beautiful view of Texas, the US and the planet. It features no violence, no murder, no mutilation.Sexually it is interesting to see Kinski in a participatory voyeuristic sexual setting mirrored thesedays a URL away. Not much has changed. When mankind conquers Star Trek style a distant planet, assumedly it'll appear not to have changed then either; looking at a carbon-based life's planet's desert it's difficult to see prosperity and life.The Young Lady in her Twenties is seen clearly only in the present tense in artificial light. The continuity cuts to night when The Absent Father, with a toy horses head illusionally up his rectum, a note to later when he encounters a lady dressed up in a nurses uniform wearing an inflatable horse around her waist, tells The Child that informing his family of his whereabouts will stop them worrying.The view of Kinski, quill-like, her world upturned and this time gracious to her past nemesis for providing to her her child. Knelt down in front of him while he's abandoning her again himself unable to meet his own expectations, his rocky, still face present. This image is lingering.Ry Cooders music is innately apt.The shown image of a quiet, neon-lit, tumbleweed American town night is echoed rarely, for instance in Jarmuch's Night Train, and Lynch & Frost's Twin Peaks the TV series.Travis has already survived before the film starts. He experiences a intra-US road trip with his brother, and another with his son, à la Persig's Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintennance. Yet he communicates at length, the culmination of a story after a story with no guarantee of discovering the former, only with his ex-partner after literally turning his back on her. She follows him by turning her back on him and telling him about the past, yet does not change his plans. He also says a little to Hunter when drunk and being selfish.A classic piece of cinema.--- by Jerome, computer coder, author, and voter of 1,000 films. "},{"Title":"Fear of Falling","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Paris, Texas' is a slow, subtle, dark and moody film that deals with love, forgiveness and redemption. It starts off with some stunning desert images where a Harry Dean Stanton wanders around until he is found by his brother. The enigmatic soundtrack stays in tune with the situations. The cinematography adds a spacious but lonely feel. Harry Dean Stanton, Dean Stockwell and Natassja Kinski are exceptional performers. They all excelletnly downplay their parts. The film starts off with little dialogue but as the goings-on proceed, the dialogues/monologues more or less take over and become stronger as they reveal a starkness of the characters' inner thoughts. This is especially beautifully captured in the later scenes between Stanton and Kinski. 'Paris, Texas' is also intricately layered and I am sure to discover more things with each repeat viewing. Sheperd's writing is wonderful as he weaves complex themes into the story and memerizes the viewer. In a nutshell, 'Paris, Texas' is a haunting and powerful picture that, once it captivates the audience, it lingers in mind long after the closing credits have rolled. "},{"Title":"Beauty in simplicity","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" American filmmaking in the 80s was rapidly changing. After the huge success of films like Star-Wars and Jaws, Hollywood was only concerned with making massive epic blockbusters. That's not necessarily a bad thing, several of these films are timeless masterpieces that redefined cinema like Raiders of the Lost Ark and Die Hard. But the popularity of large action films unfortunately resulted in smaller personal films essentially becoming nearly nonexistent. However all of this changed in 1984 when Wim Wenders film Paris Texas was released.It's funny how such an important American film was directed by a German. Paris Texas was the film that got Wenders noticed. It didn't receive any commercial success, (the film only barely broke even.) but it was a critical hit. Paris Texas is the story of a strange man that suddenly walks out of the desert in Texas one day, this man turns out to be someone called Travis Henderson, (played by Harry Dean Staton.) the people who found him call his brother, Walt Henderson, (played by Dean Stockwell.) who then flies in to go get him. Travis acts strange and antisocial, but we don't know why. Eventually we learn that Travis has been missing for 4 years, and Walt and his wife Anne have been taking care of Travis's son, Hunter. (played by Hunter Carson.) Hunter at first isn't very excited to meet Travis but they bond overtime. Anne and Walter tell Travis that they haven't heard from Travis's wife, Jane, (played by Nastassji Kinski, Klaus Kinski's daughter.) in long time, but she still deposits money for Hunter's future in a bank in Houston. Travis and his son then go on a journey to try and find Jane. The plot of Paris Texas is very simple, and yet it is universal and timeless. The audience can't help but get caught up in the story of Travis, Hunter, and Jane. We want to know what happened four years ago, and we want to know if they'll ever find her, and what happens if they will. Another thing that is pure genius about the plot is the pacing. The pacing of the film is very slow, and it is slow pacing used at its finest. The story unfolds in such a way that it allows the audience to follow along without getting lost, and keeping us interested. If the film had a shorter running time, it would just not be nearly as good as it is now. The actors in Paris Texas deserve special recognition, they all do amazing jobs but Nastassji Kinski and Harry Dean Staton are especially amazing. This is not to say that the other actors aren't great, but these two go above and beyond what anyone could have expected. The character ark of Travis is one of the best in any film ever. Paris Texas is at heart a redemption story about a man who has let his family done and now needs to make up for it. And it is one for the nicer redemption films out there. It's not a violent depressing blood-bath like Unforgiven or Irreversible, no Paris Texas takes a much lighter approach to the story. That's not to say that Unforgiven and Irreversible are bad or that Paris Texas won't make you cry, both of these are still true statements. The films slow pacing helps the actors out with their stunning performances. Since the film is so long, it allows us to spend a lot of time with them really getting to know them. We would not be able to fully understand the characters motivations if the film was any shorter.Paris Texas also has a distinct style and feel. One big way that the style is conveyed to us is through the cinematography which is wonderfully shot by Robby Müller, (Breaking the Waves, Dead Man, Mystery Train.) Müller is able to fully capture the empty vast landscape of Texas, in a way that was only topped by the Coen brothers No Country For Old Men. And anyone whose seem the film will tell you about the films amazing soundtrack. The soundtrack is a simple yet beautiful. (this phrase basically describes the entirety of Paris Texas.) It's able to perfectly set the tone for the film. The production design is also fantastic everything from the spray painted abandoned buildings in the beginning to the desolate peep show lib at the end. With a film as impressive as Paris Texas, it's hard to believe that Wim Wenders made it in only a 4-5 weeks. Paris Texas was unfortunately not a commercial hit, but it was a massive critical success. Paris Texas swept of all the top prizes at the Cannes Film Festival, including the Palme d'Or. It also won the BAFTA for best director and was nominated for best film. Roger Ebert's added it to his Great Movies list in 2002. And Kurt Cobain said that it was his favorite film of all time. Paris Texas reminds us of a time when films were simpler, when all you needed was a well written compelling story to be good. Oh and God damn what an ending.9.8/10 "},{"Title":"Lone Survivor","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What is your definition of the western? Is it the story of the gun-slinging Clint Eastwood type who comes into town to take out the bad guys, or is it something more complex? The answer is that the western by definition is the hero's journey, whether it is physical or mental. More often than not, this hero is alone, and without question, he turns out to be a different man than who he was at the beginning of the picture. Paris, Texas is a western. Unconventional at best, but nonetheless, the hero that Wim Wenders presents to us is perhaps the loneliest man in Texas (Travis), and by the end of the picture, he's a fully realized, beautifully spoken, saint-like human being. But should it be a surprise that Paris, Texas seems anything but a classic western? Wim Wenders is one of the great mold-breakers of international cinema, more specifically the father of the German New Wave. In the grand tradition of Antonioni and Goddard, Wim Wenders challenged the conventions of the cinema of his native land, and used the screen as the canvas for which to paint whatever was on his mind. I see most of these New Wave filmmakers as painters, or beatnik poets. They are always looking for something to say, and to find the art in anything they come across. But more importantly, Wenders's western, or whatever you'd like to call it, is arguably his masterpiece. Travis is our hero. At the beginning of the picture, you have no idea what to think of him. He is seen walking aimlessly in the desert, somewhere in the southern part of Texas. It's not clear as to where he is or why is he there, but he is still our hero. The mystique of his character really had me interested in the first half of the movie. No matter how much his estranged brother tried to have him express himself, Travis refused to, that is until he loses his cool. It's never really explained why Travis is so quiet, but my opinion is, that thanks to the situation of the loss of his family, perhaps the shame of it all led him to believe that he owed nobody any words. That's just one theory. But over some time, Travis begins speaking to his brother, from small fragments to actual sentences. His progression continues when he returns to his brother's house, where he meets his long lost son, and he begins to further unravel back into his personality. Travis's silence seemed like a protective cocoon, and walking aimlessly into the desert seemed to be a way of escaping his personal life. In the scene where his brother tells him that he will be returning to Los Angeles, Travis quickly escapes the hotel room and returns to wandering. Wandering, to many people, helps clear the mind. Travis seemed to use it, much less as a detox, and more as his refuge. The uncivilized world of nature became his home. The remainder of the movie is his assimilation back to the civilized world, and his return to speaking with his family. The final 30 minutes of the film are what really entertain me, and what makes Paris, Texas a thoroughly fascinating experience. The shot that Wim Wenders holds on the character of Jane is the greatest shot in the film. As Travis says his soliloquy about the reason as to why he left, we see Jane slowly come to tears at the revelation of his words. Film is the one medium where photographing facial expressions is the most powerful, and the most effective at conveying emotions. I also really enjoyed that it took place inside a peep booth. What makes that so interesting to me is that the Peep Booth is an intimate setting, and Travis uses it as an intimate setting, but instead of getting off on a naked woman, he spills his soul out to her. This scene is the section of which I fell in love with the movie the most. It is the scene in which Travis's hero journey comes complete, as he reunited with his son, and reconciled with his wife. Paris, Texas is a western of forgiveness, and redemption. We even see our hero, Travis, ride off into the sunset, but instead of a horse, it's a car. He's off to be the loner again, but he's content in that he has finally accomplished something. He is no longer the reluctant, scared loner, but a loner that has done good. He corrected his mistakes, explained his guilt and decided honorably to make sure that his son is safe with Jane. Paris, Texas is a wonderful little movie that made such a huge noise back in 1984. It is a testament to the power of independent cinema, and has inspired countless independent filmmakers to this day. It's simplicity and emotion resonates with nearly every viewer. Even if you found the picture slow, you could easily cite what your favorite moment was. That was the case with me. There were moments where the picture could have been much more entertaining, and Travis's reuniting with his son seemed to not resonate with me too much. But once I saw the final scene in the peep booth, I knew what I saw was a great film. It's funny what peep booths can do. "},{"Title":"Captivating and dolorously sincere","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My expectation of Paris, Texas was not high when I first read about it, but this movie really took me by surprise by becoming one of my absolute top movies ever. The story tells of a man who finally comes to terms with himself after a long time wandering without quest or reason. It is also about the significance of family and what it really means; how, even after a long time away from each other, the bond of kin holds strong.It is a slow, fascinating movie with beautiful cinematography capturing the unique and massive environments of Texas, recurrently accompanied by tranquil steel guitar music. The acting and directing is as excellent as you would guess with names like Harry Dean Stanton (The Green mile), Nastassja Kinski (Tess) and Wim Wenders (Wings of Desire, The Salt of the Earth). If you want to see a soft and intriguing movie that is going to leave a great impression on you, this is the one to chose. "},{"Title":"A faithful depiction of Texas, and a fresh tale that uses familiar tropes","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The beautifully-filmed Paris, Texas tells a story, and tells it in a way, that is both novel and hauntingly familiar. In its opening moments it seems almost to be a spaghetti Western. It has the dusty badlands and close-ups of the cracked, inscrutable face of a mysterious protagonist (Harry Dean Stanton). He says nothing, and when others speak it is often with a European accent, reminiscent of those that were poorly dubbed over in the old Italian and Spanish gunslinger films. A German-inflected townie in Terlingua&#x97;is he a doctor? law enforcement? just a drinker? probably all of the above&#x97;is straight out of a great noir or adventure film, channeling the untrustworthy gregariousness of Sidney Greenstreet in Casablanca and the old- timer expatriate look of Walter Huston in Sierra Madre. But the mystery the movie introduces in its opening scenes feels new and exciting a man who will not talk, who has a history but seems not to remember it, who has walked so long through the desert that his shoes are worn through.Director Wim Wenders tries out several different settings and speeds in the course of unraveling the story of Travis, this mysterious man, yet the information is so fragmented that for a long time each new piece only deepens the mystery. Slowly the plot proceeds, first as an almost comedic road buddy movie, then as a kind of Kramer v Kramer dramedy as the ragged Travis works to win the trust of a seven-year-old boy, Hunter. The character of Hunter is increasingly central to the film, and the child who plays him is uncommonly believable for an actor of his age. He has to deliver lines that resonate as both funny and poignant, as when he says Goodnight, Dad to two men in succession or struggles with a decision that causes pain to one of the two women he calls Mom.The landscapes of Texas have probably never been more faithfully committed to film. The deserts of the southwest are the hook, but soon it's all highways and isolated gas stations and endless flatness. Later scenes set on and near the tangled highways of Houston are filmed in a point-of-view manner that is mesmerizing and builds tension, much like the long driving cuts in Andrei Tarkovsky's Solaris. By this point in the movie, enough information has been revealed about Travis that the mystery has lost some of its urgency, and both Travis and the script seem on the verge of turning inward and abandoning us to their own private musings on the unknowability of others. A reveal about a mysterious Jane feels too stereotypical for a movie that had up to then been using assorted tropes but tell a fresh tale. But the movie does not end without bringing its threads and themes (especially the theme of the unbridgeable distances between people, and of the jealous desire to possess loved ones, first broached through the character of Anne) to a final fruition. Some of the camera-work in the penultimate scene, involving a one-way mirror, ingeniously underlines these ideas, and there is a satisfying balance and believability to the movie's last dialogue. Ry Cooder's guitar-based musical score has a strong, appropriate presence throughout the film, and like it is artful yet accessible. "},{"Title":"A family drama with a unique point of view","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the decade of blockbusters and popcorn movies, Paris, Texas (1984), winner of the Palme d'Or, is something else. Slow, long, depending on emotion, dialogue and characters, it gradually emerges as something worthwhile. Starting off in the Texan desert with a man picking up his brother, Travis, lost for four years and mute, the beginning to me seemed not so much intriguing as stiff, the performances a little unconvincing. Travis begins to talk and is reunited with his son, Hunter, who's now 7 and lives with his uncle Walt and aunt Anne. Hunter's mom, Jane, is still missing. Travis and Hunter get to know each other, with Anne concerned she and Walt will lose Hunter. Things are picking up as a family drama unfolds, and one gets the impression something extraordinary has happened.Surprisingly, Walt and Anne drop out of the picture with a lot of the film still to go, as Travis and Hunter return to Texas with a lead on where Jane is. Travis finds Jane in a sleazy place, where she talks with men. He tells their story, one of a happy marriage giving way to money woes, alcoholism, postpartum depression and abuse. Maybe it's not such an extraordinary story after all- but it's told in an extraordinary way. The look of Jane in that room with the two-way mirror is nearly surreal; that surreal side is reflected in the title. When you hear Paris, you don't think of Texas. But Paris, Texas is a real place, and there's realism in this film, too. This film gradually develops a sense of awe to it, and leaves its own distinct footprint. "},{"Title":"Riveting tale of reunion","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders's Paris,Texas is a film that is narrated through road trips. An utterly lost man (in every sense of the word) is tracked down by his brother and reunited with his son. On discovering a part of his old self, the man takes on a journey to bring his son back with his estranged mother. What the viewer doesn't know till the very end of the movie is as to why this family had been separated in the first place. The film's pace is quite in contrast to that of the fast and frequent road trips on screen. Although the slowness and did get to my head at times, I found the film quite riveting on the whole. The barren roads of Texas contrasted against the busy highways of Houston is an interesting feature of this film. At heart, Paris, Texas is an intense film about human separation and more importantly, reunion. "}{"Title":"A Fancy Lady","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. It's been 30 years. The movie hasn't changed. I remember every scene. So that means it's ME that has changed. While I really liked the movie on its 1984 release, it's only now that I truly appreciate the brilliance of the script, the music, the direction, the photography and the acting &#x85; much less the wide range of emotions.Director Wim Wenders has long been a favorite at Cannes Film Festival, and this one took home the prestigious Palme d'Or. Since then, the film has often been mentioned as one of the best movies of the 1980's, and after this most recent screening (courtesy of the Dallas Film Society), I wholeheartedly concur.Opening in a most unusual manner &#x85; the lead character comes stumbling out of the Texas dessert and doesn't utter a word for the first 20-25 minutes &#x85; this film immediately strikes you as something unique &#x96; definitely not cookie cutter. Trying to outguess the script is a waste of time. It's best to just watch it unfold in a believable and sometimes awkward way.In a rare lead role, long time character actor Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis. We soon enough learn that Travis disappeared four years ago leaving behind a wife and young son. We also learn that his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) and Walt's wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been taking care of the boy, and Hunter (Hunter Carson) considers them his parents (his mom ran off too).Walt and Anne invite Travis to stay with them and re-connect with his son, but they are caught off guard when the two really click and they take off to find Jane, the wife/mother. Their charming (but less-than-professional) stakeout leads to the discovery that Jane is working in a sex shop, spending her days talking to a 2 way mirror with lonely men she can't see. One of the most remarkable on screen soliloquies ever seen occurs on Travis' second trip to see Jane (Natassja Kinski). It's a heartfelt story that plays out as an explanation, an apology, and a plan for moving forward. It's his way of making reparations and finally doing the right thing (as he sees it).As with most classic films, the backstory offers some interesting tidbits and the players are fun to catch up with. This story was originally written by the great Sam Shepard. Mr. Shepard is a Pulitzer Prize winner, an award winning playwright, and well known actor (Oscar nominated for playing Chuck Yeager in The Right Stuff). Director Wenders then brought in L.M. Kit Carson to add and revise the script while on set. Carson's son (with actress Karen Black) Hunter plays the boy in the film, and he delivers one of the best, least affected, child performances of all time. Kit went on to write the screenplay for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (1986) and had a significant acting role in Running on Empty (1988). His son Hunter is still a working actor today. Mr. Wenders was one of the German New Wave of directors along with Herzog and Fassbinder, and his Wings of Desire (1987) would make a terrific double feature with this one. Mr. Stockwell was a very successful child actor in the 1940's and is best known for his work in Blue Velvet and TV's Quantum Leap. Ms. Kinski is the daughter of Klaus Kinski and is fondly remembered for her roles in Tess (1979) and Cat People (1982), though she still works today as well. Harry Dean Stanton is now 88 years old. He served in WWII and was present during the Battle of Okinawa. His acting career began in the 1950's and he still works periodically today. In addition to nearly 200 acting credits, he has had a pretty nice career as a musician. His band built a large cult following. Some of his most popular acting roles have been in Cool Hand Luke, The Godfather II, Alien, Repo Man, Escape From New York and Pretty in Pink. The music in the film is provided by Ry Cooder, who is a tremendous slide guitarist and has worked with some of the all-time greats in the music business &#x96; The Rolling Stones, Van Morrison and Neil Young, among others. Cooder is a multi-Grammy winner and re-teamed with Wenders for the Oscar nominated Buena Vista Social Club a few years later. The music is an exceptional compliment to the movie, as is the camera work of Robby Muller, who also works frequently with Wenders.This story of loss and loneliness is an easy one to overlook, but when a film holds up well for 30 years &#x85; and affects you differently depending on your own lot in life &#x85; its legacy is secure. "},{"Title":"Paris, Texas","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" the film starts slowly, keeping pace with Travis, who is wandering the desert aimlessly on foot. Travis has been a lost drifter for 4 years in the Mojave Desert and now appears to be mute, probably from suffering severe mental trauma, until his brother eventually found him and convinced him to go back home in LA. upon his arrival, Travis is gonna try to get his life together, reconnect with his son and brother and maybe right some wrongs from the past. Travis seems to come out of nowhere, and heading nowhere and at the end of the film, he disappears into the night, to an unknown destination..since the beginning, there's a sentiment of coming back to the origins of cinema; i've read a review on the film that pointed out how Travis's journey responds to the evolution of American cinema (German director Wim Wenders's fascination for American cinema is obvious, as the very title of the film refers metaphorically to the Europe-USA rapport), and i can see how that's true seeing as Travis and the film go gradually from silence to speech, from open vast landscapes to more enclosed spaces defined by doors and walls, from desert to peep-show booths.Paris-Texas provides the possibility to see raw reality, uncategorized. Travis does not see the world as a coherent system that he's implicated to, but rather as a succession of moments and he's the spectator, which implies loneliness and alienation. the viewer follows with sincere emotion the journey of a father and a husband, lost in his past and searching for identity. the film is drenched in highly engaging, bittersweet atmosphere, arranged remarkably by the cinematography and the beautiful slide guitar score setting the mood.inducing touching scenes of characters communicating on an honest level, and one truly great scene in Travis's and Jane's conversation, the film represents the perfect balance between a good script, images of such beauty that they become paintings, actors that give life to their characters and music that goes so well that it becomes the shadow of the images. one of the most moving films i've seen. "},{"Title":"The best study of solitude ... ever","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Paris, Texas', mind you, is not edge-of-the-seat viewing. It is not thrill-a-minute cinema; neither will your adrenaline be activated every 5 or 10 minutes.It is a slow, introspective study, through the interplay of just 5 characters, of solitude, and loneliness, and its gradual fading away ... of the ingratiation of the archetypal 'outsider' into the fold of mankind, once again ... even if, at the end, the wheel turns full circle ...Harry Dean Stanton, even if he underplays his role to textbook perfection, straddles the film like a colossus from start to finish. A complex character if there ever was one, it is Stanton's triumph that he imbues it with shades which make it more comprehensible and less dense ... and the mercurial Natassja Kinski, who gets barely half an hour of screen time, lights it up as only she can. The penultimate scene between the two (I won't reveal the details here) provides one of the most intense picturizations of the husband-wife relationship that I, at least, have seen.So far as performances go, it would be unfair not to put in a word for the adorable Hunter Henderson, who plays the couple's son Hunter, and illumines every scene he is in.And yet, perhaps, 'Paris, Texas' would not have been what it is without Ry Cooder's haunting background score ... perhaps the greatest example of the use of the guitar in the background music of any film, to devastating effect.Not popcorn viewing for sure, but if you're in the mood for serious, affecting cinema, don't miss 'Paris, Texas'. "},{"Title":"A deliberately paced but deeply moving story of a man at the end of his emotional rope.","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After separating from his family, a man (Harry Dean Stanton) goes missing in the hinterlands of America, and turns up years later to reunite with his son - and his wife, now working as a stripper.The plot meanders and sometimes strays from logic, but this film is all about appearances director Wim Wenders and cinematographer Robby Muller linger on the arid, desolate stretches of Texas landscape, shooting it with an intense curiosity that may be the preserve of outsiders. Stanton, cast unusually in a lead role, is suitably enigmatic, a description that holds good for the whole picture. Still, it exerts a certain hypnotic fascination, reinforced by Ry Cooder's admirably sparse score. Paris, Texas was a co-production between companies in France and West Germany, but was filmed in the United States. "},{"Title":"life as you know it","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Call me bias, but I'm just a sucker for the blues guitar, the rustic Americana small towns, and the melancholic shots of the colors of night.This brilliant film has more than the gorgeous cinematography to offer, it delivers powerful emotional punches. The final exchange between Travis and Jane is one of the most touching and emotional-devastating scenes I've ever witnessed. Also this particularly scene where they were driving through a Texan town when the night sky just sets, and raindrops began to fall on the windshield as the wipers smeared up the glass. It was such a beautiful scene that had imprinted into by mind for quite awhile.The scenario was simple and relate-able. Young couples fell in love, living in the fast lane. Then naturally things happened in life, they couldn't take it, and they went to lead themselves separate lives. The feeling was still there and they met again. It's full of emotive feelings, just as what life is. "},{"Title":"Lost and found","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Travis Henderson is a man who has been lost for four years.Now he is found again by his brother, Walt.He has forgotten a big part of his past.Walt and his wife Anne have taken care of his now 7-year old son, Hunter.Now Travis wants to get close to his son again.And he wants to find his lost wife, Jane.Paris, Texas (1984) is a Wim Wenders masterpiece.Sam Shepard did the writing.It's a movie about one man's life in total solitude, who is then found and is able to live again.At least for a while.The title comes from a piece of land Travis has bought from the town of Paris, Texas.It's the place he was probably conceived by his parents.Harry Dean Stanton does phenomenal job as Travis.This was his first screen lead.Nastassja Kinski is outstanding as Jane.Dean Stockwell is terrific as Walt Henderson.And so is Aurore Clément as his wife Anne.Hunter Carson is a great kid actor.The slide-guitar score by Ry Cooder is marvelous.The movie has many memorable scenes.I really liked when Travis is waiting for his son after school, dressed like a rich man and they're imitating each other's walk.The long conversation at the peepshow in the end is brilliant.When Jane starts to realize who is that person she's been talking to.Both Stanton and Kinski do some amazing acting work there.It really arouses some emotions in you.This is why we watch movies. "},{"Title":"A clouded past - A clearing future","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Paris, Texas', Wim Wenders' magnificent 1984-film is a stunning portrayal of a family torn, of loss distancing love, of powerful redemption full of urging emotion - written by Sam Shepard and L.M. Kit Carson the film opens with a bird-eye shot of Texan desert, out of nowhere appears our wayfaring stranger (Harry Dean Stanton, in piercing form), a dusty and dead-pan man whose four-years chasing-the-sunset comes to and end when his brother (Dean Stockwell) locates him. The traveler's 7-year-old son (Hunter Carson) lives with his brother and wife (Aurore Clement), and his wife (Nastassja Kinski) is long gone. Now, our man (named Travis) starts reconnecting with his son and family, and a society he has turned his back to.The first act of 'Paris, Texas' is a quiet, ruminative experience of a mute Travis who comes from nowhere and is headed nowhere. This man obviously carries deep, wounded emotion and a bewilderment of something he doesn't understand, or doesn't accept. When his brother takes step, the film turns into a wonderful sibling-story where the two drive through American landscape and accompanies each other with short, interesting dialogs of past, present and future. And so throughout the middle of the film the great performance of Harry Dean Stanton grows better and better, he starts speaking yes, but his emotional core and purpose is full of mystery and compelling sorrow. Trying to understand more and more what happened four years ago, Travis takes his son with him, and decides to locate his wife. The powerful spine in this film lies in its understanding of the power of familiar ties, and the redemption one may seek when all things comes to show. The cinematography of Robby Müller is great, he captures an enigmatic and magical atmosphere of Texan landscape in a way one haven't seen before; the never-ending horizons, the old railway lines and the blood red sky. Scored by Ry Cooder's absolutely brilliant slide-guitar the film goes home with the Southern Delta blues, full of a yearn and search. Fantastic performances all around, especially as said from our protagonist Travis, who Harry Dean Stanton underplays all the way and in the final scene, driving out at the highway, his expression emotionless but weary, somehow happy yet heartbroken - truly masterclass acting. 'Paris, Texas' is a gorgeous and very moving film that I urge everyone to see. "},{"Title":"The best film of cinema history","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent performance of the beautiful (¡so beautiful!) Nastassja Kinski, Wim Wenders is the only one that can reach the edges of human nature with such simplicity and a story that we can live as long as we love life. The meeting of Hunter and Jane is one of the best sequences, and the best shot of cinema history is the confession of Hunter and Jane, the meeting is so moving. I enjoy a lot every time i watch this film. I recommend this film, to every one that is not loving his mother, and wants to love her again, the portrait of the search of Hunter's mom is the best narration of a film ever done, there's no doubt about it. Wim Wenders is the best filmmaker in his gender, and is the only one that can get you out a tear, with the single existence of a simple take. "},{"Title":"quiet, understated and hauntingly brilliant","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When this film reached cable I saw a couple of minutes of it, expecting to walk out the door as I had things to do that day.  Two hours plus later I had missed getting to things I had to do and I was both emotionally and mentally dazed.  I did not see it again until today (March, 2001) but despite a gap of probably twelve years I've never forgotten it - and scenes from the film, bits of the story came back to me over and over again.Its a slow paced film and for that reason will probably lose many viewers - but it is very carefully constructed on many levels and has lots to say about the human condition.  The audio with Ry Cooder's music to back it up is quiet and matches the mood perfectly.The visual construction is subtle, often very flat - bright desert, muted twilights, lots of darkness.   Its the antithesis of the usual Hollywood flash - but its also clear that the director knew exactly what he was doing - and even more - that his ideas were good.  And I wont spoil the fun by pointing out the complexity of the motifs used.The script addresses emotional issues directly - but almost imperceptibly.And the crowning touch on it all is Harry Dean Stanton's performance - which almost does not appear to be a performance.  I've not been able to see him in anything else without remembering this character.It will probably never be a popular film - but I would rate it in my top 10 - maybe my top five.  Its a movie that requires an investment in attention and thought and that will pay it back many times over.If your taste runs toward exploding helicopters and lots of noise, do yourself a favor and skip this, you'll probably hate it.  But if you want more out of a movie - this is a great one.   "},{"Title":"Best film ever made","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For me Paris, Texas is absolutely the best best film ever made. The dialogues, the atmosphere, the emotions, the impossible relationship between Jane and Travis, the photography, the score and most of all the story are brilliant. Unfortunately Wenders doesn't make such good movies anymore. His last good movie was 'Der Himmel uber Berlin' and maybe 'Until the end of the world'. But after the latter...only reasonable. I'm still hoping for better times!  "}{"Title":"One of the best movies of the 80s","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Also my second favourite film of 1984 after Amadeus. Paris, Texas is just wonderful. The movie looks beautiful, the scenery is stunning and the cinematography and editing are just textbook examples of how to photograph and edit a movie. There is also a haunting guitar score that adds to the emotion of this film, and a deeply moving and affecting story complete with a heart-rending confrontation. The pace is deliberately mannered, but that is not a bad thing at all, if anything it is a strength, and the script is beautifully written. The direction is also superb, while the film sees a rare leading role for Harry Dean Stanton and he is just a joy in this movie. In conclusion, Paris, Texas is a must-see, and I honestly think it is one of the best of its decade. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"amazing movie","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What an intriguing drama. It was such a cool story. Everything makes sense. Maybe you won't agree with the end, but it is at least plausible. I love the twists and turns. I love that you didn't really know what was going on. These questions kept on growing until almost the very end. Great timing... Great acting... Can't say enough good things about this movie. Must see! So not what I thought I was going to see when I heard the title. It reminded me a bit of rain man at times, but the story is completely different. I guess I should say that rain-man reminded me of this movie. I almost also prefer the story line in Paris, Texas than in the rain-man (though I also loved the rain-man). "},{"Title":"Straight to heart","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is slow, and so we have time to feel the privacy of the characters. The nicest scene for me is when the little boy go to his mother's arms. It is so simple and so strong, and so true! For me it's like if all the movie was a preparation for this moment. Great film, without useless things. "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals, awe inspiring plot resolution","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite films. Great screenwriter (Sam Shepard), great director (Wim Wenders), great musician on the soundtrack (Ry Cooder). By turns a mystery, an adventure, a love story as well as one of the best renditions of the emergence of wisdom-within-relationship that I have ever seen. This film may take a bit of patience the first time one views it but, I assure you, that patience pays off. This kind of human depth is only achieved once in a blue moon in today's cultural landscape. Did I say that I recommend this movie? I think that, in particular, the combination of European and American perspectives makes for an especially fresh presentation of some classic themes. "},{"Title":"My personal favourite film of all time","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People come to me and ask about the films I like and watch constantly and when I reel off films like Die Hard, Fight Club, Seven, Pulp Fiction, The Good The Bad and The Ugly they think whoa! This boy likes action films and thrillers.  But when they ask me about my favourite film of all time they are stunned to beleive it is Paris, Texas.  I was 9 when it came out and watched it I seemed to like it then but didn't know why.  I then found out why the story, the music the photography, the rediscovery of the life you had left and of course the acting and direction.  I watched again 6 years later and found it to be one of the most amazing films ever made.  It took me another 3 years to find it on video and when I did it was a dream come true.  I didn't find a new video version oh no! I found it in a shop that sold pre rented videos and in the midst of all the jumble I saw it an original Palace release I say original due to the fact that there is no barcode on the packaging what so ever and is now my pride and joy of my video collection(along with the video for Southern Comfort which is rated X on the cover).  My only wish is for a DVD release.  I know there is a Japanese DVD but is it remastered is it full widescreen? NO!Anyway as I have said before it is MY personal favourite and I wish that people who have not seen it go out and give it a try just to see why people rant on about it. "},{"Title":"Stark Yet Absorbing Story Is One Of Best Films Of 1980s","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I generally like stories which unfold deliberately &#x96; those which don't give away all the details up front. I respect directors who intentionally dole out information on a need to know basis. I'm often drawn to films whose stories might begin in the middle of a long overarching plot line. When I first saw German director Wim Wenders' 1984 English-language achievement, Paris, Texas, I was hooked from the start.In the only leading role of his career, longtime character actor Harry Dean Stanton meanders through a vast, lonely desert, apparently confused, and disconnected from the real world. He stumbles into a bar and promptly faints. Thus begins one of the most interesting sagas I've ever seen on screen. Stanton's character, Travis, turns out to be the father of a boy he abandoned four years earlier. With the help of his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell), Travis returns to Los Angeles to reunite with his son, Hunter (a very unaffected and pragmatic Hunter Carson). But Travis suffers from severe amnesia. He doesn't know how he ended up in the stark desert of West Texas, nor does he remember Hunter &#x96; at least at first.As Travis' memory slowly returns, Stanton delivers the best acting of his career. With very little dialog, we witness Travis reconnecting with the life he left behind for one reason or another. Stanton's facial expressions allow the backstory to unfold at an intentional pace, brilliantly orchestrated by Wenders, revealing just enough information to give us time for every little nuance to sink in. After viewing old home movies at his brother's house, Travis takes Hunter to Houston to find the boy's mother, Jane (Nastassja Kinski, in the best performance of her career), who now works as a striptease artist at a peepshow. The long scene of Travis speaking to Jane through the one-way mirror is a thing of cinematic beauty. Stanton speaks slowly and calculatingly, as he discloses the story of their tragic relationship. It's a poignant apology, if you will, which also serves as the catalyst for reuniting Jane with her son.As in many Wenders films, the primary character is disconnected from the hustle and bustle of modern life. His world is a world of vast, persistent deserts, which seems to operate in perpetual slow-motion. Even the Los Angeles scenes are bleak and dreary. In one of the best Los Angeles scenes I've ever witnessed, Travis walks across a footbridge over one of the area's many interstate highways. He passes a man screaming at the top of his lungs about an encroaching end-of-the-world scenario. No one is listening, Travis walks right past him, and the man continues his tirade. Both Travis and the screaming man are disconnected from one another, and from the outside world of soccer moms, businessmen, and overworked citizens.Wenders' longtime cinematographer, Robby Muller, presents the West Texas desert as the world in which we exist, and the city scenes of Los Angeles and Houston are merely overpopulated versions of that barren desert. Ry Cooder's deft slide guitar music plays throughout, further epitomizing the vast emptiness of the cinematography. Paris, Texas presents a vacuous world, into which is infused a deeply touching story of lost love.Paris, Texas was the unanimous choice for the coveted Palm D'Or (or top prize) at the 1984 Cannes Film Festival. Next to David Lynch's Blue Velvet, it is my favorite film of the 1980s. Yes, Paris, Texas moves at a very deliberate pace. It's obviously not for everyone. But what a beautiful change of pace from the obnoxiously overbearing superhero cinema of today! Take a break from life, and spend a few hours with this subtle yet moving story. Paris, Texas is this month's Buried Treasure. "},{"Title":"There were blue flames burning the sheets of his bed. He ran through the flames toward the only two people he loved.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A man wanders out of the desert after a four year absence. His brother finds him, and together they return to L.A. to reunite the man with his young son. Soon after, he and the boy set out to locate the mother of the child, who left shortly after the man disappeared. Ebert wrote Paris, Texas is a movie with the kind of passion and willingness to experiment that was more common fifteen years ago than it is now. It has more links with films like Five Easy Pieces and Easy Rider and Midnight Cowboy, than with the slick arcade games that are the box-office winners of the 1980s. It is true, deep, and brilliant. It really is just a wonderful film that will last the test time. My favourite scene was the booth scene Travis said Lost in a deep, vast country where nobody knew him. Somewhere without language, or streets. He dreamed about this place without knowing its name. And when he woke up, he was on fire. There were blue flames burning the sheets of his bed. He ran through the flames toward the only two people he loved... but they were gone. His arms were burning, and he threw himself outside and rolled on the wet ground. Then he ran. He never looked back at the fire. He just ran. He ran until the sun came up and he couldn't run any further. And when the sun went down, he ran again. For five days he ran like this until every sign of man had disappeared. I really found this speech to be incredibly beautiful and moving, perhaps one of the greatest speeches in cinematic history. Paris, Texas is just an extraordinary beautiful and poignant film that more people should see. "},{"Title":"Great soul but a movie about a loser","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By the end of this movie (no spoiler here), the plot kicker, the pain of love won and lost wrenches the soul. The title plays on this duality; Paris (France) and a plot of dirt in Paris, Texas. Hunter (the son of this ill conceived union) innocently asks if they were to live on the plot of dirt he sees in the picture Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) carries around. Texas vs France, get it? The players are excellent, with slow paced responses and steady acceptance unusual in intensity but consistent with the style of the movie. The realism style of cinematography balances well with the storyline. A nearly great movie, marred by a bit too much sentimentality and some inauthentic plot elements. "},{"Title":"A great movie which needs to be watched!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From seeing the poster and the summary of this film I thought it wouldn't be great and maybe slightly boring. However, I was very much shocked by the movie. It had a great story and, I felt, maybe the audience go through many emotions. I had not heard of this movie before I watched it, but now I think that this film deserves to get out there and become a classic. Basically to some up everything, I really do think that you should watch this film. If you like dramas then you'll love this. I don't want to give the ending away, but there are some certain scenes that will move you in a way that you will love. So again, watch this film for definite. "},{"Title":"One of Wim Wenders greatest.","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Four years after going missing Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) walks out of the vast South Texas desert. After collapsing in a saloon a doctor treats him and discovers his brother's business card in his wallet. Travis' brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) flies to Texas to meet his brother and has many questions for him. Travis appears to be mute however and doesn't eat, sleep or talk for days. When he finally opens his mouth it is revealed that he remembers little about the last four years. Dean takes Travis back to his L.A. home where he and his wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been looking after Travis' seven year old son Hunter (Hunter Carson) since Travis' wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski) left him with them and disappeared herself. Travis has to try and re-assimilate himself back into every day life and reconnect with his young son before setting out to try and find his estranged wife.In many ways this film reminded me of director Wim Wenders 1976 film Kings of the Road. Both films take place mostly on the road in quiet, almost desolate places with two characters who barely know each other. This film is more about the family unit and loss but is equally as good. The film won the Palme d'Or at Cannes as well as numerous other prizes and it's fantastic.The story is tremendous. It was written by noted playwright/actor Sam Shepard and is a wonderful tale of isolation, loss and redemption. It unfolds at an incredibly slow pace by modern standards but is thoroughly gripping, divulging enough to keep you on tenterhooks but never telling you everything. I was completely gripped the whole way through. As well as a great plot the films other standout feature is its score which is performed on the slide guitar by Ry Cooper. It is haunting and repetitive but in a good way. It worked very well with the plot and the on screen visuals which were also exemplary. Frequent Wenders cinematographer Robby Muller creates some stunning sights of wide open, desolate vistas and intricate and interesting internal shots of bars, motels and houses. Some of the shots seem to last for minutes but that is part of what makes it so beautiful. The film is a joy to look at.On the acting side the film is once again terrific. Harry Dean Stanton is superb when playing the mute in early scenes but becomes more vocal as the film progresses. His performance overall was brilliant. His son, played by Hunter Carson was also excellent in his first film role, although he looked unnervingly like a young Jodie Foster. Supporting actors Dean Stockwell, Aurore Clement and especially Nastassja Kinski were also without fault.This is a film which might not appeal to everyone due to its slow nature but I loved it. I was mesmerised by the long, single camera shots in which the dialogue just went on and on and the cinematography was breathtaking. This isn't far off a perfect film and one that I'd recommend to anyone as long as their favourite film wasn't Transformers 2.www.attheback.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"yes, please.","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" nothing will ever be, look, or react to you the same after this movie happens to you. do yourself a favor. i needed about 6 or 7 viewings to really get it, hopefully you'll need fewer, or better yet, hopefully you'll need more.here's my one sentence take read the very first IMDb comment. that dude called it.i love how it gradually introduces and eases you into to so much. the color red. people trying to deal with the fact that they'll never understand the people they want to understand the most, by definition, and what to do with the realization that the most selfless solution to this very much unacceptable problem feels like the most selfish one. f***, i can't even talk about this movie. just see it like a million times. "},{"Title":"And Now For Something Completely Different","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before you rush out and buy the Paris, Texas (1984) DVD based on the many glowing reviews and comments, you may want a bit of a reality check. The film is 145 minutes long, that's almost two and a half hours. And not much happens during this time. The pacing is about on the level of The Straight Story (1999), which was only 112 minutes; so if that film had you climbing the walls you should probably steer clear of this one. On the other hand Paris, Texas is a technical masterpiece with great photography, excellent directing, and solid performances from the entire cast (although that cast is small). And it's a lyrically told story about loss, loneliness, and eccentricity; a look America and American values from an outside perspective (in this case European). I'm not sure that the film's message(s) is gotten across (unless you listen to the commentary feature on the DVD and maybe not even then) but it is certainly more coherent than when Michelangelo Antonioni tried to do the same thing in the early 1970's. The film opens with a wanderer walking alone in the desert. You eventually learn that this is not Howard Hughes but Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton), that he has been missing the past four years, has semi-amnesia (a lot is made of this but the condition is never adequately explained), has a seven year-old son name Hunter (Hunter Carson), and a wife named Jane (Nastassia Kinski). Kinski fans will be somewhat disappointed as she does not even appear until the last third of the film (except briefly in some grainy home movies). The film could actually be classified as a buddy picture-road movie or two buddy picture- road movies. The first third features Travis and his brother's (Dean Stockwell) journey from Texas to LA, the final third Travis and his son's journey back to Texas. The weakest part is the middle third which serves little purpose other than providing some background details and linking the two journey segments. Because Paris, Texas is not your standard pre-sold commercial product, most of its suspense comes from the viewers themselves, who have little idea just where the film is headed. So if you watch a lot of films and are jaded because everything is so predictable, this movie viewing experience should be a nice change of pace. Because you haven't met these characters in other films, it takes a lot of storytelling to flesh them out, which is probably the biggest reason for the film's extended running length. Sam Shepard's script is not so much elliptical as it is evasive, somehow the characters tell us their most basic beliefs and deepest fears without really revealing anything about themselves (insert Two Lane Blacktop here). German New Wave director Wenders gets an astonishingly unaffected performance from young Hunter Carson, as convincing as any you are likely to find. Carson never did much after this amazing debut. The most intriguing sequences take place between Stanton and Kinski. The actors are never face-to-face as their characters speak to each other from opposite sides of one-way mirror. Travis has found Jane working in a seedy shop where lonely men pay to talk to women on the telephone.? The DP fills the screen with images of people dwarfed by vast, distant, and impersonal land/ cityscapes. The most effective and original is a sequence of Travis walking along a bridge over a LA interstate with the audio supplied by an unseen (until the end) and rambling derelict addressing the bumper to bumper traffic rushing by below. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Sensitive study of a tortured man's emotions","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The opening sets the mood for this unusual story. A man is wandering along a highway in the middle of the desert. When picked up by people trying to help him, he is incoherent, even catatonic.This is a well thought-out character study of human emotions, and how even a person who has his heart's desire can be destroyed like a parasite from within when those emotions are not held under control. As we learn the back story of this despondent man, we soon realize he is suffering mentally, but he's not insane, as you were led to believe initially. He is cared for by his brother and sister-in-law (who have also been raising his son), and once he has recovered, takes custody of his son, and searches for his estranged wife.The reunion scene of the man and the ex-wife is one of the strangest put on screen in a while. Nothing you would expect happens in this sequence, but the off beat nature of what transpires is strikingly rich in symbolism and immensely emotional. Much is learned about both individuals, in an intelligent art house approach where a few gaps are left for you to fill in, but the clues are given to explain what is really happening and why. The altruistic outcome is deeply touching.The acting by everyone, especially the child actor, is superior, and the characters are interesting and the story is absorbing. It's not a fast-moving film, but it will stay in your memory for a long time. "},{"Title":"superb delivery","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was seen the first time around 15 years ago and touched me with a way that left me with a deep reverence for the extremes of emotions it portrayed..... I can honestly say that this film made a significant impact to me and my life in a way that was respectful of the delicate balance we are all in as we continue our journeys of existence while alive. I would be interested to know if this had similar affects to others especially as I am an English person living in the United States. The movie has and will always give me a torturous and heart wrenching view of the extremities of relationships and how love can be so pleasurable yet so painful as well. "},{"Title":"Wim Wenders' atmospheric American road movie","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the greatest film titles ever, one of the greatest opening sequences ever, Paris, Texas is just that-a clash of opposites, of cultures and concepts. German director Wim Wenders, facing an American cinematic idiom the road movie. An opening sequence where a man in a suit appears in the Texan desert(later the desert is contrasted with the city, LA). The man is lost. He is searching for his wife and child. He could be a cowboy at odds with the modernity. Great acting, great soundtrack. He finds his son and slowly he is saved. He finds his wife in a Houston strip joint and, separated by a one-way mirror(what a metaphor!), they save each other. And then off again into the desert. "},{"Title":"Stays with you forever !","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film deals so well with its central story of a man returning to his life,from a self-imposed isolation. The use of locations, and photography ,particularly in the earlier sequences of the film, just capture the sense of the wilderness ,both within and without-side, this person. When Travis is staring away down the railroad tracks into a dry ,dusty infinity, the wind is blowing, it just burns the image into your mind. I find something so pure and beautiful in these bleak, desolate vistas. In direct comparison ,the film also has great humanity and warmth. Travis earning back his sons trust, is particularly touching.This film is a keeper, it just works so well, and never disrespects its audience, to be fair it is very taste specific, so it wont be for everybody, but if it works for you, it will truly touch you. "},{"Title":"Europe dreams about America","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Romantic view about America by Wim Wenders. In my opinion this is one of the most beautiful, most visually poetic visions about the US. It has one of the best soundtracks ever... Ry Cooder goes the extra-mile on this one. a movie full of metaphors, and odes to America. There's not much I can say about it, aside from see it with your own eyes. It feels like a Jack Kerouac romance and it looks like a Wim Wenders movie.Land of the Plenty, feels like an attempt to recreate this with a political feeling. My opinion is that it's not near as good as this, this is the real thing. A great American movie, done by a great European Director. "},{"Title":"If you genuinely love movies you'll love this","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fantastic. Full of atmosphere, a real slow burner, great cast (there doesn't appear to be much credit given to the kid who was great too), great characterisation and beautifully shot. Some may describe the movie as depressing but I don't think that it is at all, just very sad, which is a different thing altogether. The music and photography also deserve a special mention, I've just got this movie on DVD and it is absolutely staggering. No wonder it doesn't get much of a mention any more - Hollywood with all its millions and so-called superstars would blush if any of the current trite efforts being piled out by the sausage factory were to be compared to this. Or perhaps they should and then they'd have to earn their millions for a change. If you like Arnie movies forget this one. "},{"Title":"It really brought magic back to cinema!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was marveled with this astounding movie, the loneliness of it, the desperate and passionate feeling all around. This movie ranks on my top 5 favorite movies of all time. It has to do, also, the fact that I identified myself through the characters especially 'Travis'. I've experienced that same kind of love and desperation, which, somehow, made me feel that it's o.k. to live this life through passion.The Cinematography is clever, and the direction is carefully driven. the screenplay, along with the soundtrack and cinematography might be the tip-top of the film.If you happen to see it on a video store, rent it, buy it, don't hesitate you won't regret, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not a film snob-- mostly a film buff (there's a difference.) I'm also a film student, and many other inspiring directors may thing that I should be flogged in the testicles with a bull pizzle for never seeing a Wim Winders' film. Now that I have, maybe they're right. The film was the embodiment of isolation. Character action (Travis getting into the back seat of the car, Travis not speaking, Travis getting rejected from his son when he wants to walk him home, etc,) as well as lighting. Notice when Travis's brother (an impeccable performance by Dean Stockwell) takes him to the 'Rancho Motel' near the beginning of the film. A dark green tint is used, showing how distant this all seems in the eyes of the protangonist. Once they're actually in the room, the walls are pale, white, bland-- like a mental hospital. But when Travis looks into the mirror we see a cool blue, and when his brother appears we see the same. The super-8 footage is the biggest heartbreaker. The child, distancing himself from his father, wakes up... No more than that, I hate spoilers. As I've mentioned, Stockwell was amazing, almost very cool. We know he loves his son, but he really cares about his brother no matter what. Because I'd never really known where he came from outside of Blue Velvet, it was very interesting to see. Harry Dean Stanton I've always known, and has always been on my top 10 underrated actors of all time list (I'm not giving the whole list, sorry, but I will say the writer of this film, Sam Shepard, is also on it.) He never needed to speak, his facial expressions and body movements often did the speaking for him. His name was Travis (like Taxi Driver, but don't let that throw you. It's a different isolation here folks.) Travis is apt because he was a travesty, he was messed up. He sinned and he wasn't even seeking forgiveness, rather, solace. (When his bother is upset with him about flying, he says It's alright if you leave me.) Apart from that, this film needs a DVD release. No extras, fine, but the print that I saw was the VHS crapped out version... With cinematography like this, it deserves more.  "}{"Title":"Thought provoking and original.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliant cinematography, brilliant soundtrack and a moving and ethereal plot. Travis' and Jane's audio confrontation at the sex parlour is one of the most memorable interchanges in cinema. Rates as one of my favourite films. "},{"Title":"for the long distance runner, it is a gem","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is a bit ironic that a German film director, Wim Wenders, along with a German/French film company came into the United States to make an American film in English! Unlike American film makers who invade Europe and usually film in English with the American audience in mind. Paris, Texas is a slice of American life probably set in the early 1980's about love and failure. It has to do with a man who has walked around in a daze for four years and then suddenly must deal with his past and the things that he has done as they are stirred back into his memory. Up front, the movie begins slowly and moves at the pace of a handicapped snail. Wim Wenders has a visual style that is reflected on screen in meticulous framing and almost unworldly like colors with scenes that would be very ordinary in everyday life. He is a stickler for details and initially creates a not too sympathetic protagonist in Travis who subsequently finds himself peeled like an onion. As we see these layers and begin to understand his past history, one can more empathize with him, even if he appears to be irrational at times. Such is the human condition. Although Harry Dean Stanton receives nearly 100% of the screen time because he is in almost every scene, it is Nastassja Kinski who is the lynch pin of the film. It is her performance that makes this slowly evolving film so memorable. This role alone should have been sufficient to propel her into the foremost ranks of super stardom. Her principal scene is unforgettable.Along with Tess, Paris, Texas cries out for a region one special edition DVD with director's commentary and appropriate comments from the two main leads, Harry Dean Stanton and Nastassja Kinski. Only available in an out of print VHS tape format in the US, I took a chance and bought an all region DVD out of Brazil. Luckily, it played flawlessly.The recently released region 1 DVD is nothing less than superb with a stunning transfer and audio commentary by Wim Wenders - not to be missed for those who liked this film. And now there is a Blu-Ray transfer from Criterion released in early 2010, that is a must buy for anyone who really liked the film on standard DVD. Almost everything has been fixed via what must have been a painstaking remastering process, approved by Wim Wenders, and to be expected from Criterion. Simply super sharp and stunning on a high definition screen. "},{"Title":"wim wenders at his best, to say nothing of stanton and kinski","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the masterpieces from the prolific output of Wim Wenders. It is also an excellent example of Ry Cooders superb talent to enhace, describe, and scoore the mood of the charecters surroundings, as usual Cooder does not try to embody the feelings etc of the character but to bring to the watcher the feeling of the landscape around them and the culture in it, witness Southern Comfort, Crossroads et al. To respond to Thomas Clements argument that Yes, the photography is excellent, but come on, how many movies have lousy photography?, wellI would say a hell of a lot! I cannot truthfully say that i have seen any movies in the recent past (with the possible exception of Once Were Warriors) that has put any effort, creativity or anything of worth into its photograhy, the trouble being that the vast majority of moviegoers care not a bit for the photograpy of the product they are weatching.Todays audience is force fed the action/high speed/smush of hollywood and to say that films like 2fast 2 furious/gone in 60 seconds etc are an example of good photography because of the car chases etc is a prime example of lack of knowledge, the greates of this genre are all from the 60's/70's, Bullit/Italian Job/French Connection/Rendezvous etc. where the dirsctor of photography actually had something to create as appose to fill the screen with SFX ad most have to contend with these days.You want to see photography ?, watch any John Ford/Sergio Leone et al and see what film Photography really is about. This is one of the greatest film of modern times, preciseluy for what Thomas Clement thinks is deplorable, stick to your actionerss sir, i understand Vin Diesel has a new film  approaching the screens, God help us all.  "},{"Title":"A truly fabulous film","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'm gonna attempt to put into words why this film is great, a task not easy to do. This film, written by sam shepard, is a truly original take on a character study. To try to understand the character of Travis (harry dean stanton), Wim Wenders takes us on a journey where the suspense we feel is in the fact that we know nothing about who travis really is until very near the end of the film. In one of the most beautifully and horrifyingly written scenes ever filmed, Travis spills his guts to a adult bookstore dancer (you know the ones behind the tinted glass windows) whose connection to Travis we are only just beginning to understand.The film moves slowly as is typical of most Wim Wenders' films. It is not for the average movie-goer, but for someone truly excited by character development. What will strike you most is the subtle nature with which the story moves. I admit the first time I watched this film I almost fell asleep. But I stuck it out and watched the movie. I watched it a couple more times since then and the film keeps getting better. This, to me, is the true test of a great film. I can still watch this film and enjoy it and find new things about it to love.Bottom line This film is great, but not for the average movie-goer. If you enjoy character development and arresting dialogue this movie is for you.  "},{"Title":"A Unique movie experience","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is truly rare in film when you are presented with a character whose life you are immediately intrigued by.  Paris, Texas gives you that kind of character.  From the first moments you see this man walking across the barren southwest in no particular direction you wonder.......where is he going and why?  The entire film thoughtfully explains just those questions.  This movie is subtle and deep.  The performances are uniformly top notch with Harry Dean Stanton playing the role of his career.  This is not a film for those who are drawn to big budget Hollywood pictures.........it is for those who want to truly consider the arc of a troubled man's life.  This is a fantastic film! "},{"Title":"Individual elements of brilliance, but at the expense of audience engagement","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a huge Wim Wenders fan, but for one reason or another I never saw what'soften considered one of his masterpieces (alongside Wings of Desire), Paris,Texas. On its release this film won a host of awards at Cannes and elsewhere,  but I'm not sure that it holds up well. Individual elements are superb thecinematography by Robby Müller, the Ry Cooder soundtrack, and the acting ofHarry Dean Stanton and Dean Stockwell, in particular. But the film seems tooverstress its theme of alienation and emotional distance between people, atthe expense of audience engagement in the characters and plot.The film begins with one of the archetypes of Western themes A man with nopast, no voice and no obvious explanation stumbles into an isolated hamlet in  rural Texas. This turns out to be Travis (Stanton), whose sole possession is a  piece of paper with the phone number of his younger brother Walt (Stockwell,looking quite different than Sam in Quantum Leap) in Los Angeles. As Walt flies  out to get him, the mystery of his brother's disappearance and reappearancebecomes the focal point of the movie. The inability of the brothers tocommunicate (at first, Travis doesn't speak at all) foreshadows the film'srecurring theme of alienation. During one of a number of long highway sequences  (Wender's company is Road Movie Filmproduktions), we get a sense of Walt'sfrustration and confusion, which is elaborated upon when we reach LA and meet  Hunter, Travis's son. The time spent on unearthing the dissolution of Travis's early life, including  what happened to his wife and son, is painstaking but not intensely engaging on  an emotional level. As Travis and Hunter renew their relationship, in search of  Travis's long-estranged wife (Nastassja Kinski), the film becomes moreengrossing, culminating in a fascinating and unnervingly filmed sequence in a  sleazy sex club that epitomizes Travis's inability to hold a meaningful face to  face conversation.  "},{"Title":"A once in a lifetime film","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think that Paris, Texas is an absolute gem. This film plays on many levels, and relies on one's imagination to fill in pictures while listening to the dialogue. Harry Dean Stanton and Nastassja Kinski are just mesmerizing together in the second half of the film. I've about worn out the VHS tape that I taped off of the Movie Channel. Hat's off to Sam Shepard! What a writer! "},{"Title":"I hung onto every word of this film.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to be able to add much to the well-deserved accolades previously laid onto this timeless gem. Harry Dean Stanton, Nastassja Kinski, Dean Stockwell, Aurore Clement, and all of the rest of the cast should look back on this film and take tremendous pride in contributing to this masterpiece. WHAT A FILM!!!! "},{"Title":"Stanton shines","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Long, artsy and beautifully photographed, 'Paris, Texas'(1984)stars the wonderful character actor Harry Dean Stanton as a drifter who re-appears after a four year unexplained absence and seeks to reunite with his young son and wife. Stantons performance was worthy of an Oscar nomination and Ry Cooders soundtrack perfectly captures the mood of the film. If action is what you seek, this critically acclaimed movie is not for you, however one of the better character study films around. Great screenplay by Sam Shepard "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what's about the movies of Wim Wenders. When I saw the first time Der Himmel über Berlin aka Wings of desire, I thought to my self Nice movie, but what else?. I tried to capture the magic and the atmosphere of the movie but I could find it. A few days later I thought about it again and then I felt this unexplainable attraction of this movie. The same way it was with Paris, Texas.Only a few days later I understood the message, it's a kind of philosophical point which is the fascination for this movie. Any way, it's a good movie and the music is very characteristic for the scenes of the movie, for example when Travis walks in the desert.  "}{"Title":"One of the most gorgeous movies ever filmed","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paris, Texas is one of my favorite movies of all time.  I was only 3 when it came out, but in comparison to most movies, it will outlast most you'll see now.Ry Cooder did the gorgeous soundtrack, which is intrepid on its own, but it adds ineffably to the movie, which you will see upon viewing it.  It's haunting, pretty, minimalist, and has the ability to convey a wide range of emotions by mainly using slide guitar (maybe a lap steel).The story is of a man (Harry Dean Stanton) who has gone through a fugue. We find him in the beginning almost passing out in the desert from exhaustion, standing there dumbfounded, looking at his surroundings.  Later we learn that he has disappeared for a few years, while his son, Hunter, is now living with his brother and his wife (Dean Stockwell and Aurore Clement). Slowly he realizes what happened in his life, and he decides to dedicate himself to bringing his son back to his mother.  The story is simple, but at the same time, you find yourself questioning many things.  I'm not a huge fan of psychology, mainly because I find explaining my actions by the brain's accord too deterministic, but you'll do your share of wondering nonetheless.Another thing that makes this movie fantastic is the direction of Wim Wenders.  This is the first film I've seen by him (`Lisbon Story' was after that), and I was blown away.  The scene where Travis and Hunter are walking up the street is amazing.  The way the sunlight hits everything on the street, and how the odd angle up the street is concomitant with that will leave you awestruck.  On one sunny morning, Travis is cleaning everyone's shoes, looking at the shadow of an airplane at a nearby airport.  That may seem lame, but if you're open-minded and appreciate the beauty of landscapes, you'll understand what I mean.  Wenders managed to capture the beauty of the areas where he filmed.  He even brings out effulgence in dusty, rural streets.  You can see more of these types of pictures in a book by him called `Written in the West.'The settings are important also.  There are little things you'll notice (not necessarily symbolically as much as cinematically) with more viewings that will captivate you.  The `hotel' scene at the end is amazing to watch. And if this movie seems a little languid in its pace, that's because, for the most part, Sam Shepard writes that way.  There isn't a lot of flashy dialog, and there's not a lot of action.  You can probably expect that from someone who has written award winning plays.  But please, I beg you, don't watch halfway through and give up.  Put it in, turn off the lights, and watch it the whole way through.  It'll make an indelible mark on your future words about movies in general.  "},{"Title":"a sweeping, beautiful allegory of longing and sadness","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  mild yet grandly cinematic, this film may in some ways seem understated but it lets itself get caught up in it's characters and their emotions. amazingly photographed of course and exquisitely scored the real treat and the thing that keeps me coming back to this film is it's power to move without drawing attention to itself. it is a film about normal people and the ways in which they relate to, and fail to communicate with each other. because of this there such emotional distance between the characters that you can feel it- it is what stands out- all the primary performances are amazing but they work off each other as an ensemble. paris, texas is an extremely rewarding experience- it lets us revel self-indulgently in it's beauty.   "},{"Title":"Continues to move me","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw Paris, Texas when it was released in 1984. I was moved tremendously by Wim Wender's haunting masterpiece. His use of height imagery is amazing. The scene with Travis following the shadow of the plane instead of the plane itself is one of the best I've seen. A few years ago, I picked up my own copy, and have since watched it several times. It continues to move me. I simply love this film. It's beautifully acted, with a superb soundtrack. A must see. "},{"Title":"quiet, slow-moving, yet rewarding.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Few films have moved me so deeply as Paris, Texas. It's a  story of trying to rebuild  relationships ,the battle zone between men and women, and the undying bond between fathers and sons. All the performances are excellent Harry Dean Stanton as a drifter brought back to reality to make amends with his family, Nastasha Kinski playing a southern belle (!), and young Hunter Carson's as a young yet brave lad willing to take an adventure by taking a road trip and getting to know the dad he never knew.  One of Wim Wenders road movies and one of my personal favorites.  Ry Cooder's soundtrack adds to the films mesmerizing mood.  Paris, Texas  deservedly won best picture at the Cannes Film Festival '84, it's also one of the few films that made me cry.  Most highly recommended. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Movie magic, nothing less!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you haven´t seen this movie yet, I truly envy you, because you are in for a treat. Relax and let yourself be drawn in by the slow pace and you will be absolutely lost for 2 1/2 hours. This (sort of) road movie about (lost) human relations is so powerful, that you will be affected way beyond the normal time that the average easily digested and forgotten movie does. It touches your soul, it truly does. Give it the time and the calm it deserves and it will enrich your life!   "},{"Title":"Wonderful and really impressive film about the undertaking of a journey in a man's life and the taking on of responsibility.","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas is a film that encompasses so much human emotion and spiritual drive; a film that travels such sociological lengths within the human mind just as it does physically in space and setting. The film begins in a dusty and lonely desert location, but journeys from here to busy airports; to contemporary American suburbs to the highways connecting these places, to apartments in towering buildings and right on to sleazy performance houses located within the deep, deep crevices of large cities. The sense of travel is important; the sense of journey is apparent. One of my favourite scenes-come-shots in the film occurs when the film's lead stares out of his brother's garden overlooking a highway and an airport runway. No one says or does anything, the character just sits and observes all this activity going on as he forms thoughts in his head; thoughts linked to the fact he must conclude a certain journey he has begins to realise he has already undertaken.The film begins with a lone man walking through a desert, he is Travis Henderson (Stanton) and wears a rugged and unshaven look as he potters about in a smart, but dusty, suit. Eventually, his brother named Walt (Stockwell) drives out to meet him after being called out by an individual that comes into possession of Travis' wallet, and attempts to figure out what happened. Quite quickly, director Wim Wenders combines beautiful scenery; the bending and twisting of conventions when we see a formally dressed man in a place we don't expect to see a formally dressed man; and an element of mystery when it transpires Travis' memory is less than perfect and he's been out of contact for four years. Additionally, when asked what happened &#x96; Travis rejects the question, tiptoeing around it and further placing it on a back-burner. All that he does reveal, to begin with, is the explanation of the title; that being that he wants to own a small plot of land in Paris, Texas &#x96; something he's been observing via a small photograph for all these years. This gives the film an initial overall direction, or something for its mysterious, mute character to aim for.Part of the film's underlying effectiveness is the way Wenders allows us to slowly get involved with characters like Travis. Initially, the audience is invited to toy with a few ideas surrounding him. Do we think he's in trouble with someone? Is he on the run? Can we trust him when he's driving for Walt? Can we trust him when Walt (who knows about as much as we do at most points and thus; speaks for us, the audience) leaves him alone in the motel room as to not merely run off again? The answer to that last question is 'not really' and when it transpires Travis does run away from Walt's attempts at help, maybe we feel a little angry at him; a little frustrated that he's acting in this quite shut off and childish manner.But things change, and people branch out. It's interesting to note that when Walt does disappear from the text as the film nears its final third, Wenders is clearly signalling that he feels comfortable enough he has delivered the necessary information for us to form our own realisation of what's going on and allows Travis to take over as that character that drives the film; as a character that goes places, not randomly, but because he knows what he needs to do &#x96; we know what the situation is and away he goes. It's an effortless switch on Wenders' behalf; a master-class in directing as he delivers this long and drawn out story in the most humbling of manners but never, ever looses track of who's who and what their role is on the screen.The core of the film revolves around the sorting out of problems past; a sort of correcting of mistakes. But this is no film resembling a crude red marker-pen streak straight through several errors on a page, this is more a noting of mistakes made in a first draft before re-writing what should have been accomplished first time out in slick and effortless typography. Not knowing what transpires and why certain people are in the position they're in is 90% of the fun but what I will say is that a third party agent is involved and they're of a rather innocent variety. It is this agent that, when revealed, bridges gaps and enables certain personnel to take on certain responsibilities.Another key tactic in Wenders' delivery is Nastassja Kinski's character. Looking at some of the old posters uploaded here on IMDb, it seems there are a fair few detailing her character with the face of said person slapped all over the covers. But Wenders doesn't reveal what it seems he considers his prize jewel until much later on. I could say her name is Jane perfectly fine, but to mention her surname would be a spoiler of rather unfortunate consequence. Needless to say, she is connected. Paris, Texas is a rewarding experience. It asks us to find time to lend to those that come across as immediately eccentric or not of a 'type' we would immediately pay much attention to. It wants us to look at a person and look at a world through this person's perspective as we begin to realise those of an unspectacular variety might very well have a story of the spectacular variety, to tell. "},{"Title":"Paris, Texas","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Of all films this definitely rates as my favourite.As a film-maker myself I always go back to the basis of this story. An emotion driven, character driven, story-telling masterpiece! What makes this film stand above all others in my mind is its simplicity. A story so simple yet complex in its narrative and characters that compel you into a richness of cinema.The story itself is about a journey, and not wanting to go over what others have said before, it's a journey about past, present and future so well justified. What more should be a film about? A great film doesn't need to be rich in what you see. You need to be enveloped by the characters and the story as well. And this is what this film excels in. It has all of these elements.Undoubtedly Wim's best film ever. And my favourite of all time. Underrated by the Masses... the best scene of all time in any movie seen in my eyes. A long scene, but so moving and life-like that you feel compelled to be there and moved by it! If you want to feel so emotionally bound by a film, and quite a few scenes that are uncompromising against any other film then this is the one. You'll need to sit back and take in what it has to offer, and you'll be greatly rewarded. Masterful Cinema!!! "},{"Title":"Human odyssey","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders and Sam Shepard are among the filmmakers that easily could have been psychologists. They know so much about human nature and its evident here. A story about paradise lost, a human odyssey made in a really striking way, Paris, Texas is a film that feels like watching real life and not a film. Harry Dean Stanton is outstanding as Travis and is so good that it doesn't feel as though he's acting at all. Aurore Clement and Dean Stockwell are also fine as his sister-in-law and brother respectively who take care of his adorable little son Hunter, who is played by Hunter Carson, who displays incredible maturity. Nastassja Kinski is delightful to watch as always and delivers a strong performance, especially considering her age. 1984 was a big year for her, starring in Hotel New Hampshire, Maria's Lovers and this film. Being directed by Richardson, Konchalovski and Wenders when you're 22-23 is really not a trifle.Ry Cooder's soundtrack is among the best ever and especially the main theme is incredibly effective. What else is there to say? This film will enrich your life and make you ask existential questions probably. It is its purpose, as well as telling us to appreciate life and all the good things in it. Shepard is truly an underrated writer and this is his greatest work, as well as Wenders'. Gus Van Sant obviously took inspiration from this great work when he made his own masterpiece My Own Private Idaho. "},{"Title":"Paris, Texas - A treat visually and musically","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can say many great things about the film but Ry Cooders soundtrack truly makes it one for the books. Years after seeing the movie I bought a CD of Cooders' movie songs and just from those songs I could picture and feel the whole movie as if I was watching it. This is a perfect example of what a soundtrack can add to a movie. One might feel that a movie producer heard some of Cooders' songs and wrote a movie about the way the music made him feel. Casting is another bonus. All the actors seem well suited for their roles and when you combine that with an atypical Hollywood ending....well one is sadly but pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"From surrogates to substance","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is a deconstruction of the lies and fakes that human lives are built upon, functioning either as a compromise, or a compensation for their unresolved feeling of emptiness. There are several patterns of rehearsal and simulation in Texas, Paris. To begin with, the very title gives the first hint and synthesis of imitation in the story. The original Paris, the idea and mirage the characters dream to live up to, confronted with the sadness and vacuum involved by the impossibility to recreate it. The characters are too absorbed in their incapacity to make their dramas intelligible to themselves and, therefore, too conflicted to be authentic in the hypostasis they are supposed to embrace. Consequently, they mime roles and concepts instead of accessing and revaluing their emotional potential within themselves. The fake family of Walt, Anne and Hunter, for instance. The two grown-ups are playing the parents instead of becoming biological parents themselves. Anne's despair in seeing Travis and Hunter, the real father and son, growing close, as well as her rhetorically articulated fear of what might happen to her marriage should Hunter join his real parents, could also be interpreted as a tentative of escapism from the problems and disconnections within the couple. A borrowed child and the picture of the dream-family living tranquilly in the suburbs might very well have worked as Prozac for the couple, since both of them seem to lack the inner instruments and resources to define themselves and their feelings in relation to each other in a marital context and build their marriage on real, solid grounds. When accusing her husband of promoting the father and son business, she objectifies a highly humane, delicate and heart-felt subject approaching it in the cold terms of PR and soap-opera, which highlights the extent of her emotional numbness and self-alienation once more. She is more or less in the banner business together with her spouse. Certainly, Walt's particular line of work with banners is not an accident in the movie, but carries the same symbolical connotations of clichés unanimously accepted and imposed as reality. Travis buys a lot named Paris, hoping to settle down there with the woman he loves, but his real-life sentimental paraphrasing of the city of love ends up in a domestic ordeal, abandon and, eventually, loneliness. Having returned to his son, he doesn't know how to behave with him, wondering how a Father normally relates to his child. He tries on the rich father role, suit and hat involved, because he has no affective notion and practice of parenthood, at first. Then, when the father and son are walking on two parallel sides of the road on the way back home, Travis mocking his own clumsy father figure morgue and Hunter imitating him, we finally see the two of them in tune with each other, slowly growing out of the stern roles and pretense in their lives and coming to an emotional and authentic reconnection through game, humor and sound self-parody. From that point on, as the story progresses, Hunter undresses himself of his self-perception and experience as Walt's and Anne's surrogate son. The quick, amazing familiarization with each other leaves the viewer with the impression that there had always been a deep father and son complicity that was interrupted and now restored, put back in its rights, as Travis went back being his son's reference point on that street. Heart-broken after their romantic failure, Jane leaves her son in safer hands and reconstructs her particular connection with Travis in her imagination, since their relationship had become too self-destructive to be continued in real-life. Since her mind is no longer able to recreate her lost love's voice and features, she takes a job that consists of entertaining men whom she can't see behind a wall-mirror, identifying their voices with Travis's, and perhaps even hoping he was among them. She, too, elaborates her own substitute for her irreplaceable and impossible romance in a room that is essentially a pretense of intimacy and connection. The wall-mirror is a metaphorical separator of globular lives that can't find peace and a sense of fulfillment within themselves before opening up to one another, held captive within the tragic narcissism of their unhealed obsessions. Bottom line, the movie shows us a very realistic bunch of existentially disoriented people having their lives reduced to a void, striving to deny their sadness while manufacturing surrogates and more tolerable versions of their condition. Personally, I noticed some similarities between Wim Wenders and Jim Jarmusch as far as their theoretical approach on the human condition, loneliness and absurd are concerned. However, while Jarmusch leaves his characters in the uttermost meaninglessness and entropic alienation, this state is only the beginning of the characters' quest for truth and connection in Wenders's far more tender film, making the passage from fake and artificial postures to self-confrontation and blunt honesty, love and, eventually, some melancholic form of togetherness. "}{"Title":"It's available again, on DVD","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I usually rent and buy my movies at this great outlet branch in Bryn Mawr, PA - TLA Video. I go in there several times each week, checking what's new, browsing the shelves. I knew Paris, Texas was due soon. However, I expected a little marketing fanfare and a hefty price tag. But there on the shelf was a single DVD copy, tagged at $8.95!!!!! The knowledgeable clerk and I just shook our heads together in awe, that this film would be let out as if it were some discount bargain.Paris, Texas is a very unique film, with Sam Shepard offering his classic style of plain Western characters ending up hitting you like voices of the universal from Greek tragedy. Harry Dean Stanton's finest hour. Nastasia Kinski giving him a good match.One clear instance of Wim Wender's frequently out-of-bounds ambition kept to a powerful focus, despite the length and slow pace of the film.Go out and find a copy, or order it on line. Don't bother renting, this is one to keep for re-viewing. "},{"Title":"Jealousy is so wasteful","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a delight no car chases, explosions, bloody deaths, or computer generated bilge so prevalent today. The bottleneck guitar added a nice flavor to the production, also. Travis wandered alone in the desert in a self made hell because of his own sinful nature. Marrying a much younger woman only fueled his inner demons leading to a mess for his entire family. What a fool. Both he and his wife searched for years for a replacement for something they considered permanently lost only to lead unfulfilled existences on the border of living. I liked the way the story went on and on with no explanations about what caused Travis to trek into the wilds and then sprung it on the viewer in one gut wrenching scene in a Houston cubicle. The dialogue was never boring, but instead concise and well delivered, however, I did have a bit of trouble understanding the German lady's accent. 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Like Travis, the film loses its way","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING The movie was often engaging, but there were times I wanted to fast-forward through the seemingly endless pregnant pauses. And then, after establishing the depth of love and committment to Hunter that Travis' brother and sister-in-law had for the boy, the story abandoned the couple in favor of Travis' drawn out, moon-eyed angst. Also, it was never established that Hunter's mum was in any way prepared to regain custody of her son. Hunter had already come to love his foster parents, and they, he. What about the emotional trauma of suddenly ending that relationship? We haven't a clue, because the writer/director didn't think it was necessary to resolve the issue.  I'll give it this; it's one of those movies where one truly feels they've gotten their money's worth it seemed longer'n a Baptist sermon in June. "},{"Title":"high vs. low","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Easily one of the most overrated movies of all time. Other reviews are somehow trying to set this up so that, if you don't like this movie, you somehow hate art and there has to be something wrong with you. No. Look under the surface. This movie is a mess underneath a shallow, calm surface, an accumulation of pretty much every cliché in the book about the West. The minimalism only is a verneer on the bundle of romantic-cowboy clichés that is the protagonist, whose selfishness and callowness is somehow ascribed this massive moral weight and clarity. Wonderful. People confuse affectations of style for actually having something to say. This is a mechanistic, snobbish movie, almost wholly devoid of energy, grace, or value--but the fact that people somehow latch onto this as a kind of paragon of European-doing-America film making is, frankly, embarrassing.  "},{"Title":"Captivating, moving...whatever happened to Hunter?","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If cinematographer Robby Muller's fantastic view of the desert and of L.A. isn't enough to make you love this movie, the story will bowl you over.  So much is said through silence and Shepard and Carson chose the dialogue carefully.  This is a movie of lost people who struggle to find connections. Harry Dean Stanton delivers another just fabulous performance, and does a great impersonation of a rich father.  Of course, I would be remiss if I didn't mention Ry Cooder's soundtrack that perfectly matches the desperation, loss and joy in the film. Whatever happened to Hunter Carson, who plays the little boy in the film? Perhaps his father, writer Carson, dissuaded his son against an acting career, but Hunter breaks your heart in this movie and can really act.  Only a few child actors really have that ability, and then it's usually the directors or editors that pull the performance out of them.  I'd put Hunter up against Henry Thomas in E.T., Lukas Haas in Witness, and Anna Paquin in The Piano anyday. "},{"Title":"The Unification of a Disintegrated Family","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders was one of the filmmakers who formed new German cinema in 1970's and his film Im lauf der zeit (In the Course of Time) ,alongside with Volker Schlöndorff The Tin Drum, is often seen as one of the finest representatives of the movement. In 1984 after becoming quite famous in Europe Wim Wenders went to America to produce his first film outside of Germany. Paris, Texas is a masterful road-movie, which was Wenders' favorite genre; he even made a road-movie trilogy in 1970's (Alice in the Cities, False Movement and In the Course of Time). This slow-paced, mature, one of the director's most acclaimed films and his most accessible film, requires heart, certain maturity and patience from its viewer.A quiet man, lost for four years walks in the desert, due to dehydration a man picks him up and takes him to a hospital. Soon the quiet man is taken in by his brother. Later on the man tries to put his life back together and remember what happened between him, his wife and, his 8-year-old son.Paris, Texas could easily be a film which makes one to die for a ticket to the States. The landscapes, the gorgeous images reinforced by sentimental and honest music make us see into the true soul of America. 1980's and Americanism can be seen everywhere in the film, it is cleverly and precisely created cokes, sodas, American cars, country music, clothes and landscapes. The construction of state in Paris, Texas is incredibly well handled and the contrasts Wenders has created are astonishing.This profound film about a quiet man, lost woman and the unification of a disintegrated family really drills down to pure emotion. Difficulty of communication and losing one's identity have both been very important themes for Wim Wenders already in Im lauf der zeit (1976). In Im lauf der zeit the two men don't know how to talk to each other, how to talk about your worries, memories and past. But in Paris, Texas the theme of difficulty of communication was taken to a new level what can you say to the people you once left behind? How can you ever make up the mistakes once made? It's about the impossibility of understanding others, how can you relate to a person with completely different emotions. The change of identity is a scary thing and this theme culminates in the scene where Travis (the quiet man) tries different kind of outfits, trying to find the right suit for his new identity.Alongside with the themes of identity and communication, Paris, Texas is an emotional film about loneliness. The difficulty of understanding and empathy. Perhaps Travis can't make up the mistakes he once made and he is alone. He finds his long lost son and his wife, but understands that he's unable to live with them and is once again left alone, lonelier than ever before. Paris, Texas is a timeless film about loneliness and the later film by Wenders Wings of Desire (1987) can easily be seen as an antithesis for it; it has got certain eras, ages and a history. This profound theme of loneliness culminates in the unforgettable images of men sitting, standing and walking alone in Paris, Texas.In the end Paris, Texas grows out to be a mature film about family, the disintegration and the unification of it. It's a smooth and quality film in style, thematics and content. The delimitations and states are important and full of significance. After seeing the film twice I consider it as a very touching, melancholy road-movie about soul-searching, identity and family. It's a very good film, even if it's not Wenders' finest. I strongly recommend people to get to know his earlier and later German production. Wings of Desire (1987) and In the Course of Time (1976) are for instance two unforgettable masterpieces. "},{"Title":"This goes beyond being a classic, and can only be called a hyper-classic","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Words fail, there is no way to describe it. After many years, I have just seen this again for the fourth or fifth time, and it is more incredible now than it was then (or on the many thens). One's appreciation for the genius of director Wim Wenders increases steadily with time, and he is on a rising curve. This time I appreciated even more how spectacularly wonderful the story was by actor Sam Shepard, and the adaptation by Kit Carson. His son Hunter Carson plays the boy, Hunter, in the film. (The boy's mother is Karen Black, whom I knew way back when she made her second picture, when she was too wild to tell.) Here, Wenders shows his deep sensitivity to children, as he had done earlier in his magnificent 'Alice in the Cities', where the child was a little girl. Wenders and Carol Reed have a lot in common that way. The performances in this film, as everyone knows, are staggering in their intensity. Wenders resurrected Harry Dean Stanton from the status of an obscure character actor to become one of the most powerful screen actors of his time (they say he's murder in person but we don't see that bit, and that's his business, and those he may hurt). No one in the world could have pulled off the central role of Travis but Stanton. His casting was the ultimate act of genius. Wenders's casting instincts are probably the most perfect of any director's in the world. He showed his casting genius again in choosing French actress Aurore Clement for Walt's wife. At one stroke, he eliminated the 'American mom' problem by using instead a softly spoken, delicately mannered French woman who is incapable of spoiling a child, being a 'mall consumer', or even thinking of entering a (pardon me while I am sick) Macdonalds. So the kid is safe, and so is the film, and there is no saccharine false sentimentality, and all that goes with those terrible American moms in all the Hollywood movies dripping in sugar syrup, or is it maple syrup? Wenders made the reputation of Ry Cooder in this film, by using his perpetually haunting music for the sound track, and of course they teamed up again years later for the wonderful 'Buena Vista Social Club'. Wenders has as impeccable taste in music as he has in everything else. (He also launched Madredeus of Portugal, not just the Cubans.) This film opens with Harry Dean Stanton walking with fierce determination in a straight line across the Mojave Desert, heading for nothing and nowhere, in a despondent act of self-immolation. But he faints from dehydration, and his brother is summoned by a local because he has his brother's business card in his pocket, although they haven't been in touch for four years. Harry doesn't really remember who he is at first, and we never do learn what he was doing for four years, nor do we need to know. The main thing is he has turned up again, against his will, and things begin to happen. The film is pervaded by the most profound air of total mystery, a mystery not just of events but of the ineffable and impenetrable ultimate mysteries life, that thing we don't understand, and love (what is it?) Every scene is haunting, every moment is pregnant with the possibilities of exploding emotion and an eruption of so much meaning that it will burst the camera (and the DVD will also warp). There isn't any way all of this can be expressed but by itself. In that sense, 'Paris, Texas' is like a person irreducible. We have the added attraction of the beautiful Nastassya Kinski to gaze at, and we can never get enough of that, can we? (Especially when she is being elusive and running through our fingers like water.) And Dean Stockwell is there, fretting about it all, wanting clarity and never obtaining it. There is so much tragedy, so much pain, so much that is irrevocable about the past, so much that is broken and cannot be fixed. But this movie is not a downer. Wenders shows us the way. His 'wings of desire' are at work, angels are redeeming the lost souls, the little boy who is so softly charming and entrancing, will not remain a lost boy. Stanton can still redeem himself. Kinski can save herself. The brother and his wife can sit in their empty house and cry dry tears. This film has ripped the guts out of hundreds of thousands of people, and they are still walking around mutilated, but they are mysteriously smiling. Hope hides in corners, and springs out at you. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas is tells the adventure of a wanderer named 'Travis' (Harry Dean Stanton) is found in the middle of nowhere by his brother who helps pull his memory back together; a memory that haunted him and started four years ago. Once his memory comes back, Travis starts to fix up his haunted past. Many reviewers say this film is 'near-perfect', but I strongly disagree... it is 'perfect'! The film is so beautiful, so sad and so haunting, especially the soundtrack by Ry Cooder. Some people may say that it dragged-on but I also have to disagree on that one because I thought the pacing was perfect, since it makes the viewer become more familiar with the story and the characters. Hary Dean Stanton's performance as the haunted Travis is Finally, the ending of the film is absolutely... well... left me speechless.Paris, Texas is a film that we rarely get these days, it's a film like no other. "},{"Title":"ENLIGHTENMENT","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe, the best movie I`ve ever seen. Surely, it`s in my TOP-TEN. Desperately recommended. "},{"Title":"20th anniversary viewing in Houston","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Museum of Fine Arts Houston had three viewings of Paris, Texas, this last weekend (Dec. 10-12, 2004) as a 20th anniversary tribute. Guests were Kit Carson, co-screenwriter, and his son, Hunter Carson, who played the seven-year old boy in the movie. The house was packed, with many from what passes for the film industry in Houston. Kit and Hunter (now 27, I guess) were introduced, then a 20-minute short directed by Hunter, with Tim Roth, was shown, then the feature, then a Q&A period. Lots of discussion. It was fun for Houstonians to see the use of Texas and (particularly) Houston scenes (vintage 1984). Crazy geography, of course, for those who live here. The road trip where Travis and Hunter follow Jane starts on one freeway, to switch immediately to a freeway on another side of town, then another freeway switcheroo. No problem; it's the movies. Many here have lauded the movie, and I certainly liked it last night (as I did 20 years ago), and will try not to repeat what others have said. I especially liked the home movie that Travis' brother shows when he is staying with the family in Los Angeles. It contains the first view one has of the elusive ex-wife, Jane (Kinsky) and you should feel really pulled in by the former happiness of the little family, and eager for the return of that bliss, as Travis apparently is. I also really liked the first visit of Travis to the peep show in Houston where Jane works. (The exteriors of that scene were actually filmed in Galveston, but it apparently is supposed to be in Houston, since Travis on his second visit tells Jane the boy is downtown in room 1520 of the Meridien hotel.) In that first scene, Kinski is totally iconic on the screen, pure soul. I do not like the sentimental and unlikely ending, however, which has Jane re-uniting with the son, and suddenly ready to take him with her and take care of him. Not bloody likely, I say. He has a much better home waiting for him back in Los Angeles with the uncle and his wife (Stockwell and Clement). And I did not like Kinski's lengthy speech during the second visit, in which she mainly says, over and over to Travis, I kept on hearing your voice. I felt the movie stop dead during that speech, and it was the only time I looked at my watch. After's Travis' speech in that scene, he should just tell her where the boy is and leave the booth. Other endings are possible too, especially if you feel, with me, that Hunter cannot end up with Jane. "}{"Title":"Warm hearted homestory","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'A quirky movie about the surprise of selfless love' is a summary line from Rotten Tomatoes. That's pretty good, given the difficulty in getting a handle on this at once straightforward yet peculiarly meandering film. The apparent lack of a narrative overarch is one of two things that needle me about it the other being dead longeurs as characters assimilate the situations they find themselves in. (You can find these in much European cinema - an obvious referent of Wenders - as well as the recent offering of Jonathan Glazer, Birth, although they tend not to be dead in this latter film, the actors working hard throughout them to put internal wrestling on the screen.)But this is an American film at heart. This is why it's entertaining, with a sporadic, genial humour, and as I say straightforward. The bizarre nature of the sequence of occurrences are how it is, not the consequence of pandering to symbolism (although, I'm sure it's there. The point is you're not obliged to dig for it). The acting is strong and warm. The tension is a quiet regret initiating each sequence before being drowned in the altruistic tide that forths up to deal with it. This itself is a very American characteristic. Added to the wonderful Mojave (visual) backdrop and Ry Cooder's raw (aural) backdrop and I think that this is amongst the most comprehensively American films I might ever have seen. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Life changing movie","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The scene where Stanton walks his son to school is why I have children. The Scene where he goes into the phone booth to talk to his wife is why I will always love my wife.  Of the 864 movies I have seen in my life... this is the most profound. "},{"Title":"Plot flawed- may contain spoilers","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I agree with many of the comments here about the photography and scenery of this movie. It can be breathtaking. Wim Winders camera-work with the Texas landscape and characters within the landscape is second to none. I was ecstatic when I saw Ry Cooder had done the music for Paris, Texas.However, I just couldn't get through the unrealistic plot and character situations of this movie. A guy has been missing for four years and his brother just takes him home and sets up a bed for him like he's been gone just a few hours or something. Doctor? Hospital? The doctor in the desert doesn't count. He then just takes his kid who was abandoned by him and his wife and takes him on a road trip to find his mother without telling the people who were decent enough to take care of the kid. He then finds out that the mother of his child is working as a stripper and decides to leave him with her. Kinski's character knew where her son was all these years but never contacted him- I don't see that as someone who loves her son that much. Overall, great camera-work, scenery, soundtrack, and acting but the plot twists in this movie just were too unbelievable. "},{"Title":" If you like to see a good movie, see this one.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I was about 18 years old I saw Paris, Texas, I guess I saw the movie when I was looking for a good channel. Now it's ten years later and I rented it, and old videotape. I remembered just the atmosphere and now I have seen it again I knew why I loved this movie. It was because I love a good told story. Well, I can't tell what's good about it. If you see this and you don't like the movie after ten minutes, just turn it off and watch something else. If you like to see a good movie, see this one. You wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Pity the son...","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We live in times when many people think they can have their cake and eat it as well. And this is nowhere more true, it seems to me, than when there are children involved.Travis and Jane had a bad marriage. It was mostly his fault, but in truth they both showed signs of instability. When the big blow-up came, the shrapnel scattered far and wide. One such piece was in the form of their 4-year-old son, Hunter.Now, Hunter was lucky. Unlike his parents, who disappeared into obscurity, he ended up as the foster-child of Travis's brother and his wife. They were stable, happily married, and gave him a loving home. He was as content as a boy could be under the circumstances.Uh-oh, don't count your chickens, Hunter. Four years later, out of the festering sands of the Mojave desert and looking like some sort of moulting lizard, emerges Travis. He is heading for some obscure destination &#150; possibly his dusty plot at Paris, Texas, where he might have been considering spending the rest of his life growing tree tomatoes, or anything else far removed from the responsibilities of parenthood. Instead, he encounters civilisation, which contacts his brother. Somewhat against his will, Travis is reunited with the son whom he abandoned.Now, to give him his credit, Travis is a man who realises that he has made some serious mistakes. Had the rest of the movie been about how he confronted those mistakes and actually did something about them and then won back his son's love bit by bit I'd have given it 10 out of 10. The final shot could have been that touching scene when Hunter stops and Travis crosses the road and they go up the hill together. Fade out.But, no. Instead of doing that, he decides to atone for his mistakes by taking his now 7-year-old son away from his happy and stable new home, on a journey down to Houston to find his mother. Hunter is to be sacrificed for the sake of Travis's conscience.In spite of discovering that Jane is unmarried and working as a nightclub hostess (you could say, a prostitute), he leaves the boy with her and runs off. No doubt he is heading for that arid patch at Paris, Texas once again. Except this time he probably thinks he has at long last done something good in his life.I can't agree. One of the worst exhibitions of parental irresponsibility I have ever seen in a movie is when Travis gets his son to phone his foster parents to tell them he has left home. This, of course, is after putting them to a lot of needless worry wondering where he was.Poor Hunter. How long before she quits on him again? Or hits the bottle? Or, before he gets abused by one of her clients? Oh, but the music's great. And the acting. And Texas. "},{"Title":"interesting character study","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas from 1984 is a unique film in several ways. It's an American film made by a German (Wim Wenders); it has no plot; and its pace is deadly. Yet somehow you are drawn into it.A man, Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) who appears to be mute becomes ill in the Texas desert, and the doctor calls his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) to come and get him. Walt is shocked -- he hasn't seen Travis since he disappeared four years earlier, leaving behind his young son, Hunter. Walt and his wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been raising the boy and think of him as their own. Walt has to break it to her that Travis is still alive, and they have to tell Hunter.Travis was probably a little strange but now he's downright weird. Walt has to go after him twice when he runs away. They can't fly back to Los Angeles because Travis won't fly; unfortunately he doesn't realize it until they are on the plane, and they have to be removed. He wants the same car they rented to get to the airport to take them home. He finally starts talking, however.I think my favorite part of the film was Travis talking about how he wanted to live in Paris, except it's Paris, Texas, where he owns land. Why does he own land there? It's where his parents first made love, and he thinks he might have been conceived there.Reunited with his son, the little boy has some trouble adjusting to two dads. We learn something of the past -- Travis was married and deeply in love -- obsessed, in fact, with his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski) who left him abruptly when Hunter was very small.Travis finally takes a trip with Hunter to find Jane and reunite her with her son.The story of one man's journey to get back to his life, face his faults, and make things right is a compelling one, and Harry Dean Stanton does a magnificent job of evolving this character. His monologue toward the end of the film is fantastic -- and he started the movie not talking! As Jane, the beautiful Nastassja Kinski is radiant, sweet, and childlike, giving a wonderful performance.You can't fault the acting here -- it's low key, natural, and believable. The problem I had with this film is that it's a little style over substance -- wonderfully photographed and atmospheric, but too long and too slow.Nevertheless, Paris, Texas is well worth seeing for Harry Dean Stanton and the great warmth that Wenders gives the film. During a time of so many special effects, it's a nice and needed break. "},{"Title":"My rating 6","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movie that starts intriguing and conquers the viewer right from the outset. Like a film of the Coen brothers. A strong start brimming in long development and ending in one long end. Rather slow movie, especially in its end when gradually ends with a twenty minute dialogue made in a very special way showing the relationship of the ex couple.The film is filled with diversity and colors. It is like the colors comply with the internal state of the protagonist. A sense of movement and development, resembling an affair. For the symbolism of the title we may also seek such an explanation - it all starts in pink, as it would be in Paris and ends monotone and smooth, as life in Texas is. Paris is also a surprise.It turns out that actually everything is rotten inside and did not have to happen at all. But was there a possibility that will not happen? Definitely the most colorful film of Wenders. Spectacular scenery with a few revelations about the bridge that makes each of us connecting with postmodern, ours, civilization.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"on the road in the American southwest","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Leave it to a European to best express the alienating attraction of the Great American West the silence, the distance, the wanderlust of neon lights and lonely desert highways. Like most road films this one works best on the road, during Harry Dean Stanton's odyssey across the Southwest in search of estranged wife Nastassja Kinski (who affects a convincing southern twang). There's more than a few slow spots between his comatose emergence out of the sagebrush and the final, troubled reunion, anchored only by Stanton's weather-beaten face and the haunting strains of Ry Cooder's slide guitar. The film ends with one of director Wim Wenders' typically intense, extended dialogues, during which Stanton sacrifices his past to save his future. Kinski isn't offered the same luxury, but a bittersweet resonance still lingers long after the final credits. "},{"Title":"Paris, Texas","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" German director Wim Wenders' long career includes many acclaimed films such as Wings of Desire (1987) and Buena Vista Social Club (1999), but the most well-liked one of all may well be his 1984 road movie Paris, Texas. The story of losing and re-finding one's grip on family has universal appeal, even if it looks pronouncedly American on the surface.Written by L.M. Kit Carson and Sam Shepard, the story begins when a rugged man named Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) is found wandering on the deserts of Texas. His brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) is notified and arrives to pick him up, shocked to hear from him after four years of uncertainty about Travis' whereabouts. Together they return to Walt's home to meet his French wife Anne (Aurore Clément) and Travis' young son Hunter (Hunter Carson) who has been brought up by Walt and Anne ever since something went wrong between Travis and his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski), leading them both to cut ties with Hunter. Travis decides it is time for him to make up for his past antics and begins a quest to Houston, Texas in order to find Jane again.The instantly striking detail about the whole is certainly the gorgeous scenery of southern USA, magnificently photographed by Wenders' trusted cinematographer Robby Müller. The vast plains, blue skies and majestic rock formations feel familiar from many westerns, but now convey a different, more modern sense of man's smallness and loneliness amidst them, thanks to Wenders' beautifully composed wide shots of the landscapes and infrastructure. The movie is not all deserts though; the urban streets and nightclubs are also an essential part of the film's atmosphere, often basking in rich green, red or blue lighting. The music by Ry Cooder is not to be left without praise either - the lingering blues guitar notes complement the mood seamlessly.The eye-candy visuals cannot carry a whole film though, but luckily in the case of Paris, Texas they don't have to, since Travis' journey is interesting to see per se. The overall genre and mood keep evolving throughout the story; it begins as a road movie with comedic overtones provided by Walt's frustration with his reticent brother, but later turns into a family drama, only to move back into the road movie territory during the latter parts of the film. The famous ending scenes at a Houston peep show booth are even approaching overt melodrama, a turn that may feel somewhat unfitting considering the earlier tone of the quietly dramedic phases of the story. Even though I feel the emotiveness of the revealing monologue is slightly overdone, the preceding conversations between the characters through a one-way mirror do come across as quite haunting and effective, creating a necessary climax for the tale.The always good Harry Dean Stanton is at home in the lead role that allows him to develop from a bearded tramp into a clean-cut, but still secretly traumatized family man. Dean Stockwell is also a perfect choice for the role of Travis' talkative and responsible brother, as is Nastassja Kinski for the Jane part, even though she only appears in last part of the film. Child actors are often the weakest links of many movies, but the young Hunter Carson gives no reasons to complain, even if his role is a pretty straightforward one.The title of the movie refers to the place where Travis longs to go as he believes he may have been conceived there. It that way it relates to the general theme of returning to one's roots and family, be they on the deserts of Texas or anywhere in the world. In any case, even though I personally liked the first half of the film better than the second, I am convinced Paris, Texas belongs among Wenders' best works that I've seen. All major fields of filmmaking (acting, writing, direction, cinematography, music) come beautifully together in the film &#x96; it can safely be recommended to every fan of cinema in general and makes a good starting point for any Wenders beginner wanting to look into the director's work. "},{"Title":"one of the best American films ... made by a German","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Paris, Texas' happens all in California and Texas, and uses some of the iconic landscapes in the American cinema like Los Angeles viewed from the heights, the Mojavi desert or the endless Texas plains. These are filmed in such a vibrant manner and combined with the original music by Ry Cooder that they became icons by themselves, in one of the most American films I have seen, made by a German director who we feel that he really loves America.Child-to-adults relationship movies are not really my preferred genre. I often find them exploiting the sentiments of the viewers and the ingenuous style of acting of children at the expense of real feelings. Here however the acting of Hunter Carson is really so direct and so true that I am almost happy to see that he did not develop a film actor career and will remain in memory for everybody with this role. Maybe he did have some conversations with Dean Stockwell, who also was a child actor who became a professional, one may just guess.Acting is really fabulous in the movie, beyond Carson and Stockwell we have Harry Dean Stanton with one of the best performances in his career. This story of lost memory and getting back and putting together a broken life is simple and moving, we are not told details that are not important for the relations between the characters, and even if the ending may be disputed from a social or moralistic point of view (is really the runaway girl working in a men's club the best mother for the kid?) it makes sense from an emotional point of view.This is one of the best films of director Wenders together with 'Himmel uber Berlin' and 'Buena Vista Social Club'. Three memorable movies, and so different one from the other. He is one of the best. "}{"Title":"A brilliant portrait of the USA. A gripping story. A must-see film.","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A mesmeric film from German director Wim Wenders, 'Paris, Texas' (1984) is both a poignant family tale and a grand portrait of America. The story, which follows the emergence of Travis Henderson from the Texas desert and his slow journey towards confronting his abandoned life, is a powerful rendering of wasted years, atoning for past mistakes and finding a way to move on.This is a long (150-minute), slow-moving film, as much observed as it is acted. The themes of rootlessness, the road and the redeeming power of children, together with the imagery of downtown America, recall Alice in the Cities, a Wenders film from ten years earlier, but where that film was shot in muted black and white, Paris, Texas is shot in glorious, vibrant colour, which reminded me of the Technicolour used in the early days of colour film.This is the perfect format in which to portray the breathtaking desert landscape of Texas, in which the first third of the film is set. The opening aerial shot, which swoops down to find Travis Henderson amidst the wilderness, is one of the most awe-inspiring film sequences that I have seen. The largely empty landscape and the mysterious silence of Travis recall the atmosphere of a Western, with empty roads and telephone wires pointing the way to an otherwise absent civilisation. Dusty small towns and abandoned junk reside in the middle of nowhere. When Travis's brother Walt is introduced in a baseball cap with 'stetson' printed across the top you feel a knowing nod to this general ambiance.When the setting changes to the streets of suburban Los Angeles and Houston the film focuses increasingly on the drama playing out in the Henderson family, whilst painting in many of the details which I relished in my visits to America as a child, from the bustling highways crammed with over-sized cars to the sometimes seedy side streets and enclosures off the main city routes. Wenders's grasp of the country as both tourist and biographer is remarkable and the film is certainly worth seeing on the quality of imagery alone. Even the simple act of pulling into a petrol station is perfectly observed and thus oddly engaging, with the car carrying the camera pulling over just a little down the road from the car on screen.The imagery is complemented by Ry Cooder's hugely atmospheric guitar soundtrack. Unfortunately but unavoidably, this now feels a little clichéd owing to the large number of imitations that followed in its wake; for a recent example, see the soundtrack to Into the Wild (2007).The sights and sounds of Paris, Texas do not overwhelm the story, which, although undoubtedly slow moving, remains engaging throughout the 150 minutes. The encounter between Travis and Jane, his estranged wife, is gripping for the way in which the hidden details of the story are slowly, almost painfully brought to the surface in the strangest of settings. I do not, however, want to spoil the details of this film so I will leave it to you to seek it out as soon as possible and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"This is a beautiful piece of art","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a beautiful piece of art. Direction is great and I just fell in love with the cinematography. I think only a few films like this can ever be made again, maybe only WW can. Other aspects of this movie are also first-class, the story, the music and the acting.Another thing that makes this film special is that there are many extraordinary sequences, unexpected things, e.g. Travis sits at the back instead, he gets out of the plane just before take-off, picking the right red car&#133; I saw this movie for the first time last night. I just sat there in the dark, my wife went to sleep early, The colors, the lighting, the pictures were the most that moved me. The sad mirror scene. Simply excellent. "},{"Title":"Languid, and brilliant","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A man seemingly inexplicably has been wandering the desert in Texas for the past 4 years. He is finally found by his brother and takes him into his home. From that point, the man goes on a mission to confront his past and heal the wounds that lead him to become a wanderer.Paris, Texas is a slow moving character study about a psychologically wounded man. If you aren't already conditioned by Hollywood to crave non-stop action with sub-par scripts, and can enjoy a character study that takes its time to unfold the story, then this movie can be a real treat for you. Like most movies that I really enjoy, the cinematography and direction are great, and it really makes me care about the main character and hope for him to get everything worked out. The ending, which I won't spoil, is cinema at it's best, and leaves you both sad and happy at the same time. In my opinion, easily one of the best movies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"An existential odyssey of one man and his family","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This cinematically stark West Texas landscape contains a soul-searching, existential odyssey of one man and his search for the meaning of life and re-connection with family. Sad, depressive encounters, and resignation redefine his once high expectations.Strong performances by all actors, (including a remarkable young boy), keep the interest high throughout, and inspire a desire to know everything about their character's lives. This is a tour de force for its European director, Wim Wenders, and other foreign cast and crew members. Unusual for its time, in that a European crew came to one of the bleakest areas of the United States to produce a film, instead of the more typical American film being shot on location overseas. "},{"Title":"Touching,emotional,moving,journey with great performances.","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie many times and its emotional impact never fades.In fact when I first saw it many years ago it completely blew me away. Wim Wenders is a master director.The central performances are first rate and the heart rending finale is handled with care and totally without any trace of slushy sentimentality. A story of a man who has lost everything including his wife and young son who makes the journey both physically and symbolically in his quest for redemption. There is one scene in the second meeting between Travis and Jane where the scene shifts from Travis to Jane that although subtle has huge dramatic impact.He can see her, she can only hear him through the telephone,something he says, she recognises.That flash of recognition with the change of perspective creates a sublime moment of drama. If you have no other reason for seeing this movie than watch it for Nastassja Kinski.The first time we really see her as she turns slowly from the bar is a moment of beauty.An iconic image of female perfection Go see you will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Pain","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find the scene where Travis talks with Jane through the one way mirror, very powerful and emotional. The dialogue is slow, tense, and the scene full of dramatic irony. The closest the two can get is hands separated by glass, as Travis negotiates his son back to his wife. Ry Cooder's stark spare music matches the whole beautiful painful film.One of my favourite films - and free too with the Sunday Times - a miracle! I saw this when it first came out, yet I could remember nearly every scene, and had a spooky experience on the 395 on the way to a skiing holiday sitting in the diner,which features early in the film! Slow, powerful film - stick with it - it will stick with you! "},{"Title":"Beautiful film about a man","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Instantly, you become swept up in the man whose mystique is so intriguing.A man walking in the middle of the desert.Yet it's not so much that he's lost, as the civilised world seems to have lost him.A family tries to find him as we hope to discover who he is.A drama about a man, about love and about family.Not for the overly-sentimental.Beautifully told and for its kind, a very good story.I give it a four out of five.Each of the actors are better in this movie than I have seen them elsewhere. Harry Dean Stanton is great and the guy from Quantum Leap actually made me forget, (while I was watching it,) that he was the guy from Quantum Leap. "},{"Title":"A Man and a Woman?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film long time ago,I don't remember it very much but   it did make a huge impact on me.I think that the protagonist isolationand his silence is a personal choice,you choose to be away fromeverybody but his vote of silence got to do with his pain,human beingneeds communication  because that is life right? so he needs to beconnected ,feel love again.When he talks with his wife again(in thatbooth scene) she can't see him but she perceives him through his wordsShe represents not only sensuality but that lost humanity, the life healways wanted.I always loved the concept ghost train and  to observea Edward Hopper painting with those empty streets and lonely people...Paris Texas has the same quality.*Nastassia Kinski in a memorable cameo as an intriguing and fascinating woman,OH WELL,she plays herself. "},{"Title":"Superb cinematography makes this a must see","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The match of desert images in the first minutes and the Ry Cooder soundtrack make a lasting impression.  Indeed the cinematography is stunning throughout and makes this movie a must-see.  The eventual storyline as revealed is a little unconvincing, perhaps because of the casting, but it's moving nonetheless. Overall this is one of my top five all-time favourites. "},{"Title":"Haunting guitar soundtrack and mental imagery","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The opening desert sequence should strike a chord with anyone who's had a lost period or remains adrift. The soundtrack both reflects and generates the mood of the film. Ry Cooder created an acoustic guitar masterpiece that really speaks of the American desert and tragic lives.I enjoyed this movie the most before we really began to learn the story behind Travis' disappearance. The early road sequences were done with great atmosphere and poignancy. The ending seemed somewhat mundane compared to the mystery preceding it, though that's often the case. I just would have left more open to interpretation. Stanton and Kinski made an odd couple but these are minor points in a classic film. "}{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent movie. Have it on WS laserdisc. Harry Dean Stanton, as usual, is thoroughly convincing in his part. Story line is quite compelling, and when he sits in viewing booth relating story of abuse and neglect of his long lost wife, to his wife, I think it is one of the most memorable scenes I have ever seen in a film. Highly recommended.......  "},{"Title":"my soul emerged from my body after watching this movie; the anti socialism, and miscommunication lead me to believe that emotions can be heard without words.","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paris Texas is my favorite movie, after the first 10 minutes of focusing my eyes on the desert land...I knew I was in for a moving expierience.  I highly recommend this film to everyone. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully realized slice of life drama","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought this was just an astounding character study, and it comes equipped with a group of excellent actors and a director who does not bow to commercial demands in terms of dramatic structure.The film's story concerns a drifter named Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) who is re-united with his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) who has been raising the drifter's son with his wife (Aurore Clement). There are some secrets in Travis' past, specifically what he has been doing for the past 4 years and how he and his wife (Natassja Kinski) ended up being separated. After heading on a journey to try to re-unite with her, bringing his 8 year old son (Hunter Carson) in tow, Travis must face the depths of evil within his own soul and try to discover if it's even possible to rebuild a life that was once destroyed.I think this is a marvelous film in terms of the execution.... it really keeps you interested even far beyond the point where the secrets are being revealed. In many ways the film plays on themes of voyeurism -- why are we interested in this story? Why do men go to Jane (Kinski) to talk about their issues? I think this film might mean something different to each person who sees it. The film is really sad in the sense in which it shows the consequences of some of our actions, how we destroy our own happiness. Jane tells Travis that she had to send Hunter away because she did not want to fill the void in her life with her son. Yet we know already that Travis cannot fill that void either. I think the film is not really saying anything -- it's more asking us to question the way we treat others and to realize that our relationships are the things that define us in many ways. I see this in Jane/Travis' relationship and also in the emerging father/son relationship between Travis and Hunter. For a few days Hunter is actually calling both Walt and Travis dad -- this awkward situation is something that work-a-day good guy Walt thinks is perfectly fine, but Travis I think realizes that the void cannot be filled with two dads.Wonderful film and I look forward to repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Images to die for","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film when I was 15 and have never forgotten the effect it had on me. I have read some of the negative comments about the film and am surprised I have to say. I myself never thought the film slow. The pace is well handled as it focuses on a man coming back to reality, coming back to the world after he has disappeared unable to cope with life. The themes running through this film are important and Wenders manages to fuse a European and American feel throughout the film. I have read a couple of books on him and growing up in Germany he was always fascinated by American culture as a lot of Europeans are, not carrying the burden of a long history. I know that he and Robby Muller the DOP looked at paintings of Edward Hopper to inspire the look of the film. To me a good film has a strong atmosphere and well rounded characters. This film delivers on every count. I find the scene in the booth when he meets his wife very beautifully written and it is a masterstroke to have them face each other through a one way mirror, a powerful metaphor for relationships. The moment when Kinski turns at the bar always sticks in my mind as does the time Travis walks his kid home from school and they finally cross the road to meet each other. Lastly when Travis is shown the old film footage the pain on his face is very real. This is a draining scene and one which looks at the effect memory plays on the mind. This is my favourite film and possibly one reason why I started to direct myself. Everyone should see this film at least once as it taught me many things, the best being that cinema can be truly wonderful and life affirming. "},{"Title":"Every time I watch this movie I remember how much I love it!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in London back in 1984,I was 19 or 20 at the time,now I`m 36 and no movie affects me more personally.I was on my own that first time and I have never shared the experience with anyone,no friends none of my girlfriends not even my wife,whom I feel would not really understand it. I dont think before I saw it I had realised what a fine actor Stanton is,although I had seen one or two fine performances from Kinski and I became a Ry Cooder fan after Southern Comfort.As for Wim Wenders I have always looked out for his movies since (I especially enjoyed Himmel Uber Berlin/Wings of Desire).I should point out that I always find the climactic scene in the booth almost unbearable . For some reason I have never owned Paris,Texas on video,having occasionally updated my Television copies of it,I sincerely hope we will soon see a DVD that does it justice.Please.  "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wim Wenders' most recent film was Buena Vista Social Club, which was more a documentary than a film, was very good...even though this one is totally different, I thought this one was even better. Harry Dean Stanton delivered a very good performance as a man who doesn't even know who he is, Dean Stockwell and Aurore Clément as a couple who want to keep Travis' son...but the one who impressed me the most in this film was Nastassja Kinski, who played a prostitute that still loves the man she left. She was amazing and beautiful. The mystery is kept for a long time, and that's only one of the things that keeps your attention on the film. The weird thing is that you wait a long time before seeing any evolution, and suddenly POW! it starts and by the time you realize it, the evolution is done...the last thirty minutes are awesome...you see the whole thing you were waiting for. Overall, I must say that it's a very good film...I give it 91%. "},{"Title":"Through the road darkly","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The depictions of America that most fascinate me have been carried out by Europeans. What stories we find in these ventures never really probe deep into actual life, which is often a facsimile concocted from outside knowledge, but they are a suitable excuse for the journey that transports out of the safe, familiar reaches. It's probably best if we don't use for example Zabriskie Point as a faithful blueprint for its turbulent era, but once it sets out for the desert? For Leone it was about the world (mirrored in the rugged faces) as the blank slate upon which a tapestry of fictions are enacted; myths presaging the passing of that world. With Melville &#x96; in Magnet of Doom - it was the road trip through the Deep South where we get to know little but see a lot. Herzog in Stroszek, where chickens confound us. Polanski made the most American film of all, working from a script by Robert Towne, but his Chinatown extends a little beyond the familiar reaches of neo-noir into the untravelled; dusty orange groves and acquifers late at night.Each in their peculiar way reveal a little of the fabric of the larger world. And it's always tied up to the landscape, always the landscape that draws us in, big and small. The endless stretch of asphalt through sunbaked desert, the motel's neon sign flashing against purpleorange horizons. A gas station in the middle of nowhere.I understand that these are the familiar sights of everyday commute for a sizeable portion of Americans, or a short drive away from home, but for us on the other side they are the source of endless allure - aptly, a world most of us Europeans have known through movies.It's not about the gas station then, but about the 'middle of nowhere' &#x96; a valuable space of contemplation missing from the Old Europe dissicated under so much time and history. Having sampled the familiar moviescapes of Los Angeles or Texas, these films often take to the desert, a further retreat towards the hermitage where a clear vision is possible.Wenders's film is true to all these things. He begins from the desert and emerges back into the known world, meaning whatever communion with the vastness took place is already behind us. Tellingly, the rugged protagonist emerges mute.The very title is about two worlds (of which there are many in the film), and the attempt to bridge the endless inbetween. The 'slice of life' is about familiar contrivance, like out of daytime soap. But something tells me the film didn't sweep the French at Cannes for its moral dilemmas, the French who so valued the escape into the dream world of noir and western 50 years ago.The moviescapes, again as perceived from the other side; rural America bathed in luminous phantasmagoria, a gas station filmed in bright reds and lime greens. Or a suburban landscape so amazingly bland, as it unfolds from behind the windshield of a moving car. That amazing cat house, itself a mysterious house of fictions where two worlds are brought together in disguise.It could have been quite something if Wenders understood how a frame functions. He knows how to set them up, but not quite what they do. Inside the cat house, for example, the corridor lined-up with curtains each granting passage &#x96; one of the most inspired codas of cinematic self-reference. Wenders instead gives us long monologues, he explains too much that we don't need to know. I understand that he values emotional consonance - where I differ, is that I'm drawn towards films that operate or dismantle at the level of perception rather than feeling.It's good though, as artifice breathing life into cinematic space. As a piece of abstract soul, seen through the road darkly. "},{"Title":"Don't mess with Texas.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very different kind of movie. I agree with a lot of IMDb users that it's not for everybody. I myself had never heard of it originally, I had in interest in seeing because I had dated a guy from Paris Texas and the title intrigued me(just being honest.)That said-this is an unusual movie that I really want to see again before I make any final judgments. What I will say is the the movie does move slowly-REEEEALL slowly-if your someone who can't handle really slow moving movies this may not appeal to you. Yet, I myself don't usually like that either. I will be honest and say what intrigued me most about this movie was the beautiful imagery. An IMDb commenter had mentioned that this movie has really good photography and I agree. I like movies in general that are big on ATMOSPHERE, Atmosphere is very important to me, and can sometimes make or break a movie. A few of my favorite movies are ones that are able to bring a certain dreaminess to the film, a surreal feeling and this had that. I thought this movie was hopelessly boring in certain places but also the characters were very complex and there was something a bit riveting about the pic though I can't say I loved it or give it a 10.Put it this way fans of movies like what I just described(slow going on action but free flowing on mood and sound) might want to check it out for those very reasons, definitely a complex picture. "},{"Title":"An Odd Film","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A man (Harry Dean Stanton) is found in the desert after four years.In case you were wondering, yes, there really is such a place as Paris, Texas, and it is a city of around 25,000 people. Why exactly Wim Wenders (or more accurately playwright Sam Shepard) chose it (besides the interesting name) is anyone's guess. Probably no reason in particular.It is interesting to see that this film seems to have had more influence on musicians than other filmmakers. Irish rock group U2 cite Paris, Texas as an inspiration for their album The Joshua Tree. Scottish bands Travis and Texas both took their names from this film. And late musicians Kurt Cobain and Elliott Smith claimed this was their favorite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"a long winding road","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) walks out of the South Texas desert in an almost catatonic state wearing a dusty suit and tie. A doctor finds and calls his brother Walt Henderson (Dean Stockwell) in L.A. who comes out to reunite with him after 4 years absence. Travis is fixated on going to Paris, Texas. One day, he and his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski) disappeared and had left behind his son Hunter. Walt and his wife Anne (Aurore Clément) took Hunter in.Harry Dean Stanton and Dean Stockwell drive the film forward as it teases what this eventually is going. It's like walking in the desert with Travis. It is fascinating but one must surrender to it. The kid is quite good. The movie does turn into something even more compelling with Nastassja Kinski. However it is a long road to get there. "}{"Title":"Primaries and redemption","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is both very similar and very different to the other Wenders movie I've seen, Alice in den Stadten. The same dislocated, travelling emptiness is felt in a reporter sent to America and finding nothing to report on as a traumatized, nearly amnesiac Texan searching for redemption for his family. On the other hand, the worlds are completely different... the flatness and lack of deep fields in Alice are met with gorgeous pastiche of deep reds, blues, and greens in Paris, Texas. Indeed, in this latter movie, visuals sometimes overtake the narrative thread.Wenders certainly has a relationship with vagabond sensibilities that I really dig. In this movie, however, it is almost surprising to see the movie come to a narrative conclusion. Better than the surprise felt at actual closure is the 20 minute long reveal at the ending itself, which is just as satisfying and heartbreaking as the long build-up would bring the audience to expect. I could watch that ending over and over and over again, and it's been a long time since I've seen something so satisfying.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A great film about being lost and being found","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Texas is a desolate but beautiful and enchanted land and that certainly shows in this film. One is reminded to some extent of other films set in Texas, such as Blood Simple or The Last Picture Show. Characters are silent and almost stoical, like the cowboys of the old days. It is almost as if the heat just cooks the words out of the mind as one squints in the hot sun.The film opens with the bluesy guitar work of Ry Cooder, which is just right for the desolate scene the lead character of the movie (Harry Dean Stanton) wanders on foot in the noonday sun through a landscape that is a bit like the biblical wilderness of Jesus, the Big Bend region near the Rio Grande. The man seems to have lost his mind, or his way, or both. He collapses on the floor of a local bar and he is finally taken into protective custody. His brother, (Dean Stockwell) who works in outdoor advertising in Los Angeles, is summoned to fetch him. The brother talks, and Stanton only talks after a long while. It turns out he has a seven year old son, Hunter, who has been adopted by his Uncle and his aunt.The rest of the story recounts how he comes to terms with the traumatic breakup of his marriage and how he reconnects with his young son. This could easily have become a sticky sweet mess, but it is a tribute to the storytelling skill of director Wim Wenders and screenwriters L. M. Kit Carson and Sam Shepherd that this does not happen. Throughout the film, and in the performance of Nastassia Kinski as the estranged mother and wife, it has the ring of truth and a hopeful if not entirely happy ending. "},{"Title":"I'm not afraid of heights. I'm afraid of fallin'.","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It just doesn't get much better that the combination of Wim Wenders, Ry Cooder, and Robby Müller. One provides the direction that makes this film a wonderful experience. The other provides the perfect music to set the mood. The last provides a film that is just a joy to watch, from the craggy desert to the craggy face of Harry Dean Stanton (Alien, The Green Mile).Travis (Stanton) had the seemingly perfect life, but he fell. When he fell, he wandered in the desert four four years. He left a beautiful wife (Nastassja Kinski) and a beautiful son (Hunter Carson). We see him as he tries to make amends. He knows he has to make things right, but that doesn't include himself as he is afraid of falling again.Like many Wim Wenders film, it moves slowly so you can appreciate the characters, embrace them, and watch subtle changes in them. If you can't savor the experience, you won't enjoy it to the fullest. Ry Cooder's music just makes it so much more enjoyable.It's a vintage port. You sit back and sip. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Is the soundtrack better than the film?","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've not once heard that the excellent Ry Cooder's original soundtrack is much better than the film. And I'd like to say that they are equivalent. This is a masterpiece about incommunicability among human beings. The characters almost never have a face-to-face conversation. And it's a movie made before the Internet era... "},{"Title":"Paris,Texas. A Good, almost Great movie.","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently watched this movie again for the first time in about 15 years, this time on 1080 HD.I have to say that I had forgotten the second half of the film almost entirely; it's that kind of film.But - the cinematography alone is worth watching/re-watching this film for - sumptuous colourful and beautiful. Fantastic to look at virtually every frame. The Music by Ry Cooder is one of the best movie soundtracks in the history of cinema; it's simply brilliant.The plot (or story, if you like) of this film is essentially very simple. You get to the end and you say to yourself yes, of course. It's not about loss, separation, grieving, that would be too obvious. Remember - this film comes from a time before movies got clever with their audiences. In the end this film is what it seems; about a father who has to come to terms with, and do something about, the fact that he wasn't fitted for a relationship with the mother of his son. There aren't many other themes (although one would be the sub-story of Stantons brother and sister in law who have adopted the boy and see him pretty much as their son. The sister in law wonders what will become of their relationship if the boy goes away). The only possible outcome is the one arrived at in the final memorable and superb monologue.The thing for me about Paris, Texas is that; like Harry Dean Stantons' character - time changes a person. Since I first saw this movie in the cinema in 1985 my age has doubled and I now have a child of the same age as the boy in the film (also wonderfully acted). I see this film very differently now to the way I viewed it back then. Any father would see resonances from Stanton to their own life. I love this film for the way it makes me think about the way I relate to those who are close to me; Can I handle it? What would happen if I couldn't? Nevertheless - Paris, Texas is not for me one of the greatest films ever made, and it is not in my collection of DVD/BluRay. Why? Yes - its set in a decaying landscape both emotionally and physically. Yes - Stanton is wonderful as the lost guy coming out of the wilderness, BUT. Near the beginning of the film the doctor extorts money from Stantons brother - who is a long way from home and finds that he has to pay the doctor in order to complete his mission. The whole film is like this; there is feeling of moral and emotional blackmail running right through and all the adult characters have been afflicted, damaged if you like, by emotional blackmail to a lesser or greater degree. The only one who hasn't is the little boy. These tensions are revealed but not resolved. Even though its obvious that the issues cannot be resolved you get to the end and you feel irritated when indeed they are not. The question which you feel ought to be the central one - why Stanton walks out on his former life - turns out not to be - it's only the spark that sets the flame. The viewer is thus caught up in the emotional blackmail too; we want to see resolution - but.... However, I guess it is clever for that....I liked the film and I would highly recommend it. I haven't read any other reviews here on this movie (and I will be interested to do so as soon as I post this...). I would welcome too any comments made on my submission - as movies of this calibre are well worth observation and discussion. "},{"Title":"Lackluster","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It gets off to an intriguing start, as a man walks in from the desert after missing in action for four years. The first half of the film, which centers on Stanton's relationship with his brother (Stockwell) and his family, is fairly well done. As Stanton heads south to search for his abandoned wife (Kinski), so does the film, concluding with Shepard's pompous monologues. It's hard to understand what attracts a babe like Kinski to Stanton, whose character is bland, selfish, and some thirty years older than her. The pace is very leisurely, with Wenders showing no interest in the art of editing. Coder's score consists of about three notes repeated ad nauseam. "},{"Title":"Near perfect.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A wonderfully subtle tale of a man doing whatever it takes to find redemption for a life of causing pain to others. The most obvious genius of the film is Wenders' use of the color red. Traditionally red is a color of great importance and back in the days when artists mixed their own oil paints, red was only used to represent people of significance. Wenders uses the color in the same way. He highlights important features and characters (Travis, Jane, Anne's heels) with the color red. It's a very subtle way of letting the audience know what to focus on and what is important to the story. I thought the green was used to portray a new starting point in Travis' life since it shows up prominently when he is about to reunite Walt and at the end when he's ready to move on with his life, and I thought that was brilliant.Unfortunately, I read an interview with Wenders that said the green was just something he thought was cool that resulted from a technical problem that he decided to keep in. That was a pretty big letdown, but I'll put it past me. Keeping this brief, the last thing I want to mention is the performances. Aside from Hunter Carson, the entire cast is absolutely brilliant. Everyone is so natural and authentic in their roles that it felt like I was watching the characters instead of the actors. Harry Dean Stanton has the rare ability to say more in a facial expression than most actors can say in a ten minute monologue. Kinski displays such pain and heartache without raising her voice once. Just the stream of tears that quietly flow down her cheeks is more heartbreaking than any middle-aged, mistreated wife shouting at the top of her lungs. This all being said, Hunter Carson fell into the child curse of making it so blatantly clear that he was acting that it made me want to punch him. Overall though, a brilliant work. "},{"Title":"A nomadic tale of wanting","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film begins with a man wandering around a desolate Texas landscape. He looks in a daze. We soon discover that he has been missing for four years. His name is Travis. He manages to find a doctor's house, and get in touch with his brother in California. His brother then travels down to Texas. Travis doesn't speak a word in the first thirty minutes of the film; but Harry Dean Stanton's face tells the story.Travis wanders off down a rail track, while his brother is in town getting him some clothes. They meet up again, but still no words. The trip back to California takes a while because Travis is afraid of flying. Eventually, they arrive, and Travis meets his son for the first time in four years. His son, Hunter, is cautious of his father at first; getting a ride home from school in his friend's car, rather than walking with Travis. They watch a movie together of them on vacation, that was taken four years previously, and Travis finds it hard to watch. After a while Hunter trusts his dad again, and they set off in an old car to find his mother in Houston, Texas. They track her down to a seedy club, where she talks to clients through a mirrored window. Travis find this very hard to do, and talks with his back to her, while he tells her the story of a couple. This is the best scene in the film; two emotional people on each side of a screen opening up to each other. The film is memorable for me for Harry Dean Stanton as Travis, probably his best performance in his career; and also the little boy Hunter Carson deserves special mention too as Hunter. The cinematography is wonderful too. There are many shots that stand out, such as a Statue of Liberty painted on a wall, and other numerous images of Americana. A memorable film. "},{"Title":"There's something wrong with this movie but I can't put my finger on it...","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This visually striking movie has something about it that makes me fall asleep within the first fifteen or twenty minutes. I'm not sure why, because whenever I resume it I always enjoy the cinematography. The characters are boring, sure. But that's never been a problem with big budget movies that have little character development. These people are very developed, they're just not interesting at all.Wim Wenders' movie is either very overrated or extremely underrated as a work of art, a classic and Criterion worthy. I am fascinated by the idea of a man wandering into the world from the middle of nowhere, but where the story takes us is boring. The early eighties look of the movie along with the cars and clothing makes me resent it even more. "},{"Title":"Visuals outdo slight story","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this film many times and I am continually dazzled by how fresh and pure the visuals are - thanks to the work of cinematographer Robby Müller, who provided German director Wim Wenders with one of his most beautiful films. The sense of scale and beauty invoked by Müller's lens deserves more praise than Wenders himself, because this is primarily a mood-film, one that subordinates its gentle human story to the luscious minimalist beauty of the desert. The slight story plays second fiddle to the brilliant camera-work and haunting music by Ry Cooder throughout until the last part. Here the film's visual beauty is undermined by an overlong and overbearing encounter between two main characters in a dark and dank setting. Sadly, this impacts the effectiveness of the film greatly, leaving the viewer alienated by the claustrophobic nature of this latter part in contrast with the breathtaking sense of space conveyed earlier. However, the acting is excellent, especially Harry Dean Stanton as Travis. A flawed masterpiece. "}{"Title":"the absolutely worst film I ever viewed","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I only wish I had the time to compose the maximum 1,000 words on this film. Let's face it, the camera was always in focus, so I can't fault the cinematography.  I tried hard and couldn't find a plot.  Last Year at Marienbad (which I find great) looks like a car chase compared to the ennui, the sheer boredom of this monumental waste of time and effort.  Ishtar looks like Citizen Kane in comparison.  It's just terrible.  If you liked, I can't see how or why.   "},{"Title":"A relaxed wonder.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wrap yourself into a cozy chair and pour yourself a hot chocolate as you enjoy this masterpiece.  Take the phone off the hook as well. Natasha Kinski with a Texas accent.  Dean Stockwell as a regular guy hero (sort of).  Harry Dean Stanton plays a role that only he could have played. Watch this. "},{"Title":"Totally overrated","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I shall be very generous and give this overrated movie 3 stars.I can't believe this movie won such awards.The reason I do so is because of the superb cinematography by Robby Müller. That, some nice dialogue, the mirror-sex concept and the beauty of Nastassja Kinski somehow made this film not a (complete)waste of time.The rest of the movie mediocre acting, a childish plot, annoying and 2-dimensional characters, without anything symbolic and that awful scratchy guitar music...Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Deadly boring","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very long-winded and pointless. The opening scene is fascinating enough, because the overdressed tramp quick-marching out of the desert raises a lot of questions. From here on, unfortunately, things deteriorate rapidly. He ends up in a local hospital, fine, but why has it to be a greedy kraut doctor? Next a road movie somewhat like Rainman (1988, four years later and much better). Next back to normal life. Next finding his wife. The whole story of the couple (which is not very exciting in itself) is told by the main character through a telephone while his wife is listening. Boredom supreme! It's bad enough when a stage play is turned into a static movie, but this beats everything. We had as well read it, instead of having to listen to this long long long story. I gave 3/10 for the nice pictures a desert view here, a bright blue wall there, a giant dinosaur somewhere else etcetera. As a movie (as in moving) it's worthless. "},{"Title":"I Watched It Because of Some Reviews Herein","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A 3 only because it seems to give meaning to those who've lost control and are finding it again.I watched it because of some of the many positive reviews found here.And am left pondering whether you need to be an entitled American whose privileged un-thought lifestyles were coming undone by Reaganomics and, what permitted such 'leadership' to take over the 1980s, the Energy Crisis of the 1970s.Alas, am not. Am a foreigner who migrated to the states in the mid '80s and didn't know the American English enough to have understood this film even had I the means to have watched it then. And am glad.Never had the entitled lifestyle this Travis character so unthinkingly mismanaged then spends the latter part of his life trying to put back together and that so many here seem to identify with. Not realizing it half of it happened by not having led an examined life. Had he managed to question the status quo and his place in it, it is likely he would not have lost so much.I can see the hope and redemption so many find inspiring and helpful. But is for a specific American, and an American way of existing, that never questions the status quo, their place in it, where their privilege comes from or at what cost to their surroundings, or that the place is not made just for them.The point of this diatribe is to warn you those times are here again. If you seek to not have others experience the same wayward alcoholism and lost of control, warn them. Get them to live a more examined life, a life not requiring a constant stream of stimuli, a more self-sufficient, frugal and resourceful life.Else other Reagans now lining up will make them go through what so many of you went through. And cause much pain to the Hunters around them that don't deserve it.Peace. "},{"Title":"Comedy Needs to Work","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A drama that deals with the exploration of the protagonist's confrontation of facing his family issues. The film fails, due to the film being depended on comedic moments. Personally, I did not find the film funny. Therefore, I could not connect with the film. On the plus side, the film's cinematography is gorgeous. At times, it looks like the cinematography was done by Soderberg in the late 90's. Simply gorgeous. Across the board, the acting is excellent. Despite not liking the film, the scene in Houston is astounding. In short, this movie would of been great if the comedy deliver or if it would been less quirky. Besides these two major problems, it is a well crafted film. "},{"Title":"Paris, Texas","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The star of this film mainly did supporting characters, such as Alien, and this is one of the rare occasions he has a leading part, and a great one. The film starts with the lonely drifter Travis Anderson (Harry Dean Stanton) walking through the desert, till he collapses (exhaustion) in a near bar. With his identification, the man there contacts his brother Walter R. Anderson (Dean Stockwell) he hasn't seen for four years, since he disappeared. His brother takes him home on the road (when he can't get on a plane), and when they get there, Travis meets his son who Walter and his wife Aurore Clément (Anne Anderson) have looked after since he and the mother disappeared, named Hunter Anderson (Hunter Carson). After getting used to his Dad, both Hunter and Travis decide to try and find the mother, Jane (Nastassja Kinski) by finding the bank she visits every month, and luck strikes when Hunter spots her in the car park (recognised her face from photo). When Travis investigates the building she enters, he finds out she has become a peep-show stripper (stripping for someone she can't see because of two-way mirror, reflection on her side). The emotional part is slowly telling his story, as someone else, and she realises it is him. It is uncertain what happened after Jane and Hunter met each other in the hotel, and Travis wandered off, but this is an essential drama. Oh, the meaning of the title by the way, is that Travis bought a piece of land called Paris, in Texas, and his Dad joked making everyone think he was first talking about Paris, France. It won the BAFTA for Best Direction for Wim Wenders, and it was nominated for Best Film, Best Score for Ry Cooder and Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Brilliant masterpiece","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie over ten years ago and it has long been one of my favorites. A combination of stunning photography and an incredible performance by Harry Dean Stanton (who is rarely offscreen but doesn't speak until about a half hour into the film) brings us a portrait of loss and loneliness with an impact rarely seen in any art form. Without being pretentious, formulaic or self-consciously arty, this film manages to bring more genuine human emotion to the screen than a half-a-dozen normal movies. Do not miss this one.  "},{"Title":"King Of The Road","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This society eliminates geographical distance only to produce a new internal separation. - Guy DebordWim Wenders has long been an admirer of Michelangelo Antonioni. In 1994 he assisted the Italian director in the production of Beyond the Clouds, and five years later would write My Time With Antonioni, a diary of his extraordinary experiences working on the film.Wenders is also a huge Nicholas Ray fan. In 1980 he made Lighting Over Water, a documentary about the last days of director Nicholas Ray.It should be no surprise, then, that Wenders' Paris, Texas is so strongly indebted to both directors. Part Antonioni's The Passenger and part Ray's In A Lonely Place, the film is also another in a long line of Wim Wenders road movies.Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis, an elderly man who has spent the past 4 years wandering in the wilderness. Like Jack Nicholson in Antonioni's The Passenger, Travis is trying to escape his past. He wishes to return to his place of conception, paradoxically a point of non-existence and a point of birth. Travis does not only want to eradicate himself, he wishes to restart. To be reborn.Most of Paris, Texas consists of Travis navigating vast empty spaces. Like Antonioni, Wenders favours vacant expanses, his characters sliding across their fabricated landscapes, dwarfed by concrete indifference. Wenders also makes gorgeous use of neon lights, and consults his many photo albums when choosing his shooting locations (Wenders is an exhibited photographer, and often travels the world photographing buildings, landscapes and people). This lends the film a unique look a travelogue of alienation.With its designer existentialism, Paris, Texas covers the same thematic areas as Antonioni. But where the Italian director is cold and sterile, Wenders - a Christian - is filled with a fiery sort of humanity. Maybe he got this from Ray, who could be remarkably warm even at darkest moments. Wenders makes a mistake than Antonioni never made, however, and spends the entire final act of his film explaining what led to Travis disappearing for four years. It turns out that Travis married a young woman and had a son with her. Life was happy and carefree, until disillusionment, jealousy and a sort of existential nausea crept into their relationship. This led to the couple breaking apart. She, in typical Antonioni fashion, turned to empty sex with strangers in an attempt to distract her from her problems, placating her dissatisfactions with brief moments of biochemical pleasure. He simply disappeared into the wilderness.By focusing on domestic issues - the problems of raising a son, sex, youth, family, disillusionment, alienation, and shattered relationships &#x96; Wenders manages to lessen the film's overall effect. The film turns into a marital problem, the result of a couple falling out, rather than the more elusive, unspeakably cosmic dilemmas that Antonioni manages to convey. Still, Wenders is great at demonstrating how difficult it is for 2 people to articulate their feelings directly. Toward the end of his film his couple have an extended conversation, Wenders separating them by screens and telephones, husband and wife unable to face one another directly. It's a great scene.8.5/10 &#x96; With The Wrong Move, Paris, Texas, Alice in the Cities, The State of Things, Until The End Of The World, and King of the Roads, Wenders has established himself as the master of road movies. Paris, Texas isn't as great as some of these films, but it's perhaps his most straight forward, his most accessible, hence its popularity.Note This film is the reason David Lynch cast Harry Dean Stanton in his own road movie, The Straight Story. Both revolving around two brothers, you might say these two films tell the same story from different points of view. "},{"Title":"A slowly painted portrait of a man's tortured love.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is interesting that none of this movie was filmed in Paris, Texas, that quaint little town about 100 miles NE of Dallas, with the replica of the Eiffel Tower in its town square. All we see is a photo of a vacant lot, which looks nothing like the area Paris actually is in.Harry Dean Stanton, already 50-ish, is remarkable as Travis, who is aimlessly marching through a desert as the movie opens. Ragged, dirty, and hungry, he makes it to a small store where he collapses after one bite of crushed ice. The local doctor revives him, and somehow finds a way to contact Travis' brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) who through some difficulty retrieves him and brings him to California.Travis is initially mute, unable to explain what had caused him to disappear for 4 years, or even to know that he had been gone for that long. Four years, is that a long time? In that time his young wife had disappeared, leaving their young son Hunter (Hunter Carson) to be raised by Walt and his wife.This movie is long, has very little to no action, and will be boring to many. I was not bored. I was absorbed in this character Travis, and where he was going to re-claim his life. A good chunk of the second half of the movie was filmed in Houston, where I live and worked, and many of the downtown buildings and highways felt as if I was right there, watching them through a window. The cinematography is superb.SPOILERS As Travis regains his reasoning, and gets to know his son, he decides to find his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski as a Texan) after he gets a clue that every month on the 5th she deposits money in an account for her son at a bank in Houston. Hunter insists on going with Travis, and together they find Jane, working in a sex business where she and other girls role-play in booths where patrons see them through windows, and they have no contact with the patrons, can't even see them through the mirrored glass. Travis leaves Hunter in the hotel room, visits Jane as a patron, tells her the whole story, and watches from the top of a parking garage as he sees, through the hotel window, the reunion of Hunter and Jane. His mission is accomplished, he knows he can't be with Jane, but he has made it possible for his son to have his mother. "}{"Title":"Not for me","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas is an art movie. It's in similar fashion as Jim Jarmusch's Dead Man. The plot revolves around Harry, a silent man (Harry Dean Stanton), who comes back to his kid's life. The kid's been living with foster-parents that he has regarded his own so far. Foster-dad (Dean Stockwell) tells the kid who the real father is and Harry and the kid hit the road to go look for the real mother (Nastassja Kinski).There's probably a lot of social commentary in Paris, Texas, I just didn't understand any of it. All i saw was whispering lonely people, who are filled with memories and regret. I think the movie is about loss. Can you see me when you turn the light off? (pause) I don't know (pause, pause, pause) I never tried.. (pause, pause) My god, get to the point!Not the most depressing movie, not a bad movie, just too slow and too long for me. The music is good. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone--some great  taut ambiance, and fabulous twist at the end.","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paris, Texas (1984)I know there is an appeal to long, downer movies where you drift with some sorry sort through a wide open western landscape of dirty bars and motels with 1960s signs. I get sucked into it, too, for awhile. Wim Wenders appreciates it from afar, I suppose, and gives it a gritty nostalgia even though it's present tense. Or I should say Sam Shepard does, since he wrote the play (and gives the whole thing its flavor). The main drifter, Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) is an archetype of someone lost in sadness and worn by weeks wandering in the wind and sun. He's compelling in his sorrow, and hopelessness. The events that follow are relatively predictable in some sense. He confronts his past in different ways.The real twist at the end is a fabulous play on voyeurism and power, between two people who once loved each other. It drags on too long, but it's really moving at first.Then there is the very end, which seems to just throw it all to a mild sensational withdrawal, one last abuse by a maladjusted man. And while there are all kinds of people who do all kinds of things, it strikes me as a playwright's indulgence more than a reality for anyone. "},{"Title":"tedious","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" beautiful shots, gorgeous landscape, nice idea for a plot but really far to slow to drag viewers in. The ideas behind the film are very interesting and at first you watch with all intention of following things until the end; the strange silent man (Travis) is intriguing enough in the beginning to catch all your attention. However as the story progresses, or rather fails to, Travis' silence becomes more infuriating than a helpful and necessary plot device. i find you just cant sympathize with Travis at all, and he just ended up as being irritating. Regardless of that, the real star of this film was the little boy who played Travis' son (name? unsure). fantastic acting from him, but all said and done, you'd be better off watching this film on mute. "},{"Title":"2 good ideas and 2 reels of film does not a movie make","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders is the equivalent of a talented chef with ADHD, who comes up with a creative recipe for a chocolate birthday cake, mixes it all together, forgets what he was making and starts adding garlic, peas and onions. Some reviewers would have you believe that it's an acquired taste. But no, it's just a chocolate birthday cake with garlic, peas and onions.There are 2 creative ideas which, on their own, would have made great film shorts. But thrown in this mess of ambling stream-of-consciousness, they do nothing to hold a feature length film together. I'm talking about (1) the opening premise of a mysterious, silent man who stumbles out of the desert, and (2) the very creative conversations that 2 characters have through a mirror towards the end. I don't doubt that Wim conceived these 2 ideas and thought he could fill in the gaps to make a complete movie, but no. Like a rhinoceros trying to mate with a giraffe in a Wal-Mart parking lot, it's confusing, pointless and annoying.I was severely disappointed in this dud, given its high praise in artsy circles. Unfortunately this is another one of those films that gives artsy a bad name. I highly recommend passing this one and instead checking out some of Wim Wenders' coherent work UNTIL THE END OF THE WORLD, and the first 75% of HIMMEL UBER BERLIN (Wings of Desire).I give it 6/10 for style and 1/10 for substance. Still, for students of Wim Wenders (who, don't get me wrong, is a very talented man), this is a curious watch for the sake of seeing his earlier, immature works. "},{"Title":"Zen Masterpiece, a haiku shot on film.","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To fully appreciate this film you need to be in the right state of mind. Yes, it's a very slow film, but boring? I don't know-- do you find your own life boring, and need to see car chases and explosions for enjoyment? Well, then maybe it's not for you. This film almost painfully digs into the psyches of its main characters watch Harry Dean Stanton's little tics and self-realizations (the shot where he sees himself in the mirror for the first time in years, and immediately turns away, for example); if you find it boring you're not looking close enough, not paying attention. Like Hemmingway or a haiku the simplest lines of dialog are rife with inner meaning (Walt to Travis You mind telling me where you're headed, Trav? what's out there?. . . . There's NOTHING out there.) Is it like watching paint dry?-- I don't think so, more like watching someone come back from the dead; perhaps slow, but still amazing. I found it odd that some people feel it's pretentious; I've always thought of it as completely unpretentious-- it IS what it IS (what is more 'zen' than that?). It presents an honest story with a minimal of bells and whistles, special effects, odd camera angles, etc. Easily one of Wender's best, and one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Story of alienation and lost romance is like a clothesline for metaphors...","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After being abandoned by his wife, a husband and father from California drops out; four years after disappearing, the man's brother finds him, grizzled and wearing a dusty suit and tie, walking purposefully, yet aimlessly through Southwest Texas. Director Wim Wenders, working from L.M. Kit Carson's adaptation of Sam Shepard's original story, overdoses on the cloudy, majestic skies and rugged terrain of Texas--but once we return to the West coast, there's nothing much going on visually, and the reedy-thin plot isn't enough to support the film on its own. Shepard doesn't create characters through his writing, he sketches outlines the withdrawn father, the shattered wife, the conflicted child. And even if these were three-dimensional people, it might be difficult to forgive Shepard the fact they aren't particularly embraceable. There are isolated moments of lonesome beauty and regret, yet Paris, Texas is that most irritating breed of art-house non-wonder it invites us to appreciate its craft and intuition while giving us little more than a carefully-posed series of life-like images. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"What is with the rating?","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great. My first review. It's too bad I start with Paris, Texas because I have only one word for it BORING. I watched a few hours earlier Coen's The Man Who Wasn't There. So, with a very good state of mind, I got to watch Paris, Texas, mostly because of the good reviews. The beginning was good nice frames, clean and wide views in the country and a mysterious man with no past. I thought that should be watchable. I was mistaken. After an hour I had to go to sleep. I thought I was tired, but it was the movie. I didn't like Travis at all. No intellect. I see people like him everyday and they're no surprise. His kid is even smarter than him. If the intention was to see a simple man's life with his simple man's decisions then the film makers succeeded. But I think this recipe is for 5 year old's. Luckily there is a Forward button and I watched the predictable ending. 5 is merely for cinematography and a few good melodramatic scenes. "},{"Title":"PLEASE! RELEASE THIS TO DVD!!!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been in love with Wenders' Wings of Desire since I first saw it several years ago, so I taped this movie off of HBO2 or some such channel. I could NOT find this at a video store, and they don't sell it in any format anymore. The only thing left to be sold is the soundtrack, which doesn't make any sense to me (although it is a good soundtrack). More than one person thought that this film was an utter masterpiece, so why keep it off video? It won huge honors at Cannes, but it is completely unavailable. I loved this movie. It made me cry and it made me feel alive. The scene where Travis confesses his sins to Jane through the glass is so perfect and so affecting. Please, somebody, release this masterpiece to DVD. I want to see it again and share it with others. "},{"Title":"Like watching the grass grow","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie based on strong opinions from IMDb users, do not be fooled. This movie is boring as anything you will ever watch. It goes from a slow moving drama to just plain annoying. This film is way too over-hyped! It being the 1984 Cannes Film Festival Winner even though Amadeus and Killing Fields were released the same year, proves the French know little about movies (Except the 94' Race).In short, don't watch this. I rent movies in pairs and also saw The Ghost and The Darkness which was a far more entertaining movie, so I suggest that for now. "},{"Title":"Warning! Achtung! Cuidado!","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I regret watching this movie. The characters and performances are shallow and irritating. The cinematography is nice, but the direction is bland, substance-less and devoid of style. I understand that a lot of people who feel inclined to review Paris, Texas are so inclined because they really like the movie. ... but having just watched it, partially based on seeing so many gushing reviews here, I really feel that a contrary review is in order. My friend and I both just watched it and both regret it. Here are some of our mutual favorites, for reference, so you know who we areIn A Lonely Place, Chinatown, Brazil, Taxi Driver, Maltese Falcon, Blue Velvet, Stroszek, Persona...We both agree that Paris, Texas is THE most regrettable viewing experience we have shared.For additional reference of what this ranking means to us I will list other things we've watched besides our favorites, all of which we regret less (if at all) than Paris, TexasThe Quatermass Trilogy, Dune, High Sierra, Aquaboy cartoons, Melancholia, Plan 9 from Outer Space, the Sinister Urge, Gates of Heaven...I would say that if you happen to be one of the folks who will end up liking this movie, then you would have a good feeling after watching the first bit of it. But if you start watching it and feel irritable after only 15 minutes, you should stop watching it because that's the movie. That is what I wish I had heard from a trusted source several hours ago. "}{"Title":"DNA v love","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It has nice stark images and a cool sound track .But Reality Check The boy is being taken from the two people who have shown they love him, who are his real parents even if not his biological parents, and handed to a someone who is a stranger and clearly has serious issues about relationships of any sort. Sure she sends a sum of money at regular intervals but given that she has made no attempt to contact him for for years it clearly is not about real love. People who like the film talk about how it deals with loss, alienation and an inability to communicate. Fine. But why is it supposed to be a good thing to dump the boy into that nightmare? Just to sacrifice him on the altar of DNA? "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this one.","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in many years and perhaps I should watch it again...BUT I remember trying to get through it the first time was sheer torture. I kept waiting for ANYTHING to happen. You know how you will stick with a movie ten minutes at a time after the first half you think, It's got to get better. Not this one. It was the most boring piece of crap I have EVER seen. One of these days, maybe...when I'm in a vegetative state and nobody is around to change the channel, I'll watch it again. NOT!!!!!!!!!!!For some reason the hamsters here think that it requires some long drawn out critique of a movie for us to express ourselves. Unlike professional movie critics who blow smoke and pat each other on the back praising their pseudo-intellect. We can actually say whether we like or dislike a movie in a few succinct sentences. So, hopefully my entry is long enough now. It's a shame isn't it? "},{"Title":"Like Watching Paint Dry","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, the cinematography is very nice. Yes, Ry Cooder's slide guitar is compelling. Yes, the plot is simple minded, predictable and the characters have little in the way of depth. I saw this snoozer when it was first released, and even though the date I was with was stunning, I hated her for liking this simplistic tripe. Does anyone want to know why a babe like Kinski was involved with a geezer like Stanton? Why is everyone so shocked she works at a booth in a phone sex place? It's not like requiem for a dream exactly and is quite low on the shocking scale. And its long and dull - Wim Wenders seems to have forgotten that a movie can be edited. How this movie is anything more than a dull rumination on life is beyond me. Saw it on cable a year or so ago - it's still pretty, still sounds good and is still visual sominex. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but boring","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful, well-made movie.  Too bad it is only 20 minutes of storyline stretched out to movie length.Man helps brother end his mindless wandering.  Brother stays with man and slowly acts less weird.  Brother meets his son who is staying with man and wife and being brought up as their son.  Family refamiliarisation ensues and storyline progresses.  All with a backdrop of North American countryside, cities and towns - mostly dreary dusty looking places.I like movies in this style because they show what todays movies lack, this one however was missing something else that would have made it a joy to watch by keeping of your attention.  I would only recommend it to watch in the background while you do something to occupy the rest of your attention. "},{"Title":"I thought it sucked","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You watch a movie, it bores the crap out of you, and so you go check it out on your favorite websight to see what might have possesed so many other people to praise it so highly.  After reading a dozen or so reviews (see above), you realize that everybody liked the movie for the same reason that you hated it. Because it is boring, plotless, and nothing whatsoever happens thoughout the 2+ hour film.  The only difference between you and the others is that they have used words like stark  and  minimalistic to describe it, and they explain away the fact that nothing really happens during large chunks of the movie by calling it a study of uncommunicative behavior, or claiming that the setting is the real protagonist in the movie.  Maybe I am a dunce, but I think it is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"well, the intentions were good...","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like the idea of this movie. I like the deliberate pace and moodiness. I like the music.I just don't think it really worked. The whole thing was inconsistent and haphazard. The acting was inconsistent, The characters were inconsistent. Stanton and Kinski were pretty good, not great, but good. Stockwell and Clement were terrible, but I can't really think it was all their fault. Some scenes just seemed like they needed to be re-shot. I couldn't forget that I was watching people acting. The boy, Hunter, was probably the best actor in the film and I generally don't like child actors.There was some beautiful scenery, but on my DVD it seemed bright and fuzzy and washed out. Maybe the original was better? Most of the movie seemed like they were making it up as they went along and they didn't really know what they wanted to say.Really could've used some editing.I didn't think any of it had any emotional resonance, mostly because none of the characters seemed real or fleshed out.The music was nice, but we've since heard better stuff from him.It wasn't a terrible movie, just ehh. One of those movies you watch and afterward have no feelings about. "},{"Title":"Wenders's magnificent Edward Hopper-like visuals subsumed by promising narrative that runs out of gas","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wim Wenders's love for Americana propelled him to collaborate with famed playwright Sam Shepard and the result was the visually satisfying but inert drama, Paris, Texas. The film's style (as noted in Wikipedia) include shots of old advertisement billboards, placards, graffiti, rusty iron carcasses, old railway lines, neon signs, and motels, to name a few. Many of Wenders's scenes here remind me of Edward Hopper paintings and despite the limitations of the film's narrative, it's well worth watching simply for the visual feast.The film's plot proceeds quite slowly. Walt Henderson is alerted that his brother, Travis, has been found dehydrated after walking in the South Texas desert. Walt drives from Los Angeles and picks Travis up, intending to return home to L.A., with his brother in tow. It's been four years since Travis disappeared and left his son Hunter to be raised by Walt and his wife, Anne. For quite a while, Travis is mute much to his brother's chagrin, who is desperate to find out where's he's been while missing. When Travis finally talks, all he can virtually talk about is a parcel of land he bought in Paris, Texas, where their parents allegedly met and conceived him.The second act&#x97;perhaps the most interesting part of the film&#x97;chronicles Travis's awkward attempts to bond with his son, Hunter, once he and Walt arrive back in L.A. Anne is upset that Walt is encouraging Travis to get close to Hunter, since she fears that he'll take the boy away. Actually, that's exactly what happens&#x97;Travis asks Hunter if he would like to come with him to find his ex-wife, Jane, who had left the family since she could not cope raising Hunter. Travis and Hunter head to Houston where they bond on the way there. It should be noted that Hunter Carson did a fantastic job of playing his fictional counterpart, a role that required a great deal of nuance and sensitivity.If the two bonding stories (one between the two brothers and the other between father and son) prove to be fairly interesting, the film's resolution, unfortunately does not. A.A. Dowd writing in the A.V. Club, cogently notes what's wrong with the narrative There's just something weirdly banal and unsatisfying about the explanation Wenders and Shepard belatedly supply. What drove Travis to abandon his family and flee for the freedom of Mexico? I'm afraid it's nothing more complicated than a case of run-of-the-mill relationship troubles, revealed during a very long monologue that places Travis on one side of a two-way mirror and his ex, Jane (Nastassja Kinski)&#x97;now dancing at a seedy Houston strip club to make ends meet&#x97;on the other.Run-of-the-mill explanations also apply to the film's title&#x97;none of the characters actually end up going to Paris, Texas and the Travis's story of his origins in that particular town, is hardly the stuff of high drama.Travis finally figures out that he's not cut out to be a father and abandons Hunter and Jane to fend for themselves. Presumably, Jane, will do the right thing and return Hunter to Walt and Anne, where he'll end up having a normal childhood.As Paris, Texas is considered one of Wenders's best films, one might conclude that he is a master of style but has difficulty in the substance department. Paris, Texas is well worth watching for the visuals but prepare yourself for a promising story that ultimately runs out of gas. "},{"Title":"Hard To Take","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How this low-budget, pretentious, and seemingly interminable film deserves a high rating is beyond me. A script that must have looked (to those concerned)aesthetically and financially good on paper turns into a disaster on the screen. The acting is wooden. Each character comes across as memorizing lines, and even worse the lines promote a teasing of episodes failing in both dramatic and psychological conflict. The frames fall in a series of suggestive motives and profound insights worthy of a high school production, maybe. And the camera work? At times fixating in dissociative relationship with the script, but for the most part flat and amateurish. Odd. The film's theme of emotional healing is belied by its own clumsy and uninspired devices. "},{"Title":"Ummmm","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was reading a book titled 1001 movies you must see before you die, and Paris, Texas was in there, thus compelling me to rent this movie and check it out for myself. I thought Hey, I am from Texas, and this was in that book, so it must be good. I can say one thing about that book, and that is that they must've gotten the title wrong. They should rename it 1001 movies you should see if you want to die. Why do I say this? Because this movie is unbearrrabllleeeee!!! I've been able to learn many things in my lifetime, but for the life of me I cannot figure out why people were captivated by 150 of the worst minutes in film history. People will get this movie based on it's rave reviews and just out of curiosity. I guarantee you that 80% of you will be writing a review like mine shortly after you view this film. "},{"Title":"Sort of disappointing","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd heard about this film for quite some time and I had put if off, but still looking forward to it. I don't know, it's a good film, very elegantly and meticulously directed, but it didn't really have any lasting profound impact. The performances are very good, especially Harry Dean Stanton, who does a remarkable job leading the film in his quiet, conflicted character and not always doing things that the audience may see as presentable or likable, and also we have Natassja Kinski, who does nothing less than almost steal the show in the last act. I'd heard some all-time worthy mentions regarding her, and although I don't know if I'd ever go that far, I still found her compelling and able to create such a real, complex persona in such short screen time. Overall, a disappointing film, but a good one nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Thankful for Ry Cooder","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was miserable.  The dialogue was too much, the film was too long, nothing much happened.  Harry Dean Stanton and Kinski are not believable as a couple, being that she would have been in her early 20s at the time of filming and Stanton would have been 58 years old.Remember critics always give awards to bad films.  The English Patient got 8 of them.This post is required for a class about film.  Hope you see it, Herr Genco. "},{"Title":"Don't expect another slobberingly postive review. This STINKS!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"12 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, the photography is excellent, but come on, how many movies have lousy photography? This is a film with such long pauses and such ham-fisted staging that I keep thinking one of the actors will break and ask, line? Ry Cooder, as usual, seems to be composing for another movie entirely, as his twangs and plucks do nothing but annoy. And who can abide the Euromorality of the film (meaning none), wherein the least qualified person to take care of the child in any capacity is the one the film makers deem the only one do to the job. In certain cultures, rotten eggs buried for months are considered a delicacy, and if you enjoy such sulphurous tastes, eat hearty, for Paris, Texas serves a generous portion. If any film stock deserved to be recycled, it is the film stock for this. Truly detestable. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film I ever seen.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was painful to watch. Maybe like fine wine this movie will get better with time. But I,as a 24 year old at the time,had little use for this slow,(how slow does radium decay?) painful, melodrama.  "},{"Title":"Yes, this is the worst film ever made","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went to see this film when it came out. Even so many decades on it is still there at number 1 as the worst film I have ever seen. I has no redeeming features. It is too long It has no story - honestly. It is poorly shot. The music is annoying making it impossibly to even sleep through it. The acting is abysmal. There was, I seem to remember, some gratuitous nudity as well. A waste of film-stock. What makes it even worse is that it is not just crap, but pretentious crap. I am have been waiting for it to appear on television just to confirm my suspicions, but I guess the advertiser would not touch it with a 10 foot pole. Usually even bad films have some redeeming features, but this film does not. "}]