[{"Title":"Hey, I loved it!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The remarks of the detractor in this array of reviews is confusing and confused.  Look.  I read Maugham's book in the late 40s and saw the Tyrone Power, Gene Tierney, Clifton Webb film.  So what?  This film was neither one but that's beauty of art, dudes.  It doesn't have to.  The Razor's Edge is an odyssey of a man in search of himself.  The transit nature of life and the brutality of war turn him into a superfluous man, who goes off on a quest to find himself.  We can inundate this issue with metaphors until the cows come home, but that's Maugham's story.  Old Somerset, a closet homosexual who was a volunteer in the horrorific WW1 went through a similar transformation and in a way, this novel, which he began back in the 20s, reflects that journey.  Murray takes the character of Larry Darrell into a new domain.  Why shouldn't he?  He's not Tyrone Power.  He's a comedian who plays a tragic role straight.  There is much in this film that makes it superior to the 40s version.  A stronger statement of the tragedy of the entanglement of the two women and a more intense presentation of the character of Larry. I saw this film when it first aired and recalled a young high school kid remarking to a friend upon exiting, Man, this is a totally awesome movie.  I agree.  Alas, the critics and comedy-addicted Murray fa ns didn't and it flopped.  Pity.  It is a totally awesome movie. "},{"Title":"A Truly Exceptional Movie and All Time Favorite","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"50 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  If you are an intelligent viewer who is looking for a significant and possibly mind expanding movie event then `The Razor's Edge' is for you. It has remained one of my favorite films for fifteen years, and I have owned it and replayed it many times. If you look at the viewer feedback for this film you will find that the vast majority of people rate is as `Excellent' movie (29% of IMDB viewers give it a perfect `10/10' rating).   Those who fail to see it's qualities can be divided fairly equally into the `don't get it' camp (Unlike the typical Hollywood lowest denominator flicks, the minimum IQ for viewing is Razor's Edge is probably at least 100, and that leaves ½ the population out), and the `disappointed' crowd, who have so typecast the star (Bill Murray) that they wanted `Caddyshack' and just can't allow him to be a serious actor. You must set aside your prejudices and give the man a chance-Bill Murray is a Harvard grad who co-wrote the screenplay-this was a labor of love for him. Just because he has a sense of humor does NOT make him a lightweight, as this film demonstrates for anyone with the eyes to see it.Based upon the 1942 W. Somerset Maugham novel, it follows the evolution of a spoiled upper class boy from Illinois (Larry, Bill Murray), who volunteers to be an ambulance driver in WW I for a little `fun and adventure' and instead gets a dose of PTSD (post traumatic stress disorder).  His world was forever changed by the events he experienced.  He literally could not go home again after the war.  He tried, and found the lives of those around him to be shallow and meaningless, and their pursuits and interests just trivial.  There had to be a reason why he was here, and this sets the stage for the real point of the movie, which is an exploration of the meaning of life. (I told you it wasn't Caddyshack!)Obsessed with these existential issues, and finding that alcohol did not make the need go away, Larry travels to Paris, and starts to read, serious books on philosophy and religion, supporting himself as a laborer.   He does not care much for his surroundings-his lack of materialism is in marked contrast to his peers and friends from before, whose dreams are to grow wealthy in the stock market.  As such Larry was an early Bohemian.  I found this particularly poignant, realizing as I watched this movie that it foreshadowed yet another stock market boom and bust a whole new generation of crass materialists have had their world was just as rocked by a stock market crash in 1999 as in 1929.  History does repeat, and these themes are timeless. His fiancee could not deal with his `common' friends and lack of modern plumbing, and left him to marry someone she did not love but who had money. Another contrast to the shallow and materialistic, which is a recurring theme throughout the film-what brings happiness to a man?Larry's journey took him to India, and Hindu religion, and then on to Tibet to discover Buddha-the scenes filmed there are absolutely breathtaking, so I hope you can find a letterbox laserdisc or they finally bring this out on DVD-it is worth it to see the whole screen. There is romance, and love, and loss.   I won't reveal the ending, which is truly bittersweet, and a bit nihilistic.  This is truly the best thing this fine actor ever accomplished, and I rate it a strong `10'.   This should have won many awards, and should also be considered a true classic; I am disappointed in my fellow man that they so typecast the star that they could not see what a great contribution he made with this effort here.  Not light fare, and a long film, but one worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time faves","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I was prepared to hate this movie, when I first rented it.  It was a 'curiosity pick' I liked the title, I didn't have anything else in mind, and my thought was, of course, Bill Murray!?It turned out to be one of my all-time favorite movies in the 'character-transformation' genre.It's a compelling story of choices in life and how those choices affect or disaffect perceptions of that life.  Murray is perfection in this role, because we seem him change from something we recognize to something quite different.  It is a palpable and comprehensible transformation - the movie draws us in, it allows us to change with him.The rest of the characters are well cast and provide definitive counterpoint to the protagonist - the bon-vivant aristocratic uncle Elliot who simply lives his life appreciatively, the unthinking and manipulative Isabel concerned only with her own comforts and social standing, the uncertain Sophie that allows her uncertainty to trap and destroy her, the practical yet contemplative Raaz who challenges Darrell's notion of things, constructively, and leads him to further his quest.  Good character development, all around.Finally, I was impressed with the faithfulness to the book.  It's difficult for a movie to be that, and still be an watchable movie. "},{"Title":"I have to disagree","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I have to say that the first time I saw the movie, I was about five years old and saw it in a movie theatre. But as young as I was, it had a deep impression on me. I could not forget it, and by chance, received a copy of it as a gift my first year of college. It was so much better than I remembered...Although it is a bit different from Maugham's original book, I would (and have) highly recommended it to anyone. I realize I'm probably the only person in the world who thinks this movie is so absolutely incredible, but there is so much about it that stands out to me. Besides the bit of eastern philosophy that is thrown in, I am truly in love with the portrayal of the time period and the love triangle(square, rectangle) between Larry, Isabelle, Sophie, and Gray. I think I have seen this movie about 1000 times, and look forward to watching it 1000 more. "},{"Title":"This is the one...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  that proves Bill Murray can really act and is not just a comedian.Unfortunately, it also didn't do well because his regular fans weren't ready for this transformation.If you like Bill Murray and aren't afraid of drama, check it out. It's very deep and will change your mind about Murray, even if it's already favorable. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Bill Murray produced something he really wanted to do, and it shows! This is a wonderful, true-to-the-book film about how life is not the destination, it is the journey! Wonderful cinematography, great story by Somerset Maugham, and brilliant acting all around. Look for the scene of Sophie in the hospital trying to explain what her loss is like. This is one of the best scenes in all of cinema. "},{"Title":"A truly epic film - that flopped at the box office","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of my favorite films of all-time. Bill Murray is excellent as the lead in a dramatic movie, much to my surprise. I think his performance in this film is every bit as good as his work in Lost in Translation. Murray is far more flexible as an actor than he usually demonstrates or is given credit for. He is more than just a comedian.The failure of this movie at the box office rests squarely on the shoulders of Paramount. They gave this movie so little support or advertising money that it was almost doomed to fail. To be honest, if the internet and IMDb had existed back then, the coast to coast word of mouth that could have been generated might have made this movie a winner at the box office.There is a story about this movie that I once heard. Murrary had read the book and the script by Byrum, who also directed. Murrary approached the studio and told them he wanted to make this movie. The story goes that they respond with, Sure, Bill, we'll make The Razor's Edge for you if you will make this little movie called Ghostbusters for us. He agreed and Paramount technically stuck to the deal, but they put no money into its promotion and it dead an untimely death.This is one of the great films of all-time and it is just a shame that more people have not seen it. "},{"Title":"A Dreamer's Story","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was released in 1984.  Being a big Bill Murray fan drew me to it and the story did the rest.  It was my first year in college and I dreamed of running away with nothing but some books and a canvas bag. I dreamed vicariously through this movie for awhile. Who hasn't wanted to travel the world anonymously?  It is the essence of life, the secret to life, that is held in the dream that Mr. Murray must have had at some point in his lifetime that drove him to make this movie.For all you naysayers out there  Movies don't have to be perfect.  Some can be appreciated for the trash quality (Wild Things), some for crassness (Something About Mary), and others for a single scene (Saving Private Ryan). This movie is for dreamers who don't give a fck what everyone else is doing. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This adaptation of Somerset Maugham's novel is wonderful in so many ways. The dialogue is well written, the actors and actresses involved are excellent and believable in their roles, and the screenplay is spiritually faithful to the novel.Theresa Russel is a gem in this movie, as the troubled Sophie, but it is Bill Murray's portrayal of Larry that truly stands out here ... mainly because, as far as I know, this is his only non-comedic role.One of the best movies I've seen! "},{"Title":"Virtually unimprovable - 10+++","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Those who don't get it are perhaps the most enlightened of us all that is exactly what this amazing movie was all about. In the end Larry's search was fruitless. No book, no bottle, no friend could provide the answer because it did not exist. Life, meaning, purpose, all of these things were succinctly, artfully and convincingly tossed aside as incidental, even distracting to the true meaning of life, which is nothingness.Hopefully that's not too disarming, because the film is simply one of the best ever made (top ten? certainly.). It was an almost incalculable improvement over the 1946 version, which was truly awful. Murray did not preach, he showed by example, whereas the early version was like a post-WWII government instructional film on how to attain karma. Murray's performance was so subtle as even to be missed all together (in my opinion the best acting of all), whereas Power was begging you to see the light.Please, don't miss this film, and if you don't get it first time around, empty your mind of distracting clutter and see it again. See it fifty times if you have to. When the message finally does come through, you'll know it was worth it. "}{"Title":"Beautifully done","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"     The Razor's Edge has to be one of the best movies ever made. It's real, it's beautiful, and it's deep. Bill Murray is terrific in this movie, adding his humor along with his dramatic character. Along side of him is Therese (sorry if I spelled her wrong) Russell and Catherine Hicks. Of course everyone has seen Catherine in 7th Heaven but she was an absolute beauty in this movie, full of the emotion and passion that Annie (her character on the show) rarely sports. I'm surprised she hasn't been in a million movies and didn't win an academy for this one.  Therese Russell has those eyes that cuts right through you. Yes, this movie is definitely a gem. Best of all, there are plenty of twists and turns throughout the movie to make it interesting. It's not just a story of a man trying to find himself, it's also the story of the people in his life and the sacrifices people make for each other. I suggest that you see it in DVD format, even if you hate widescreen as much as I do. They did a great job reformatting it and recoloring it. Wonderful movie, a 10/10 most definitely! YOU HAVE TO SEE IT!!!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable film - good pace/feel/look/ideas.","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The Razor's Edge is based on a novel of the same title.The Razor's Edge takes place over at least a decade, moving from the midwestern U.S to WWI in Europe to Paris and what might be Tibet and back to Paris again. It's a nice film to look at, as the period and place production really sucks one into the story, and has what I thought of as a cozy pacing, but what some might think drags on a little (it was a great, alone-on-a-rainy-Sunday, laying-on-the-couch rental for me).The film does a good job of playing ideas with scenes, and playing the ideas/scenes off of seemingly drastically different ones, from the barren emptiness of a battlefield to the uplifting emptiness of the Himalayas, to the warm loneliness of a Paris café, to the cold loneliness of a rich man's death bed.This is obviously a true labor of love for Bill Murray. He nails his character and the ideas the script attempts to channel through his character's development. Hopefully, now that somehow people can accept Bill Murray as not just an overtly comedic actor (with the success of Lost in Translation) people will be more open to enjoying this very good film.  "},{"Title":"A True Test Film","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is one of those films that defines the difference between a film and a movie. Maugham, in print form, often drags; Murray's senses of humor and timing eschew that hurdle and make a beautiful story of growth and epiphany accessible in just two short hours.The test aspect for me here is simple and a bit autocratic, if not downright arrogant as Hell; I don't want to know well anyone who does not appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best ignored films I've seen","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I rented this movie strictly because Bill Murray was in it.  He's always been one of my favorite comic actors.  After seeing The Razor's Edge, my view of him changed forever.  As much as I enjoyed his work before and after this film, his career development appears stunted.In this film, Murray is brilliant and convincing as Larry Darrow, a man searching for his soul's peace, after a brutal event awakened him from his posh aristocratic life.Murray is a comic genius, but his abilities as a dramatic actor have been woefully underused. "},{"Title":"How did this fail..","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The supposed 'straight' role that Bill Murray performed in this adaptation of the novel by the same name is why it failed.  On the back of Stripes and then Ghostbusters, people found it hard to accept the deadpan face of Murray fronting a movie examining belief systems and the meaning of life.The screenplay charts the spiritual and philosophical growth of Larry Darrell (Murray) as he begins to question the materialist world building up around him.  Darrell's search within takes him across the globe through many different scenarios, and Murray adds a welcome dose of humanity and - to be quite frank humour, as he treads the path to salvation.The novel by Somerset Maugham is an excellent read, and its not that the performance of Murray detracts from, or belittles the plight of Darrell, rather it enhances it. "},{"Title":"An Under-appreciated Masterpiece","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is one of the most under-appreciated films of the last 20 years. I think people didn't know what to expect from funny man Bill Murry. This was the first glimpse of the dramatic actor that we now know as Bill Murry. The story is rich with connections to our own lives of what we want out of life and struggle to find. It depicts the evolution of innocents to the realities of the real world. This movie will make you think, laugh and cry. When I saw this film in 1984 I was in shock by the honesty and bluntness of the story. I was surprised by the unfavorable reviews that it received. But they had a negative result in discouraging a lot of people from seeing the film. It is a shame that such a good story and fine performances were not seen by as many people. They missed out. If you have not seen this Film. I highly recommend you take the time to view this wonderful story. If you have ever tried to read the original text and gave up as I did do to to the difficult style you will appreciate the smooth and logical story telling in the film. It will make you appreciate your life and all the you have to be thankful for. "},{"Title":"Hacks!!!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Don't listen to anyone who bashes this film.  It is wonderful.  I welcome this dramatic role for clown Bill Murray.  I saw it the first time when it first came out on video, not knowing what to expect except that it was a drama.  I thought the film was fantastic.  Murray goes off on a search for himself and the truth, while his friends change and endure their indulgences.  A lot to be admired about this film.  Not everyone's cup of tea probably, but certainly not the snore fest that others would paint it to be. "},{"Title":"A criminally underrated whimsical tale","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Well I'd have to say that I do carry a bias, growing up in the eighties when Bill Murray was the King of Laughs.  However the first time I sat down to watch this I was hooked.  Although Murray never really plays the laughs up as you might expect.  His performance is just the other side of brilliant, and never what you'd expect. Although I can partially see why this film was slated in the press, I still loved it enough to give it the maximum ten out of ten.  However I was bedazzled as soon as my eyes hit the screen.  Although Bill Murray might have spoiled it for others I thought him inspiring, and with the support of the rest of the cast surely this should have done much better.  Other acting performances notably from the troubled Theresa Russell.  Stunning backdrops, and thought provoking moments, not a film to enjoy with a pint though sadly, perhaps peanuts and leg irons might be more suitable? "},{"Title":"The path to salvation is narrow and is difficult to walk as a razor's edge. <Tibetan monk>","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The Razor's Edge is Bill Murray's first serious movie. Until this one he was best remembered as a goofball in movies like Caddyshack and Stripes, or a comedian in Ghostbusters. Edge was made a full nine years before his best dramatic role as Phil in the superb 1993 film, Groundhog Day. I like Edge very much because it takes the time to develop the characters, and examines Larry's quest to find the meaning of life after his WWI experiences.some SPOILERS follow, you may not want to read any further if you have not yet seen The Razor's Edge.The film begins outdoors at the Lake Forest, Il college graduating class party, everyone is joyful, nicely dressed, there are rides and a kissing booth. Larry (Murray) and his best friend Gray have volunteered to be ambulance drivers for the war. Larry is a shallow, charming guy, but comes home from the war changed, after seeing the realities of friends getting killed right next to him. He postpones his marriage and leaves his fiancee at home as he travels to France, and eventually to Tibet, for his own search for the meaning of life.His awareness is heightened while, working in a mine, he pushes his boozing supervisor to safety as a rail car is about to kill him. He does end up in Tibet, has an experience on the top of a mountain, and finds the internal peace that he was looking for.Meanwhile, his fiancee, looking for a family and stability, marries his best friend, Gray.  His one true love, Sophie, had married Bob, but Bob and their son were killed in a wreck by a drunken driver. Sophie eventually ends up in a Paris brothel, never recovering from her tragedy. The economic depression of the 1920s hit, making those formerly wealthy people distraught. Larry helps his old friend relax, coin in hand, and the headaches disappear.When Larry meets up with Sophie again, he rescues her from the brothel, sobers her up, they plan to marry. Until she has a relapse, there is a fight in the brothel, Larry gets beat up, the next day Sophie's body is found in the river, her throat had been slashed. But Larry is somber, he knows each of us is really alone in the world anyway. Disappointed, he finally heads back home, America. In the last, symbolic scene, he is walking up a very long flight of concrete stairs outside, and as he gets nearer the top, starts to run up them. The DVD is just OK. There are many artifacts on the image, either by a dirty camera gate or, more likely, a poor transfer from film to digital. There are no extras of interest, and the sound is just OK. Still, a very good film for anyone who likes good character studies. Murry demonstrates his acting chops early, even though he was 34 here. "},{"Title":"This razor's edge isn't sharp enough","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Elegant but facile version of the Maugham novel, a passion project for Murray who is good in parts of the film but flat in others. On it's own an okay film hampered by over-length but compared to the Tyrone Power/Gene Tierney original, which has its own problems, it's a pale shadow. A good deal of the fault for that lies in both the direction and the performances. The general ennui of the performances may in fact be laid at the director's feet. All are capable actors as they've shown elsewhere but here be it a mismatch of actor/actress and part or lack of direction most founder. Theresa Russell does the film's best work but even her Sophie is missing the bruised sorrow that made Anne Baxter's take on the part so compelling and won her the Oscar for best supporting actress. James Keach evaporates from the screen in a rather thankless role that John Payne managed to make an impression in with a show of quiet strength. Surprisingly the weakest of the star spots is Catherine Hicks, usually a very fine actress, adrift in her part. She exudes a warm presence on screen totally wrong for the heartless, mindlessly cruel Isabel that Gene Tierney playing with an icy edge made vivid.A good try but only average. "}{"Title":"Razor needs to be strapped","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I was as amazed as anyone else when Columbia remade the Tyrone Power classic The Razor's Edge with Bill Murray in the lead in 1984. What kind of casting is that I and many others wondered. Almost 30 years later, I'm still wondering.The original adaption was driven by Tyrone Power probably at his most heroic as the World War I veteran earnestly seeking some kind of philosophical grounding. As Herbert Marshall observes in that film, Power is possibly the most amazing individual he's ever met. No one could have said that about Bill Murray. Try as I may I expected at numerous points in the film Dan Ackroyd and the rest coming on accompanied by the Ghostbusters theme.It's the same plot for the most part, Murray begs off his expected engagement and marriage to Catherine Hicks saying he wants to go to Europe. She refuses to believe it's for study, she just thinks he wants to sow wild oats. His quest and her misunderstanding of him is what drives the rest of the film. After Murray and Hicks have been reunited in Paris along comes Theresa Russell playing the part of Sophie for which Anne Baxter got a Best Supporting Actress Award. Russell comes closest though she doesn't make it quite herself to equaling the original performer. Baxter is a study in degradation from an eager newlywed to a woman who after losing her husband and baby in a car crash drifts to Europe and becomes a streetwalker. Murray as did Power in the original tries to rescue her, but to no avail. There's a different emphasis here as Russell's role is built up at the expense of Hicks's part which was done by Gene Tierney in the original. That was a mistake for as great as Baxter was, in fact the role is a supporting one.Denholm Elliott who usually I like was a pale reflection of Clifton Webb as the society obsessed Uncle Elliott Templeton for which he got a Best Supporting Actor nomination. The part of the author W. Somerset Maugham was written into the original and played to perfection by Herbert Marshall. He narrates and he's the observer of events. It's a very reflective plot device guiding the viewer to what the author was trying to say. Marshall played Maugham in two films and was so effective, he's the image we have of W. Somerset Maugham today. That overall narration was needed, but Murray took the lead into places that Tyrone Power did not and not for the better. Maybe he really was sowing wild oats.I recommend highly renting or buying the DVD of the original version of The Razor's Edge before you see this and see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Razor's Edge vs. Eat, Pray, Love","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film is at least structurally similar to the recent film 'Eat, Pray, Love' with Julia Roberts. They both focus on an individual who sort of runs away from their life, travels, and attempts to find more meaning in their lives.Personally, the source material gives A Razor's Edge an unfair advantage. But listening to my own criticisms of Eat, Pray, love, I had to think back to one of my own personal favorite films, the Bill Murray version of The Razor's Edge. Some have argued that the Maugham novel was far better than the film, but I disagree. I've read the Maugham novel. I saw the movie. I prefer the film, though I liked them both a great deal.The themes of the novel are there in the film, but the movie chooses to focus on the themes through Larry's story rather than through Uncle Elliot's. The novel focuses most of the time telling Elliot Templeton's life, with this strange bird Larry floating in and out of the scene from time to time. They are both characters on journeys seeking meaning. They both find what they need to find at the end, and it isn't what they set out to find in the beginning.The reason I love this story, no matter which way it's told, is that it fundamentally understands reality in a way that the current rendition ('Eat, Pray, Love') does not. Life is not always going to be pretty, and certainly not just because you have some sort of higher 'mission' to find true meaning in your life. The bad people in A Razor's Edge end up being so much more reprehensible than those in Eat, Pray, Love, and yet you end up hating the lead character in the latter film oh so much more for being so banal. (Isabel is one of the truly evil creatures in literature. Liz is just a thinly veiled version of the author, who naturally can't see that she's vile.) The themes of the two stories? The Razor's Edge, both versions, is truly a student of existential philosophy, The only meaning, the only reward, in life is the experience you have in living it. Eat, Pray, Love, on the other hand, is a child of excess whose only message seems to be, It doesn't matter who you hurt along the way as long as you feel good in the end. There is a certain self-indulgence required in this sort of 'journey of self-discovery' tale. But no one can really say that Larry didn't pay for going on his journey. Maybe it's just as self-indulgent that he did so, but I ended up truly liking and admiring Larry at the end of his journey. Liz, and I cannot really waffle on this primordial instinct, most totally deserves the destined place she has reserved in the 3rd circle of Hell (Gluttony), with an occasional weekend spent in the 7.3.3 circle of Hell (Violence against Art). "},{"Title":"curtain razor","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Taking a break from his goof-ball roles, Bill Murray starred in this serious movie about a man's search for meaning. The Razor's Edge is an interesting movie alright, but I guess that it's one of those situations where they throw so much philosophical stuff at you that it's hard to digest. Is Bill Murray the right choice for the role, or is he totally miscast? Well, in recent years, he's taken a number of serious roles, so there's nothing wrong with him taking one here; still, considering that this was the same year as Ghost Busters, you almost expect him to blurt out something silly. No matter, he does a very good job in the role. Worth seeing, if only once. Also starring Theresa Russell, Catherine Hicks and Denholm Elliott. "},{"Title":"an incredible movie","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is only ever so slightly marred by bill murray's inability to keep his 'bill murray-ness' fully in check (the scene where he hams it up as a crazed barking seal in the swimming pool comes to mind). But besides that it is really an exceptional, well presented movie. It's the story of a young man who reacts to the harsh realities of mindless deaths in world war one, and his subsequent quest to find some deeper meaning for life. There are romantic and dramatic tensions, compelling tragedy, and spiritual questing - which takes the bill murray lead character on a meandering path, eventually arriving at a monastery among the lofty peaks of Tibet. And along with all this are some very tender moments and some very, very funny lines.It's all in all one of the most moving stories I've seen. I actually could hardly speak when the movie ended. At the time my companion started chatting away as the end credits rolled, and I wondered how she could possibly have seen the same movie and not been as deeply affected. However, just a few moments later - as we walked from the theater - she suddenly stopped walking & broke down weeping. "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Bill Murray does a great job as both an actor and writer for this film. It's amazing! Bill can be both a comedic and a dramatic actor! Who'd a thunk it!Having watched both the original and this remake numerous times, I believe Bill Murray brings an interesting variation to the main role over Tyrone Power.Watch this film many times.You'll grasp it's deep meaning.(Read the book as well ... it always helps!)JJG "},{"Title":"On a more positive note...","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is a wonderful film, unless you are addicted to psycho-thrillers, or action-packed unrealistic superhero's of the police, or military variety. The strong point of the film is its' slow build to a point of outer conflict, (the war), followed by the resulting inner conflict of the soul in reaction to the devastation of values on every conceivable level that the surviving characters encountered and felt! They were forced by their inner conflict, (battle field fatigue,later called delayed stress half a century later), to stay in Paris after the War to end all Wars,(The Lost Generation), and try to understand what the hell it was all for, what the hell life was all about, and what the hell was the payoff for a life well lived according to the rules of society. Those rules seemed to not work any longer. The search for a new truth became almost revolutionary as it affected every facet of life; from Science to Literature, to the Arts, and everything else.The Lost Generation questioned everything that had ever been assumed about life and it's motivations, and rewards for a, life well lived, because they found the past models of society sadly lacking in the presence of their current world. Bill Murrays' character cannot carry on without resolving these questions and in a journey to the far reaches of the Himalayas, and back he encounters those special teachers that appear when the student is ready to become taught, willing to open his mind to Truth never before realized, and cleanse the angst that blocks his soul. It is a confrontation with himself. It is a journey to the center of the realization that the NOW is all there is, and the only payoff in life is in the enjoyment of the present fullfillment of lifes' events as they unfold, and crystalize while trying to add his light and energy into the equation in the most natural way he can without his own self-will running amok, and over everyone else. It is about trying to find a way to come into harmony.It is about the process of learning to live in the moment instead of for the moment, and without the clutter of societies rules.It was beautifully acted, directed, and photographed, and started with a great screenplay. In a rare occurance it turns out to be even better than the original film. If you see nothing else and want to be intellectually moved and spiritually enlivened, then see this film. See it before it is no longer available. It is a joy to experience. "},{"Title":"surprising, wonderful film!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I have seen several versions, of this film, and read the book. This is the most moving true to the spirit of the book version I have ever seen.    Watching it 10 years later, I am still impressed by Bill Murray's performance, and thank the heavens he insisted on making this movie.  It's meaningful, well crafted, and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"As good as the original","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I really liked Bill Murray in this version. I think he didn't get the credit he deserved, and I'd highly recommend this version, even if you like the 1946 version, with Tyrone Power-this story is timeless, I'd like to see someone use the basic story, but change the time period to the 1990's-or even the 2000's-just to see how it holds up. "},{"Title":"Saw this when I was 14 in an empty movie theatre and thought it was made just for me.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Let me start by saying this movie inspired me to think like the protagonist who dared to ask the meaning of life and did something to answer it. I saw in Larry Darrell the same questioning in every man.From the moment the story begins I saw life streaming throughout the tale as Larry dared to go and follow the path of spiritual longing. I saw someone choose to abandon the world in the quest for wisdom in vivid detail. The scenes are so evocative that my breath changed and I was there myself doing the same thing.The rest of the drama, the love story and Larry's humanity displayed through the film were all truly appreciated by this film lover. The contrast between the snobs and the earthy characters within the narrative was also striking and very enlightening to say the least. The acting was superb and Bill Murray shows a side you'd never expect. Theresa Russell deserves an Oscar for her performance. Superb film. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray's finest work!  He presents the depth of his talent we didn't see before, and haven't seen since.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  It is an utter shame that the public refused to accept Bill Murray as a dramatic actor.  When Razor's Edge first came out I was thoroughly impressed and hoped it would be well received, and that we would see more dramatic roles from Bill.  But film goers refused to allow Bill to be other than zany and silly.  I think he was wonderful.  Catherine Hicks -- it's the only role where I've seen her play a sort of bitch, and she did it so well I'm glad she hasn't done it since (or, at least I've not seen her do it since). Theresa Russell is marvelous with her quite tragic character.  Totally aside from some very nice glimpses of her boobs, she was both sexy and poignant while fully portraying the pain and desperation of Sophie.  I absolutely love this movie.  I hope you do too.  "}{"Title":"Compelling, moving, neglected near-masterpiece","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  One of the best films of the 80s? One of the most unfairly underrated films of all time? I reckon so, and I hope in thirty years time this film is recognized for the classic it is. Despite all the obligatory jibes he received as a funnyman branching out into a straight role, Bill Murray is perfect as the World War I veteran searching for some meaning to life. Adapted from Somerset Maugham's book of the same name, this is one of the very few films I can think of with the same breadth, complexity and sustained power of absorption as a great novel. The cast is excellent, including as well as Murray such underused luminaries as Theresa Russell and Peter Vaughn showing exactly how good they can be when given a script worthy of them. The cinematography is often breathtaking; the writing is superlative; there is not a step misplaced. Moving, utterly compelling, unmissable. Kudos to Murray and to John Byrum for his outstanding direction.  "},{"Title":"Started me on my own Journey","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This movie began a soul search that to this day is still active in my life. The shooting difference between the mountain scenes and the city scenes are tremendous...there is a clarity in the mountains that the director pushed across so well, while the city was hazy...almost fuzzy, thought lighting and camera filters it comes across as a fuzzy not quite in focus place. The whole movie challenges us to look a bit deeper, see what most will never see, to look into our selves and discover what is truely there, or not there. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie...","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Before it became vogue to make movies about Tibet (Kundun, 7 Years In Tibet), this movie (remake) came on life a storm for me.  It is the struggle of a man to come to grips with the war he has joined and the materialistic lifestyle of the people around him.  He walks away from all of it with nothing but the books he thinks will give him enlightenment.  He soon journeys in search of himself.  An excellent movie.  It truly hope that it is released in DVD format one day soon. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The 1984, The Razor's Edge, is one of my all time favorite movies. It may be my favorite movie. As I understand it, the main character in this movie, Larry Darryl, is actually based (as in the book by Somerset Maugham) on a real person. Some people believe that the character Larry Darryl was based on the life of a man named Guy Hague who went to India after the First World War and met Sri Ramana Maharshi.The book and the Bill Murray movie are very different in how they tell the story but, in my view, they end up in much the same place. I really like the way Bill Murray takes his character to the end of the story. In this movie the main character skips off and leaves the story wide open. Under the circumstances I think it's a nearly perfect ending. I say nearly perfect as perfection on Earth doesn't exist. But, I believe that enlightenment does exist and with it inner peace.In the 1984 movie Larry falls in love with Sophie, played by Theresa Russell. She, in my view, is gorgeous in this movie. The character, Sophie, is complex and embodies the human condition, craving and suffering, the inability to overcome self hatred. Ms. Russell is awesome in this movie.If you like brainless action movies then don't bother with this one. If you like movies that ask the big questions then this is as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"A movie for those who can relate to it","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" *Spoilers ahead* First of all, there are a few weak parts to this movie. Western front, dramatized, is a joke. Not enough emphasis was put on Darrel's (Murray's) experiences there to create coherency in the plot, either. Some explanations are given in the very ending of the movie and without those, the movie would have lacked a meaning.The part i found interesting was how amazingly accurate, if I may say so, the story of Darrel's emotional journey is told in the movie. I've been there and I've tried to explain the same things to a lady. It was a huge long deja-vu on my part and I believe that the people who actually liked it also are the ones who feel they can relate closely to the plot and to the characters. I can't imagine what I would have thought about the movie without my previous personal experiences.Thrilling to stumble upon such a relatively undiscovered piece of art. The Razor's Edge has definitely and profoundly touched me. "},{"Title":"A few tweaks to great comments","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The commentary here is the most intelligent I've encountered on IMDb, even the remarks that I disagree with. I, too, have watched the movie multiple times, liking what Bill Murray brought to the character of Larry Darrell, whereas I could barely make it through Lost in Translation. In that latter Murray work, I could not bring myself to care whether he would get together with the chick or not, but in The Razor's Edge I found so many characters to care about. Even a minor character like Joseph, Elliott's butler, showed traces of the conflicts that swirled in the people around him. I think that this deep layering is what strikes a chord with those who love the film.A few points I don't think that Larry did not find what he was seeking. He found his grail on the mountain, in the hut. He was supposed to toil to be worthy of meeting the Holy Man, and when he was eventually given permission to ascend the mountain, he survived harsh conditions to reach the hut. After waiting and waiting for the Holy Man, he comes to a point of realization, smiles over it, and begins to burn the pages of his precious scripture for heat. He did meet the holy man, who was within the self. Moreover, the novel certainly does not suggest that Larry's quest was for naught. He becomes a luminous person who confounds his friends by pursuing his life's purpose with clarity and compassion.Neither do I think that the ending was nihilistic. Byrum faced a labyrinth as Maugham juxtaposed segments in his text, the novelist following the natural rhythm of flashback rather than standard narrative chronology. When Joseph asks Larry Where are you going? and Larry says Home, Joseph follows up with But where is your home, Larry? And Larry answers America. He is going back to the place to rectify the mistakes of his unenlightened youth.Some commenters prefer the 1946 movie, and while I enjoy it, I think it missed the point of the book. Take the scene with the monk that Larry (Tyrone Power) converses with he's not Indian, but a white actor (kind of comically) faking an Indian accent and wearing a robe reminiscent of ancient Greece, and not early twentieth-century India. The philosophy is given as a homily, so viewers have nothing to reach for. Clifton Webb is very entertaining but is over-the-top, and so is Gene Tierney. The movie is less cinema than it is stage-play, and the ending gives the audience little credit for intelligence.Finally, how deeply the 1984 film was faithful to the book does not concern me the Murray version supplied a coherence that made me appreciate the novel more. Other movies which have done that are Out of Africa, The French Lieutenant's Woman, Far From the Madding Crowd, and the latest version of Pride and Prejudice. Good company indeed. Especially when I'm still waiting for the genre to do justice to The Great Gatsby or The Scarlet Letter, whose best versions are slightly above average, and whose worst are slow and indulgent. "},{"Title":"An underrated film that foreshadowed Murray's serious side","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Razor's Edge with Bill Murray is one of the films that has influenced my life in a major way and is easily on my top list of movies.The film tells the story of the personal journey of Larry Darrell, played by Murray, who goes from coddled rich boy to war shocked veteran and ending as someone who is more in touch with the world and himself.There is a bit of a mystical journey he takes to what I believe is Tibet where he has his discovery at the top of a mountain. That was the only part of the film that didn't speak to me.The central theme as expressed at the end of the film is where Larry tells his old flame Isabel When Piedmont died, I had to pay him back for my life. I found out there's another debt to pay - for the privilege of being alive. I thought Sophie was my reward for trying to live a good life. Uh uh. There is no payoff - not now. I think that is a useful truth regardless if one is religious or not.Bill Murray was great as Larry. Of course there are small bits where his history in comedy come through, although I thought some of those small bits were a bit out of character for this film. One example was when he sends down a basket on a rope to get some bread and tea delivered from the café next to his apartment building. He lets out the rope too fast and you hear it crash into someone who yells out in French. Yes it was humorous but was too much for the tone of the film. Luckily the majority of the film does have some funny bits more in keeping from the situation and dialogue.Catherine Hicks' Isabel Bradley was great too. I have always liked Hicks and think she is a good actress. Theresa Russell steals the show as Sophie MacDonald. The scene in the hospital after the traffic accident is probably the best scene I've ever seen in film.The rest of the cast is excellent as well.I get goose bumps when the film opens with the theme music. Jack Nitzsche score just adds layers onto a full canvas.This is a very underrated film and from it I knew Murray could do more serious roles which he has done in recent years. "},{"Title":"Remembering why I cherished this film ...","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Bill Murray was still just becoming a household comedic name when he made this flick, and even the TV ads acknowledged it -- something like, Bill Murray as You've Never Seen Him Before. I remember, because I loved Bill Murray since the beginnings of SNL in the mid-70s, and I guess because he had the same class-clown humor that always got me sent to the principal's office. I went to the opening day of this movie because I sensed he would be terrific -- the serious side of a funny man, exposed at last.Well ...yes. I recall enjoying immensely the sweep of the film; but having read the book, I worried that too many viewers wouldn't get it since this Somerset Maugham novel, like Of Human Bondage, would be a challenge to translate to film. Overall, I think the job was done well and certainly better than the Tyrone Power version. But, as much as I liked Bill Murray (now, as well as then) I was somewhat annoyed how he kept sliding into his Nick Rails lounge act. It created a dissonance that I feel hurt the box-office in the long run Imagine, some folks showing up thinking they are to see a comedy; and others (like me) thinking we're to witness a major transition. Murray kinda split the difference, which I think is one weak point of an overall enjoyable film.Now, having just revisited the same movie via NetFlix, my original opinion hasn't changed -- but I still really like this movie, despite its unevenness and quirks. There are some powerful and touching scenes; and I'm reminded again of what a challenge it must have been to contemplate putting Maugham's novel to cinema. I do think that those who are not familiar with the novel might have a hard time coping with the sudden geographic twists, and a somewhat weak introduction of the inter-connection of the various roles. It all comes together eventually, but I just think of those folks sitting behind me, whispering, Where the heck are they now?Bill Murray has since made Lost in Translation and Broken Flowers and, for those who enjoyed those films, one beauty of Razor's Edge is seeing him in his first serious film. What may be hard for first-time viewers of Razor's Edge is to understand how Maugham's novel -- in which Larry spends the first half seeking the meaning of life -- defied the conventional assumption, and didn't really dwell on anything so profound as the search itself.I very much enjoyed revisiting this movie after 20+ years ... and found it far deeper and more complex in spirit than I recalled. It's a long movie, and so you should take your time in watching it. But do watch it. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies ever","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and was mesmerized. I then watched the Tyrone Power version and it didn't come close to measuring up. The soul-searching journey that Larry Darrell embarks upon is one that we should all be so lucky to make. Bill Murray is the essence of understatement in his portrayal. The character does not require a broad performance and Murray was certainly up to the task. Some may think that the movie is slow-paced, but by doing so, the director is able to develop all of the characters so that by the end of the movie, you really know them and what their motivations are. Theresa Russell is exquisite, as ever, in the role of Sophie. She really got to stretch her wings. Catherine Hicks, who usually gets cast in sweet, even-tempered roles, shows a dark side that I have never seen from her before or since. Denholm Elliott is a gem. I highly recommend this film to anyone who hasn't yet seen it. You'll be all the better for having viewed it. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray shows a different and rare face","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  this movie, although slow here and there is to me ~! a very amazing motion picture. I watched it in parts as 30 minute pieces and watched a few parts over again thusly. bills acting is amazing and something you would never expect from him. the reference to being between ghostbusters and stripes is just insulting, it didnt go over cause he played it with a straight face, that is ridiculous. I guess it it just me cause I knew that he went to the acting school in New york, but I found his acting to be original and intriguing. watch this movie only if you are able to be objective and love bill murray as a person and not just as a comedic actor, although there are a few funny moments in this movie. "}{"Title":"What held the movie together","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The plot and dialogue were excellent. For Theresa Russell and Denholm Elliot they were the pillars of this movie.  Were being a rich Aristocrat or a whore'in drug addict in poverty, You just Don't get.This is the first time I have ever seen Theresa. I was taken away. I was taken away into Sophies tormented world that was  truly portrayed by Theresa's acting  which  emotional formed and delivered Sophies words.More importantly, is was what Theresa, as Sophie, did not say but physically expressed as deep emotions.As 'Isabel' left the room, to see 'Sophie' go through her own self-agony  of nullification  to  her self worth was very moving.  It is one of the emotional acting moments that can compare to another Sophie from Sophies Choice.. "},{"Title":"Truly a line as hard to walk as a Razor's Edge","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The second adaptation of the iconic novel, this Bill Murray centric- version follows him as Larry, an early 20th century socialite who ends serving as an ambulance driver in WW1. Marked by this experience, he distances himself from the high life in America and begins a global search for life's meaning, from the mines of Britannia to the mountains of Tibet.Beautifully mounted, the 80s 'Razor's Edge' assembles a lot of great components, yet never fully meets expectation. From a writing standpoint, this is down to the inciting incident that leads to Larry's soul search it just isn't well developed enough. The WW1 segment isn't very long, and you don't really get the impression that Larry is scarred or shocked by it. What's more, they try to have him have this relationship with his officer, Piedmont (played by Brian Murray), but the screen time they do share sees them more at odds or Larry being bewildered by the brashness of Piedmont. Why does his death matter so much to Larry? As a byproduct of this one misfire, it weakens everything else in the story, and makes Larry's journey not feel as powerful or weighty as it so badly needs to be.This is a genuine shame that they got this one key element wrong, as everything else is top notch. It's very well filmed, especially thanks to its international, on location backdrop. The stuff up in the Himalayas in particular is pretty spectacular. Performances are also of a similar calibre; for his first straight role, old Bill isn't half bad. Sometimes he can be a little rigid, but for the most part, his dryness and friendly demeanour compensate. He is joined by the likes of Catherine Hicks, Theresa Russell and James Keach, who all add solid work. And finally, Jack Nitzsche's score; very elegant, and though it mainly relies on a recurring motif of strings that sounds very similar to Morricone's 'Time of Destiny', it actually works rather well and is genuinely moving.In the end, 'Razor's Edge' is an ambitious failure, but not a boring or indulgent one at least. For Murray fans, it's an intriguing little curio and an important step in his development. "},{"Title":"Clunky when not pedestrian","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I can't even get to dealing with the supposedly wonderful themes of the movie, because... who cares? It's so oddly edited, as a string of disconnected vignettes. Almost every scene for the bulk of the movie, we see time pass Establishing theme with some vaguely establishing shot. Something overly interesting happens. The results of that lead to something rather chatty and boring. That segues into something meaningful. You can tell, because the theme music picks up!!!! Repeat.Oh, but the cinematography! Is mostly boring, really. Maybe 1-2 minutes of nice photography, but mostly boring as hell. It's mostly filmed like a comedy, with everyone fully- lit, centered when it's their turn to say something or react to someone else.And that's before I get to the part where Bill Murray spends most of the film looking amused with himself. Only in the last 45 minutes is he even approaching being in the same movie as everyone else, and he still is so inconsistent and a product of 1984 that I cannot believe he has felt anything or believes there is life and death stuff going on.I gave the whole thing a chance, I really did. Watched it all straight through, and didn't even mock it until the credits rolled. It's just not that good. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Gem","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This film has to be one of the most neglected gems in recent history. The big buzz of course comes from early Bill Murray long before his recent renaissance.I found this to extremely enjoying, well paced, well acted and a marvelous adaptation of a much loved book. It possesses a timeless quality that will appeal to the mature viewer. A very human, very touching film it was made even more enjoyable by the contrast in nature and content of this film to Murray's other work of the era. His wide range and scope has finally been accepted and embraced but it has long been on display in this forgotten treasure.Bravo.Rent this out as soon as you can, it is most enjoyable. "},{"Title":"An interesting turn around for Murray","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Bill Murray takes on an entirely different role in the film The Razor's Edge - a serious one. Unfortunately, his fans weren't ready for this kind of transition, and it didn't do well. Not because the film is mediocre, however. I believe that Bill Murray performed better in this film than in all his others. This film really captures the power of the book it was based on. If you've only seen Bill Murray's comedies, you definitely need to check this one out. You'll be surprised how able he was for this role. An excellent film all around. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Better movie than the box office gave credit for","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Although the genius of this story originated from a W. Somerset Maughan book, the updated movie version tells the story well.  Bill Murray was simply outstanding in a semi serious role in this otherwise serious movie. I say semi b/c it's hard for Bill Murray to not express his comic genius but he does so in small and subtle ways which only complements the movie's quality story line.This movie unites the post-industrial revolution capitalist west with the mysteries and beauty of the far east.  There are no more than a handful of significant characters but it's interesting to watch their lives evolve unpredictably over the course of time.  During the movie, one begins to get the idea there is a moral lesson but it concludes rather simply that life has ups and downs and the are simply different paths people take in that course. "},{"Title":"Why we love Bill Murray","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" That there is more to Bill Murray than meets the eye is the reason why we love him. No matter what bad production he is in, such as Rushmore, his presence alone raises the quality of it all. This film must be one of the most underrated films of all time. True, that the supporting cast is somewhat cartoonish, but Murray is genuine and is the very essence of the film. Theresa Russel should however also be mentioned as someone who is genuine (otherwise she wouldn't have made 'Whore') and shows this in this film too. And then there is Denholm Elliot of course, but in a very ungrateful role. It's a film that will make a deep impression on you, if you are generous enough to accept that it doesn't try to impress on it's public by being 'literature' or some other equal nonsense. Nothing pretentious here.Addition On later viewings, I'm still impressed with this film. It's too short though. It should have been at least five hours long taking the novel more as a pretense than actually following it. Larry's time as a worker, his time in Tibet and his time with Sophie could have been extended considerably as well as maybe even his time with Piedmont. On the whole this story seems to be so much more than Somerset Maugham - but maybe I'm unfair in assuming so. As it stands now, it is still a fine film and better than the one with Tyrone Power and Clifton Webb, which by no means was a bad film. The simple but beautiful score is yet another reason why I like the film and there's not one actor in it, which I would like to replace. To make the trip that Larry does in this movie, we probably do not have to go to France nor to Tibet. Nor do we need a first world war - that's for sure! We do however need to believe that there is a meaning to our life and maybe several meanings and that finding out that meaning is what life is all about. I believe that a Larry of today would have to be some kind of a Joe Hill or some other freedom-fighter, since there can be no reality without fighting for justice. And i believe that the fight for justice demands the utmost of us, maybe even more than walking on the edge of a razor. "},{"Title":"I wonder how many of you have seen the original Razor's Edge","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I believe you should not make comments on a film that is a remake until you have watched the original, in this case The Razor's Edge (1946).To bleat out that Bill Murray was perfect for this role is a bit presumptive when you haven't seen Tyrone Power do the role.Bill is a great actor, no doubt, but so was Tyrone Power.The supporting cast of Herbert Marshall, Gene Tierney, Clifton Webb, Anne Baxter and John Payne were top form as well.It doesn't help others to comment in the subjective, What this film meant to me, I thought it was the greatest, etc., opinion seems to be more important than a honest critic of the film. Try objectivity, it may not satisfy your ego, but it is a step in the right direction. "},{"Title":"Agree--awesome","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I, too, have read the book, and seen the Tyrone Power version.  This is the case where the remake is better than the original, and even better than the book.  I read the book again after watching the movie trying to like it--no luck.  At least the movie goes somewhere. Too bad his comic success turned off his other fans from this one.  I think he's the funniest actor alive, but it only makes me appreciate this one more. "},{"Title":"Comparing this to the 1946 version..","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I have not read Maugham's original story, so I feel somewhat like a translator of poetry who cannot speak the original language, but.. This is the far better version in that it portrays Larry's agony and struggles far more vividly, shows why the subsistence life appealed to him, and shows the relationship with Sophie developing. The Tyrone Power 1946 version is way overloaded with love story trivia, upper-class glamour and glossing over the major conflict (for me) of the illusion of control. The Bill Murray film helped change my life, empowering me to quit a bad job. The 1946 film would never have done that. Could someone who has read the original tell me how the films compare with the story? "}{"Title":"How to sink a classic!","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" What an extreme example of miscasting. Bill Murray keeps doing his thing a series of cynical, lazy gazes that even in comedies are no funny at all, let alone in this attempt to drama. The razor's edge is the kind of story that needs very masterful acting in order to be convincing and not look dated. It was painful to see such a dignified story transvestited into his efforts to look troubled and complex. It seems that even his colleagues were not taking him seriously!!! His acting is way below any criticism. Catherine Hicks is also a weak actress and contributes nothing to help the disaster. Exceptions are Theresa Russel as Sophie and Denholm Elliot as E. Templeton, but the final result is still unwatchable. "},{"Title":"One of the worst I've ever seen","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out and 26 years have not dulled the memory of how terrible it is. How bad? Well Razor's Edge is like Bill Murray's lounge singer trying to do a serious grand opera -- and occasionally reverting to his lounge persona. What makes this movie particularly awful is its grand pretensions. Murray, at least at that point in his career, didn't have the acting chops for serious drama and was allowed to get away just about anything. It's the ultimate vanity project. Awful. Awful. Awful.It was nice to see Brian Doyle Murray, Bill Murray's brother, in a small role, since they used to work together on the National Lampoon Radio Hour. "},{"Title":"good but should be better","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" America has not entered WWI yet. Larry Darrell (Bill Murray) with his girlfriend Isabel Bradley (Catherine Hicks), his best friend Gray Maturin (James Keach) and Sophie MacDonald (Theresa Russell) live a comfortable upper class life. Larry and Gray go to Europe to drive an ambulance. After the war, Larry goes in search for himself. In Paris, he and Isabel end up not getting married as he pushes on as a coal miner and eventually cooking at a Tibetan monastery. Isabel ends up married to Gray who goes to work for his father. The Great Depression hits the family brokerage hard and Gray's father commits suicide. Sophie suffers after her husband and child are killed in a car crash. Larry runs into Isabel and Gray with their two daughters now broke in Paris. They also find Sophie who became a drug addicted prostitute.Bill Murray does a good but not a great job. He is always great at the zen jester character. He just can't reach the darker depths necessary during and right after the war. It also occurs to me that this is the story of two people. Isabel is the other person and the movie needs to zero in on that. Theresa Russell would have been a great Isabel although she's a perfectly fine Sophie in the movie. Sophie could have done by somebody more fragile. It's a good attempt by Murray but not all successful. "},{"Title":"This movie made me a better person...","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The title says it all. I've read pages of reviews for the Razor's Edge. Add me to the list of people who think that the viewer needs the right kind of eyes to understand this film. Watching this film, for the viewer with the right kind of eyes is like a cinematic punch in the gut. It will move the viewer without being the least bit preachy.I saw this film for the first time as a teen. (On HBO, I think.) I decided on the spot that I wasn't going to live a normal, boring life. I wasn't going to allow myself to be like the people in my suburban neighborhood -- caring about a nice house and a new car every year.I also found that I agree with the premise that there is no meaning of life. It just is. We make our own meaning. So make yours a good one.I created an account here so that I could write this. For me, this isn't the best movie ever made. It's far more important than that. (Read the book, too. I saw the film first so that's what changed my life. I don't know if reading the book alone would have been enough.) "},{"Title":"Powerful Movie","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Larry Darrell is one of those enigmatic characters that every actor dreams of playing. Larry Darrell embodies something that the human spirit always longs for, meaning. Therefore the Character of Larry Darrell is the incarnate for that 'Search' of whatever void there is in a persons soul. And the longing to fill that void. I like Bill Murray even better than I did before when I found out more about the history behind him doing this role. Mr. Murray really wanted to do this film and play this character as he identified with the character in a lot of ways. Also, Bill Murray wrote a monologue in the movie about a character who dies which he wrote in actuality for John Belushi(it makes the scene a lot more endearing seeing it now after knowing that fact). The Razor's Edge is one of my favorite books by W. Somerset Maugham and it was turned into a movie years before this one with Tyrone Power. Power played Darrell very well, he embodied Larry Darrell's unattainable quality to a tee. However, so did Bill Murray, in just a very different way Murray did. Bill Murray plays Larry with such an indifference, where you will see Murray in many scenes with a Blank Look or Murray's usual Dead Pan face. Murray makes a valiant effort at playing one of the most complicated characters of our time in Larry Darrell. The performance Bill Murray gives is hit and miss. However, whether Murray meant to or not, the character of Larry Darrell is very hit and miss as well. Darrell is unattainable, enigmatic, confusing, and perhaps wild at heart, and also perhaps there's nothing going on in Darrell's head or there is so much going on in Darrell's head, you never know from reading the book nor from the movies. So with that said, Murray playing the character the way he did might have been spot on. It's kind of to the eye of the beholder, and in some ways I do think Murray's Blank Stare and Dead Pan features were perfect for how Larry Darrell is. So in some ways, I think Murray made some very good choices on purpose or not on purpose in playing Darrell, but also in my subjective opinion, there were other scenes that I wish he would have made different choices on. But again, knowing that Murray wanted to play this role so bad and that he even wrote the movie along with other screenwriters, makes me like Murray all the more. Bill Murray is a great actor, very underrated in his greatness. This version of The Razor's Edge has a Terrific Music Score, you would think this is a great movie by how great the music score is, and the movie is almost great, but like Murray's performance, it's hit and miss. Some scenes in the movie are very powerful and great(Some scenes are some of the best you will ever see in my opinion). And some scenes aren't so great, they're kind of off, etc.(again, my subjective opinion). Theresa Russell gives an absolutely terrific performance as Sophie. I believe Russell would have been nominated for an academy award for her performance of Sophie, but the fact remains that in the Tyrone Power version made years ago, Anne Baxter was just as exceptional in the role of Sophie, and Anne Baxter was nominated and she won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in that role. Both Baxter and Russell were equally terrific in that role and it's tough to say who I like better, very tough to say in fact. Which I really can't, they're equally great. Finally, there's a scene in the movie that hits it right on the money. The book had this particular scenario go a different way as the Tyrone Power version stayed true to the book in this particular scene(basically this particular scene in the Murray version didn't exist in the book or Tyrone Power version).However, I don't know if Murray wrote this scene or not, but the book should have written this part into it, the way it's written and executed in the Murray version. It's an extremely powerful scene and true to the characters. It's a scene where Darrell tries to rescue Sophie from some bad men(I'll just say that without spoiling the scene). Bill Murray plays this very difficult scene terrifically as does Russell, and again, the book doesn't have this, but I wish it would have, it's much more effective in this Murray version. Larry Darrell is a tough character to play. Other actors who have played a similar type of character are Brad Pitt in Legends of the Fall(which Brad Pitt played that type of part perfectly I thought, in more of a romantic kind of way)as well as Peter Gallagher in Underneath and also Richard Tyson in Two Moon Junction(where he plays the mysteriousness of that type of character well, even though he's more of a cad and playboy Lothario, but still deep in his enigmatic qualities). "},{"Title":"Excellent !!!!!","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie is a great testimonial to the idea that life is complex and people handle it(or refuse to) in different ways. Bill Murray's character finds out that there is much more to life and that it can be very difficult to face. There were characters hiding behind drugs and alcohol or the shallow trappings of high society. The posted quote of Murray's character about his fellow ambulance driver does not contain the most important part. The driver had always written off other killed people as Liars and they won't be missed. Bill Murray labels him as a liar and says that he won't be missed. This is a fundamental of PTSD. One does not have to face the grief and horror if they can diminish the person/enemy/friend in any way. As far as the whole movie's meaning, you sort out what or who is important in your life and cast away the rest. I thank Summerset Maugham and Bill Murray for bringing this movie to life for me. I was 20 and quite shallow when it came out. I am 47 now and living a life that I could not have predicted. "},{"Title":"This is my choice for number one travel movie of all time.","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I would suppose a review is some prelude, allowing a person to judge whether you want to watch or not. Nonetheless, I am world traveler, who has perpetually traveled for 13 years, and visited 90 countries. This movie by far is the number one Travel Movie of all time, it embodies every aspect of real travel, truly if you believe yourself an intelligent traveler, it is a must see.The Best Travel Movies include these concepts 1.Travel Transportation, therefore travel 2.Reality There is a feasibly resemblance to reality. 3.Culture Two or more different cultures clashing or meeting. 4.Sleeping Spending the night in room other than a home 5.Time A Journey over time, the journey happens normally over a period of month or years, this is not 6.A Dream 7.A Search for something 8.Love 9.A Story 10.Starting a journey without a good reason, just faith and belief that it will work out. 11.Serendipitous learning about ones selfAndy Graham of HoboTraveler.com on Lago Atitlan, Guatemala 2011 "},{"Title":"A touching, moving, brilliant adaptation","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Without a doubt, one of the top 100 adaptations of a novel in film history. A mouthful? You bet it is - but this movie had a profound effect on me the first time I saw it and I've watched it a minimum of 100 times since. It never fails to enlighten, remind, and bring me back to the things that are really important in life. Bill Murray's anger acting is a bit off, granted--he was new at it--but for the rest, he was perfect. The out-of-kilter style he brings to Larry Darrell is hilarious and effective at the same time. Murray is nobody's fool, don't let Saturday Night Live or Caddyshack lead you to believe that. This guy may be funny as hell, but he's no lightweight in the thinking department. A must-see for anyone. If you don't walk away with something from this film, you probably didn't get it in the first place. "},{"Title":"movie grows with you...","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" When I saw this movie years ago, I probably gave it a five. I wasn't ready to fully get the message. My partner has always loved this movie, so I gave it another shot tonight and it touched all the bases for me. The last couple of years we discovered Paris so the Paris scenes were great. As a Veteran and peace activist, the PTSD angle was right in my wheel house. Bill Murray is fascinating. In real life he is a seeker who travels alone and just shows in the most unlikely places. There is a sadness to him under the wise guy persona. You cansee why he wanted to make this movie. There is a lot of Larry Darrell in him! The rest of cast did a wonderful job, Therese Russell was a revelation and Catherine Hicks had the unenviable task of making people not like, which she accomplished. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray in a different role","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I saw this movie about a year ago, and I fell in love with the story.Contrary to the previous commenter, I found this story to be somewhat inspiring.  As a somewhat shell-shocked World War I ambulance driver, Larry Darryl (Murray) returns to find himself not fit for the life he anticipated before the war.  He seeks personal fulfillment which leads him from America to France to India, and back again.There are some great Parisian scenes in here, and if you like the City of Lights, you may very well enjoy this movie simply for its on location footage in Paris.Bill Murray differs from his customary roles like in Ghostbusters, and plays a serious character in this movie.  All considering I believe it was very well done on his part.I cannot say for certain whether or not this one was better or worse than the 1940's version starring Tyrone Powers, however I can say that it would be difficult to beat THIS marvelous adaptation of the W. Somerset Maugham novel. "}{"Title":"Two Movies, Same Message","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Bill Murray made another movie just before The Razor's Edge - a summer camp comedy called Meatballs. The crucial moment in that film comes when the rag-tag kids at the camp where Murray is a counselor are locked in a hopeless Olympic-style athletic competition with the rich-kid camp across the lake. Their opponents have all the advantages and can't possibly lose. Murray's pep talk turns into a recitation of all the reasons why his kids are beaten before they start and devolves into Murray beating a fire log on the floor and chanting, It just doesn't matter! It just doesn't matter! putting the whole silly thing in the proper perspective with the important things in their lives. In a more profound, Zen kind of way, that's the same message of The Razor's Edge. Murray's character learns from his experiences as a WWI ambulance driver, French coal miner, Buddhist acolyte and failed savior of Sophie that it just doesn't matter - worldly attachments are transient and the only thing that continues, immutable and indestructible is consciousness. This is heady stuff, but Murray's playful approach to the role signals that, especially post-Tibet, he's enlightened and above it all. "},{"Title":"Some Great Photography, but Murray Miscast","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Directed poorly by John Byrum, The Razor's Edge is a missed opportunity. It has some great scenery, settings, and locations, but it's lead Murray is not right for the subject matter. Murray has since been good in the right dramas but here, quirkiness and paucity don't do well. A fight scene is so poor, it's laughable. The movie wants the audience to feel the weight of it's content, but Murray himself is not demonstrative enough of an actor to carry the role. A lot of the scenes too seem disjointed especially considering the large time-spans supposedly gone by. Perhaps this could've been better with Richard Gere or William Hurt - a more serious than offbeat persona. "},{"Title":"Hackneyed and Un-Engaging","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I really wanted to enjoy this film, being a fan of Somerset Maugham. I found it devoid of interesting characters &#x96; Bill Murray zombie walked through scene after excruciating scene with hardly a change of expression. His journey to India was hackneyed and terribly contrived. He may just as well have played the part in a shopping mall &#x96; his deadpan performance gave the film a belaboured feel through-out. The confrontations between characters &#x96; such as they were &#x96; had little impact. The whole thing was just boring and ringed false. Perhaps I give it a few points for the scenery and the storyline did change from time to time. Much better to read the novel instead of looking at this. "},{"Title":"A Seminal Spiritual Seeker's Story","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Bill Murray's best (if not only) dramatic role. But he really works as the lead character, who is a happy-go-lucky guy who suddenly finds himself encountering the serious questions of life. Set against the backdrop of the events before, during, and after World War I, the character Larry seems like an example of an everyman in the world at large then, coming out of an ignorant innocence into an age of serious consequences.The actors all do a great job here of making the story very believable... Murray, Russell, Hicks, and all, really add the character depth that makes a story reach into your heart and move you.When I first saw this movie, it really affected me, as I had also started a path into Eastern philosophy. I saw it again years later, and still find it classic, and a powerful rendition of the spiritual journey portrayed by W. Somerset Maugham. And this saying will remain with me forever The pathway to salvation is as narrow and as difficult to walk as a razor's edge. "},{"Title":"Insight","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" If you have never had all (or most) of your youthful assumptions about life challenged in a cauldron of sadness or tragedy, then this film may seem a little offbeat. If you have been knocked fairly and squarely (and completely) out of your comfort zone by circumstances utterly beyond your control, then you might find it compelling.Not everybody would follow the lead of Larry (main character), however, just about every person would be well served by a little time spent pondering the meaning of it all. This film would serve as an excellent and entertaining springboard for updating your files.I never thought Bill Murray was capable of doing a heavy, dramatic role, or doing it so masterfully. He has a range of skills. "},{"Title":"Exemplary film","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is the most important film Bill Murray made. It is a life lesson movie for people who are trying to get real. Everyone in it did a wonderful job, they should all be proud they got to be a part it. For people who are trying to better themselves this film should be in their library. I like movies where people are born to a certain view on life and then are thrust into another. His character had to learn and adapt without malice and be willing to learn humility. Then he had to learn to re-enter life and deal with that pain. On top of a great story, the cinematography is most splendid also. It is a film good on the eyes, good on the ears, and good on the heart. It had to have been well thought out from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"One mans search for himself","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I missed this feature when it came out in theaters but managed to catch it on cable. It had quite a deep effect on me and I proceeded to read everything I could by W. Somerset Maugham the author of the book on which it was based. There are other works by Maugham that have been made into movies - Of Human Bondage, Up At The Villa, and Rain - for example and The Razors Edge is loosely based on the novel of the same name. It is my favorite movie, my DVD copy gets a regular workout. I have seen (and recommend) the original screen adaptation from 1946 but feel that Bill Murrays version has a dimension that the earlier one doesn't. Probably because of the times in which it was made. It shows a speculative Bill Murray style that will be familiar to fans of Lost In Translation. "},{"Title":"Really excellent.  Murray's best performance ever.","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A really excellent film which was completely misunderstood by the critics when it was released. Since the plot was a bit more complicated than cops chasing robbers around the block the critics had a real hard time with it. It is not a comedy, a tragedy, a soap opera, or a war movie. It is all of the above. It is like life. Having known several people who were somewhat similar to the man being portrayed by Murray I found this film profoundly moving. I laughed, I cried, and I was impressed.Murray's performance, playing a serious man who doesn't take himself seriously, is very impressive. Theresa Russell is brilliant. Her scene with a nun in a hospital is possibly the best thing she has ever done. James Keach, Catherine Hicks, and Denholm Elliot played their roles to perfection. My only criticism of the movie is that it wasn't long enough. I didn't want it to end. I have put a lot of superlatives in this little review which I am writing 22 years after the movie was released. Perhaps, like fine wine, this movie needed to age a bit to be really appreciated. "},{"Title":"One man's romantic journey into real enlightenment.","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" In the late 70's I was prepared to hate Bill Murray simply because no one could fill John Belushi's shoes at SNL. Bill melted my wall by his self deprecating totally natural style of comedic acting. I mean he was his characters and he wasn't forcing it.In the mid 80's it seemed most critics and movie goers were prepared to hate Bill Murray taking on a serious role...especially when it turned out to be a slow paced what is life type drama versus, say, a crime drama or something action oriented.Myself, I thought it was a good movie in 1984 not the least of which was due to Murray's portrayal. I hope that now, 10 years + on, many of the naysayers are now willing to rethink their initial panning of this work.I think Bill Murray tapped into the romantic curiosity that is crucial to the human spirit as it attempts to override the pragmatic, more disciplined, right brains grip that grounds us. This unbalanced conflict causes our character to go to lengths to find out what adventure, life, and love exactly has to do with ultimate fulfillment (if, in fact, that is at all possible).Of course in the journey itself there is danger one may miss the most important thing, that defining love, that which is real above all else...a true connection that isn't fleeting as pursuits, contests, or monetary gain.In a very melancholy way The Razor's Edge is hauntingly, beautifully, as well as brutally saying Love is Life, Life is Short Don't waste the time you have seeking something only found when you stop looking and start loving. I think Murray conveys the sadly beautiful broken, but enlightened, man who realizes this at the highest cost. So for me this movie is a solid story that hold ups under repeated viewings. I give it a 7.5 out of 10 and recommend it. "},{"Title":"While rough around the edges at it's heart a touching drama","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a remake of a classic forties film based on a Somerset Maugham novel and an excellent first effort at a dramatic role by Bill Murry.The film takes you on a wondrous journey from the garden parties of wealthy New England industrialists, through the hell of the first World War, a personal journey into the Himalayas of Tibet, and a return to the avant-garde of 1930's Paris.Against the backdrop of this grand tour is played out a contrasting palette of human emotion and behavior. From the searching heart of Larry Darrell and the wall of addiction that Sophie hides behind to the jealous scheming of Isabel's envy the arc of this journey plays out.The Razor's Edge is not a flawless gem and neither does it offer any secrets to the meaning of life but it makes a valiant effort and in the end it touched my soul and reminded me what it is to be alive.I recommend this film without reservation.KWC "}{"Title":"You just don't get it and that's too bad","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I have seen 'The Razor's Edge' several times within the last couple of years.  It offers quality performances by Bill Murray, Theresa Russell, Catherine Hicks, James Keach and the supporting cast.  This movie has been sadly overlooked and panned by the critics and viewers since its 1984 release.  It is unfortunate because there is a story and the actors bring this to life.  I wish viewers would give Bill Murray a break and realize he can do more than perform as Carl in 'Caddyshack' or any of the other comedic roles in his impressive film vault.  The relationships he forms with Theresa Russell and the others are sincere and meaningful.  Sometimes you do have to go half way (or more than half way) around the world to come full circle.  The cinematography and musical score by Jack Nitzsche contributed to this journey.  Perhaps this lovely film will finally get the recognition that it deserves but for those who refuse to even give it a chance you just don't get it and that's too bad. "},{"Title":"a waste of Maugham's precious testimony","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" to begin with, the story is so skipped between particular points that it just gets meaningless about 1/3 into it...i have read and enjoyed the book as one of the treasures of western literature, as it creates bridges, and, for the time of its writing, is probably one of the first threads between mass communication and the concept of enlightenment...it is a spiritual book in its entirety, and the movie has nothing to do with that...the most important moment in the book passes unnoticed in the movie, and not only that, it can be considered to not have happened in the plot...and i cannot understand why, actually... its all in the book, the scenery, a description of the feeling to the likes of any spiritual writings you can find anywhere, and NOTHING was translated into the movie...nothing is accurate, not even the historic period the story is situated in... Gray loses everything in the stock market, yet there is no mention of it in this movie simply because it would call the bluff on the vague epoch setting decision...Oddly enough, the coin scene is played 100% the same as in the book, depicting the same miracle seeking vision of spirituality that turns something elevated into mundane, like what happened to the book here...India becomes Tibet, the holy Sri Ramana Maharshi in Tiruvannamalai (a vehement opponent of religion) becomes an unknown Buddhist monk in a monastery (!?), spirituality becomes as pointless as religion...A disappointment... It would have taken a director with a broader and deeper view on spirituality to grasp the treasure the book is... If you have watched this, please do yourself a favor and read the book... Besides everything else, i have the feeling that there was absolutely no research and no depth also in the director's reading of the book, which is disrespectful to say the least...The book is a testament on life, this movie is just a story with iconic characters in a 100% mundane setting... Too bad this pearl fell in the hands of a pig who apparently refused to read the book, or had the deliberate intention to break the bridge Maugham created between holy India and the west...Read the book and you will be thankful for the description (because it is told to not really be fiction) and the broad sense of life you can get from it... Watch the movie and you can only have more of the same confusion you can find in any sitcom...Shallow, superficial, and a waste of time. Besides, it is just insulting to realize something as a story about a baseball match becoming a movie description of a stadium...Actually, if i had something to do with Maugham or was from India, i would sew this ignorant director... This movie shouldn't be called The Razor's Edge, it is a destructive non-tribute to it, in the hands of a director that probably thought he was better at telling a story than Maugham himself, or whose constricted religious beliefs came clashing in with Maugham's religion free spirituality...Or to put it bluntly, i get the feeling that a story about enlightenment was told by somebody that believes in heaven and hell... A contradiction in itself... "},{"Title":"This is not The Razor's Edge","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" By no means should this movie be called The Razor's Edge. That this movie uses that title demeans the excellent novel so well crafted by the novelist W. Somerset Maugham. Part of what makes the book wonderful is the frame narration by an outside source--so that Larry is always just a construction by another, a person we never really know, who remains as mysterious as his quest and his sense of enlightenment. With Murray's movie, we don't even have the character who is supposed to tell the story--it is like trying to film The Great Gatsby, except without Nick Carraway.The movie transmogrifies the wonderful qualities that Maugham invests in Larry--an indescribable smile that shows the warmth and generosity of his heart; a spirit that never rises to anger, that gives in a Christ-like manor which suggests the purest version of altruism known, untainted by self-interest; an elusive sort that we never can encapsulate--and changes them into Murray's own strong suits witty retorts directed at dull people, low emotion alcoholism coupled with outbursts, clowning for the camera. Murray's Larry is not the pure soul who captivated a famous writer--he is the man from Ghostbusters, trying every now and then to be serious. Many of these qualities are anathema to the character he is to be portraying&#151;and I was hoping to see some completely different side of Bill.The plot changes are ridiculous Larry drives an ambulance instead of flying a plane; he goes with Gray rather than by himself; Sophie and her husband are married at the beginning rather than later; Larry and Isabel sleep with each other; Sophie's a prostitute instead of a whore&#151; and she falls truly in love with Larry rather than dutifully, as she does in the novel&#151;the only way that her leaving him makes sense. Isabel's indiscrete shouting in a dignified restaurant wrecks the grace of her character; the confrontation between Sophie and Isabel is maddeningly trite and destructive to any subtlety that the movie might wish to preserve. Gray, rather than being the commonplace everyman, is instead some spidery sort supposedly war-mates with Larry&#151;a foolish depth to a relationship better left at its tenuous state, as the book does. In order for Larry's character to make sense, he needs to be left alone during the war, rather than have some mate from Chicago there to observe his transition.The end result is a palate of flat, rather dull characters who belong to a soap opera rather than the host created by Maugham, individuals who make poor decisions at times, but who, nonetheless, we can never wholly condemn. In the book, our ethereal vision of Larry is tempered by the compassionate portraits of Suzanne and Elliot and Gray and Isabel and Sophie. In the movie, we must subsist wholly on an unbelievable Murray playacting for the camera but never even approximating the earnestness and rigor of Maugham's Larry. "},{"Title":"a moving portrayal of one man's journey of self discovery","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The Razor's Edge is the story of a man who could have had a life of wealth,but decided he wanted more.he goes on a journey of self discovery and enlightenment.the movie based on the novel by W.Somerset Maugham(The Painted Veil)and the screenplay is co-written by John Byrum and Bill Murray.Murray is also the main character in the film.The story begins during the time of the 1st world war.Larry Darrel(Murray)goes off to fight in the war.the war has taken its toll on him emotionally and when he returns home he is a different man.and so he leaves for Paris and his journey of discovery begins.This movie is very dramatic,sedate at times,and hard to get through.it is at times very poignant and sombre.but it does have a message.sometimes we think we have everything,when in fact we have nothing.the most wealthy person may have little or no money,but can be rich,nonetheless.normally i don't go for the kinds of movies that have a moral to them.and that is because they usually hit you over the head repeatedly with the message.The Razor's Edge isn't that kind of film.everything about the film is subtle,so you really just come to you own conclusions.this is not a comedy,in fact if it were a play,it would be a tragedy.Bill Murray puts in a fine dramatic performance.Theresa Russel(Wild things,Kafka)Catherine Hicks(7th Heaven)Denholm Elliot(Raiders of the Lost Ark)among others put in very good supporting performances.i would not recommend this movie to everyone.if you like your viewing experience to be filled with action,this is not your movie.if your tastes run more to the sublime,you will like this movie.i give this movie a strong 7/10 "},{"Title":"Early Dramatic Turn For Bill Murray","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I was twenty one when this film was first released. I'd been a Bill Murray fan already and I wanted to see this film. However, it was the summer of GHOSTBUSTERS and that's what caused this movie to disappear from the theatres without a trace. The problem was that at the time, no one wanted to see a serious Bill Murray (Something similar happened for Steve Martin's PENNIES FROM HEAVEN). THE RAZOR'S EDGE was extremely difficult to find on VHS.Finally, thanks to the advent of DVD and NETFLIX, I was able to see this film 22 years after it was released. This film would presage the dramatic roles that Murray would take a dozen or so years after its release. It is true that we see traces of the circa 1984 Murray hamming it up (and the film could do without those). But we also see an actor who had carefully studied his role and is totally believable as Larry, the man who goes on a journey of self-discovery after witnessing terrible things in war.I remember the radio ads, featuring Murray, that were aired at the time of this film's release. Murray advised us If you want comedy, go see Ghostbusters! As a sidenote, this may be the only film which featured brothers Bill Murray and Brian-doyle Murray. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" A soldier returning home after WWI travels to Nepal to seek enlightenment and peace within himself. The story is a very clever one about not only what is enlightenment but about who seeks it and how they seek it.After watching this movie in the 1980s, many parts of the movie still stick in mind as poignant. This movie is famous for having flopped at the box office, and was only made in the first place to get Bill Murray to star in Ghost Busters. So let's face it, spiritual journeys of self-entitled people are not something everyone is going to enjoy, but at the same time, some people will find a message and love this movie. "},{"Title":"Thank you, Bill Murray","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I'm not a film buff, I just like a film to be thought provoking and entertaining. I watched this film because Bill Murray was involved. Without addressing the quality of the cinematography or the acting (all of which seemed adequate to me), I'll point out that this is the film that brought me to the work of Somerset Maugham. I knew that there was more to the story than what was presented on screen, so I checked the book out of the library. I keep a few of Maugham's works on my bookshelves, and go back to them periodically because I enjoy his work so much. Knowing that Bill Murray took this on as a personal project certainly changed my opinion (for the better) of him as an actor, and that includes his comedy. Bill Murray's The Razor's Edge was a good starting point for me. "},{"Title":"Does not compare to the original","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Sorry folks, call me old fashioned, but having seen the original Razor's Edge several times, I was VERY disappointed with the Bill Murray version. The original version with Tyrone Power, Gene Tierney, Herbert Marshal, etc., had class, style, gorgeous black and white photography, and a brilliant screenplay and acting with truly talented superstars. The VAST MAJORITY of actors, directors, and writers in Hollywood today can't begin to compete with this calibre of talent, and they had NO BUSINESS remaking this film. As for Bill Murray, I don't consider him to be a talented actor for either comedy roles or dramatic ones. His understated, deadpan acting style is simply evidence that he's incapable of projecting any meaningful emotions on the screen, and I am NOT TAKEN IN BY HIM as some reviewers on this site seem to be. In short, I thought the Bill Murray version of Razor's Edge was EXTREMELY ho-hum, and I gave it a one-star rating because this movie is a very big insult to those of us who appreciate fine romantic drama, and I mean romantic not just in the interpersonal falling in love sense, I mean it with a big, capital R. The original Razor's Edge conveys a romantic view of life, a search for meaning, and a questioning of how we live our lives. The recent version of this movie is a confused, poorly acted, poorly directed film. "},{"Title":"Interesting and ultimately rewarding","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I just watched this film recently, and I don't understand why it's got so much bad press, or why it seems to have been completely ignored. In terms of Bill Murray's canon of work, it's almost completely overlooked. For instance, it's not even reviewed or listed in the Time Out film guide (at least the 2005 edition that I own), which is extremely unusual.It has it's flaws, I can't deny it. Sometimes the story feels a bit stretched/rushed, and I got a bit lost in parts. But at the heart of it is a great performance from Murray, there's other great performances all round, and it does touch the heart at the end.It seems to have gathered a small cult following, and rightly so. There's an interesting back story to it too, with Murray writing the script and refusing to be paid for his actual acting in the film. He then stopped acting for a few years, instead 'life imitating art' by going over to study philosophy in Paris for a year.To be honest, it just helps to secure Murray's place as one of the most interesting/talented actors of his generation. A must for all Bill fans and film buffs. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray did another great job.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I had a hard time understanding the producer's reported anger at Murray for his portrayal of a WWI American war veteran. The producer allegedly said,Bill Murray gives you nothing! Although Bill is one of the most understated human beings on the planet, the character he portrayed is an American war vet -- a survivor of the worst carnage since the American Civil War. Even Robert Graves who was pronounced dead on the battlefield and notification sent to his family -- resigned from life, a wife and children, in Goodbye to All That. It's resignation that the producer is misunderstanding? What an American brings to Nepal is the power of individual conscience and subjecting the consciousness to the cultural eternal. The character undergoes change in his inner understanding and outward conscious expression of that change. Bill Murray's only understatement is not surrendering to the temptation to make this character romantic instead of American. An initiate of war is initiated again in life. As a disabled Vietnam combat Vet who has seen and experienced what Murray's character experienced in the novel and movie, I commend Bill for having the discipline and courage to remain in character a fearless American, an initiate of the last and best age. "}{"Title":"What it Means to be a Film Star","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I remember when this film was released, hard on the heels of Ghostbusters, Murray's breakthrough hit. Boy, how the fans and critics alike shunned it, dubbing The Razor's Edge a vanity project for a comedian who wanted to earn a little respect. (In truth, Murray agreed to a be Ghostbuster only to secure financing for this labor of love.) For anyone who thought the mediocre Lost in Translation was a revelation, they clearly have never seen Murray in The Razor's Edge. The past 22 years, I've been telling friends to watch this movie. Each time I see it, I marvel at Bill Murray's ability to balance his comic screen persona with the dramatic demands of such a heartbreaking story. I can't think of another actor who could ever pull this off, with the possible exception of Dustin Hoffman (remember Murray's cameo in Tootsie?).For all the sadness in this story, there are some laugh out loud moments, too. Murray gives fans the usual unctuous wit, but laced with a world-weary sense of loss, and a profound strength of spirit. The direction rivals anything by David Lean, but the classic formalism of the film-making might be jarring for Bill Murray fans expecting Meatballs or Stripes. Just go with it. You won't regret this discovery.The movie is not flawless. Sometimes, Murray goes for a laugh when he should refrain. Other times, he underplays shamelessly. But I think the real genius of the movie is in the casting of Theresa Russell. Without her in the role of Sophie, this picture would remain a curious footnote. Her performance is the heart and soul of this overlooked movie. And she breaks my heart every time. Every time. "},{"Title":"Why I love this film...","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The first time I saw this film (late 80's early 90's) I was shocked!I wasn't familiar with the novel at that time.  Someone had mentioned to me that it was a great film, although not a typical Murray role.I just read a comment on IMDB that someone thought that Murray was severely miscast.  In my opinion nothing could be further from the truth.  I think he is brilliant in this film.  Murray plays Larry Darrell with a genuine quality that leaves us wanting more.  Larry Darrell makes us look within ourselves and ask questions we previously may not have wanted to know the answers to.  Denholm Elliott (one of the most overlooked actors of our time) gives another wonderful performance.  Sophie has so many layers to her character by the end of the film, and Theresa Russell captures them all and then some. Catherine Hicks and James Keach also shine in complex roles. Bryan Doyal-Murray as Piedmont and Andre Maranne as Joeseph round out a wonderful cast that is brilliantly directed by John Byrum.  See it! "},{"Title":"First rate example of Murray's broad talent.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Unique among Bill Murray's other works, this two hour plus film adaptation of the short Somerset Maugham novel is a real gem. The flippant nature of Murray's humor serves as the perfect vehicle with which to focus upon the finer points of this sensitive tale about suffering and redemption. Ranks with Peter Sellers' Being There as a landmark example of a comedy actor's ability to treat serious work with deft skill.  "},{"Title":"Powerful, honest","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  For years I've heard about how awful this movie is.  I finally rented it and was very pleasantly surprised.  Bill Murray's performance is uneven but still carries the day.  It's a shame that the flop tag on this movie seems to have contributed to him not doing any other dramatic roles.  He has potential for some good stuff. "},{"Title":"Simply Incongruous","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  A dangerous film to view with expectations, the Razor's Edge has some incongruities that stick out and get in the way of the story, or theme, or exploration, or whatever this movie was about.We all love Bill Murray, but this role he's doing alot of the Bill Murray schtick, you know the funny remark spoken deadpan that highlights his comedic work.  Well, he's like that the whole movie, which just doesn't seem to fit W.S. Maugham's story and character.And then there is this overlay of early 20th century drama, which centers on 3 characters, on top of this existential quest.  Compare this to 7 years in Tibet which is another discussion of West learning from the East, but lacks the soap opera features of Razor's Edge.This film lacks the trendy upbeatness of current film, so its not fun.  There is very little action.  Visually, yes some mountains are nice and its good to see Paris even in a movie, but mostly this is a person watching film.  Therefore, it would be nice to see some sort of positive growth in the characters.  Larry's odyssey seems to have done something to/for him, but its hard to put our finger on.  He doesn't have any answers at the end either. In the 15-20 years the film spans (WWI, 1916 - Depression, 1930s), the rest of the characters achieve what?  Well, Sophie didn't learn enough transcendence through tragedy.  Isabel learned how to use people to get by, but she already seemed to have mastered that at the opening frame.  Bob learned that the other guy doesn't get lines in a Bill Murray movie. Uncle Elliot learned that its generally really good to be rich.I can understand why some might see this as an underestimated masterpiece, but I can't agree.  Frankly, if you want a Bill Murray movie that discusses the meaning of life, watch Groundhog Day. "},{"Title":"A welcome stretch from Bill Murray","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  The Razor's Edge was definitely a welcome stretch for Bill Murray. The film had an interesting, intelligent, and moving story about the humans approach to the world as it is, and how too much importance can be placed in the wrong places. I have to say, I watched this film mainly for Bill Murray, who, in my opinion, did an excellent job. Up to this point, I had only seen him in slapstick, screwball comedies, and it was very nice to see him taking on such a dramatic change. The film tended to have some weak moments and plot holes, but it had an excellent ending and is definitely worth seeing-at least for the performances. "},{"Title":"An average movie with average performances and a so-so script","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" To begin, I actually like this film despite the negativity in my review. This movie suffers from a mild to average case of Orientalism and a director who treats his audience like the mentally handicapped. However, its the purity of the film's sheer averageness that flatlines the audience's ability to care about the action on screen or criticize its shortcomings (of course they'll love it they're all too brain-damaged to hate anything). It's not that it's a bad film, it isn't, it just isn't that good. The performances by Bill Murray and Theresa Russell are semi-inspired but the insipid treatment of Eastern mysticism is juvenile and just plain silly. However, it's not as moronic and childish as say Seven Years in Tibet which was a laughable B-movie in comparison. Nonetheless, the delivery of the film's title ('the Razor's Edge) by the monk is only missing him winking slowly at the camera (and saying wink, wink nudge, nudge, know what I mean, hey?) to let brain-damaged audience know that this scene is important. Overall, this is not a complete disaster. It is a worthwhile attempt at creating a movie for adults rather than some crappy schlock with car chases and shootouts geared for teenagers and mentally handicapped adults. "},{"Title":"Bill's first move towards the serious.","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Bill Murray had been one of the bright stars of the original Saturday NIGHT LIVE. He had a good transition into films in films like STRIPES. But in 1984 he felt he had to show his growth as a performer. He left comedies and moved into straight drama. For some reason he chose to remake Somerset Maugham's novel-into-movie THE RAZOR'S EDGE. The results were not bad, but they were not as good as later dramatic films that Murray made in the 1990s and 2000s. The best thing I found about this version of THE RAZOR'S EDGE (which I saw in a movie house in Flushing in 1984) was the opening. Somehow in the 1946 film version, the horrors of the western front were not as well developed in the final movie (a distinct weakness, by the way). Larry Darell (Murray in this version and Tyrone Power in the 1946 version) is, like Ernest Hemingway, an ambulance driver. In Murray's film he is taken under the wing of a cynical ambulance driver who explains how to view things when the pressure of enemy bombing or shelling gets to you. After all, you have to drive to the front lines, pick up the wounded and dying, and bring them back to the hospitals behind the lines. You can get killed in a barrage. The cynical driver, when he witnesses the death of some other ambulance trainees, starts giving a speech of how much he disliked them, and how he won't miss them. His eyes and face show he is lying, and is saying this for his mental health. Subsequently the cynical driver and his assistant are killed. Murray, who has grasped this lesson, repeats the same speech regarding the cynical driver that the latter had given earlier.This was a key scene in the story - it explains how Larry is shattered by the horrors of the war. And it sets the stage (better, actually) for his search for answers in the Far East than Tyrone Power had demonstrated in the earlier version.That was the best difference between the two films. Otherwise, the Murray film lacked the cast strengths of the Power film. Besides Power, Clifton Webb, Gene Tierney, Anne Baxter (Oscar winner here), John Payne, Herbert Marshall and Elsa Lanchester added cast strength there. But here the best performer was Murray, and only Denholm Elliott as Elliott Templeton really was good, and he was pale compared to the great Webb in the same role (although he was able to give an unbowdlerized version of Elliott's final line of dialog). This is a fair film version, but the original is better. "},{"Title":"What is melodrama, after all, if not the attainment of tears that have not been earned?","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Larry Darrell (Bill Murray) goes off to see action in the First World War as an ambulance driver and comes back, as many did, questioning the meaning of existence. His plans change to marry his childhood sweetheart Isabel Bradley played by Catharine Hicks, and he goes off to spend some time in France working and ruffling about, forgoing a promised job as a stock broker. When the two meet again, Larry informs his fiancé that he is not ready for marriage just yet, he says he needs some more time to understand it all and his place in the world. His materialistic girlfriend can't wait, and decides to marry his friend instead and live a normal life. Larry doesn't flinch, but keeps going this time to India where he serves as a cook in a temple. He looks at the mountains, contemplates existence and heads back to France.It is perhaps time to say that by this point the director has already showed his strengths as well as many notable weaknesses. His strengths being the choosing the material and casting Bill Murray. Teresa Russell was great as Sophie and would have been even better in the leading female role. As often is the case in this film, the script is too on the nose in order to illustrate a point, and the dialog is too. John Byrum moves too fast to cover all the material, and the film quickly looses its temporal integrity and turns into a guided tour of pretty places and plot points somehow circumventing real drama. Another great weakness is the performance of Catharine Hicks. This movie might have been close to a classic, yet still, if it weren't for it's often abrupt characterizations, and for word MELODRAMA written across Catharine Hick's forehead. Exactly half of the lines that she says ring false in this film. It would have been nice if the director had noticed and reeled her acting in.Robert McKee seems to think that the problem of melodrama is that it stems from lack of motivation. To elaborate for myself, I would perhaps add after watching The Razor's edge that if one were to draw out characters more fully, that would be an effective path to avoiding it. What is melodrama, after all, if not the attainment of tears that have not been earned? The definition of melodrama, or when we say something is melodramatic, is that the dialog, events, characterizations, etc., rely too much on sentiment or emotion, without the sufficient amount of reason for it thrown into the formula. That reason could be anything from events taking shape, the events preceding those events, or a character's performance. It goes to say then, that if there is enough reason or motivation in the characters, dialog, events, etc., then the problem of melodrama can be avoided and true feeling reached.Back in France, Larry continues to work in labor related occupations clearly more content with himself than any of his friends. There is a subplot playing out which is more a necessary event for the plot to take shape than a subplot in that Teresa Russell's character, Sophie MacDonald, losses a husband and a child and turns to drugs, liquor and prostitution. Isabel still loves Larry, and when he brings Sophie back from the precipice of self-destruction, can't leave well enough alone. Her shallowness and jealousy destroy this woman in one or two scenes, and like everything else in this film that Hicks does, nearly destroys it with her performance. Luckily, it is time for Bill Murray to save the day.There is an extraordinary sequence when Larry meets Sophie in Paris. After what seems like eons of space time the film finally hits a triumphant note. Bringing back Sophie from self-destruction in two or three scenes Murray is amazing. He pulls the film back from the precipice and finally gives the story meaning. The last scene is truly spectacular in which his character says almost nothing, and rounds out the film like a great bird that finally comes to a resting place. It is his journey, and luckily the material that has seen to the film's final success.Again, I am reminded that it is almost irrelevant how mishandled a film can be through on to its final stages and still turn out a success if the third act climax works, if the material is set up to work in closing minutes. When I first saw this happen right before my eyes in Pieces of April, I was very much surprised by this as well. The film ran its course through every cliché imaginable, sub-par acting, and script-direction, only to deliver in the closing minutes an emotional satisfying experience; something that a huge majority of other films, with better acting and direction are unable to do.Hemingwayesque in its scope and feeling, this is wonderful movie. To this screenwriter it is further confirmation that story is king. "},{"Title":"don't waste your time on this useless tripe","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" this was a horrible disappointment, with equally terrible acting, direction and screenplay. it's so bad one can't help thinking it's somehow a comedic takeoff on the Maugham book, but the punch line never arrives. there is a reason as to why it failed - it's worse than a TV movie. they shamelessly butcher the Maugham classic - reducing it to a charmless mess. the characters have none of Maugham's depth or interest, and are reduced to one dimension. it was extremely difficult to sit through, and while i love Bill Murray, i'm sure this is some of his worst work. seems like he stepped out of Saturday Night Live sketch. i don't know how anyone could recommend this. don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"no wonder it was a flop!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" The original version of this movie was much better. I normally love Bill Murray's work but this was just awful. He is not convincing at all that he is on a soul searching journey. He comes off as antagonistic and vacant. Hicks as Isabel? How could anyone hope to believe that she is the coquette from the book... she is not even close. The only one that was believable was Sophie (Russell).... they should have skipped remaking this one. Tyrone Power played a much better Larry Darrell and Gene Tierney was a great Isabel.... There are a few shots (very brief moments) that Bill Murray transforms into a Larry type.... I will always opt for the original... "},{"Title":"The first sucky Bill Murray movie I've seen","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This movie sucked. I did get it, and it sucked. Why Murray! Why! Why did you finally make a movie that totally blowed? Who know's what the answer is to that, but the point is that this movie sucked. Maybe everyone, even the greats like Murray, needs a sucky one. I wish I didn't watch this. Please be funny. I will try to forget this crapatacular flick.I've been on a Murray marathon for about a week now. I've watched Lost in Translation, Moonlight Kingdom, The Man Who Knew Too Little, and I can't remember the other one, but this last movie just ruined a perfect kill streak.Most people will say that I don't appreciate drama, or that I couldn't handle Murray's transformation. I do like drama, but I couldn't handle Murray's transformation from awesome to eating balls. That is what this movie is a big ball eating contest with Murray wearing the crown. "},{"Title":"It's easy to be a holy man on top of a mountain.","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" War can change you. Travel to other lands can change you also. Seeing how many people in the world live and enjoy themselves without a big house and a new car every year makes you a different person.Different enough that the superficiality that once was your life seems meaningless, and you start looking for something more. Larry (Bill Murray) found that his old life just wasn't fulfilling, and he tossed it aside to find something else.It is easy to say that he suffered from PTSD, but that is just something to sooth the minds of those that don't get it.It was fascinating to see the similarities between Larry's time - 1929 - and today. People are still committing suicide when they lose their fortunes. They cannot imagine life without fame and fortune. They fall apart in the face of tragedy. Larry was looking for more and that took him to the mountains of India.The cinematography was breathtaking in India. It is not hard to see one's insignificance amidst the majesty of the mountains.Even in a serious role, Murray had his comic genius; it was just subtle. He was assisted very ably with Denholm Elliott, Catherine Hicks, and Theresa Russell. "},{"Title":"Razor's Edge - A Hidden Masterpiece","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" Its a disgrace and shame that a movie like this didn't get enough accolades and oceans of praise and appreciation This movie ain't for anyone but those who really want to put aside their typecast about MURRAY and want to watch an UN-typical Hollywood movieI have seen many LIGHT movies of MURRAY but this is the first time he has acted in such a fantastic movie which stirs your soul mind and heart about LOOKING AT LIFE from different yet uncomplicated angle or perception One cant imagine what its like on the battlefield in the wars. Murray did what a layman would have done after watching some ghastly scenes at the war.This movie has something for everyone who wants to see ROMANCE LOVE TRAGEDY PHILOSOPHY TRANSCENDANCE SALVATION WAR ADVENTURE etc a So,i strongly suggest that REAL MOVIE BUFFS watch this GEM. "},{"Title":"At least he had the balls to try...","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  To be honest, I read this book during a troubled time in my life.  The story of Larry as landless wanderer sparked something in me that has yet to die down.  However, the movie lags due to Murray's acting abilities (of the time).  I understand how excited he was to make this movie, yet his humor and sarcasm overshadows the role of Larry as a confused man with the world at his fingertips.  I love Bill Murray, and I believe if he were to make this movie today he would give an amazing performance.  However, I think it was a bit early in his career to approach such a demanding role.  But, I am here and he is not.  Keep making movies like Lost in Translation and The Royal Tenenbaums and I will complain no more...Ronnie Anderson "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Yes, I am a Bill Murray fan.  Yes, I think he's a wonderful actor.  Yes, I know he very much wanted to have the part of Larry Darrell, and yes, I am 100% for actors branching out and leaving their casting stereotypes in the dust.  That said..........this is NOT a good movie.  If you like Bill then go ahead and watch it, but if you don't, then take the same two hours to start reading Maugham's book, because it will be a much better use of your time.  I think maybe that the character of Larry Darrell is an impossible one to cast--just like the character of Jay Gatsby. Probably a really veteran stage actor is needed for the part, a pro who can get inside a character and is capable of using every resource to project inner conflict and a tortured soul.  Murray, for all his good intentions, is simply not up to the task (just as Redford was woefully inadequate as Gatsby).  Murray delivers every line in a deadpan stoneface that leaves the audience wondering just when the punch line is coming.  An impossible combination which really gives this movie the instant deep six.There has been much talk of Theresa Russell's performance.  She really is wonderful, but then again the part of Sophie is so meaty that probably any halfway decent actress could give an outstanding reading.  Remember that Anne Baxter won a Supporting Actress Oscar for her portrayal of Sophie in the 1946 version--it's that kind of a part.  I do disagree with those who disliked Denholm Elliott's performance.  I thought he was subtle and showed just the right proportions of cynicism, disaffection, and an overwhelming need to be liked in his portrayal of Uncle Elliott.  "},{"Title":"Very Poor Portrayal of a Beautiful Story","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" This is a horrible take on the book. How could anyone cast Bill Murray in this role. If you have not read the book it would not matter perhaps. If you have read the book then do not waste your time. I really like Bill Murray but NOT in this role. The role of Maughnam is missing and was important to the story. Sophie did not play such a strong role in the book. The movie abbreviated the book and in exchange you wind up with a limp, wrong story. What enlightenment? Line up a bunch of books. I'm wondering if they really read the book or simply did a remake of the original movie.The only enjoyable part of the movie would be the Indian music. "},{"Title":"How embarrassing","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" It is difficult for me to understand how the many fine actors in this movie (apparently) didn't know how awful they were being, as they were reading their lines. Is this the fault of the director? I'd love to know if anyone involved was *not* embarrassed after viewing the result. There are movies with false moments, though they can get-away with them on balance, and then there are movies with no false moments at all, and will weigh on you for a long time (the antithesis of this stinker may perhaps be Seven Years in Tibet). I have never before seen a supposedly serious movie with ALL false moments--not a single scene anywhere in this film rang true-to-life. Horribly acted by all (except perhaps James Keach who appeared to take his responsibility seriously) and just-plain-bad from beginning to end, I'm truly sorry I wasted 128 minutes on this. If not for the costumes, locations, and cinematography (and the fact that IMDb wouldn't let me anyway) I'd have give this zero stars. I think I will now look in IMDb to see what other films John Byrum has made--can we hold him responsible for this mess? "},{"Title":"Bill Murray as litmus test for humans.","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":" I've never seen the original Razor's Edge with Tyrone but I guess I'll have to look it up.I feel badly for Bill Murray because he must have a hard time living up to his expectations of himself. It must be difficult to be so excellent.I'm a fan, apparently. I think if you don't like Bill Murray, there's got to be something wrong with you.I saw this film at a time when I had no expectations of anything (my twenties) and was impressed by all the elements of the film the acting, humor, message, cinematography, casting, etc., even though I knew nothing about anything. I loved that Larry made a promise to Isabel then had to regretfully go back on it rather than try to be faithful to a stupid promise. It's a mark of maturity to believe it's a man's prerogative to change his mind, I believe. Of course, he delayed commitment in the first place, a smart move.I loved when Larry said to Isabel at the end, so perfectly, you just don't get it when he really wanted to kill her, I would imagine.It was excellent when he responds to Denholm Elliot's, an itinerant... with fishmonger? and then he goes on to make his final moments happy ones. Denholm was excellent as the 2nd class snob with a heart.I love at the end of the film when Bill is vaulting up the steps at Montmartre. He makes vaulting look easy.This is a spiritual film that succeeds by not taking itself too seriously. RAZOR's EDGE has been described as BM's dramatic turning point but, even then, he was smart enough not to forget the comedy and to not get overly dramatic, i.e., when he was mourning the death of his real-life brother. Brian was also excellent as the cynical superior officer. Both Murrays are excellent at manifesting darkness when it's required. Apparently.I loved the scene where Isabel tempts Sophie with the fantastic wine, she was so cold and pitiless. Catherine Hicks was excellent as the cutie with a darkside agenda and Theresa Russell was never better than as the betrayed by life sexpot.This, to me, isn't just a good movie, it should be mandatory viewing in high school. It teaches with charm and brings great literature to life. "},{"Title":"A truly trite pretentious silly overblown little movie","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I loved the book when I was 14. It was my first taste of eastern mysticism and the power of the mind over the body. I particularly fell for the coin trick & practiced it endlessly. At 16 I saw the first movie version & fell under the spell of Tyrone Powers dark dreamy eyes. Well into adulthood I saw this silly thing & was deeply embarrassed. For myself, for its audience, especially for anyone associated with its production. Bill Murray is Bill Murray. He stands there & does his deadpan thing. No Larry Darrell he. What this movie is is a pastiche. What it makes me realize is what a fraud all movies about western individuals seeking spiritual wisdom from alien cultures are. Hey, let's face it. There is no there there. "}{"Title":"Murray in a drama?  Getouttahere ya nutball!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  THE RAZOR'S EDGE (1984) **1/2 Bill Murray, Catherine Hicks,Theresa Russell, James Keach, Denholm Elliott, Brian  Doyle-Murray.  Murray may seem miscast as Somerset  Maugham's globetrotting seeker of What IS The Meaning Of Lifebut seems to me perfect as someone who doesn't quite get it inhis post-WWI baptism of fire spiritual quest and personalfulfillment.  **Note of interest Murray collaborated on deal withColumbia re `Ghostbusters' and its inevitable sequel; i.e. if theydidn't let him make this flick no dice as Peter Venkman.  Soconsider this a sacrifice best taken. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to these people!!!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  From reading the comments posted by other IMDB and Amazon users, one would get the impression that The Razor's Edge is a beautiful and unique movie. Whatever! I am a huge Bill Murray fan, and I got up at 305 a.m. to watch this movie on TV the other day. I was expecting a lot from this movie, but what I got was 2 hours of painful viewing which made me want to go back to sleep.Just from the opening 15 minutes I found myself dreading the next 105. It was a challenge to stay awake, because The Razor's Edge is so damn BORING!!! Forget all this rubbish about beautiful scenes and insightful techniques, thats trash. The movie is about as easy to understand as the pilot controls of a very large Boeing 767 aircraft. In other words, its not even worth your effort trying to understand it, unless you have read the book. It's monotonous, slow and dull and the only time I smiled was right at the end when Larry walked up those steps...which meant the movie was over! Thank god for that, it is quite possibly one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and it saddens me to say this because I love Bill Murray. The average movie fan does not want 2 hours of insights into the meaning of life and stupid old fashioned...wait. Sorry but I'm not even going to waste my time talking about this. Take my advice, unless you ENJOY monotonous, slow, dull, boring movies...then watch it. If not, don't even touch The Razor's Edge with a 40 foot cattle prod!!! "},{"Title":"Utter, miserable and gross failure of what makes a good drama film","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Normally I'm a self-professed arthouse snob who likes to watch slow-paced films that are truly well-written and directed, but this film purported to be a serious drama starring Bill Murray is horrible beyond belief in terms of its deadly lethargic pacing and consistently pointless dialogue scenes with the ensemble cast who tried their best to naturally perform but come off as superficial and contrived. I have not read W. Somerset Maugham's novel, nor have seen the first one that preceded the film.Frankly, 'The Razor's Edge' is a terrible, horrendous, awful 'arthouse drama' movie, if not the worst movie ever to attempt at 'being serious' of a drama expected from well-made drama movies in terms of wasted resources and labor that went to the production of the movie realistically set in the early 20th century (about the only redeeming quality of the film I could say). I have no problem accepting Bill Murray taking a serious and risky role (I have yet to see Sofia Coppola's 'Lost in Translation' at the time I submit this comment), but this was a bad career move for Bill. Same could be said for Jim Carrey who took the risk and did quite well in 'The Truman Show' but 'The Majestic' an altogether different story. Bill tried his best at usual deadpan humor expected of him as a comedic actor and he comes off too stoic, somber, subpar, pompous and desperate.I wonder what the heck were adaptation writer/director John Byrum and co-writer/actor Bill Murray smoking when they attempted to make The Razor's Edge. Is their adapted version of the novel about enlightenment? Pursuing the simplicity of life? Poking fun of the rich? Preaching compassion and kindness? Sarcastic insight on hypocrisy, vanity and drudgery? From trying to stay awake viewing the film in one-sitting, it's apparent they did not have focus on these points and instead drag the whole film with lame, tedious and awful dialogues in scene after scene concerning the supporting characters' problems in contrived and cartoonish depiction and how Bill Murray's protagonist is a saint compared to Forrest Gump and Patch Adams. Hal Ashby's 1979 film 'Being There' accomplished the points I laid out above. Peter Sellers' swan song portrayal of Chance the Gardener was the saint compared to the impostering likes of Bill Murray's Larry Darrell and Tom Hanks's Forrest Gump.Apparently, Bill, John and the film producers were trying too hard to make the best Oscar bait movie to come along in the history of the 80's cinema, with them envisioning sweeping movie award ceremonies with the 'masterpiece' they produced. 'The Razor's Edge' failed at the box office not because of the audience's dashed expectation of Bill Murray's risky acting attempt at drama and utter apathy, but simply because the film is deadlier slow-paced, slothful, pointless, frustrating, wholly incoherent, disjointed and dreadful wallowing in Oscar-winning-conscious self-importance pretending to be a top-notch quality serious drama movie. In summary, 'The Razor's Edge' is an ideal cure for insomnia.  1/2 out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Much less than the sum of its parts (spoilers)","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  Sorry. I really tried to like this. Overall, it's not a total waste of time, but is too flawed, messy and actually self-indulgent to be in any way an 'unrecognised classic'. While Theresa Russell's performance is superb (Sophie and Coco were the only convincing characters in this film), Bill Murray just looked as if he had a really stiff neck throughout - and kept the same shifty expression for twenty years. It was disjointed; significant events seemed to have no more action devoted to them than really trivial ones, and it was hard to work out whether events were important to the plot or not. Things like the death of Sophie's family (though not her reaction) seemed to be skipped over even though the story really hinged on them. The WWI scenes didn't come across as particularly traumatic, either. A few parts worked well; the books in Tibet scene, the hypnosis scene, the Paris lowlife, the leaving-Sophie-the-bottle scene; which is why it's such a shame the film as a whole falls flat.  It tries to be Heat and Dust meets The End of the Affair and ends up being Mr. Natural meets The Great Gatsby. The gags just jarred, and also, any film that has Saeed Jaffrey as the main Indian character is doomed from the start. He's like Barry Fitzgerald's Irishman. It worked the first time he did it, and nobody told him that was enough.Denholm Elliot's death scene, supposedly mystical, touching and climactic, was the low point. It was like an outtake from Days Of Our Lives. You wonder what the director was thinking -'when's lunch?' probably. But I keep coming back to Bill Murray's performance - more braindead than deadpan, there was absolutely NO spark between him and Isabel his supposed lifetime sweetheart, and why didn't anybody TELL him about the coathanger left in his jacket? "},{"Title":"Abysmal.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  This is one of the most deeply depressing -- and pointless -- films I've ever seen... More depressing than 'The Deer Hunter' (but without Walken & DeNiro), more tragic than 'Terms of Endearment' (but without Mclaine & Nicholson)... not much to recommend it unless you JUST want to be dragged down by a story whose moral is 'there is no payoff to life'.Yes, Bill Murray can act, but you wouldn't know it by watching this one. He's done far better before and since. "},{"Title":"This movie was the most painful two hours of cinematography I've ever had the displeasure of viewing.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  I went into this film with great anticipation, seeing as I'd been a huge advocate of Bill Murray The Serious Actor for quite a few years previous to this film.And unfortunately, through no fault of Murray's, this avenue of his career was effectively barricaded by the farce that is Razor's Edge.I watched the film from start to finish, hoping against hope with every passing minute that something, anything, would happen to justify my viewing.  The supporting actors were childish and stilted, the dialog was lame at best and incredibly lame at worst....nothing redeemed this film. There was no direction, no theme, no purpose to this film.Ultimately, my final analysis is, Well, there's two hours of my life I'll never get back.  This movie bites the big green weenie. It is by far the worst movie I've ever seen.Bill Murray is still a fine actor.  Too bad he chose this project for his cross-over vehicle. "},{"Title":"A little purpose please?","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, War","Review":"  In the interest of keeping it short, but sweet, The Razor's Edge was a mixed up film that went no where.  Never was there a storyline, anything to keep our interest, or decent acting.  Bill Murray is one of the few faces that can't be changed no matter how hard you try, and with this film, try they did, but to no avail.  Steer clear please. "}]