[{"Title":"These 2 movies have a special place in my heart","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Like I said, The Cannonball Run and it's wonderful sequel have been entertaining me since I was a little viewer and I love these two films. Once again Burt Reynolds and Dom De Luise joke and fool around through the entire movie. I think that the major reason that people give this movie bad reviews is that they take it too seriously. It is obvious that no one in the movie was taking it seriously. Like in the first one, it is as if everybody just decided to get together and make a movie for fun. The Cannonball Run films weren't made to win awards or further careers or make a statement. The Cannonball Run and Cannonball Run II were made to show that even big stars can goof off sometimes. It makes me wonder if all the movies the Rat Pack made were made for the same reasons. Anyways, I love this movie and think that it's great fun. The out takes at the end are hilarious and more, nay, all movies should have out takes. Bottom Line Buy it, watch it until every gag is committed to memory, and live better for it. You're welcome.  "},{"Title":"Triple the fun","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Both Cannonball Run movies are films to totally relax and let your funny bone rule you. No plots that make any kind of coherent sense, just a whole lot of people getting a great chance to overact with gusto and abandon. And since Cannonball Run II just about tripled the number of name players who did walk ons, it could be considered triple the fun. Folks like Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise who are the nominal stars, Jackie Chan, Jack Elam, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr., and Jamie Farr make return appearances and a whole lot more get in on the fun.Farr who is carrying the prize money as the fabulously wealthy hedonistic idiot son of an Arab sheik played here by Ricardo Montalban gets to be the target of some gangster heist when the wise guys find out what he's carrying. At that point the contentious rivalries cease among the Cannonballers as they band together against a common foe and to retrieve their prize money.Along for the ride this time with Reynolds and DeLuise are a pair of ersatz nuns played by Shirley MacLaine and Marilu Henner. Martin and Davis now pretend to be cops instead of priests from the last film. They're the chief rivals of Reynolds and DeLuise. Telly Savalas does a great takeoff of his Kojak tough guy image on the other side of the law, Tim Conway and Don Knotts reunite as a pair of brain dead deputies. And Reynolds and DeLuise who pretend to be a general and his aide draft none other than Gomer Pyle on their 'top secret mission'.Frank Sinatra even makes an appearance and it turns out that Cannonball Run II was the farewell big screen role for both he and Dino. As Dino says, he's royalty in America, surely in show business that's what he was.Cannonball Run II which was starting to approach It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World in terms of casting funny people in it and Don Knotts and Sid Caesar are in both is just a film to turn off the gray cells and put the funny bone in hyper drive. "},{"Title":"Still funny. Quit ya belly-aching everyone and relax.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film was good to watch and was still funny. Ok its not the best film in the world but i still found it funny and many still do. The chimp was cool and so were the rest of the cast. It was also a bonus to see Richard Kiel in the film (hes the big 7'2 tall man who pushed 4 men along the floor in the fight scene) Watch it everyone and just Relax. Overall I'd give it 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"No Race, No Chase","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film has no race and no chase. Okay there is a race but it has really nothing to do with the movie. The first film of course is all about The Cannonball Run, which is an illegal race from coast to coast, written by Brock Yates who, along with director Hal Needham, actually drove an ambulance across America - and it's Yates who invented the Cannonball Run. In the original, Burt and Dom use the very same ambulance; now we have a sequel which isn't written by Yates, and is as bad a sequel as I've yet to witness on screen. As mentioned, the actual coast to coast race has little to do with anything this time around. Instead there's a lame subplot about mobsters trying to hijack Jamie Farr's character, an Arab with tons of oil money who this time around is funding the prize at the finish line. So basically this is a comic mobster film with a bunch of actors thrown in who are driving cars. Jack Elam, who is incredible in the first film, is thrown in as wallpaper. Burt and Dom are horrible and lazy; you can tell they were just doing the film for a paycheck. Shirley Maclaine and Marilu Henner play actresses dressed as nuns, and we have to sit through people doing double-takes as these impostor penguins curse in public. Boring. Horrible. Jackie Chan is even ruined this time around. In the first film Roger Moore plays a guy who thinks he's Roger Moore, and thus he drives a gadget filled car, ala Bond. This time around, Chan, who had some gadgets of his own in the original, has even more gadgets as he's basically replacing the Moore/Bond character from the original. And his driver is Richard Kiel, best known as Bond nemesis Jaws. Chan's car even goes under water, just like Bond's car in The Spy Who Loved Me (which featured Kiel). Other contestants include an ape teamed up with Tony Danza. All I have to ask Tony is Didn't Going Ape teach you not to work with primates? Jamie Farr's character is ruined because he's too involved; his sheik was far better as a cameo in the original. And Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr are totally wasted this time, disguised as cops instead of priests, and they don't even get into any trouble. Burt and Dom are dressed as soldiers; Burt is a general and Dom is a private. They pick up Jim Nabors along the way, as Private Lyle (guess what they're spoofing here?) and his cameo is as useless as an air conditioner in an igloo. It doesn't feel as if there is any need to win the race for any of the characters. You forget there is even a race at all. Man, I tell you, this is one of the worst sequels - if not the worst sequel ever, ever, ever made. Avoid it at all costs. Even as a kid I knew it was chum. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Cannonball Run II is the sequel for The Cannonball Run.A bunch of crazy people go racing all around the country-illegally, of course.Hal Needham's movie from 1984 has got the best and the biggest stars there could be.Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise make us laugh.Mr.Cool and Mr. Bojangles Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. make a terrific couple.Then there's the third member of the rat pack, Frank Sinatra himself.Marilu Henner and Shirley MacLaine as the naughty sisters are wonderful.Jackie Chan is there with Jaws of the James Bond films, big man Richard Kiel.Don Knotts is hilarious kissing the orangutan.The great comedian Sid Caesar tries to catch the big fish.Jack Elam is there with his shots.The hairless Telly Kojak Savalas is very convincing as the bad guy.Abe Vigoda is fantastic as the gangster in the Godfather way.Then there are greats such as Jamie Farr, Tim Conway, Tony Danza, Ricardo Montalban, Charles Nelson Reilly, Henry Silva, and Jack's son Chris Lemmon.This movie offers many fun moments.I sure had fun watching it. "},{"Title":"What a waste.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Once again Hal Needham brings together a half respectable cast like in the first Cannonball movie, but again forgot to bring a script. The mad-cap lunacy is still here, as are the cheap gags and stunts, but now it seems strange that all of this actually worked in the first movie, because it sure doesn't here. I found Burt and Dom laughing at their own jokes more than I did. It's no wonder Reynolds' career took a dive around this time if he was starring in films as dire as this.The usual suspects are here while a few have (sensibly) dropped out of the race. Catherine Bach and Susan Anton are attractive enough, but don't quite cut it like Adrienne Barbeau and Co. did, and all they had to do was smile and flash their t**s once in a while. Richard Kiel is an unusual partner for Jackie Chan, but the little and large pairing works well. Chan also helped by bringing along his own stuntmen for the fight scenes, and it shows. Shirley MacLaine seems oddly at home with her trashy lines, while Telly Savalas fittingly over does things but is ultimately wasted in the movie, the same could be said for most of the cast. Frank Sinatra's inter-cut scenes are sickeningly shoddy and make the film appear as amateurish as it undeniably is.If you did like the first Cannonball Run, (and there are a few!) you'll undoubtedly be disappointed with this outing, while those who didn't enjoy the first movie will no doubt detest the sequel.   "},{"Title":"Basically a retread of the first movie with a stupid kidnapping plot.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It was not all bad, but to completely honest I thought Speed Zone was a better sequel to the Cannonball Run than this movie was as this movie was almost the exact same movie only with inferior parts to it. Throw in a unfunny kidnapping plot for the only real difference in the movie and you have your sequel that came out three years after the original. That is another sad thing about this sequel, it came out long after the first one and they still went in exactly the same way. Burt Reynolds, Dom Delouise, Sammy Davis Jr., and Dean Martin are back along with a few others from the original. In though are a lot more B ranking actors. Roger Moore out, Richard Kiel in (the guy who played the villain Jaws in The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker). Adrien Barbeau out and two chicks I do not know in. Farrah Fawcett out and two others I do not care for in. Jim Nabors and Tony Danza in, which is definitely not a good thing. Ambulance that was a great idea out and for some reason a military car and uniforms in. That one made no sense they would have been better off just using the ambulance again. The plot is the same, race across the country, the only difference being the guys trying to catch the sheik character to hold him for ransom and this does not stay original as it basically sets up another brawl like that found at the last part of the first movie. After this fight though the race just about is over with no fanfare. Just a pointless sequel, that has a few humorous moments, the best being the scene with Tim Conway and Don Knotts. "},{"Title":"Even after two glasses of strong wine, it is a very, very basic comedy that will please the minority of viewers at best","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Having shamed his family by failing to run the original Cannonball Run, The Sheik is sent back to America by his father to restage the race with $1,000,000 of the King's money. Spreading the word brings out most of the previous competitors as well as some new racers as well as some new trouble &#150;Don Canneloni's son (Don Don) is failing in his new business venture and the Don has sent some men to sort out his debtors, namely one Morris Fenderbaum. When the Don's men catch up with Fenderbaun they learn of the Cannonball Run and decide that they will make some money by kidnapping the Sheik during the race.A quiet night in with a few glasses of wine meant that somehow Cannonball 2 became a viable proposition but sadly, regardless of the influence of libation, this was a pretty poor film that didn't have much in the way of entertainment value. If you are the sort of person that thinks Smokey & The Bandit 3 is the height of cinematic art then you'll probably love CR2 but for the majority of us, this is just a collection of noisy scenes, hung together with the most basic of plots and a load of stars having fun; or at least I hope they were having fun because I certainly didn't. The basic plot is used to produce a few fights, some fast cars, a little bit of cleavage and a whole load of not much else.The comedy is of the most basic sort and the cast do seem to be having fun with all their mates but this does not make their performances any good. Reynolds just sleeps through it in the way he always does, while anyone hoping that Dom DeLuise will be good for laughs deserve everything they get in life. Martin and Davis Jr seem happy for the paycheck but really you get the feeling that they are crying inside. Likewise Savalas and MacLaine are much better than this, while Rocco, Silva etc all deserve a damn good kicking for this mockery of their most famous roles. Elam, Danza, Farr, Chan and Kiel all fill the screen but at least Montalban and McClure are good value (although that may be less to do with their ability and more to do with Star Trek 2 and the Simpsons spoof respectively).Overall a very, very basic comedy that does very little worth seeking out. The stars all appear to be enjoying themselves and it is really just as well that somebody is because the majority of viewers won't be. In its defence though, if you're watching this film then what did you expect &#150; although that doesn't really excuse any of this nonsense. "},{"Title":"Maybe most don't get this one?","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a perfect example of guilty pleasure. Sure, it is not well written (or is it?). It isn't well acted (or was it?). My point, this movie was a literal winkathon. In other words, it was meant to be corny, goofy, silly, and down right fun to watch. That being said, go back and watch it again and you will see my point. Where did a (current) 4.X rating come from? All I can figure that is comes from votes from clueless suburbans, or maybe teens that don't realize how iconic this movie is, or how this movie was one of the last blasts of the drive-in culture of America. Sure, it's not Citizen Kane...but should merit an easy 6 on cast names alone.That said, what really makes this movie great is the talent in it! It may be the best collection of screen legends and icon ever assembled. The point in time when this movie was made allowed this phenomenon to be possible. In 1984, most of these actors were slightly past their peak, but still in the acting game...so this may explain the ability to cast all of them (without a billion dollar budget). Try to replicate this today with an equivalent assortment of actors, and it would not be possible.What makes this A-list super-fest even more golden is the fact that nearly every major player in this picture is now gone, or well up in years. Think of this movie as a video history of screen legends, or even a vague record of the car culture of the 70's and the phenomenon the actual Brock Yates cross country races were.But if you are too young to know who these actors are, know nothing about the real Cannonball races, and don't appreciate drive-in type cinema/comedy, skip this one (rather than give it an unfair vote). Do that for me, and I won't give movies like Twilight or Lord of the Rings a 2. "},{"Title":"cheesy fun, don't expect too much","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sure what people were expecting to see when taking in this movie. I totally expected a fun peice of fluff with some action and car chases mixed in.  That's what I got.  Sure, you'll laugh at yourself for laughing at some of the jokes, but try not to be ashamed of it!  I thought Shirley MacLaine, and Marilu Henner were most charming, and the cast in general has great comedic chemistry.  If you have a funny bone, you will have a good time with this. 7/10 "}{"Title":"It's gonna be a weekend you can tell your kids about....if they're all boys.","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Sequel to Cannonball Run is basically a retread of the first movie. An assortment of wacky characters participate in a cross-country race to win a million dollars. Burt and Dom return, as do some of the other actors from that movie. Most notably Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr. Also in this is Frank Sinatra, which gives this movie the distinction of being the last time most of the Rat Pack was in the same movie. The last movie was not particularly funny but it did have a certain charm about it and there were several beautiful women in it that kept things interesting. Marilu Henner, Catherine Bach, and Susan Anton are this movie's babes. Also Shirley MacLaine, if she's your type.The humor in this is the kind that doesn't make you laugh. This is especially true with regard to Dom DeLuise, possibly my least favorite comedic actor of all time. The man has never made me laugh and I fail to get his appeal. I can only assume he got work due to cronyism. DeLuise is never more awful here than when doing his Marlon Brando impression, which is like something from a really bad Saturday Night Live sketch. Terrible stuff.I'm pretty sure seeing one Cannonball Run movie is enough for many of us and probably more than enough for most. So, if you feel like you have to see one, just watch the first. This is not a good movie but it is watchable if you like '80s cheese, which I do. I also like seeing how the different vehicles, roads, and locations looked at the time. If you're in the right frame of mind when watching, it's somewhat fun I suppose. That's not the same as saying it's funny, though. "},{"Title":"Another car race, but less exciting.","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The Cannonball Run II is a follow-up to the previous movie, where J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and Victor Prinzim (Dom DeLuise) participate again in a cross-country Cannonball car race that this time is organized by The Sheik (Jamie Farr), who is a little upset at not winning the last Cannonball run.Like the previous film, this sequel is a plot-less nonsensical comedy with an all-star cast. This movie is not meant to be taken seriously and it is apparent that the entire cast were just having fun and goofing around while making this film. However, Part II lacks the charm and uniqueness of Part I due to it basically being a toned-down retread of the first movie and Roger Moore is sorely missing in the picture. While the Godfather/mafia type subplot is a clever spoof, it is not emphasized enough nor is it connected very well to the race plot. Nor is the Sheik character elaborated upon, which I think is a must since he hosted the race.The characters' physical comedy and quick humor as they compete in the race are somewhat entertaining; however, some of the gags and jokes do run a little old. Female leads Shirley MacLaine and Marilu Henner weren't as charming or appealing as Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman, and the action sequences weren't very action-packed. However, Jackie Chan and Richard Kiel did make a humorous duo and Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. were hilarious with their quick wit and political jokes. And, the song Like A Cannonball Run sung by the Latin group, Menudo, is very catchy and fun to listen to.Overall, it's a very average comedy. If you liked the first movie, this movie is somewhat of a downer. However, it's not an extremely bad movie to watch if you just want something to pass the time with.Grade C "},{"Title":"CANNONBALL RUN II (Hal Needham, 1984) **","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As I said in my review of the original 1981 film, this is much of the same &#150; only slightly worse. What we get here is another impressive-looking but grossly underachieving cast list, which now also incorporates Shirley MacLaine (who, taking a cue from Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr.'s ruse in the first film, dresses up with her younger companion as a nun but soon ditches the habit and gets it on with star Burt Reynolds having retained her figure at 50, she's not afraid to display it and is made to don ultra-short skirts throughout the film's second half!), Telly Savalas (embarrassing as a flustered gangster), Frank Sinatra (in a cameo as himself that amounted to his farewell to the silver screen the competitors turn to him when organizer Jamie Farr is kidnapped along with the prize money&#133;after which Ol' Blue Eyes decides to try his luck at the title as well!), Ricardo Montalban (as Farr's dad), Doug McClure (as Farr's long-suffering manservant!), Richard Kiel (Jaws from a couple of James Bond titles, appearing incongruously as Jackie Chan's co-driver &#150; although one does wonder whether they turned to him after Roger Moore declined an encore) and the dubious novelty of having a bad-mannered orang-utan driver (which not only lock lips with Montalban! at one point but actually wins the race).Of course, Dom DeLuise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr. and Jack Elam (now detailed with Farr rather than Reynolds and DeLuise) also return to the fold &#150; to say nothing of a new couple of sexy women drivers (including The Dukes Of Hazzard's Catherine Bach). Incidentally, DeLuise has a second (or third, if you count Captain Chaos) role as a Mafia don &#150; obviously aping Marlon Brando from THE GODFATHER (1972) &#150; but which supplied the film's single funniest gag (i.e. the dead cat) and which I still vividly recalled from all those years ago. On the other hand, the low point would definitely have to be seeing Reynolds, DeLuise and Davis dressed up as dancing harem girls (even if Dino's reaction to that eyesore is admittedly amusing). "},{"Title":"The first was great, the second bombed","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I bought The Cannonball run a while ago and I realized how much of a little gem I just bought for my DVD collection. When I found out about The Cannonball Run II, I was thrilled. I quickly rushed out and rented a copy. I was happy to see the whole cast came came including a few new people like Richard Kiel and Telly Savalas. During the opening, I liked opening with the Shiek,seeing his old self. Then I was reintroduced with the original cast one by one. The movie seemed to trail on till the race began and I'm saying to myself, well so far this film stinks! One lame joke after another! We are soon introduced to the nuns, the most pointless and stupid characters in the entire film. The nuns aren't even needed, they're just there for set decoration. Then The Shiek gets kidnapped by goons working for a villain named Don Don, a spoof to the classic Godfather. When I keep telling myself, this film stinks, the most stupid joke gets brought up. The whole cast goes and asks for help from Frank Sinatra, thee Frank Sinatra! Now the racers have to stop racing, go find Don Don, and save the only racer who has the money to award the winning racer. Then there's the big fight scene. Men fall down, things go boom, Don Don acts like a gay, and here's a treat you see the wire' s used on the goons Richard Kiel is throwing around! Wow bad scene! Then The sheik is rescued and their off again now with Sanatra racing. Spoilers ahead then at the end of this putrid film the money is rewarded to a monkey! A monkey of all things, wow bad twist!I already wasted my good money and mind while watching this trash, don't waste yours on this. Stick with the first one, the only good one. "},{"Title":"Danza Vs Orangutan","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In the future when film scholars ponder whether Tony Danza was a better actor than say, an orangutan, they may come across Cannonball Run II and feel great delight. The reason being that Cannonball Run II features scenes in which they can compare and contrast the thespian skills of both Danza and orangutan. For my money the orangutan wins easily. Beyond the Danza versus orangutan intrigue the film may fail to generate much interest for them. While the large cast seems to be having a blast hamming it up on the open road, the end result is that this movie is pure road kill for viewers. I've been in car accidents that are more fun than this flick. "},{"Title":"Utterly Terrible","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Quite possibly the lowest point in Burts Career...The First was equally terrible..But seeing as it was made at the peak of reynolds career...It made a lot of money....This on the other was made when His career was on the downhill and people were understandably sick of his Road movies. So it was a Flop....Surprise Surprise.Admittedly This looks like Nothing more than a Bad home movie with all of Burts friends and colleagues involved...Oh yes..Even the Rat pack turn up...Geez they must have needed the Money.This Film has maybe one or Two laughs in it....(Funny How richard Kiel and telly savalas who have made plenty of bad movies in their career show up)....the car stunts are absolutely terrible.....The actors are all lousy...and the film has no story whatsoeverOh Yes...Jim nabors..a Close friend of Burts shows up...Cant leave any friends out can we burt.... Jamie farr who has never done anything good outside of MASH is the absolute Pits...He tries His hardest to be Funny and clearly seems to be having a Good time playing the Sheik...Trouble is,we arent having any fun watching him.And Dom deluise....Well Americans seem to think he is Funny...Well he Aint...Sorry to disappoint ya. The whole film is a Joke in itself...Made purely to try and rise Burts Career...and of course, as a big Home movie to all the Actors involved.Of course, someone should have told them that the only people who enjoy home movies are the people who were there...Which counts a Hell of a lot of people out....including myself. "},{"Title":"The Tires Get Knifed Early On.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Most of the all-star cast from the original return for this high-adrenaline dud as once again we follow Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise (and love interests Marilu Henner and Shirley MacLaine) as they try to win a cross-country race. It is amazing that so many likable performers could be together for such an utterly terrible motion picture. This is a rehash of its predecessor and it amazes me that the first would make enough money to even warrant another installment. I guess everyone wanted to see Burt Reynolds fail on the silver screen in the early-1980s. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"A Shakespearean tragedy...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film was a true tragedy, but not the story itself.  The fact was, this film had at least ten different actors who have all carried the lead role in some other movies, and they wasted every last one of them.  How many other movies do you get Jackie Chan co-starred with Dean Martin, or for that matter Telly Savalas with Tony Danza?  How could they waste such a varied and diverse cast?  None of the characters is the least bit interesting, there is no scene which is even remotely funny, and it has no plot at all.  None whatsoever.  If poorly done foreign accents, an occasional car crash, and a scene shot inside a Vegas casino are your idea of humor (and if you have recently taken in a large quantity of controlled substance) this film is for you.  Otherwise, marvel at the cast listings, and the supreme waste of human potential that is this movie.       "},{"Title":"Very Dumb","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Despite being a very silly film I did think the original CANNONBALL RUN did have several amusing moments . Unfortunately this sequel takes all the bad points of the original and modifies aspects of its own that make it a far lesser film One aspect is the whole feel of the movie .The original was produced as a straightforward road movie similar to THE GUMBALL RALLY whilst here we see post referential lines and parodies of other movies like THE GODFATHER and SOME LIKE IT HOT which makes it resemble something more akin to HOT SHOTS and Repossessed while still retaining bits that are almost identical to the first one . For instance did we really need another set piece battle involving Jackie Chan and a bunch of bikers ? CANNONBALL RUN 2 does have a very funny scene where a bogus nun whispers into Dean Martin's ear who gives a shocked expression . He turns to Sammy Davis Jnr and whispers what was said . Sammy's jaw drops .  You are sick  . I genuinely thought that was amusing . Oh and we get the final silver screen appearance of old blue eyes though strangely I couldn't help thinking that someone edited this via another film . Perhaps Joe Pesci might consider that this wasn't a fitting swan song for Sinatra and he might do another film after LETHAL WEAPON 4 , certainly Sinatra deserved better as his last cinema role "},{"Title":"A very low point in Burt's career","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" First, I must admit with great shame that I've seen this movie at least fifteen times. But it's back when I was a teenager. At the time, I felt like this one was a sure classic. Times change. Thank god! This is a very stupid movie with tasteless humor and bad acting. A lot of cameos by famous stars didn't save the movie. Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. appear in this one, so is Telly Savalas, Jackie Chan, Tony Danza, Henry Silva and Frank Sinatra. I guess the only interesting aspect is the concept of the race itself. It would be great to be part of one of those trek!I give it 4 out 10. Watch it on TV but don't pay for the rental. "}{"Title":"Golden Harvest bankrolled this one?  Part two.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Cannonball Run II (1984) was made after the surprisingly successful first film.  But the movie going audience wasn't ready for another film like the first one.  This time Burt and company are back with another race with a cast of even more desperate-for-work-actors.  This time the cast looks like a line up at Lake Tahoe.   Another race, another bunch of washed up's and has beens hamming up the joint.Bad movie with very few laughs. The magic has ran out and the film stank up the box office.  Sadly, no more Cannonball  films featuring the once sucessful Dom De Luise/Burt Reynolds team.  Most of the film's stars faded into obscurity after  this one did it's best impression of Little Boy.  Ka-boom!!  If it wasn't for Jackie Chan, Golden Harvest would have fallen  apart.  Because not only did this one sank like the Bismarck but the other production Megaforce did equally bad as well. Leave well enough alone.Bad movie, nothing worth watching.Fxxx  "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Sequel","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This sequel is not all that bad but it is almost the same film as the first but with different comical lines for the cast. So I like the movie but it's just not as good as the original film.The Cannonball Run II has it's own story so it's not exactly like the first movie. But you do have the same theme an all-star cast, an illegal cross-country race, Burt Reynolds, car chases and wrecks and some cheesy fun comedy - in that way it is like the very first film.Needless to say, if you liked the first film or the Smokey and the Bandit series then you might like The Cannonball Run II.5/10 "},{"Title":"The cannonballers know that if they get caught by the police . . . . nun shall pass.","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I almost ended up rating Cannonball Run II slightly higher than the original but, in the end, I saw reason and rated it as an equal. It's actually nothing more than a retread of the first film, complete with final fight sequence after a number of car stunts, but it manages to stay entertaining thanks to a general policy of more is more.Burt Reynolds is back as J.J.McClure, accompanied by Dom DeLuise (playing Victor Prinzim again), and taking part in another race across America that should prove particularly lucrative for the winner. This time around, the prize money is being awarded by The Sheik (Jamie Farr), who is just using the whole thing as an opportunity to make a name for himself by winning the thing. There are others, however, more interested in making money from The Sheik by kidnapping him instead of winning the race.Hal Needham, who co-wrote the fast and loose script with a couple of other guys, returns to direct the fun and it may be nothing more than one hit-or-miss stunt gag after another but it's all just as enjoyable as it all was in the first movie.As well as Reynolds and DeLuise, we get the return of Sammy Davis Jr. and Dean Martin, Jamie Farr (already mentioned) gets a bigger role, Jackie Chan is back (partnered up with the gigantic Richard Kiel this time), the wild-eyed doctor played by Jack Elam is back and the two Lamborghini babes return, even if they are now played by different actresses. There are also a couple of fun roles for Shirley MacLaine and Marilu Henner while the rest of the cast includes small roles for people like Ricardo Montalban, Telly Savalas, Frank Sinatra, Sid Caesar, Don Knotts, Alex Rocco, Henry Silva, Abe Vigoda and many more.If you enjoyed The Cannonball Run then you may end up enjoying this movie just as much. Some people dismiss it as a pale rerun of the first film with additional material that detracts from the car action but I was kept moderately entertained throughout. Much as I was with the first film. "},{"Title":"Awful, overlong sequel","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" From the closing titles it looks like the cast had some fun, and watching the bloopers during the end credits is the only time you'll find yourself laughing for the whole of this awful, overlong sequel.Original producer Albert S. Ruddy and original director Hal Needham both return and co-script with Harvey Miller on what is a big misfire. Brock Yates' first up concept was far too thin to be stretched into a second feature, and the result is a real yawn which produces some downright terrible gags. One of the worst moves was bringing on board the chimp, ala Every Which Way But Loose. What a drag.Burt Reynolds, Dom De Luise, Sammy Davis Junior, Dean Martin, Jackie Chan and Jamie Farr all return, and they're joined by Telly Savalas, Shirley MacLaine, Frank Sinatra and Jim Nabors. I can't believe there was more after this flop.Sunday, January 12, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Horrible Movie filled with legendary characters","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I would have given this movie a 1 except for the cast. At least half of them are dead or soon will be. This movie is a great watch for nostalgic purposes. Charles Nelson Riley, Frank Sinatra, Tim Conway, Don Knots, a young sexy Daisy Duke, Abe Bigoda, Sammy Davis Junior, Jamie Farr, Ricardo Montoban, Marilu Henner, Shirley McClain,Menudo...the list goes on and on. The plot in this movie is non-existent. I couldn't understand what was going on at all and felt as though I wasn't supposed to. Still, the cast is enough to keep you entertained for at least a half an hour. If you haven't seen the movie I would suggest forming a picture in your mind of a cross between Road Runner and the Dean Martin show infomercials that run late at night on Comedy Central. "},{"Title":"It's Not As Good As Expected!!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie last year. It wasn't as good as expected at all! All the jokes were lame. Shirley MacLaine is my FAVORITE actress of ALL TIME!! She even admitted that this movie wasn't her best acting choice. Actually, her role stunk, and to do this movie after winning for Terms of Endearment got her a nomination for the WORST Actress Award. This just goes to show you, it's never good to a sequel to a big movie. It might not be that good. You can exclude Rush Hour 2 though. Now, that one was good. And better than the first. Not saying that always happens to other movies. They were just lucky. Chao! "},{"Title":"Unfocused and long.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film was really no better or worse than the original, it was essentially more of the same old stuff. Hal Needham still finds plenty of opportunities to fill the screen with stunts and there are several scenes of cars crashing through walls, flying in the air and dragging along entire houses with them, but the race has absolutely no urgency - at times you even forget there IS a race! The participants just don't seem very interested in winning. Maybe the movie is worth seeing just because it's your only chance to see Frank Sinatra, Richard Kiel and Jackie Chan in the same picture, but don't expect to see them doing anything important; the wandering script understandably gets lost among all those famous players, and the good moments are few and far between.   (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Woah ! Not as bad it may look or seem !","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As in my previous review of Cannonball Run Part 1 I said that it was a very laid back film and didn't get exciting till the very end. Another thing I forgot to mention is that the Cannonball Run films feature so many different famous actors and actresses you need to have a good balance of screen time for each of them. In the first one the film focused way too much on Bert Reynolds and Dom DeLouise's characters and towards the end they seem to become not as important anymore. Before I saw Cannonball Run Part 2 I thought I was in for really bad movie simply based on IMDb's rating of a 4.1. But I was surprised when I watched and saw that this one is actually better than the first.Cannonball Run 2 follows the Arabian prince as seen in the first one. His father is upset with him for not winning the Cannonball Race last year. When he finds out that there is no Cannonball race this year, is father tells him to start his own. For this race instead of riving cross-country to California, its now Connecticut. But not all races are fun and games, the Cannonballers still have to dodge the police and now gangsters who are after the race's prize money of a million dollars, which ends up getting stolen. So, buckle up and see Cannonball Run 2.This one is a lot better than the first. You get to see more characters and the focus isn't on just two of them like in Part 1, but is balanced so you see all of them. Now, don't get me wrong, like Part 1, this sequel too, should've had a better race with car chases, which aren't really in any of the Cannonball Run films. And when there are action scenes in Part 2, they're better than in Part 1. There are a lot of better stunts in this one. Now people say some this film is poor writing or done poorly, well its a a comedy and action adventure film. What do you expect ? When comedy and action combine you're not going to see people getting shot or people dying ? I recommend this more than the first one. The only miss is that Roger Moore didn't return for this one. "},{"Title":"What would this be without Marilou Henner?","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film is a mess from start to finish without the pretty girls and the nice cars.Yes, there was Jackie Chan and Doug McLure and Richard Keil, but they had nothing to offer the film as well as Catherine Back or Marilou Henner.This is simply a whole bunch of actors put onto a set or site with little to offer the film in any context aside of making some dumb ass comments and smiling and that's about all.The first one wasn't to good and this one is even worse.Thin plot with little to support it.The race is boring, the back story is boring, even the fact that nobody knows who wins is a real stinker.It's a letdown with a bunch of names heading this POS. "},{"Title":"A Really Fun Rotten Movie","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The guy who wrote the review, Danza Vs Orangutan got it completely right, except I think the question isn't whether or not the Orangutan is a better actor than Danza, it's whether the Orangutan in the more highly evolved. Again, Danza Loses.This is a crummy, stinking horrible film that is great after the second six pack on a Friday night. I rated it 5 because it's technically a 0, but it is as big a laugh as a real 10 film made by sapient beings. If you claim to be a bad movie buff but you haven't stepped in this pile of excrement yet, you haven't been trying.My suggestion see it. Sure, the wince factor is high here, but the movie will certainly make you feel a LOT better about yourself...you know you're smarter and cooler than anyone associated with this gobbler. "}{"Title":"It's okay","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The first one was pretty funny.  This one has some funny parts but not as many.  This was one of Burt's less better films but he did play a good part in it.  The fighting part near the end was pretty funny.  It was the best part.  I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"One Was Enough...","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While the first one was fun, that doesn't mean go out and make another. This one tried to get bigger stars (MacLaine, Savalas, Sinantra) and falls flat on its face. Nothing is different. Most of the original cast of Reynolds, DeLuise, Martin and Davis are back again as cannonballers. The script is also the same except for a few modifications to appease Charles Nelson Reilly.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen!","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When I watched this film as a little kid when it was on TV, I thought it was pretty bad, and that was when I enjoyed watching stuff like Howard the Duck!When I finally saw this film again, this time on a VHS tape that was the original release of the movie, I discovered that this was one of the worst films I've ever seen. No kidding.When you have a great cast like this, and you attach a script that was seemingly written for 8 year olds (or at least those people that think like 8 year olds) with its level of humor, it is quite sad, especially when I laughed only once... and that was due to the chimp! That's right, the funniest person in this movie is the orangutan. Under no circumstances should you ever see this picture.  "},{"Title":"Pretty embarrassing","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The original Cannonball Run was a pretty funny film about a illegal cross-country auto race from Connecticut to California, featuring an all-star cast. Most critics hated it, but most audiences liked it, and was a box-office hit. However its follow-up, Cannonball Run II, is nowhere near as funny as the first film. The laughs this time around are scattershot. Plus, this is one very sloppily made film. Director Hal Needham didn't make the original a masterpiece but at least it looked like they were really in a cross-country race from Connecticut to California. For Cannonball Run II, it's very obvious that just by watching it you can tell that Needham didn't even try to make this a good movie. He intended on making this a bad movie. Watch it and you'll see. For example, the race in Cannonball Run II is supposed to go the other way around starting in California and ending in Connecticut. But almost the entire race takes place in the desert. Hello? What's going on here? Plus, there are some downright embarrassing scenes in this film. It features a long list of talented stars who step in front of the camera, one-by-one, and make fools of themselves. What a shame to watch Shirley MacLaine follow-up her great Oscar-winning role in Terms of Endearment with a throwaway role here. But she doesn't have the most embarrassing scene in the film. That honor goes to Tim Conway and Don Knotts as two of the stupidest cops in movie history (Lt. Frank Drebin of The Naked Gun movies has more brains than these guys!). Just watch there one scene in this film and you'll see why. I felt very sorry for them. But they're not the only ones who suffer. Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr, Telly Savalas, Marilu Henner, Charles Nelson Reilly, Tony Danza, Jamie Farr, Ricardo Montalban, Jim Nabors, Jackie Chan, Susan Anton, Catherine Bach, and (in a major travesty) Frank Sinatra. All these actors (along with others not mentioned here) wasted their talents looking embarrassed and humiliated. The orangutan provides the only laughs in the movie, and there ain't much. Everybody involved with Cannonball Run II should be ashamed of themselves. This movie flopped at the box office, and deservedly so.* (out of four)  "},{"Title":"The worst movie of the 80's?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The first Cannonball Run was enjoyable enough, but this stinks so badly that you can smell it coming from a considerable distance.Shoddy, disjointed & cheap-looking, this would fail to entertain a dimwit in a coma. Simply keep it on a loop on daytime TV and just watch the unemployment level drop.Burt Reynolds must have known that this signalled the beginning of his cinematic hibernation period, whereas Sammy & Wino just go through the motions, trying to make the best of a script that was almost certainly ghost-written by one of the stars (the hairy, orange one)Jackie Chan gets screwed-over again with another choppy fight scene set on sand (he always complains that it's impossible to 'take off' on the stuff), and consequently is much slower. Or is it just the case that they didn't under-crank the camera?What can you say about a movie that has hardly any form, no pacing or sense of rhythm/humour? The climax of the movie was even forsaken in favor of a cheap laugh.To perfectly illustrate the idiocy of the whole project, at one point the prize money of the Cannonball Run is raised from $1million to $2million which causes one dumb broad to exclaim how many zeros is in that?More fun can be had from repeatedly banging a tea-tray on your head... "},{"Title":"Ignore the acting ability and stop with the critical views - It's a funny Feel Good film","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Much like the first Cannonball Run, this is a funny film - granted the acting isn't Oscar calibre but look beyond that! The aim of the movie is to make the viewer laugh and feel good, which in my opinion it does effectively!Especially amusing are Sammy Davies Jr, Dean Martin and Dom Deluise - recommended viewing is the scene where they are dressed as dancers. Frank Sinatra's appearance is pointless but adds something more to the movie.I suggest you just sit back and ignore the flaws, just enjoy this for what it is. Ignore the acting ability and stop with the critical views - It's a funny Feel Good film! "},{"Title":"Burt at his worst.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Cannonball Run II is an awful film. With Stroker Ace and City Heat he hit the trifecta of movie duds. Why Burt chose to make this film is beyond me. I imagine the money was good and the chance to work with all his friends was too good to pass up. Unfortunately, he forgot to put a product on the screen for his legion of fans that would even be considered passable. It's not.And where is the race? Much of it is done with animation showing cars on a map. You make a movie about a car race and forget to film the race?And a real kicker is a cameo by Frank Sinatra. He sits in an office supposedly talking to Burt and Dom DeLuise but it is obvious that Frank filmed his scenes separately and Burt and Dom were added later. And what in the world was Shirley MacLaine thinking in taking this as her first role after winning an Oscar for Terms of Endearment?Sadly Burt would never really recover from the string of duds he made in the 80's (and there were many)though he did deliver in Boogie Nights. Too bad his fans can't take this film, along with the aforementioned Stroker Ace, City Heat, Malone, Stick, and several others and burn them forever. It's best to remember the Burt of the mid to late 70's. "},{"Title":"Character Actor Epic","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There's dead camp and then there's live camp.  Cannonball Run II gets funnier and funnier each time I see it on TV.  What is it that speaks to me? Is it Dom DeLouis bounding around in a red satin cape and a black mask with CHAOS written across the forehead?  Is it the love scene between Sammy Davis, Jr. and Charles Nelson Reilly?  Is it Molly Picon showing up just when you thought the movie had unearthed every out of work character actor in Hollywood?  No, what makes this movie special is that so many of the tiny cameos, though laden with schtick, are brilliant.  Did I mention Dom DeLouis doing Diana Ross in a harem outfit?  Jamie Farr as an Arab sheik?  Tony Danza and an uncredited chimpanzee? "},{"Title":"Not funny at all","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There's a word for a movie like this cashing. Really, you'd have to be a huge fan on Burt Reynolds, if you'd actually think, that this movie is good or even remotely funny.The story starts with sheik, who want's to be the fastest sheik in the world. So his son finances another Cannonball Run in order to show, that his family indeed is the fastest. And some hilarity ensues. Not.The film is loaded with good actors, who make a comeback from the first film, but really nothing can safe this film from itself, as it lacks coherent plot and funny jokes. It is just poorly together knitted pile of jokes, which probably were rejected from the first film.As I can't think of anything positive to say about this film, I'll just stop here. Condisder my point given. "},{"Title":"Run from this one....","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The original Cannonball Run was okay, but had some bad points.Cannonball Run II is worse and is all bad points.No one seems to care in this movie it's just biding time between lame-brained crashes and stupid sight gags.  Reynolds and the others should be ashamed.Yeah, ashamed all the way to the bank.There is not one truly funny moment in this unnecessary sequel.  None.  From beginning to end.  Just desperation.  I finally had to look away.  My head hurt and tears were welling up in my eyes.  I had been taken advantage of by another sequel.When will I ever learn?No stars.  Sorry, Dom even you were boring. "}{"Title":"i don't know why people hate this movie","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i grew-up on watching this movie. i saw  this one before i saw the first one. the  first one is good,but i like this one  better. cannonball run II,is a very  funny movie. i think only laid-back people  like these type of movies. i have watched  this movie since the late 80's. i never  really get tired of it. it's maybe one of  my favorite movies of all time! the cast is  one of the best if not (THE) best cast ever  in a movie. i think the monkey is the  funniest thing in this movie. but others  are funny too. i give cannonball run II  ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Like being rogered to death by giant wasps.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I wouldn't even bother commenting on the execrable cesspool of a film if its very existence didn't offend me.I hated this film. Hated it to a degree that I cannot even find the words to express myself. This is literally (and I do mean literally; this is not hyperbole) the low point of western civilization since the Spanish Inquisition.I enjoy a goofy Saturday afternoon or late night insomnia movie like anyone. I even enjoy bad movies if they are bad in a charming or kitschy way. What really makes this movie offense and vulgar is the sense of smug satisfaction of the giant ensemble cast.One of the worst feelings you can experience is embarrassment for another person, and this movie is, from beginning to end, a combination of feeling embarrassed for everyone involved coupled with insult and outrage. The idea that someone would find this worth watching is insulting. The idea that such a thing as this movie should even exist on a roll of film somewhere is offensive. I will have trouble sleeping knowing that somewhere within one thousand miles of me, some unclean television sits that once showed even a split second of this film.Quite literally, you, who are reading this comment, could have made a better film if I handed you a home video camera and shoved you out into the desert, then kneecapped you and left you for dead without water so that all you could film was the meager piece of ground you were capable of crawling across.I am wounded psychologically from having to sit through the sight of Burt Reynolds, Sammy Davis, and Dom DeLuise in drag.I could go cast member by cast member here, each of whom should be ashamed of themselves to this day and should be made to atone for their sins before a public tribunal of fire and pitchforks and angry mobs. All of my political principles go out the door when it comes to this movie - I want to see someone hanged, publicly and brutally, for bringing this abomination of a film into existence. I want to go Jacques deMolay on the whole cast. Forget dreading Friday the 13th; we should all rue the day this film was released, instead.I am permanently and incurably scarred by having to look at cars in this movie from the worst era for car design in the auto industry's history. What in God's name were people thinking in the 1980s - about EVERYTHING? The Mitsubishi in particular is one of the most shameful and odious pieces of machinery I have ever had the misfortune of laying my eyes on. I have yet to encounter anything, for example, in the dark recesses of the internet, so thoroughly offensive as the vehicles in this miserable film. This is a movie about a race; the least they could have done is found some decent cars rather than relying on the miserable, unclean, blasphemous detritus of the era. The cars and Burt Reynold's mustache in this film are an affront to God and humanity. Each should be punished severely and swiftly. I want to hear someone scream.This is a movie full of people very amused with themselves with zero regard for the audience. The contempt for the audience is palpable. Not a single shred of effort was made - this is Burt and Dom partying on someone else's dollar, and the film itself equates to abuse and trauma. Not a single idea here is new - simian (literally) humor, dressing people up in drag, stereotypes, and a bunch of unlikely and trite crashes and disasters evoke nothing so much as Stalin era gulags and syphilis experiments.I hate this movie. Hate everything about it. Hate its presumptuousness, hate every actor who appeared for appearing in it. The entire acting career of everyone involved here should be completely discredited simply by virtue of appearing in this film. I want to see people kicked out of SAG, blacklists, exile, and angry mobs rampaging through the streets of Beverly Hills or Malibu or wherever these people live. I want to see tribunals and fire and primitive religious symbols and hooded men with axes.I will never be the same again, and I curse the day I saw this film.I have seen many movies, and this, I have to say, is the worst movie ever made. I am an enthusiastic and radical opponent of censorship but I make an exception for this witless, charmless, unfunny, vacuous disgrace of a film. Every copy in existence should be hunted down and burned, and any note of its existence should be wiped out of film guides and so on under penalty of death. When this campaign ends, we should start history over with Year 1. History should be rewritten, exactly as it happened, minus the existence of this film. Penalties should be doled out. We are talking stretch racks and iron maidens and bamboo under fingernails.I HATE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Why Did People Sign Up for This?","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Cannonball Run II (1984) 1/2 (out of 4) Incredibly lazy and rather pointless sequel has J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and various others back and competing in another race from the West coast to the East coast.Somehow, THE CANNONBALL RUN turned out to be a huge hit so a sequel was put into production and it's amazingly just as dull as the first film. Also rather amazing is the fact that they managed to get even more famous faces to appear in this thing including Frank Sinatra who would appear in a theatrical movie for the last time. That's right, the great Sinatra ending his theatrical career on CANNONBALL RUN II. How does that happen? Was he bored? Did he need the money? Doing it as a favor?CANNONBALL RUN II is pretty much the same movie as the first, although we do get a few new actors to appear here including Telly Savalas as a gangster, Shirley MacLaine as a nun, Richard Kiel as Jackie Chan's assistant and there's also Sid Caesar, Catherine Bach, Tim Conway, Don Knotts, Tony Danza, Ricardo Montalban, Jim Nabors, Charles Nelson Reilly, Henry Silva, Doug McClure, Abe Vigoda and I've already mentioned Sinatra. Reynolds basically sleepwalks through the film and every once in a while smacks Dom DeLuise. Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr. easily steal the film and thankfully they're given a bigger part than the previous movie.As I said, this is a pretty horrible movie as was the first one but with so many stars it's hard not to recommend this to film buffs. As awful as the movie is and as unfunny as it is, there's still something mildly (and painfully) amusing getting to see so many famous faces in one picture. It's really too bad that the filmmakers didn't try making a better movie though. "},{"Title":"Crush This Film Under Monster Truck Tires!","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The Cannonball Run 2 (1984) Dir Hal Needham / Cast Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Shirley MacLaine, Marilu Henner, Telly Savalas A complete lack of imagination and script. The first Cannonball Run was low key trash but its undeserved success opened the door for this mess. The Sheik puts up money for another cannonball run and it attracts many talented actors who look less than talented here. It goes from bad to worse as a bunch of idiots race across country and narrowly avoid the law. Director Hal Needham previously collaborated with Burt Reynolds on the funnier and much more exciting Smokey and the Bandit but here he displays as little talent as possible. Burt Reynolds plays a hotshot jackass race car driver. Dom DeLuise plays his moron sidekick who has the uncanny ability to become a superhero at will. Too bad that he couldn't make himself disappear into a better film. Shirley MacLaine and Marilu Henner tarnish their resumes as a couple of nuns who hitch a ride with Reynolds and DeLuise. Telly Savalas has the misfortune of playing a pathetic villain whose henchmen put people head first through walls. They are just the beginning of countless names who allowed themselves to be talked into this garbage. So who wins the cannonball? Try placing this film on the ground and back over it with your car. You would be a bigger winner than anyone in the film. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In agreement with most everyone. This film sequel is an embarrassment to the original, and a horrible budget waster, AND a Talent waster. So tons of big names were cast. So what? A huge insult to their talents. Only Telly Savalas was really convincing in his mob character. But he would deliver nothing less anyway. The entire script from A-Z is awful. Absolutely NO JOKES. I think I chuckled only once -- but it was BRIEF. I actually had to fast fwd along the way, hoping it would somehow improve. It didn't.Jamie Farr was decent enough, reprising his sheik persona. And I agree with SUNUBIT. It was obvious Burt and Don were doing this for the pay. And what crap. 'Best Little Whorehouse in Texas', which came out around the same time, was a box office hit for Burt! Perhaps Hal Needham figured Burt owed him a favor or something. And while it was dandy to see 'Daisy Duke' AKA Cathy Bach caressing alongside the iconic Susan Anton (former 70's supermodel turned actress), they too were given some pretty weak moments.Throwing the chimp in the action? What a cheap ripoff from 'Every Which Way But Loose'. I was seriously expecting an uncredited cameo of Clint Eastwood to suddenly emerge from the limo! To my recollection, during this films' original cinematic release, it was a total bomb. Any wonder. "},{"Title":"Cannonball Run 2 is The worst movie of all time","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Cannonball run 2 is the worst movie of all time. But you should see this movie because it exposes these arrogant Hollywood stars for the no-talent, boring,egotistical, idiots that they really are. Without a great Director like Peter Jackson making them look good they show their true faces.The stars of Cannonball run 2 , like Burt Reynolds, Dom Deluise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Junior, Frank Sinatra et al. , think that they are better than the rest of us. Hollywood actors really think that they are God's gift to the Earth. That they constantly laugh at their own jokes, and the smug look on their faces, show that the stars of the Cannonbal trilogy believe that are privileging us with their presence and the the entertainment of our lives. What they do is bore us and disgust us with their arrogant manner and disjointed, boring , tired old routines.You should definitely see Cannonball run 2 and the other 2 Cannonball movies. You won't be entertained but you will know that you are smarter, more talented and more entertaining than these boring, conceited idiots. There is no way you can be more boring , less entertaining, or dumber than the actors in this movie. Hence, you will feel superior to them.I enjoyed seeing these Hollywood legends fall flat on their faces. I definitely enjoyed seeing these super arrogant stars exposed for the no-talent idiots that they really are without a great director like Peter Jackson making them look good. Maybe they should watch the Lord of the Rings trilogy to see how real movies are made and to compare that to their Cannonball run trilogy , the worst trilogy of all time. The Lord of the Rings Trilogy is the best movie and trilogy of all time. "},{"Title":"The Key to a Sequel's Failure","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The first Cannonball Run is my all time favorite movie, so much that I hope I can forget this one and dare not touch the third. The Remakes may have some hope but on to the review.After having seen the first, I loved the sea-to-shining-sea Racing idea, the fast cars, and the fast girls; I couldn't resist the sequel, Cannonball Run II. But what happens when you have less fast cars, less fast girls and then you take the racing concept out of it? This movie. The ideas such as the nuns and the mafia were not bad ideas. But I have no explanation nor remorse for their failed execution.If I could sum up the movie for those who have seen or wish to see it, take out the racing and add the greed for money. That's it. I can't stop you from watching but I'll sure as hell try. "},{"Title":"Just a zany 80s racing comedy, that's all!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen all the comments that were posted for this movie and honestly, there's really nothing to complain about.I mean, come on! It's just one of them zany comedy in the 80s that featured an all-star studded cast (especially a younger Jackie Chan) racing cross country for 1 million dollars. I do agree that the acting was a bit bad for some folks out there, but this film still kept me watching to the very end. Some of the plot however was mostly pointless just to poke fun on humor, yet still entertaining to a certain degree. I watched CRII ever since I was 10 years old and it still remains to be a formidable force to collection since I now have it on DVD. I guess when it comes to 'dissing' this movie, it's because we eventually get older and that we downgrade things of the past. Movie making has evolved big time (with all the special effects and what not) and CRII was one of the great films to keep in the time capsule of 80s flicks. Every Hollywood movie remains special even how many would judge it. If it weren't for comedies like this, the comedy movies today wouldn't be as funnier as they are. And lastly, to the stars of the movies that have passed away through time, you all are appreciated and remembered...COMO CANNONBALL...FUERTE COMO CANNONBALL! "},{"Title":"Balls","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Wonder why we don't see this formula more? We had `Mad, Mad World,' and the recent `Rat Race.' There was also a cartoon series `Wacky Racers,' but other than that nothing I recall. So although the formula is well defined and apparently successful, it is way down on the list of most-selected templates.Strange. Because it has worked. One of the advantages of the form is that lots of personalities are involved in small scenes, so there are lots of opportunities to register a laugh. It only takes a few successful touchstones to satisfy the audience and most viewers forget the nonfunny parts.Just wondering. There's a simple self-referential trick here most teams devise a skit to fool the police. Lots of little plays-within-the play.   "},{"Title":"Burt's home movie","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The nadir of Burt Reynolds' career.  Even worse, it's like watching one of his dull home movies.  It's so contemptible the race is show in cheesy animation.  What's left are his actor pals indulging in teeth-aching black-out bits.  And they deliver lines like bad ad-libbers on a drunk.  The pits.   "}{"Title":"end of the line","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  one of the last films that seemed like the old Hollywood... whoever didn't like this one probably is under 35 now and doesn't have a clue as to the classiness that Hollywood used to have....or to many other things in life that cause history to repeat itself...I know for a fact it was the last time that dean, sammy, andfrank ever appeared together on screen...thought it was neatthat henry silva (one of the original oceans 11) also was in this movie....  "},{"Title":"I thought the Cannonball Run was awful!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You think one would learn, after the first film.  A lot of people got sucked into watching the first one, and it did have a good trailer.  This time my friend Dwight rented part 2, when I went with my parents to his house, we watched this one in the basement and I thought maybe it could be better than the first.  I few good car chase scenes, but this one is a real over the top film.  Too, over the top, it is like one of those Jim Carey films.  If Jim Carey was around they would have him in the cast too.  I give this one a 3 or 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cult movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Both CR I and II are always badly rated. However, no one can say they aren't cult movies, and they haven't became that for nothing.I prefer to see share the director's, the actors and the rest of the crew's view on this movie, only as a funny car chase comedy, and a not too serious one.  "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun!!!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say I LOVE this movie. Is it as AWESOME as Cannonball Run I? No, but I think it is close. The whole story line with the gangsters trying to get the Sheik is extremely funny. The whole story with Don Don is great, and how can you forget about the race? The race is the main object of roll of the floor laughter. Always funny, and always fun. "},{"Title":"Pure Cinematic Genius","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Truly one of the greatest American films of the 20th Century. Superior comedic timing, wit, intelligence, chemistry-- a poignant social commentary on the conspicuous consumption of the mid-1980s. Hilarity only surpassed by its taut direction, superior pacing and production value, the likes of which had been unseen since Battleship Potemkin or 2001.The editing on this masterpiece (by William Gordean, famous for his genre-defining work on Tank Girl-- yes, that William Gordean) exceeds brilliance. How did they get it to look like Frank Sinatra was really in those scenes? How? How? Magic, my friend. Hollywood Magic. To think that in 1984 this film was overlooked by the Academy for the likes of trivial, petulant movies like The Killing Fields and Amadeus is the greatest tragedy in cinematic history. Shame on you, Oscar. Shame. On. You. "},{"Title":"The first was good, but this is better!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was the first CANNONBALL RUN film I ever saw, and it's still my favourite.  Even more celebrities get involved in the race this time around and they still give it their all to win.SPOILER WARNINGSBurt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise return, as do Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jnr., all reprising their roles from the first film.  This time around, the race is being sponsored by the mad Arab sheik played by Jamie Farr.  Once again, $1 million is the prize for the winner.  Several characters from the first film return, and some new faces show up as well.  Jackie Chan is paired up with SPY WHO LOVED ME's Richard Kiel for some reason, but these two have some good moments.  The jumpsuited Jill and Marcie return, this time played by the lovely Susan Anton and Catherine Bach.  This time around they end up wrecking the various cars they use, but are still as tricky as ever.  Mel Tillis returns as the stuttering cowboy Mel, this time accompanied by TAXI's Tony Danza, and an orangutan(!).  Burt and Dom pick up two passengers in the shape of chorus girls Marilu Henner and Shirley MacLaine, who are dressed as nuns and are mistaken for real nuns by our boys.  It's a crazy bunch indeed!And this time around, the mob are after the money, so wimpy Don Charles Nelson Reilly can repay a debt he owes.  So a bunch of fatheaded gangsters are frequently trying to catch Farr.  The film reaches it's climax with yet another big battle, this time at the villains' ranch/casino near Las Vegas.So many big names make cameos that it may be hard to keep up with them. Frank Sinatra appears as himself, but doesn't do much. I just hope they paid him plenty.  All in all, this film is, like the first film, good mindless fun, with cool cars, wacky performances and great action to boot. Just give it a chance, it's fun! "},{"Title":"Lots of FUN","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A lot of people who rate movies here are missing the point....The movie stars in this picture rarely saw each other, so I'm sure that making this picture ( and part 1) was as much a social gathering and bunch of fun mixed together.I loved seeing everyone in this film- and am one person who loves the 'fun factor' and could care less about script or technical acting ability of the cast!(below is for the minimum length extension)A lot of people who rate movies here are missing the point....The movie stars in this picture rarely saw each other, so I'm sure that making this picture ( and part 1) was as much a social gathering and bunch of fun mixed together.I loved seeing everyone in this film- and am one person who loves the 'fun factor' and could care less about script or technical acting ability of the cast! "},{"Title":"How can you not like this one?","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My previous friend gave this movie not a positive review, to say the least. But how could you not. No matter what you think of Burt Reynolds, this is one star-stuffed movie. Show me another one, where you can find that many stars all in one. If you like car movies, i am sure you have seen such greats as The Great Race with Tony Curtis & Jack Lemmon or Gummball Ralley. Cannonball is without a doubt, one of the greatest 80' car/action/star movies ever. Forget the acting, this is one to laugh your brains out. "}]