[{"Title":"One of the more accessible King adaptations, but best if you enjoyed the book","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter is the story of Charlie (Drew Barrymore at age 8) and Andy, her dad (David Keith), and the people who are trying to imprison, control and/or kill them (Martin Sheen, George C. Scott, Moses Gunn, and others). Charlie is a mutant. Her father and mother were part of an experiment on mutagenic substances performed on college students in the 1960s by The Shop. The experiment gave Andy the ability to control others minds, but the mutation, apparently dormant in his wife, was passed on through the sex chromosome to his daughter. Charlie, quite plainly, can combust virtually anything with her mind.Though all the acting in this film is good, Barrymore and Scott are truly awesome. Scott plays a brilliant sociopath, and can go from a kindly old Viet Nam vet to a ruthless killer with one quick change of facial expression. And Barrymore (at the age of 8, if you didn't pick up on that the first time I said it) gives her character a fully believable person-hood with great depth.Like the novel, this is more of a horror-thriller than classic King ghost stories - like The Shining. It is also less classic King horror - like Carrie. And its also not a great drama like Dolores Claiborne, Misery and Stand By Me. Though it fits into roughly the same category as Hearts in Atlantis, it is not a literary as this much later King work and the characters are not as well developed. Although the book could be said to be one of King's earlier experiments with what would become a formula for his lesser works, King's writing is so lucid, and his characters are so interesting, believable and nicely examined, that his 'B fiction' is still somewhat above the average best-seller. The film follows the book very closely, and, like the book, is sort of a prototype for the more formulaic films in the King portfolio.The directing is very good, the cinematography (especially the effects) is excellent, and the film is, as a whole entertaining. But, for those who have not read the book, the film will likely come off as 'no big deal.' As with many of the more formulaic King-derived films, this is best seen as a cathartic summary of the original work (like Dreamcatchers, Running Man, The Stand, Maximum Overdrive, The Mangler and others). "},{"Title":"Young prodigy starts fires in one of the best Stephen King adaptations!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the fact that the films usually revolve around good and interesting stories, film adaptations of Stephen King's works are often not the best horror movies. Firestarter isn't the best known of his books, and that's slightly odd as this film adaptation is one of the best based on his stories. The film takes obvious influence from Brian De Palma's 'The Fury', as aside from the fact that this one is about a young girl that can start fires, and De Palma's film features a boy with psychic abilities; the way that both plots play out is very similar indeed. The plot has a number of problems, and the characters don't always act logically; but this is offset by the likable nature of the film, and characters that are easy to get along with due to their relatively simplistic nature. The film follows the aftermath of an experiment in which people were given an experimental drug. The ultimate result of this experiment was a child born of Andy and Vicky McGee; a child with a unique ability known as 'pyrokinesis' - the ability to start fires at will.The film benefits from a range of cult stars. A young Drew Barrymore takes the title role, and although her acting skills hadn't been honed by the time this film was released, and she is more than a little bit wooden; she provides an interesting lead. David Keith and Martin Sheen back her up well in supporting roles, but the main acting plaudits go to the great George C. Scott who is good in what is probably the meatiest role of the piece. The running time is a little long for a film like this, but it's well used and the fact that the story doesn't get caught up with needless elements such as the girl's mother and father falling in love is definitely a good thing. The plot is very relaxed for most of the way through, and director Mark L. Lester seems content to just let things play out. That is until the last fifteen minutes; when the plot reaches its full potential and explodes with a fun and exciting finale. The film does feel more than a little bit like a TV movie at times; and the dumbed down techno soundtrack doesn't help this. Overall, the film definitely isn't perfect; but it's an enjoyable watch and King films have definitely been a lot worse! "},{"Title":"Not spectacular, but good","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firestarter is one of those movies that bores critics and often appears as weekend or late night filler on TV.  Even so, the movie does have its moments.  Give it a chance, and Firestarter will grow on you.Fans of the X Files will be at home with the movie's plot about an experimental drug given to 60s college students by a secret government agency, known as The Shop.  Two of the students (portrayed by David Keith and Heather Locklear) eventually marry and a child is born; a firestarter (played by Drew Barrymore) who can set anything ablaze with just one angry thought.  Martin Sheen and George C. Scott round out the cast as heads of The Shop, who are now bent on capturing the girl and harnessing her power as a weapon, not to mention using her as a way to get funding for more experiments.The acting and dialogue certainly aren't award-winning, but they do carry the movie along.  The music, written and performed by Tangerine Dream, is perfectly suited to the movie, and in my opinion is some of Tangerine Dream's best work.  The special effects are convincing, and at times, chilling.  Readers of Stephen King's best-selling novel will be happy to know that this movie is, for the most part, faithful to his original story, despite a rather clipped ending.In all, if you have a taste for conspiracy thrillers with a healthy dose of science fiction thrown in, you'll like this one, though it probably won't be your favorite.  "},{"Title":"Take Carrie one step further...","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you thought that Carrie made incredible use of conflagrations, you ain't seen nothing yet! In Stephen King's other combustion-themed story, Firestarter portrays the daughter (Drew Barrymore) of a experimental guinea pig (David Keith) using her ignition abilities to get her way. When the government kidnaps her and her father, things really get ugly.On one level, this movie seems a little preachy, with the shadowy agents going after the man and his daughter. But I would call that an accurate depiction of things. And you gotta agree with what the girl does, no matter how extreme she gets (and I'm talking really extreme). So I definitely recommend this movie. But if you're a pyromaniac, don't let this movie encourage you.Also starring Heather Locklear, Martin Sheen, George C. Scott, Art Carney and Louise Fletcher. "},{"Title":"An Awkward Adaptation","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The main problem with Firestarter is it tries to adapt the story of the book faithfully, at the expense of character development. It is impossible to cram a five hundred page book into one two hour movie and make it work favourably. For much of the picture, the pacing feels awkward and rushed, more interested in moving the plot along than developing the characters.Brian De Palma's Carrie followed the story of the book just as closely. But seeing as Carrie is less than half the length of Firestarter, it made for a much more comfortable adaptation.Stanley Kubrick had the right idea with the Shining. The book was about the same length as Firestarter, and as a result the plot was butchered heavily to make it work for the screen. Stephen King (and much of his loyal fanbase) have misgivings about Kubrick's adaptation, a lot of people who love film (and recognise it as the different medium that it is) regard it as a masterpiece.Mark Lester's Firestarter isn't all bad however. George C. Scott's John Rainbird is inspired casting, and probably the best thing this film has going for it. The scene at the Manders' farm, and the conclusion at the Shop's headquarters make for enjoyable viewing and are handled capably.It's a shame, that as a whole, the film doesn't work too well. I'd definitely like to see this re-adapted into another film or a mini-series. The book isn't exactly King's best, but it has a lot of potential for another screen outing. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Burning Rage","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" During 1983 and 1984, there were no fewer than four movies released that were based on the works of Stephen King, this era's horror literature maven. The first three were THE DEAD ZONE, CUJO, and CHRISTINE. The fourth, and least commercially successful, was FIRESTARTER, based on King's 1980 novel. The fact that it didn't fare all that well with critics or audiences doesn't diminish the fact that it remains, despite some flaws, one of the best adaptations of King's works, as well as a commentary on the dangerous of government interference and dissembling in people's lives.Drew Barrymore, who made a star-making turn in E.T. THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL, is the young girl possessed of a devastating kind of psychic power called pyrokinesis, the ability to light fires just by concentrating long and hard about it. Her power is the result of her parents (David Keith; Heather Locklear) having undergone a bizarre chemical experiment in 1969 conducted by a secret government agency known as The Shop. Since then, eight of the ten patients originally involved have died horrible deaths, and Locklear has been murdered by agents of the Shop. Now, Keith and Barrymore are on their own, with Keith's only ability to protect Barrymore being his own psychic ability. But once in the hands of the Shop, led by Martin Sheen and George C. Scott, they are the subject of various experiments on their abilities. Barrymore gets special attention, of course, because of her fiery power, especially from Scott. In the end, of course, Sheen and Scott, and the rest of the Shop's minions, find out what happens when you play with a power that you don't fully appreciate...There are admittedly flaws with FIRESTARTER, most of them having to do with the slightly perfunctory way that Mark L. Lester (CLASS OF 1984) directs the actors, this even though he has some superb ones, notably Sheen and Scott. The dialogue is also a little clunky at times too. But overall, FIRESTARTER succeeds more often than it fails, due to King's own narrative genius, Barrymore's credible performance, and the special effects wizardry of Mike Wood. The scenes of the Shop being incinerated at the end by Barrymore's burning rage after her father has been killed are particularly spectacular. FIRESTARTER also benefits from brief but welcome cameo roles by Art Carney and Louise Fletcher, who become her protectors after the firestorm.However flawed it might be, FIRESTARTER does provide plenty of suspense and atmosphere without an extreme amount of bloodshed (though the fire scenes are quite hair-raising all the same), and is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Above-average.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good special effects and a great cast make this film above-average, as Stephen King adaptations go (well, it's certainly better than Maximum Overdrive). The story may be a bit predictable, partly because King had visited similar territory before (Carrie, anyone?), but you have to admire the way the film puts you into the action right from the start, omitting any slow introductions, and George C.Scott is such a strong, perverse and eccentric villain that you can't help watching him. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Thrillling story about  a little girl  whose parents acquired phenomenal mental powers  and who herself can set anything on fire","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Suspenseful and terrifying entertainment that goes beyond its genre , dealing with a girl who has the unwanted and often uncontrollable gift of Pyrokinesis, as a result of a government experiment , lighting fires by mere thought . A couple Victoria 'Vicky' Tomlinson McGee (Heather Locklear of Dynasty) and Andy McGee (David Keith , he was 14th choice) who participated in a potent medical experiment gain telekinetic ability and then have a child named Charlene 'Charlie' McGee (Jennifer Connelly , Taylor Neff were considered and Bridgette Andersen, the star of Savannah Smiles, tested for the role of Charlie, ultimately played by Drew Barrymore) who is pyrokinetic . Charlie McGee (whose character was modeled on King's daughter Naomi) has an extraordinary power (or is that haunted) , sometimes uncontrollable and an evil destructive force . Meanwhile a secret government agency known as The Shop led by Captain Hollister (Martin Sheen took over at a late stage from Burt Lancaster who had to withdraw following heart surgery) and send a sniper named John Rainbird (George C Scott) and plot to kidnap the duo for study them and testing their abilities.This exciting tale packs noisy action , explosions , suspense , thriller , chills , poignant plot and results to be an enjoyable though frightening entertainment , including some silly and embarrassing scenes . The movie delivers the goods with hair-rising thrills as when the little girl executes the astonishing abilities . It stars Drew Barrymore in one of her first roles after E.T. , as the gifted child of the title who has the ability to ignite objects around her . David Keith is good as the daddy who attempts to protect her from the nasties . Secondary cast is frankly excellent as Freddie Jones as Doctor Joseph Wanley , Art Carney as Irv Manders , Louise Fletcher as Norma Manders , Moses Gunn as Doctor Pynchot and Antonio Fargas as a Cabman . The fire special effects , themselves , of course , are the real protagonists , and they're surprising , astounding, and quite convincing . The special effects gave work to a great number of technician people and lots of stunts . This film was originally going to be directed by John Carpenter. According to Carpenter, Universal executives removed him from the project in the wake of the box office and critical drubbing they received for The Thing ,Carpenter had reportedly talked to his Assault on Precinct 13 actor, Darwin Joston about taking on the role of John Rainbird, which was ultimately played by George C. Scott . Strange soundtrack by Tangerine Dream was composed and performed by means of synthesizer ,they never actually saw the film and sent filmmaker some music and told him to choose whatever he liked . It was followed by ¨Firestarter 2  rekindled¨ (2002) by Robert Iscove with Marguerite Moreau as Charlene Charlie McGee , Malcolm McDowell , Dennis Hopper and Danny Nucci and in which Charlie has been in hiding for nearly all her life from a top-secret government fringe group headed by a maniacal who wants to find and use her as the ultimate weapon of war. The motion picture was well produced by Dino Laurentiis and professionally directed by Mark L. Lester. Director Mark L. Lester confirmed that this is his most difficult film that he ever made . He's a cool director and producer -American World Pictures- of B movies , his greatest success was during the 80s when he directed hits , such as ¨Commando¨, ¨Showdown in Little Tokio¨ and ¨Class of 99¨ and this ¨Firestarter¨. "},{"Title":"Above-average Stephen King theatrical fare.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Psychological and psychedelic testing produce some amazing results. Now those results are walking and talking and very unhappy with the agency who created it.Delightfully triumphant, wonderfully destructive forces are about to be tapped, honed and unleashed against the government who has created and now hopes to utilize these frightening powers upon the world.Charlie McGee (Drew Barrymore at the age of 9) is the product of psychological and psychedelic drug experiments performed by the US government upon her parents before her conception.After witnessing the murder of her mother, she and her father are on the run from the mysterious bunch of gun-carrying miscreants known only as the Agency. Her father (David Keith) is also a telepath as a result of these experiments, who enjoys telekinetic abilities as well. These abilities help, but not well enough.Will Charlie be able to save her father? Herself? Will they make it through this, or be forever torn apart by the Firestarter?Excellent movie. Excellent performances by Drew Barrymore (if a little hesitant and deliberate at times), George C. Scott (hated, Hated, HATED his character!! that must mean he played it very very well *lol*), Martin Sheen and David Keith.The effects were quite good, though in post-StarWars 1984, I had hoped for better; as was the plot and storyline. As Stephen King adaptations go, it varied from the book just enough to make it one of the FEW adaptations of King's work through which I don't find myself cringing.It gets a solid 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Disturbing - And Not In A Good Way","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I`ve only seen FIRESTARTER once and that was about 18 months ago on the Sci-fi channel . It`s mainly a forgettable movie with a plot that`s been reused a few times on THE X-FILES . It wasn`t until I was flicking through this site killing time that I remembered seeing it and would have totally forgotten seeing the movie in the first place if it wasn`t for the fact that this movie is disturbing and I don`t mean that in a good way!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!! The story revolves around Andrew Mcgee and his daughter Charlene who are on the run from government spooks who are after Charlene because she has telekinetic abilities to make things combust . It`s a simple plot but there`s two elements to the story that disturbed me . One is the introduction of the main villain John Rainbird ( The McGees have been captured by the spooks at this point ) who in order to find out the secret of Charlene`s powers tries to gain her confidence . What I found so disgusting about this is that it`s like watching how a paedophile may manipulate a victim , it really made my skin crawl and considering Rainbird states he`ll personally kill young Charlene after he`s  Got what he`s wanted  the allusion to child molesting and child murder is complete . Okay I accept that the audience detesting Rainbird and wanting him to be cruelly killed is accepted as part of the drama but what I don`t accept is the number of people killed by the Mcgees who are just doing their job . This was the second reason I disliked the movie intensely , in several scenes government officials are burned to death after trying to arrest the Mcgees . Okay the McGees could claim self defence like the action sequence at the end where they flame the government base but if you heard on the news today that several government law enforcers were killed in the line of duty after trying to arrest suspected terrorists/criminals where would your sympathy lie ? Would it be the with the law enforcers or the suspected terrorists/criminals ? These scenes of fiery deaths are even more disturbing watching Charlene being played by the angelic child actress Drew BarrymoreOne other thing I can recall about FIRESTARTER  is that the cast are wasted. Louise Fletcher and George C Scott both won Oscars in the 1970s ( Okay Scott turned his down but you know what I mean ) while there`s some classy support from character actors like Martin Sheen and Freddie Jones but ultimately I found myself asking what are these actors doing in such a low brow movie ? In fact FIRESTARTER is so bad I started wondering why Heather Locklear agreed to appear in it    "}{"Title":"still quite impressive after many years","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was about 14 and this film was released, I was obsessed with it. I thought Charley McGee had the most coveted powers on earth, to read others thoughts and to fry anyone who tried to hurt her or her family. A long time has passed but I have the DVD now and I have to say I never knew just what some of the critics were talking about when they panned the movie. I have read the book too and it's not 100% faithful, but I'd say it was at least 85 or 90 % like the Stephen King story. Not to mention the stellar cast, who all did MARVELOUS with their material. Martin Sheen was terrific, Art Carney and Louise Fletcher were wonderful, George C. Scott was menacing perfection, David Keith was probably the most impressive to me as the father who worried himself sick about his child...and the scenes where he had to go find his murdered wife were outstanding. And 8 year old Barrymore did a wonderful job. I love the music too of course, a moody ambient score by Tangerine Dream, but I thought the sound quality was a little disappointing. Apparently years and digital enhancements haven't helped. Still, this is, after over 2 decades, a cut above today's crappy ultraviolent horror offerings, and still a lot of fun to watch. I still can't see why the critics called it wasted talent of a lot of the best actors. It's a really good movie. "},{"Title":"That's HOT!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those who can't stand the heat, don't watch this movie! Fresh from the movie E.T., Drew Barrymore stars in this movie as Charlene Charlie Mcgee a pyrokinetic or Firestarter for that. Stephen King book really intensified me. The movie is just as interesting. A great cast put up George C. Scott(Patton, Mr. President, MussoliniThe Untold Story, etc.) Heather Locklear(T.J. Hooker, Melrose Place) Antonio Fargas(Starsky&Hutch) Charlie Sheen(Too Long to count) and others you might have know. The Shop is a very shady government group that builds certain guinea pigs with the formula LOT 6. Something quite similar to the Weapon X in Marvel Comics. Which Andy Mcgee(David Keith) telepathy and bore Charlie with pyrokinesis. When Charlie gets mad, you better look out, it's better to call the fire department when this action occurs. When Rainbird(Scott) killed the Capt.(Sheen) and Andy(Keith). Revenge really burns in the soul of Charlie. It really goes with the term, YOU'LL BE SORRY!!!! She really burned The Shop down like it was no tomorrow, avenging her father is one way to release her anger towards The Shop. Charlie makes all profession arsonists look like amateurs. She'll burn anything when others give up trying to cover their tracks. I've read the book, and I've seen the movie, if you can't take the heat, stay out of the theaters and the rentals! HAHA! 4 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"Better Than Votes Indicate","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am not going to make a long speech about this but the movie is much better than the votes would indicate.  A good cast, decent story and and enjoyable to watch.  It is also nice to see a young Drew Barrymore.  She has turned out to be a pretty good little actress and moviemaker. Check it out.  "},{"Title":"Nicely made sci-fi with a terrific child star","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Andrew McGee (David Keith) is on the run with his daughter Charlie (Drew Barrymore) from a secret government agency called 'The Shop'. He has the power of suggestion. She sets fires. Back in college, he was in Dr. Joseph Wanless (Freddie Jones)'s experiment with Vicky Tomlinson (Heather Locklear) taking an injection called Lot 6. They start communicating telepathically. Everybody hallucinates and they are the only two survivors. Later they got married and had Charlie. After they killed Vicky and tried to kidnap Charlie, Andrew goes on the run. Dr. Wanless wants to kill off the family fearing the powers of the little girl. Captain Hollister (Martin Sheen) scoffs at the possibilities with the support of John Rainbird (George C. Scott). They want to experiment and use her as a weapon.This is such a nicely made sci-fi giving child star Drew Barrymore the staring role. It doesn't have the big flash and the sizzle. It's mostly a road movie. There are some nice fire work. The explosions could be more impressive. The flashbacks work well. The acting is generally very good with some terrific actors. Drew does an exceptional job as a child actor. It probably could use more shoot outs and high speed chases. However it works very well without them. "},{"Title":"Firestarter","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Andy and his little girl Charlie are on the lam as the film opens escaping federal agents bent on capturing her and killing him. The reasons behind the chase is that Charlie(Drew Barrymore) has an astonishing gift inherited from her parents who were part of some sort of governmental experiment which went awry. Andy(David Keith, the heart and soul of this film)has the ability to force people to do his bidding through telekinesis, but it comes with a price..he is slowing hemorrhaging his brain, bit by bit as he performs his ability. His wife was also a part of this experiment, but she was killed by the agents. Charlie, thanks to her genes, even has greater power, somehow gaining the ability to set anything on fire she puts her focus on. The government might obviously be interested in this and Captain Hollister(the reliable Martin Sheen)sees a chance to restart the LOT 6 project(which is the name for the experiments performed on Andy and his wife). He'll need his men to catch them first and calls on assassin Rainbird(George C Scott,,who steals the film easily with his madman with skills at befriending the young girl and really relaxed with killing anyone)to get them. Rainbird will follow Hollister's command but wants a guarantee that he gets Charlie once the experiments they wish her to perform are complete. But, first Rainbird will quieten Doctor Wanless(Freddie Jones), the man whose drug is behind the kenesis both Andy and Charlie have. He threatens to expose Hollister and his group and will have to be done in. That's also what Andy wishes, to expose LOT 6 and bring them down for their making him and his daughter's life miserable..and, especially for the death of their beloved Vicky(Heather Locklear, who was so young and beautiful). But, Rainbird finds them, knocking them out with a sedative bullet which will end their desperate flee from the agents. Once separated, Andy will have to find a way to save he and his daughter from these pack of wolves who want to exploit their gifts and discard them. But, the interest in Charlie is so great, they keep Andy alive(although, they keep him repeatedly drugged and out of the picture)and Rainbird goes undercover as an orderly so that he can earn Charlie's trust. He plans to kill her once the Hollister experiments are over.Flawed, but entertaining King adaptation never quite explains how Charlie can whisk flame out of nowhere and hurl fireballs. I always wondered why her hair always catches wind when the flame is called on. The Charlie character is starting to control the flame more and more, but I wonder how anyone could possess such control to hurl flame. I guess I desired more understanding regarding her incredible abilities, but make no bones about it, this film is clearly about technical thrills rather than a cohesive, intelligent plot. We want to see this little girl tossing fireballs at those government a/holes who did her an injustice. The film allows us to see just a bit of what her power can unleash when Charlie and Andy momentarily have a place to stay with Irv and Norma Manders(Art Carney & Louise Fletcher..both, to be honest, are wasted)until agents storm the residence about to take them by force. But, when harm comes to daddy, Charlie sends The Shop into a fiery doom which is probably the highlight of any pyrotechnic artist who takes pleasure in their craft of hitting building with explosive fireballs and setting lots and lots of stunt people on fire. "},{"Title":"Wonderful flight of fancy","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was disappointed to read some of the other comments about this film. It seems that some people chose to see this film because it was written by one of their favorite authors or starred a favorite actor. I've never understood paying money to see a sci fi film based on who was involved in the production. I enjoy sci fi films that transport me to a different time or place and enable me to escape life for a while.This film presents a few fascinating ideas. Some of these concern the possibility that our pituitary glands can be manipulated in ways that would enable us to accomplish some very strange and terrible things. The ideas seemed completely unique and extremely interesting to me. What a wonderful change from the same old tired Hollywood formats. Kudos to all the creative people involved in the production of this film. I loved it.Someone made a negative remark about Drew's performance. I found that very disappointing. She was nine when this film was made and I think her performance was one of the best I've ever seen for a nine year-old. She was only nine years-old for crying out loud! "},{"Title":"This is very good!!!","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Surprisingly I only saw this movie some 20 years after it first came out and I must say I was very surprised. I suppose one could say that this film plus Carrie was the for-runner (on screen that is) of such films as X-Men and Heroes on TV. The acting was superb. If you want to know who is a good actor and who is average see them in a death scene. The way Brian Keith acted when he found his wife dead brought tears to my eyes such was the realism. As for Drew Barrymore I continue to be astounded by her acting ability it is just a shame (though not in this case) that the films she is in do not do her ability justice. The special effects for the time (1984)is excellent and if you do not believe me watch the end of Firestarter and then watch X-men two (the bobby at home scene) and you will see what I mean. As for me the highest praise I can give this film is to say that as soon as I finished watching it I hit the internet and bought it on DVD. "},{"Title":"This one held me from start to finish.","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm no fan of King books turned into movies(the exceptions being the shining, carrie and, a bit more mildly, this one). Firestarter lacks the sinister quality of the shining or the pure fine classic quality of a movie like Carrie but as far as thrillers go one can do a lot worse. I actually enjoyed this for what it is-an action packed thriller with wild special effects and an interesting plot. It held me from start to finish.There isn't much to dislike here as you are engrossed from the beginning. This maybe not a movie to go down in the thriller book of history but it certainly is watchable and quite interesting if you let yourself get swept away in the plot from the beginning. I'd solidly recommend this as a fun, at times riveting thriller that at least is never boring. My rating is 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore, the most powerful X-Men of them all.","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a movie with not the best reputation out there. It feels and looks like a late sequel to Brian De Palma's The Fury, which was still a movie I liked better than this one.Seems that one of the foremost reason why this movie isn't well liked is because it has some controversy in it. Drew Barrymore, who still was a 8 or 9 year old kid at the time, is killing a lot of people with her kinetic powers in this movie. Sort of the same reason why there was some controversy about Kick-Ass at the time. She kills by literally setting people on fire and blowing stuff up, with her powers (never thought I would ever been seeing Drew Barrymore blowing up George C. Scott). People tend to not like seeing kids doing stuff like that, even when it's in 'just' a movie. I personally have no problems with it, so it's nothing I hold against the movie but I of course can still see the reason why some people have issues with it.But still I also didn't liked this movie all that much. I was still really liking this movie during its first half, when it was being a movie in which the main characters were on the run but I really started to loose interest fast the moment they got captured and locked up for research. All of the pace and excitement seemed to be gone after that and the movie just never really recovered.You can definitely 'blame' the fact that this movie is being based on a book for that. I'm sure the story and character development and emotions all worked out fine in Stephen King's novel but it just isn't a type of story that translates well to the big screen. It makes too sudden big jumps in its story, has too many distracting and pointless sidetracks and characters and the contrasts between the first and second half of the movie are just too big. Apparently a remake of this movie is currently on the way but I have a scoop for you; It will bomb! The story just isn't good or interesting enough movie-wise and too many elements within it really don't work out too well on film.It's pretty amazing to see how much talent was involved with this movie, while at the same time it also had a quite low-budget. It's based on a novel by Stephen King, has action expert Mark L. Lester as director, Frank Capra Jr. and the Dino De Laurentiis Company behind the movie its production and it's starring David Keith, Drew Barrymore, Heather Locklear, Martin Sheen and George C. Scott. So lots of big names behind this movie, which make it perhaps a bit of an interesting 'failure' without at the same time calling this movie an horrible one though.No, it really is not an horrible movie by any means but it at the same time just isn't working out well either. It's a movie that you can definitely watch but when you don't, you're not missing much with it.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A GREAT movie","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Drew Barrymore was great for the role of Charlie, she disguises her ability to light fires with her cuteness and innocent personality. David Keith was the protective father that would do anything to protect his daughter from the SHOP, even die. With a lot of cool scenes, the movie is one of the best movies I've seen, I would recommend it to anyone.   "}{"Title":"Great Cast but the Film is a Flop","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter (1984) ** (out of 4) Weak adaptation of the Steven King novel about a young child named Charlie (Drew Barrymore) who has the special power of being able to set things on fire by just using her thought. She's on the run with her father (David Keith) from various government people wanting to exploit her talent as she tries to control her gift. I haven't read the novel that this movie is based on so I can't comment on what this got right or wrong. However, I'm one who never expects a movie to follow the book 100% so with that in mind I can only say that this film is a complete mess. Thankfully this thing offers up an all-star cast including some legends because without them this film would be nearly impossible to get through. Clocking in just under two-hours, the film feels twice as long and I think a lot of the blame has to go to director Mark L. Lester. His direction is all over the place and not for a second did I feel any tension in the story and I also thought the pacing was pretty bad. I will say that not all of this might be his fault because the screenplay itself has a fair number of problems. One such problem is that the entire thing never really seems to know what it wants to do. Is it a horror film? Science fiction? Is it trying to be some sort of hard, negative look at the government and their powers? The film is all over the map in regards to what it's trying to do but sadly it doesn't do any of them very well. The performances are actually pretty good and are the best thing in the film. Barrymore delivers a strong and believable performance as the haunting girl and I've always liked Keith in just about everything he's done. Heather Locklear does a nice job in her scenes as the mother and we get vets like Martin Sheen and George C. Scott offering up fine performances. The highlight of the film deals with a couple farmers played by Art Carney and Louise Fletcher. Yes, FIRESTARTER has three Oscar-winning actors. The special effects are another plus and help give the film some energy. I must admit that the entire story struck me as being silly and especially early on as we see Keith's character getting nosebleeds from doing his psychic powers and Barrymore crying from setting people on fire. These scenes really made me laugh the majority of the time and once we keep seeing the same thing over and over it just gets boring. "},{"Title":"O. K. Flick","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here is another screen adaptation of a Stephen King literary work that has fallen short of it's potential to truly entertain.  To read his work and then wait in high anticipation of the cinematic interpretation, only to be disappointed after viewing, can cause one to remain biased with screen adaptations. Though I was disappointed with the overall production of this movie, there are a few strong points I'd like to mention.  I was thoroughly impressed with Drew Barrymore's acting ability at eight years of age.  She was a natural and carried this movie.  Because of the depth in which she played her character, I will give this movie a six- I give her acting a ten.  A weaker actress would have made this movie more difficult to watch.  Charlie Sheen and George C. Scott helped the movie along too.  Otherwise the movie lacked the direction and mood that Stephen King usually generates in his books.  "},{"Title":"Drew is an exceptional child actress","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Drew makes this movie. Back off, back off! George C. Scott as John Rain man is so good that you just can't help but to despise him. It's only a movie, but just the same, weird that John would believe that by killing little Charlie, he could take her power with him when he dies, although native Indian tribes probably had some of those same beliefs. It's also hard to believe that secret associations/companies like that of The Shop exist in the real world, but that could be true for whatever purpose or reason. The musical score was good too, particularly eerie during the scene where Charlie decimates the Shop/mansion and affiliates in the house and grounds. "},{"Title":"If you think King is just about horror you're a moron...","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Too many reviews on IMDb complain about this title not being scary. One talks about the first half being scary, but the second not. It's not supposed to be scary, horror scary at all, but is more in line with 1984 and the idea of government agencies overreaching. It is way more SciFi than horror with. Conspiracy theory thrown in for good nature. My biggest problem is George C. Scott as the antagonist who is supposed to be Native American. This is not a great film, nor is it a bad film. Watch and decide. It is A Stephen King film involving the Shop. It is therefore, connected to Golden Years and other stories. Keep in mind that it is not IT and it is not one of his multiple ghost stories. This is a psychological SciFi flick that borders on dystopian. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Sci-Fi Flick!","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Keith, Drew Barrymore, Martin Sheen, George C. Scott, Heather Locklear, Art Carney, Louise Fletcher and Moses Gunn star in this 1984 sci-fi film based on Stephen King's novel. This begins where we meet Andy (Keith) and his young daughter, Charlene aka Charlie (Barrymore) who are on the run from government agents because they have special, psychological abilities. Andy is able to mind-control others and Charlie is able to set fire with her mind. Soon, they're captured and become experimented on with deadly results. Sheen (Wall Street) plays Capt. Hollister who keeps them under observation, the late, Scott (Patton) plays Rainbird, an assassin, the late, Gunn (The Neverending Story) plays scientist, Pynchot, the late, Carney (The Honeymooners) plays Irv, a farmer who helps Andy and Charlie, Fletcher plays his wife, Norma and Locklear appears briefly as Victoria, Charlie's mother who is killed. This isn't a bad flick featuring a decent cast & Tangerine Dream's score is great as usual. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Version of Scanners","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A couple who participated in a potent medical experiment gain telekinetic ability and then have a child (Drew Barrymore) who is pyrokinetic.There is a decent cast with Martin Sheen as a villain (not unlike The Dead Zone) and the always powerful presence of George C. Scott (The Changeling). We have decent shots from cinematographer Giuseppe Ruzzolini, who has previously worked with Sergio Leone on Duck, You Sucker (1971).Critic Vincent Canby wrote, The screenplay, by Stanley Mann, bears more than a little resemblance to 'The Fury' which was directed by Brian De Palma, who made his first big commercial hit by directing the screen version of Mr. King's 'Carrie' which also had to do with brain power. This is, of course, a fair line of reasoning. Firestarter recalls David Cronenberg's Scanners, but one could also see parallels with the films Canby mentions. In a way, there is something of a subgenre of psychokinetic horror films from the 1980s. "},{"Title":"Decent but nothing all that remarkable","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escaping from a secret lab and going on the run, a man and his daughter try to elude the assassins sent to harness their mental powers for a government project.On the whole, this one isn't that bad and has some pretty good parts to it. One of the better issues here is the rather touching relationship between the killer and the girl while in the facility which is quite far removed from the prototypical assassin/target scenes as they touch off on more of a familial basis than expected. There's a lot of touching moments from the two together that's a little more chilling due to the deceptive nature of the double-cross that it ultimately turns into, and it adds a different dynamic to the scenes stuck in the compound. Those are overshadowed completely, though, by the film's spectacular finale which really lets the paranormal powers loose as she gets to display her powers to the fullest in destroying the entire complex. It's an extended, overlong sequence packed with action as equipment, soldiers and vehicles get blown up and blasted to pieces in fiery spectacle with fabulous excitement bursting out into the final half of the film. This really works up quite a few good points by helping to even out the one debilitating facet here which comes from the rather banal scenes of them in the compound. These aren't all that impressive as it consists of the company men standing around as they conduct various experiments and tests that aren't in the slightest bit scary or chilling with all sorts of rather pedestrian attempts to exploit their powers. His isn't all that scary and to put the kind of emphasis on him for the majority of the time while under capture doesn't have any kind of impact on that feeling in the movie so there's an extended amount of time where this doesn't feel like a true horror effort during these segments. It does knock the film slightly due to this, even though the positives do make up for plenty of these problems.Rated R Graphic Language, Violence and continuous children-in-jeopardy. "},{"Title":"A Remake Would be Nice Today","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yesterday I was talking to someone about movie remakes which movies would do well remade and which movies should never be touched. I think Firestarter would do well as a remake. Firestarter relied heavily on little Charlie Mcgee and her abilities, so with today's CGI and special effects another Firestarter would be really nice.Firestarter was about a clandestine government program in which they were giving psychotropic drugs to some participants to see their effects upon the patients. Two participants hooked up, got married and gave birth to Charlene Mcgee (Drew Barrymore). The government operation, known as The Shop, caught wind of this and pursued the family.I remember the movie being a lot better in 1980-whatever when I first saw it. Today, the movie was OK. The acting wasn't that good and the action was very unnatural; meaning that fire and heat can do certain things and some of the things Charlie Mcgee was doing was out of the realm of possibility. Furthermore, the victims of Charlie's wrath were doing things that a person wouldn't ordinarily do in the given situation. I know Drew Barrymore was just a child but yikes! She was almost unbearable to watch her acting was so forced.I think a remake would be cool. In fact, they could have Drew Barrymore play the role of Vicky Mcgee (Heather Locklear), the mother of Charlene Mcgee. I was also thinking they could do a Firestarter 2 with Charlie being a grown-up, played by Drew Barrymore, and having a little supernatural kid of her own. Then I saw here on IMDb that a Firestarter 2 was done in 2002. That went under the radar. So that leads me back to my original idea of a Firestarter remake. It could work. "},{"Title":"interesting movie","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" it's been at least 25 years since I seen this,, so I was looking forward to seeing this,, Martin Sheen was very good , George C. Scott stole the show however,, as Rainbird,, the hit-man/ janitor. Drew Barrymore was made a house hold name after this picture,, Heather Locklear plays her mother,, but sadly is only in the picture for 10-15 mins at the beginning,, A couple and a few other college age kids participate in some testing for telekinetic, and some will have side effects and develop powers. and some won't.. our main character has the power of getting people to do what he wants, and his young daughter is a pyrokinetic . overall an interesting watch,, hard to follow in some spots.. but nonetheless very interesting picture,,, I'm not going to get into comparing the book with the movie. "},{"Title":"Okay version of a Stephen King story; Drew Barrymore","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this film. And when you think of the Stephen King projects that have become films...that's pretty mixed, too. A few have been very good. A few awful. And others somewhere in between. And that's where this one stands...in between.First off, you have the special effects. Considering this was made 30 years ago, they're darned good. So that gets an A.Then there's the cast...notable cast. David Keith as the dad...well, he was okay. Drew Barrymore as the firestarter...stunning, and only 9 years old when this was made! Freddie Jones as one of the scientists with a little bit of conscience was interesting...as long as he lasted. A young Heather Locklear does what she does best...looks beautiful. Martin Sheen as the head of the project was quite good. George C. Scott...well, I'm a pretty big fan of him...but I wasn't that impressed with him here...and I can't think of the last time I said that! Art Carney is fun to watch here. As is Louise Fletcher. Moses Gunn...an actor I had forgotten about; good to see him again, here as one of the scientists.In terms of the script. Well, not too bad, not great. The problem with the story is that you already know what the ending of the film is going to be -- a prepubescent Carrie-like fiery finale. So the question is, will the director make getting there interesting. Sometimes yes, sometimes no. Some good dialog, some dialog that almost made me laugh out loud.So, it's sort of a draw. Not bad, not great, just in between. Worth a watch to see Drew Barrymore and the special effects. "}{"Title":"Flaming Biscuits of Doom","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would be unfair to say Firestarter was Stephen King's attempt to recreate Carrie. King was hugely successful by that point, enough that he could write anything and Hollywood would immediately turn it into a movie. (Which is what happened with Firestarter. The film rights were acquired before the book was even published.) While Carrie is a horror character study, Firestarter sits more comfortably in the realm of sci-fi thriller, with occasionally grisly special effects. Both books and film adaptations revolve around a young girl with extraordinary power. However, Charlie McGee is eight year younger then Carrie, has a perfectly sane parent, and is on the run from a secret government sect. For all their differences, both stories build towards the girl unleashing her massive powers. All the film that comes before is leading towards Charlie's psychic-induced climatic rampage.Firestarter is split evenly in two. The first hour is a chase picture. Father Andy and daughter Charlie are on the run from the Shop. The scenes of them fleeing through an airport or hitchhiking pass government agents are decently exciting. These moments are broken up by laden flashbacks that flatly explain the origin of the characters' powers and why they're running. At least the blatant exposition is presented visually but they hamper the film's forward momentum.After Charlie is captured by the Shop, the pace completely shifts. Charlie is manipulated by psychotic government hit man Rainbird into honing her powers. Like every other secret government agency in cinema history, the Shop wants to use the unstable super being as a weapon. Rainbird is another thin Stephen King villain. The obviously American Indian character, played by obviously Caucasian George C. Scott, believes that he can steal someone's powers by looking into their eyes at their moment of death. He is obsessed with Charlie's ability and befriends the girl strictly so he can kill her later. Rainbird has no deeper motivation but the relationship between Scott and Barrymore provides a drive for the second half. The seemingly benign scenes of Scott befriending the girl are laced with a sinister intent. This plot line certainly proves more compelling then Andy's routine escape plan, the Shop boss' hand-wrangling or long scenes of Charlie blowing things up in a lab.Firestarter needed stronger performances to succeed. I suspect the involvement of Drew Barrymore, the most popular young actress at the time, is what got the film into active production. It's not that Barrymore was a bad actress at this time. Her personal moments are quite affecting. You certainly feel sorry for Charlie anytime she cries. However, Drew can't quite carry the bigger moments. Her emotional outbreaks are unconvincing. Her constant pleas to her powers to back it off come off as helplessly hokey. David Keith, who I'll remind you is not Keith David, does fine, I suppose, but his Southern accent is seriously distracting. Martin Sheen is not a terribly interesting villain and neither is deep-voiced Moses Gunn as a near mad scientist. Art Carney is likable as the kindly old farmer, even if the part is underwritten and Louise Fletcher is wasted as his wife. Only George C. Scott truly impresses. Scott can play gravely maliciousness with ease and he makes Rainbird, otherwise a simplistic figure, captivating to watch.The film was dismissed as a special-effects-fest upon release. No wonder since Charlie's fireball fueled rampages are the most exciting moments. The ambush on the farm builds nicely. I like the thermostat rising and the butter melting in its dish. The blazing agents and exploding cars are orchestrated fantastically. After watching the girl get pushed around for a solid hour, it's satisfying to see Charlie burn down the Shop. Men fly through the air, ablaze. Burning trails hunt running agents down. Some of the special effects have aged better then others. Bullets bursting into flames just before her face look cheesy. The Flaming Biscuits of Doom that Charlie explodes a truck and a helicopter with are likely to cause giggles. Still, it's as effortlessly entertaining as Firestarter gets. No surprise that director Mark L. Lestor would reinvent himself as an action auteur following this.With a more even lead and tighter screenplay, Firestarter could have been an intense thriller. As it is, the film never reaches its full potentials. If you're looking for flaming carnage, you'll get it eventually. The rest of the film doesn't exactly; I apologize for this, set the screen on fire. "},{"Title":"More meaningful if you've read the book, but I've seen a lot worse.","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this film deserves more than 5.8. I am a huge Stephen King fan and I have found a lot of the film adaptations much poorer than Firestarter. The plot stays pretty close to the book, and I love Drew Barrymore as Charlie. I think I liked the film mainly because I've read the book and liked the story, and the film was therefore more meaningful. If I hadn't read the book I might not have appreciated the movie so much, but still, I've seen films which were a LOT worse so I can't really understand why this has such a low rating. Anyway, I would highly recommend reading the book and then watching the film. Also, for an early 80s film I thought the special effects were pretty impressive! "},{"Title":"Above average thriller, nothing more","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The work of famed author Stephen King has been turned into TV and feature films since 1976. This has ranged from the excellent (Carrie and The Mist) to the poor (Children of the Corn Revelation and Creepshow 2) and everything in between. Some just don't have what it takes to bring the material to the screen, which is unfortunate. It's also a bit frustrating when the film is stuck in the middle and has the potential to be so much more. This is the case with this film based on King's 1980 novel about a girl with the ability to set things aflame. Not a bad film, but not all it could be either.Pros Good work from the whole cast. Fabulous score by Tangerine Dream. Gorgeous North Carolina scenery. Moves at a good steady pace most of the way through. Amazing pyrotechnics work. Great stunt work. Some really thrilling sequences. Powerhouse finale.Cons Pace drags in spots. Looks like a TV movie for the most part due to the not too spectacular direction. Not nearly as thrilling as it could or should have been.Final thoughts An above average movie based on King's work isn't the worst thing in the world. This film certainly won't be remembered as one of the best, but it's not a waste of time either. It's entertaining enough and competent enough to be worth a watch.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Pyrokinetic thriller","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the Stephen King book of the same name, this is an efficient supernatural thriller that neither excites nor disappoints.Andy and Charlie McGee are father and daughter, and both have a special power. He is a 'pusher', someone with the ability to bend people's will, to make them do things either against their will or even unconsciously. She's a pyrokinetic - a firestarter. She can burn things up by thought alone.See, Andy and his wife took part in a medical trial when they were young, and both had innate powers anyway that were brought to the surface. Now, the wife is dead, Andy and his daughter - played by a very young Drew Barrymore - are on the run from the authorities, and she's losing control of her ability to tame the burning rage within.An intriguing concept, well executed, this is underplayed and enjoyable, though it won't change your world. "},{"Title":"Pyrokinetic Little Girl Serves Up Fed Flambé Action Thriller","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Charlene McGee is the child of two people involved in an experimental drug test, and has the unique ability to start fires just with the power of her mind. She and her father are on the run from The Shop, a shady government organisation seeking to harness Charlie's pyrokinesis for their own nefarious ends. How can they escape ?I like this movie a lot, but will admit that the concept is a bit crazy (and kinda similar to author Stephen King's earlier Carrie) - it's the type of film where if you're willing to go with the flow, there's a lot of fun to be had with plot twists, wacky characters and action. If you don't buy it, back to reality TV with you. I think the main reason I enjoy it is down to the cast. Keith is terrific in the straight-arrow role of the protective Dad (unusual in a King story, where fathers are usually demonic), Sheen is a cagey bureaucrat, Jones does his mad scientist bit, Carney is a nice guy farmer - when a Shop operative tells him they don't need a warrant to be on his land he memorably quips, You do unless I woke up in Russia this morning. - and Gunn is a nervously grinning sawbones. Best of all is Scott in a flashy part as über-assassin Rainbird, a mad one-eyed Indian with an unhealthy interest in Charlie - he makes it into my (large) gallery of favourite screen villains. Eight-year-old Barrymore is iconic in the lead, perhaps not the most naturalistic child performer, but the image of her blonde hair blowing back as she goes flame-on is pretty stylish. Couple that with a great eighties electronic score by Tangerine Dream and a director who knows how to handle action well and the result is some great set-pieces, particularly the fiery finale as Charlie literally burns down The Shop. Anything involving fire is probably the most difficult and dangerous type of stuntwork to bring off well, and the various amazing shots here are courtesy of veteran action-man/first assistant director Glenn Randall Jr. Made at the height of King's bestselling days (seven major movies of his stories were released between 1983 and 1985), this isn't the best of his books but the movie is a straightforward adaptation and solid entertainment throughout. Followed by a made-for-cable sequel in 2002 - instead of that, try to catch the King short-story movie Cat's Eye, made a year after this by many of the same crew. "},{"Title":"The Firestarter House","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I watched this movie at it's release in '84, little did I know that I would have a connection with this movie till this day. The house used in the movie which the Art Carney and Louise Fletcher characters lived is owned by me and my extended family. During the actual filming, we did not own the house. It is located directly across from Oakland Plantation in Bladen County, NC at which we operate a grass turf farm. The plantation house was scouted by a preproduction agent for the movie to be used as the headquarters for the Shop. Instead the Orton Plantation house outside of Wilmington, NC was used for that filming location. Both these prerevolutionary war plantations are on the National Register of Historical Places. Just a few years after the movie release, the tenants abandoned the house and we acquired it and many acres around it for the growth of the farm. Over the years we have taken many friends and acquaintances to see the house in which afterward, they will go back and watch the movie again or watch for the first time. The house today shows some significant wear from weather and lack of upkeep but still stands. The driveway in which the Shop's agents drive to the house in the black and blue cars still looks the same, a picturesque oak lined drive. The opening up for the turf farm allows anyone who would like to see it from road. It's located on South Elwell Ferry Road near Council, NC. It sets to the right going east toward the only free inland ferry in North Carolina which carries you across the Cape Fear River. "},{"Title":"decent science fiction thriller","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i thought this was an entertaining movie.it wasn't spectacular,by any means,but i've seen way worse.Drew Barrymore shows some acting ability at a young age.i think she was around 8 when this was made.the rest of the acting was decent enough for the most part.i did think that George C.Scott seemed out of place,though.the story itself was interesting and there were some moments of suspense.whether it was as good as Stephen King's novel,i can't say,since i haven't read the novel.the effects were pretty good for that time.the movie is one hour and 55 minutes and it could have been shorter by about 20 minutes or so,in my opinion.but if nothing else,it was a decent diversion.for me,Fire Starter is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Suppose lighting fires is just the tip of the iceberg?","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Mark L. Lester did a notable job of bringing Stephen King's Firestarter to the big screen. It's one of the better King adaptations involving an evil government arm called The Shop who did some of those wacky drug tests back in the late 60's. What they created with their experiments were people who have heightened telekinetic abilities. The only people who survive the experiment (David Keith and Heather Locklear) fall in love and eventually have a daughter. This daughter has a very potent ability that puts their own to shame Pyrokinesis. Thus Firestarter is born. One of the more satisfying aspects of the film to me is the casting. A young Drew Barrymore stars as Charlie Mcgee, the troubled child who you don't want to make angry. She does a remarkable job for one so young. David Keith is also good as the dad; he elicits sympathy from the audience and is also really creepy when doing his Scanners bit. Most impressive here is George C. Scott as the diabolical John Rainbird. The man cannot possibly be more of a badass. He essentially has two roles Rainbird the assassin and John the Friendly Orderly. The awesome supporting cast includes Martin Sheen, Moses Gunn, Freddie Jones, Art Carney, Louise Fletcher, and Heather Locklear. The film opens with The Shop trying to hunt down their prodigal daughter. They've killed Locklear's mother character and are trying to capture Andrew and Charlie. Much of the movie takes place with the family on the run with several fiery set pieces. The stunt men earned their pay on this film. When they succeed at finally capturing the Mcgee's and splitting them up the film slows down a bit. But it remains interesting because of the relationship created between Rainbird and Charlie. He becomes a helpful janitor and convinces Charlie to use her powers for The Shop under the pretense that she may get to see her father again. When her request is denied repeatedly, things heat up (pardon the pun). I've given enough away already, but let me just say that the climax is one of the most amazing and satisfying of any films.Note to genre buffs John Carpenter almost directed this film and two former Michael Myers' (Dick Warlock and George Wilbur) appear in this film. "},{"Title":"A faithful adaptation","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firestarter is a film about a family called The McGee's (Played by David Keith,Heather Locklear, and 8 year old Drew Barrymore as Charlie McGee) who have supernatural abilities because they participated in a shady scientific experiment. Charlie is capable of setting a fire with her mind. The government agency which sponsored the experiment known as The Shop wish to capture the McGee's to perform further experiments on them. Martin Sheen and George C Scott also star in this film as members of The Shop. Drew Barrymore was an excellent pick for this film. The movie is based on a 1980 novel by Stephen King. It is significantly faithful to the book, compared to other theatrical movies based on Stephen King books. Many of King's older novels have been subject to remakes (Carrie, Salem's Lot, The Shining, The Dead Zone...) I hope they let this movie stand on it's own. The movie will be best enjoyed if you have read the novel previously. Viewers who have not read the book may find the movie to be corny for several reasons 1980's special effects An original score recorded primarily with a synthesizer... Also David Keith in this film bares an unfortunate resemblance to reality TV icon Joe Millionaire However fans of the actors of this movie, and Stephen King fans will probably find this film to be a worthy way to spend two hours.  "},{"Title":"Temperature rises to only fizzle.","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Around this period it was fashionable to bring one of Stephan King's novels to the screen. King's adaptations either hit the mark or fell incredibly short, and 'Firestarter' I found myself coughing up a lot smoke. Not the worst, but far from his better ones. For a story that seems to get right into it, I couldn't help but find it dull. Pacing is fine, but it goes about things in a very stilted, and empty manner. Not much does eventuate, even though the premise has enough there to build upon its smart concept. Mark L. Lester's shapeless direction, along with a daftly political script of corny drivel, stiff performances and preposterously shonky special effects makes this a pulpy can of worms. Well I won't deny the special effects weren't fun to watch, but how it went about setting up those sequences were extremely laughable with its excessive explosions and absurd slow motion. Lester manages to strike up one or two quite effective spiteful images, and discussions. Gee that absurd final climax goes on&#133; and on&#133; and on. It doesn't matter how much it blows up, it can't escape just how one-note and bland the whole thing is. Now forget about the blaring pyrotechnics . Wait for when the fans kick into gear, and we get Drew Barrymore's lovely golden blond hair flying in the wind and that look of concentration in those steely eyes. Now that's special effects for ya! Lending to the film's smoky atmosphere is a steamy soundtrack by Tangerine Dream, which wasn't too bad if a little rigid. The cast they got in is splendid; the performances however are clunky. Barrymore admirably hearty turn engages in her second performance after her breakthrough in E.T. &#150; The Extra-Terrestrial (1982). and George C. Scott makes for an oddly, subtle monstrous turn of villainously. He might not be always convincing, but he has his memorable moments. Martin Sheen seems pretty vacant, and a flat David Keith looks in pain and discomfort. Maybe it was the script? In lesser support roles are Freddie Jones, Art Carney, Louise Fletcher and a pre-stardom Heather Locklear. An amusing lukewarm effort made more curious because of the cast. "}{"Title":"Much better than thought of here","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time the other night and must say I was quite taken. Slow at times but the cast was strong. George C Scott is terrific as the Rainbird character. An unusual choice for him but played so well. You knew he hated what he was doing for the government. When  Martin Sheen warns him about what will happen to him if 'Charlie' finds out, he laughs and welcomes the confrontation. Barrymore was excellent and so sincere in her part. Stereotype government agents were so effective you found yourself rooting for the 'Charlie' girl to burn them all and their evil ways. See it. "},{"Title":"Satisfying adapted film from first to last frame","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd like to start off by saying that I am a huge Stephen King fan. I've seen more of his adapted miniseries and movies then I've read his books, but thankfully I have a father who is even more into King's works then I am and is able to tell me if a book adapted movie of his is any good. I've never read Firestarter, but I found it to be incredible and not the least bit boring. Like so many other King novels although the #1 Best Selling Horror Author may have a story on the surface that consists of the supernatural in some way shape or form what I love about so many of his stories is that beneath the supernatural surface King reveals a more personal side of the story. Firestarter is just another great example of a more personal touch King gives the novel where a young girl and her father will do what it takes to survive in a world where the government continually hunts them to expose they're powers and then kill them. Where a father will also do what he must to keep his daughter alive. An incredible novel done even more justice when put on screen will never leave you unsatisfied if you are a true Stephen King fan. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nice little chiller sees Stephen King's work transferred to the big screen yet again. But where most of King's films come up short this one does a suprisingly good job of capturing his offbeat style of story telling. A young Drew Barrymore stars as a girl who has the ability to light fires with her mind. Her and her father are on the run from government agents who want to take her in for testing. The climax of the movie is jaw dropping and makes the whole thing worth the while. All the performances are great especially Martin Sheen as the man who wants to do the testes on Barrymore. The movie is often times suspensful without the use of unneeded gore and even though doesn't offer anything ground breaking, is one heck of a roller coaster ride nonetheless.   "},{"Title":"A modest success","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firestarter was not exactly the best Stephen King adaptation ever. Point in fact, it suffered from terminal cheesiness. (The blocks are starting to burn!!! as one character blurts out with gusto) But, on the basis of acting; I do give it high marks.Much of the credit is due to David Keith and Drew Barrymore who play the father/daughter team wanted by secret government agents because of Barrymore's unique talent of lighting fires without matches. They both made a very convincing team. They brought the human element to what, I assume, was an already laughable plot. At Stephen King's best, that is exactly what he is skilled at. He has that talent of drawing you in via the solid characterizations; no matter how bizarre or terrifying the situation may be.I also thoroughly enjoyed George C. Scott (playing an Native-American assassin of all people) who's fascinated with the young girl, even though he wishes to kill her. He conveyed a solid ambiguity that made his otherwise loathsome character likable.   "},{"Title":"one of the best king adaptations to date","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tangerine Dream captures the ambience of the novel in perfection, and creates a haunting soundtrack. Drew as Charlie- beautiful, innocence, vulnerability, no other child actress would have been suitable and easily her best acting performance. Best film ever, saw it when I was a youngster, its aura will remain with me forever "},{"Title":"A fast-paced film with ups and downs","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"            Firestarter is a film based on a powerful novel by author extraordinaire,- Stephen King.The cast is full of allstars,with Drew Barrymore starring as the little girl posessing a supernatural ability to create fires and explosions simply by the power of her will.The father,played by actor David Keith,has the ability to create mental domination over others.This,along with the dangerous powers of his little girl,is due to the lingering effects of a college drug experiment conducted by a secret government agency,-The Shop.His wife,played by actress Heather Locklear,was murdered by agents from The Shop,and father and daughter find themselves on the run against the determined government outfit,lead by actor Martin Sheen.George C.Scott plays the exterminator for The Shop,a character known as John Rainbird.                                                 Firestarter has its ups and downs,and although the acting is above average,special effects make up the biggest part of the movie.The character of Rainbird,however,along with the effects,goes a long way towards carrying the film.Rainbird is one of my all-time favorite villains,he is cunning and intelligent,but above all-brutal.He is an essential element to the plot, and prevents the film from becoming average-dull.This is a good film if you like sci-fi action mixed with government cover-ups and conspiracies.     "},{"Title":"Decent Stephen King adaptation.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter starts as Andrew McGee (David Keith) & his young daughter Charlene (Drew Barrymore) escape the clutches of some federal agent type guy's, you see a shadowy Governemt organisation called 'The Shop' conducted some experiments on Andrew & Charlene's mother Victoria (Heather Locklear) who then got together, had sex & ended up with Charlene who as a result of the experiments is a pyrokinetic & can start fires by just thinking about it. Now the evil guy's & gal's who run The Shop want Andrew for his own telekinetic abilities & Charlene for hers, Andrew knows they want to conduct experiments on himself & Charlene for their own evil purposes & is determined not to let The Shop get hold of them...Directed by Mark L. Lester & adapted from the Stephen King novel of the same name Firestarter is fairly mean spirited but watchable horror/thriller. The script by Stanley Mann which takes itself very seriously is at it's most enjoyable during it's first half when Andrew & Charlene are on the run which is when it is pretty interesting & relatively absorbing, unfortunately the second half of the film switches gears completely & it becomes evil scientists vs. Charlene & lets face it there was only ever going to be one winner. I'm not happy about the long sequences of Charlene making people burn to death, I'm sorry but I felt no sympathy for her as a character & the scenes of these people burning, whether they had done anything to her or not, were pretty strong & Lester certainly likes to dwell on their pain & the screams they make as they burn. I usually love exploitation & the nastier the better but these parts in Firestarter just didn't sit well we me at all & thought they were gratuitous & unnecessary. The character's aren't great, the dialogue is OK & I didn't really see why they wanted to capture Andrew & Charlene so badly, I mean whose bright idea was it to suggest they could control her anyway? Ultimately what did they intend to do with her? It moves along at a reasonable pace & isn't too boring but I doubt I'd want to watch it anytime again soon.Director Lester does a good job, the suitably fiery climax is pretty brutal as Charlene dishes out some swift & severe punishment. Apparently Lester replaced John Carpenter who was originally set to direct but after the critical & financial failure of The Thing (1982), which coincidently is one of the biggest travesty's in cinematic history, the money men at Universal 'removed' him from the project. I wouldn't call it scary, it's not particularly creepy or exciting either but it does have a certain sinister atmosphere. There are some strong scenes of people being set on fire & burning to death here, the special effects do a great job perhaps even too great a job as they come across as excessive. Forget about any gore or violence as there isn't any.Shot in North Carolina & boasting a very healthy sounding budget of about $15,000,000 Firestarter has a very slick & professional look about it, it's well made with impressive fire effects & it has high production values. There's a surprisingly good cast here, Martin Sheen who took over from Burt Lancaster at short notice, Drew Barrymore who was riding high on the success of E.T. (1982), coincidently E.T. was the reason why The Thing bombed at the box-office, George C. Scott complete with comedy eye-patch & Heather Locklear are all probably recognisable to the average film-goer.Firestarter is a decent enough time waster, it's an OK Stephen King adaptation, it has a good cast & some impressive fire effects but as a whole it's average with a predictable & lightweight story that ultimately goes nowhere. Followed by the made-for-TV sequel Firestarter II Rekindled (2002) which brings the villain John Rainbird back from the dead somehow... "},{"Title":"The conclusion is rather explosive.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is about, of course, a girl who can start fires with her mind.  Through a series of flashbacks we see how she came about these powers and why the government is now pursuing her.  This movie features a few stars such as the title character Drew Barrymore, David Keith, George C. Scott, and Martin Sheen.  Keith plays Barrymore's dad and he also has special abilities mainly consisting of a strange ability to control a persons mind.  Through the first half of the film we see these two chased by this organization called the shop which is actually referred too in a couple of other King novels (never read this one though).  The second half has them captured by this organization and performing tests on Barrymore's character.  For the most part this movie is very slow moving and a bit confusing.  I have watched it a few times and I still am unsure of George C Scott's motivations.  You see Charlie (Barrymore) use her powers here and there, but nothing to grand, that is until the end where the movie really ends with a bang. "},{"Title":"Not the best Stephen King adaptation, but not the worst either.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like Silasss, I just finished checking it out again on Carlton Cinema, and this hasn't aged well in terms of some of the special effects (this was one of several movie versions of Stephen King stories made by Dino De Laurentiis - see also Cat's Eye, The Dead Zone, and Silver Bullet) - although they still hold up better than Tangerine Dream's score, which like the music usually put out by those fellow '80s synthesiser merchants Harold Faltermeyer and Giorgio Moroder is now mega-dated (and not even in a fun way like the aforementioned Faltermeyer) - but this does hew fairly close to the novel for the most part, helped by a strong cast. And it's a welcome reminder of the days before the King became a Serious Novelist (does anyone really prefer Hearts In (or of, or whatever it is) Atlantis to It?).A worrying footnote, though - casting Heather Locklear as Drew Barrymore's mother leaves a weird aftertaste when you realise that Heather is only 14 years older than Drew... "},{"Title":"Awww.. Drew BarryMore is just too cute. So. Back Off. Back Off !","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this a 10 cause i thought Drew was so adorable ! To imagine her playing a fire starter kid is so funny...I mean, I can see her trying to put on a mean face as an innocent young child. She was so hug-gable and irresistible in that movie. Oh about the movie, well it wasn't as good as I thought it'd be but its still deserving of a 10. Drew Barrymore, oh,..how I'd love to encore all her desires now that she's a grown woman. Even now she's so adorable. I'd love to meet her. She's so bubbly and naturally cheerful in an intelligent way. Then again, with such a successful career, who wouldn't be ?! he he..I gave this a 10 cause i thought Drew was so adorable ! To imagine her playing a fire starter kid is so funny...I mean, I can see her trying to put on a mean face as an innocent young child. She was so hug-gable and irresistible in that movie. Oh about the movie, well it wasn't as good as I thought it'd be but its still deserving of a 10. Drew Barrymore, oh,..how I'd love to encore all her desires now that she's a grown woman. Even now she's so adorable. I'd love to meet her. She's so bubbly and naturally cheerful in an intelligent way. Then again, with such a successful career, who wouldn't be ?! he he.. "}{"Title":"Lots of flames without any burn.","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Government is running a secret facility known as 'The Shop'. The man in charge is Captain Hollister (Sheen) who oversees drug experiments on human guinea pigs. Andrew Mcgee (Keith) meets Vicky (Heather Locklear) while going there and the experiments go south quick. Andrew can control things with his mind and make people do things against their will. It drains him terribly when he does it, but he has a power the government is interested in. When the couple has a kid named Charlie (Barrymore) they discover she has the ability to start fires just by thinking about it. Captain Hollister sees Charlie as a terrific weapon to be used but Andrew takes his daughter on the lamb wanting simply to be left alone. They use their powers only when they half to. This makes up the first half of the movie. The second half has the two captured at The Shop. Once separated, they work on Charlie to win her over. Hollister's most deviant agent is John Rainbird (Scott) a Native American who poses as a janitor and wins over Charlie's trust. Eventually Andrew hatches an escape plan and a fiery conclusion ensues. Hollywood was desperate for Stephen King stories in the mid 1980's seeing it as box office gold even if the movie wasn't very good. This probably explains the first class treatment this film got with a huge Hollywood cast filling out the bill even in small roles. No doubt King's novel must have been interesting, but something was lost in the translation to the screen. Not only is this not scary in the slightest, it's not even very interesting. Sheen overacts terribly in spots and even though George C. Scott is a terrific actor, you must wonder why he was cast as a Native American in this evil role. To Scott's credit, he is the only menace or feeling of evil in the film with his impure desire to destroy Charlie in the end. This overlong movie suffers pacing problems and inconsistent acting from young Drew Barrymore who is impressive in one scene and terrible in the next. At one time Director John Carpenter was picked to direct this picture but Universal was unhappy with his box office results on The Thing and yanked the job away from him. Carpenter would have delivered a more interesting film than this one turned out to be. It shows you what Universal knows. "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter is my favorite of Stephen King's novels. It's pacing is different from his other books and you see things, more or less, through Charlie's perspective. The description of The Shop and how they treat poor, little Charlie and her father is heart wrenching and you route for her completely when she finally gets her revenge. You really feel for the father and daughter and understand just how heartless their captors truly are. This is a good, disturbing, paranormal thriller but it deals more with speculative science fiction horror more than the typical horror that Stephen King is known for. The story is timeless enough where I think it's just as powerful now as it was at the time it was first written. It draws you in from the very first page and it becomes difficult to stop reading. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Masterpiece..","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If u're not a Stephen King's fan (SK), i still believe u'll enjoy it.. but if u're SK fan, u might consider this movie as one of the best SK movie! Drew Barrymore returns as the Firestarter, cute little girl who gives a great performance which can be considered the best after ET The Extra Terrestrial. David Keith here as a hero and a father to the Firestarter has a magical power, err...i don't know what it is called...let's say a mind blowing power which works as Scanner. David Keith performance is satisfied enough, maybe not the best, but at least shows a positive character and a good role model as father to her daughter. The best character in this movie is surely the villain George C Scott whom a superstar actor which nominated for Oscar in Patton 1970, and further up his career with an excellent performance in The Changeling 1980. Once again he has proved that this movie comes alive because of him.Nothing to say about the plot of this ,movie...but Firestarter still have some flaws. I realized that it is hard to adapt a story from SK novel, but at least Mark L Lester has made his best in adapting SK movie. Many critics appears to give negative reviews about Firestarter, but i wouldn't really give a damn about it. Firestarter is no Godfather or 12 Angry Men, not even close to the great Terminator & Alien, but it still definitely worth watching! Overall give this movie a try, sure u'll love it! 10* out of 10* "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  College couple take an experimental government sponsored drug. Years later they get married and have a child (Drew Barrymore). Barrymore though has the ability to set anything on fire just by merely thinking about it. The government then tries to kidnap Barrymore to conduct experiments on her. Terrific special effects are the main highlight in this fairly faithful adaption of the Stephen King novel. Barrymore is a perfect choice for the lead role. It does begin to drag towards the end however. Rated R. "},{"Title":"Time for a Sequel Ms Barrymore?","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I may have rated the film a star higher than deserved, because I find it is too often dismissed.  It may not be as good as the book, and it may be visually simple, but it has its moments.  We can only speculate what Firestarter II might be like.  I am sure Dino has thought about it.  Might even be fun for Drew (or D, as she prefers to be called).  Getting through puberty and into adulthood might have caused further mutation or dormancy. What if it is reactivated when she falls in love?  What if she has mastered it and becomes a more subtle X-man-style heroine?  Whether King writes it or not, I am sure there is entertainment to be had.  Please contact DeLaurentis, King, or Barrymore if you agree. "},{"Title":"The Akira style horror conspiracy picture show.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tangerine Dream's Haunting Soundtrack gave this movie the chilling aura it contains today.  X-File(ish), yes.  Not as good, no.  Before young men could obsess with Gillian Anderson and her portrayal as Dana Scully and notice her mystery solving ability, only Stephen King could possibly simulate one of many possible Government Cover-ups so Top Secret, that like the mystery surrounded Area 51, it couldn't exist.This movie was one of the best in Secret (Biological, if you will) Weapons Conspiracy stories ever adapted from a King novel.  It also gave Drew Barrymore A good benefit before her life almost went downhill.  The most chilling character of all would have to be John Rainbird (George C. Scott). Just seeing George with the ponytail and eye patch scared the living S**t out of me when I first saw the flick (At 9 yrs).A few years later in High school (18 yrs) I revisited Firestarter not just for the effect that amazed me at 9 yrs, but the story became clear why they wanted Charlie for study.  Almost an AKIRA-LIKE situation.  King's work in this movie could have been a breaking ground for AKIRA itself.  It also displayed how a movie could show us, What The Governments Never Tell You. But If I hear one opening strand of T.D.'s score or see Rainbird, I'll still be horrifed just like I still am to this day when I see another King screen adaption directed by the late Stanley Kubrick. "},{"Title":"Shirley Who?","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fascinating film, with a large helping of the necessary Hollywood features of pointless property destruction and thrilling chase scenes. Drew Barrymore is adorable and sensational in this unique role, and her gentle, innocent demeanor could melt a heart of stone. She really is the cutest child starlet of all time. After watching Firestarter, you'll be saying, Shirley Who? "},{"Title":"Tragically bad","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The script for Firestarter is a tolerable adaptation of the novel. It keeps intact the major plot elements, story sequence, settings, characters, and much of the key dialogue. A few minor changes don't affect the story, though untidied remnants of excised plot and characters muddle it a bit. Few novel adaptations are as faithful, at least as to structure.That tepid compliment is the only one I can pay Firestarter. The script adaptation is faithful to what it includes, but what it omits leaves the story leaden. The movie has no use for the novel's depth and finesse. Character depth is absent. Relationships among the characters are cartoonish. The true terror of black-ops government is reduced to People from The Shop are bad. The science of pyrokinesis, telepathic mental dominance, and pharmaceutical brain alteration -- key elements of the novel's power -- remain only in bits of dialogue.There's no finesse from the cast either. Their performances, even George C. Scott's, are uniformly dead. Martin Sheen hadn't yet come into his own. Drew Barrymore wasn't up to her role; the cuteness she brought to E.T. was inadequate for Firestarter. Brian Keith hasn't the talent for a lead role; he should never have been cast. The acting is painful to watch, and the movie drags from start to finish.It's always tough to judge how effective a movie's score will be, but Tangerine Dream was a terrible artistic choice. Their music is suitable for a mood movie like Blade Runner, but painfully dissonant for a thriller -- as painful to hear as the acting is to watch.You'd think that a thriller about pyrokinesis would at least have some good fire and explosion effects, yes? Especially when it's made in the same year as Return of the Jedi, with the same special-effects technology available, yes? Sorry, no luck there either. Visual effects are primitive to pathetic, sweeping away whatever suspension of disbelief the viewer has left.My only real pleasure in Firestarter was, as a reader familiar with the novel, seeing the story and characters that I knew brought to life, however imperfectly. The nine year-old Drew Barrymore's cuteness was still appealing, though inadequate, and she showed a quality of intensity that got my attention. For those two things, I rate the movie 3/10. "},{"Title":"Isn't it ironic that a film about fire is only decently lit?","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1984, subtlety was dead(well, it is in this) and we were subjected to another adaptation of a King story(that I haven't read, only watched this adaptation) about a kid with powers that he most likely thought up sometime in middle or high school when he was being made fun of. Following experiments, some people have psychic abilities, and when two of these have a kid, the daughter can create flames and direct them(and if you think that's unlikely, wait 'till you hear how much they ignore the laws of physics and Reality(tm) in the description of what she may be able to do). Her dad David Keith(who's experienced with raising children with special abilities) tries to keep her from The Shop(an evil government organization funded by overcharging for car repair), who wish to use her as a weapon(what else is new?). He does this by admitting who they are to the first people they meet, and staying in one place for too long. The plot is fine, but it is annoying how everyone in this is, well, an idiot. It is tough to not get silly with this subject, and I will grant that the movie could be worse. Also, it's nice that there is a limit to what she can do, she has to put the fire somewhere(I wish they'd be consistent with that, though). The climax is large and well-done, yet ultimately not that satisfying. FX are good. Barrymore was cute as a bug back then(she hasn't grow out of that)... however, her acting amounts to saying, sometimes yelling, her lines. Her father does OK underneath that horrid 80's hair, Sheen is over the top when he raises his voice above the normal level, and Scott comes off as creepier than I think he's meant to be. This just doesn't really grip you, if it is entertaining enough. There is a bit of disturbing content and a little mild to moderate violence in this. I recommend this to fans of the concept. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not The Greatest Stephen King Adaptation","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of Stephen King's stories have been adapted for the screen. Many of them have actually been pretty good adaptations - some of them excellent. This, unfortunately, is one of the weaker adaptations of a Stephen King story. I suppose the first problem is that it's largely unoriginal. I've noticed that in a lot of Stephen King's work, actually. He tends to repeat the same basic themes and use the same basic structure over and over again. This is very similar to Carrie - a young girl who's able to start fires with her mind. Here, the ability stems from some government experiments done on her parents, who pass some of the abilities they developed in those experiments onto their daughter, who in turn takes those abilities one step farther. The story is pushed along by having young Charlie and her father pursued by government agents.One of the interesting things about this movie is the very strong and high profile supporting cast that backs up the leads - who are the then very young Drew Barrymore who plays Charlie, and the lesser known David Keith who plays her father. That supporting cast features the likes of George C. Scott and Martin Sheen and Art Carney among others. The movie revolved around Keith and Barrymore, though, and their desperate attempts to escape from the agents pursuing them. In all honesty, I didn't find either of them to be particularly convincing. Their performances didn't seem natural; sometimes Barrymore especially seemed rather forced. The supporting cast really didn't have enough to do to compensate for that weakness, although Scott was pretty good in his role.The movie ended on a rather silly note, to be honest. The final confrontation between Charlie and - well - basically everybody went way overboard. It was pretty exciting for maybe two minutes. Then it became quite uninteresting because it was just so predictable and yet it seems to go on for about ten minutes during which we see little but Charlie starting fires and blowing things up. After that over-excess of excitement, the final scene goes in exactly the opposite direction - it was anti- climactic in the extreme, in a way too jarring an emotional shift after the excessive mayhem. I guess it was intended to make the point that Charlie was about to blow the government's cover.To be blunt, this is rather a weak story. Stephen King fans might watch this out of curiosity, but there are many better Stephen King adaptations out there. (3/10) "}{"Title":"Exceedingly low-brow thrills...","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Campy movies are serious-minded films made with little intentional humor which play all wrong on the screen, leading to unintended laughter. Such is the case with this deliriously silly adaptation of a Stephen King bestseller concerning a youngster who can start blazing fires with her mind (she talks to the flames to help us understand what's in her head Back off, just back off!). Naturally, bad guys nab the child and hope to use her powers to start enemy warfare. Commendable work from David Keith as the kid's father and George C. Scott as a villain assigned to keep an eye on the precocious tyke, but little Drew Barrymore is in over her head, and the special effects are cartoonish and overripe. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Pyromania chiller with little bite.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firestarter the movie and Firestarter the novel (written, of course, by Stephen King) have a common hindrance. Both are fine for their first half, with plenty of pace and action and even a few scares. But both book and film peter off in their second half, as the chase scenario which dominates the opening segment becomes a slow, tedious and frequently unconvincing cat-and-mouse affair set in a secret scientific centre known as The Shop.David Keith is a strange choice for Andy McGee, a father with mysterious powers (courtesy of an experiment gone wrong) whose daughter Charlie has even greater powers which enable her to set objects alight at will. The Shop want her so that they can kill her, as they have reason to believe she has no true control over her powers and may one day inadvertently nuke the planet Earth. As Charlie, Drew Barrymore is reasonably good, especially in the scenes where she gets mad and starts off a blaze. Best performance of the lot comes from George C. Scott, as a seemingly educated assassin who occasionally says something which hints that he well and truly out of his mind. It's a calculated and chilling display. Less worthy are the roles of Freddie Jones (bizarre and exaggerated) and Martin Sheen (bland and boring).I would say that Firestarter is worth catching if you're a fan of King or Barrymore, and although I shouldn't say this I'm sure pyromaniacs will revel in it. However, for the discerning audience there's little here worth making a special effort to see. It just comes and goes like the wind and, for want of a better word, doesn't really ignite. "},{"Title":"Too cold fire to be surprising.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is an adaptation of a novel by Stephen King, where a young girl with pirokinesis and his father, with powers of mental manipulation, are seeking to escape government agents that want to kill them. Directed by Mark L. Lester, has David Keith and Drew Barrymore in the lead roles.This film is neither good nor bad. It is exactly in the middle. Drue Barrymore still manages to enchant us, as it was still far from the bad roads that ran through adolescence, years later. The story is also very interesting and covers a topic that always knew intrigue people. However, it's not, by far, the best film adaptation of a King book the actors are sometimes too theatrical, especially Keith, every time it uses its powers; the script also has some obvious flaws and lack of logic. If the father imagined, as the film suggests, the danger in which he lived with his family, why he didn't use his powers to flee abroad earlier? And what is the purpose of that rampant police harassment against a man able to control minds and a girl able to set fire to everything?Not being very good, this film is still able to perform well with its role entertain the public. Therefore, it is still interesting to see, although it is not surprising. "},{"Title":"Decent first half, but sputters out.","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A secret government division called the Shop conducted an experiment that left our lead character, decently played by David Keith and his wife with telekinesis. They have a daughter who is born with pyrokinesis. After The Shop has the wife killed, father and daughter go on the run, off the grid to stay ahead of the Shop. While nothing spectacular, this first half is perfectly serviceable and entertaining. The second half of Firestarter grinds to a narrative halt and just treads water as Keith and Barrymore are captured and spend the remainder of the film at The Shop. The Shop looks like a cross between a motel and a high school science lab. A hilariously miscast George C. Scott as a native American and a bland Martin Sheen play the villainous roles and watching them take over the second half of this film as the leads, is something Firestarter can never recover from. The film settles into a low energy, slow mess, with a fire and explosion filled climax that's too little, too late. "},{"Title":"Meet the Pyro!","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now,to be fair, I loved the book this film was based on. I'm a fan of movies and books about people with psychic powers, I've published a few fiction books myself on the topic. Stephen King is an excellent author, but this movie... It sticks to the plot to the best of its ability, but it just seems way too far-fetched at times. It's fiction, but the idea of secret agents murdering a woman and kidnapping her daughter is a bit hard to believe. Also Drew Barrymore, some people love her and find her adorable, I beg to differ. She has that cheesy way-too-angelic personality that no kid in reality would ever have. When she uses her powers, her hair always blows in a breeze that comes from nowhere, even in enclosed spaces where that would never happen. The fire starting scenes do have a rushing-adrenaline atmosphere to them, but still... it's just too difficult to take this film seriously, not to mention it's lousy remake in 2002. If they chose a different actress for Charlie and tried to stick more to the story and less on special effects, I could see this film being more successful. You can't go wrong with the soundtrack though, Tangerine Dream's music written for the film is beautiful and suspenseful all at once. I always did love the ending, where she burns up the Shop, it focuses less on the girl herself, who is an overused child star, and goes more with the events taking place, her power that blows up entire laboratories, knocks a helicopter from they sky and tosses cars into the air like ants off a sandwich. Stephen King's works often feature kids or adolescents with bizarre powers, like Carrie with her telekinesis, Sarah from Children of the Corn who predicted the future with her crude crayon sketches and Danny with his little imaginary friend who warned of ghosts and insanity in the Shining. All in all Firestarter is a film worth watching at least once, but not one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Flaming Fury.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the Stephen King novel, this film tells the story of Charlene 'Charlie' McGee(Drew Barrymore) who develops Pyrokinetic abilities after her parents(played by David Keith & Heather Locklear)are killed, since they were part of a secret government experiment where they developed psychic powers. After being forced to go on the run, she is sheltered by an older couple(played by Art Carney & Louise Fletcher) but still pursued by a shady government operative named Rainbird(played by George C. Scott). Once his cover is blown, Charlie seeks revenge...Good cast in familiar and predictable story, though the fire F/X are plentiful, film is not believable, and George C. Scott is wasted in strangely written role. Carrie worked much better than this! "},{"Title":"Go watch something else even if you liked the book!","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading a few reviews on this same page, I went to watch the movie, just after finishing reading the book for a second time. Don't do the same mistake!Everything in this film is just set wrong... What lacks this movie above all is actors direction! It really feels during the whole film that the actors are left on their own and are trying to save themselves from this mess... David Keith (Andy) looks more like a pedophile than a father in some of the scenes when he must comfort Charlie. Drew Barrymore (Charlie) is far from the depiction of the lovely, courageous girl we have in the book... Instead I got irritating by her constant whining in the film... George C. Scott doesn't convince me at all in his play of Rainbird.ABout the adaptation now, not only the main characters are way less deep, the necessary cuts in the book to adapt the story to the big screen are far from flawless... Exit the massive disaster at the Manders farm, exit Pinchot's death, exit the fact that Andy pushes himself... Lots of important details are omitted which makes the story totally unbalanced and not credible at all...At far as I'm concerned, a very poor adaptation of King's best-seller. Someone ought to give this great story a strong screen play for a remake! I find it a good challenge for Frank Darabont who gave us 3 great adaptations of S. King's novels The Shawshank Redemption , the Green Mile, The Mist "},{"Title":"Another case of some good, some bad...","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stephen King's writing is starting to grow on me, at first I wasn't so keen, now there are many things like his depiction of fear and his attention to detail that make me appreciate his writing more. As far as adaptations of his work go, Firestarter is not awful, but it is not great either.There are better movies based on King's work(The Shawshank Redemption, Misery, Stand By Me), but there are also worse(Sleepwalkers, TommyKnockers and DreamCatcher).My problems with this adaptation start with that I think Firestarter is too rushed. Consequently the effects lack finesse- though they are nowhere near as bad as the ones for The Langoliers-, the storytelling is clunky and the characterisations(excepting Rainbird) awkward.On the other hand, the story is still very interesting, and Firestarter does have some good photography and directing. What really redeemed the adaptation was the cast. Drew Barrymore shows a lot of talent from an early age and Martin Sheen while deserving of more screen time is effective too. Best of all is fine actor George C.Scott in a brilliant performance as Rainbird, sometimes sympathetic but often terrifying sometimes in sudden shifts.Overall, I don't think Firestarter is either bad or good, in fact my reaction was rather meh. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"She's the self inflicted, mind detonator.","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A rather disappointing, sub-par riff on similar territory covered by Carrie, this movie sees David Keith on the run with his young daughter, played by Drew Barrymore. When stressed to the max or pushed into a corner little Drew has the power to start fires, raise temperatures and, if left unchecked, quite possibly rip apart the entire world. Which is why certain parties want her tested on and then eliminated. You can probably guess that neither the little girl nor her father are really enthusiastic about that plan.Directed by Mark L. Lester, this movie is a bit of an uphill battle from the very start. Based on the novel by Stephen King, a lot of the weakness in the finished film was inherent in the source material (the familiarity with the material, the character motivation, etc). Things are helped by a decent cast. Martin Sheen does well once again after his appearance in The Dead Zone the previous year and George C. Scott lends his usual gruff gravitas to a character supposed to provide threat but who is hard to take seriously for most of the running time. David Keith is fine as the panicking father and Drew Barrymore stands with a scowl while wind effects show her firestarting abilities kicking in (marvellously parodied by Drew herself once when she hosted SNL). The rest including Art Carney, Louise Fletcher, Heather Locklear and Freddie Jones - all do their bit and do it with no major problems.So it's a so-so adaptation of a so-so novel which means, ironically, nothing will really set you afire. Completists should find enough to enjoy but the casual viewer won't lose sleep if they never manage to see this one.See this if you like Carrie, The Rage Carrie 2, Scanners. "},{"Title":"good flick","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  good flick that is suspenseful extremely well acted a great cast as well Drew Barrymore is astounding as the little girl i loved her i rooted for her all the way this is when she actually could act!!!! David Keith is tremendous as the caring father i also rooted for him all the way he was great George C. Scott is great as the bad guy he creep me out several times i can't say enough about Martin Sheen he is awesome here as he is always he has played this role several times  not much gore here but lots of flames Tons of fire here and disturbing deaths but this has a strong script stylish directing and like i said the acting is awesome Long but never boring it was always watchable and kinda engrossing now it did kinda drag a bit at the end but it was never boring like i said it also has great special effects and the dialog is well written and the plot is original and unique well worth a rental *** out of 5 only problem i had with this was the lighting was sometimes shoddy and it had a couple of predictable moments other then that it was good  "}{"Title":"One of Stephen King's best; one of cinema's worst","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read this book in high school years ago and it struck a chord in me. I had read a few King books before this. It seemed perfectly balanced and proved itself to be a very satisfying read. Stephen King books aren't usually as well-worked as this book, which would make a perfect movie, thought I. In terms of theme, character, and content, this stands almost alone among the mostly schlock and drek that are King adaptations. Notable exceptions are the Dead Zone(book and movie) and his short stories. Someone earlier remarked about the movie's faithfulness to the book. While I agree it was a faithful adaptation, I must disagree that it was any good at all. Bad casting(even I must say that two of my all-time faves, Sheen and Scott, are woefully miscast), bad cinematography, bad editing, bad special effects; overall, a poor movie with none of the horror, wonder, and humor which made the book good. Even as a movie it is of negligible merit. It is such a good story, so this pains me * and a 1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Not So Good","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There aren't many good Stephen King adaptations. I don't know what it is but something in the books tends to make them difficult to adapt properly. Maybe it's the psychological aspects shown in character's thoughts, which make his books so interesting, but are impossible to show on screen without looking stupid. But that's just one of the many reasons that Firestarter doesn't work. The acting, for one, is very unbalanced. On one hand, you have George C. Scott and Martin Sheen, who both deliver great performances straight out of the book. On the other, you have Drew Barrymore, trying her hardest to act, but struggling, and failing, to deliver the lines with any real emotion. In the middle is David Keith, who's performance is sometimes good, but never really above average.The special effects are all right for their time, but they have definitely aged badly. The scenes of Andy McGee using his mind powers are pretty stupid, but not because they've aged badly, it's simply because it's impossible to take someone seriously with both of their hands on their head with a look of constipation on their face and goofy sound effects playing in the background. The fire-starting scenes are actually pretty clever and well done for the most part, but they are brought down by a child actor's lack of talent. Like I said, Barrymore really tries, but rarely do you get a good child actor. All of the story elements are present from the book, and it is a faithful adaptation, but all of the scenes are delivered without the emotion of the book, and none of it seems really authentic. It just seems to go from scene to scene, emotionless and bland. The dialogue is sometimes good and sometimes bad, but never does it feel real, outside of a few select scenes.Firestarter does suffers from being an adaptation of a 500-page psychological novel and with having special effects that have not aged well at all, but it also suffers from a lot of bad acting and a mediocre script. George C. Scott is nearly perfect, but he fails to save the movie. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation, solid movie","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter - book and film - both hit the ground running (literally) by starting in the middle of a chase Andy and Charlie McGee, father and daughter, on the run from The Shop, the covert government department which is responsible for both of them acquiring psi abilities. Andy has a mild ability to push people to do things against their will using this ability causes him severe problems (nosebleeds, headaches). Charlie is pyrokinetic, an ability seemingly without limit. On the job for The Shop is operative John Rainbird who believes that, if he kills Charlie, he will be enriched by her spirit.This is one of the better King adaptations. It follows the book quite closely and, where it has made changes, they are generally for the better. The cast is good, with George C Scott a very strong Rainbird.The music by Tangerine Dream is less welcome, and the decision to have Charlie's hair blowing in the wind every time she uses her power is questionable.The effects haven't aged well - this one could usefully be remade with contemporary effects serving it rather better. But it does explain why the climactic confrontation takes place at night rather than, as in the book, in daylight darkness is better at covering up fireball wires etc. "},{"Title":"Not as hot as it could have been","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This fantastic Stephen King yarn translates rather poorly to the cinema screen. Director Mark L. Lester and screenwriter Stanley Mann fail to convey the tension and intrigue that would not allow me to put the book down.The special effects are quite impressive, however they are utilised poorly in what turn out to be poorly organised action sequences.Martin Sheen is always a pleasure to watch, but we do not see enough of him. Drew Barrymore shows some signs of very early talent. Worthy support from George C. Scott, Art Carney, Louise Fletcher, Freddie Jones, Moses Gunn and lead actor David Keith.Sunday, September 29, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Good movie, great soundtrack, bad casting","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The adaptation of one of Stephan King's better novels comes across as positive if only for the screen presence of Drew Barrymore. She holds the film's improbabilities together with a mixture of innocence and grit that no other child actor could possibly have given.Tangerine Dream's electronic score, starting with the haunting title theme, Crystal Voice, carry the story very well, moving from times of cool mystery to frantic panic to the driving beat of the demise of the Shop at the hands of Charley's awesome, unleashed pyrokinetic power.The ending is not as good as the book's, opting for Charley to be escorted to the newspaper building rather than seeking it out on her own.As for the casting, David Keith came across as perhaps a little too tortured, Martin Sheen as slimy as they come, along with good bits by Art Carney, Louise Fletcher, Heather Locklear, Freddie Jones and Moses Gunn.A major bit of miscasting was in the choice of George C. Scott hamming it up as the shop's Native American (?) assassin. The part, originally offered to Edward James Olmos, was refused because of political protest from the Hispanic actor over casting him rather than a true Native American. So they went to George C. Scott? Absolutely bloody awful choice, as is the choice of Malcolm McDowell in the same role for the upcoming sequel, FirestarterRekindled. What are producers and casting agents thinking? That we won't notice the British accent? "},{"Title":"Back off.....","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Andy McGee met his future wife Vicky while they were earning money by participating in an experiment in which they were given a dose of a chemical called LOT-6, whilst in college.Andy and Vicky went on to get married and have a 9-year-old daughter named Charlie, who has the ability to start fires at will, a result of the experiment.The experiment also gave Andy the ability to make people do what he wants. A secret government department known as The Shop did the experiment, and now the Shop, run by Doctor Joseph Wanless, has been pursuing Andy and Charlie, even killing Vicky in order to get her out of the way.Wanless and his organisation want to study Andy and Charlie, and then kill them....First off, the film is good, not scary at all, but more like a little kiddie 'Carrie'. Barrymore proves that she had big things ahead of her, putting in such a delicate yet distressing role.The rest of the casting is pretty odd though. I can get David Keith as the father, and he probably puts in a career best performance as the father, the chemistry between him and Barrymore is real, and you can really feel the Fathers fear for his daughters safety.But the rest f the cast is very odd. Freddie Jones as a scientist, and George C Scott as a paedophile native/friendly Janitor? I found it hard to swallow.Maybe it was because King was so huge in the eighties, everyone wanted a piece of the man.If you are looking for an all out horror-fest, you have come to the wrong movie, but if you want to see a drama about two outcasts trying to keep it together, and the girl goes all 'Carrie' at the end, then this is good stuff.One of the better King movies of the eighties... "},{"Title":"Boiling egg","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very outdated movie. The script is bad, and the movie is saved only by not so bad special effects and better than expected acting. Except for David Keith. He's terrible in his role. Drew Barrymore is doing a fine job as the little pyromaniac we all cheer for. George C. Scott is also good as the evil man who wants to use Charlie's powers for evil actions. As for Martin Sheen, I just couldn't get passed the hair!First half of the movie is not bad. But in the second half, it's all downhill to the grand finale. One with powerful explosions and little attention to precious details. Haven't we seen that in hundreds of movies of the same genre? One last word the music. I guess it was in style in the 80's, but today, ouch! Verdict close the Shop and move to Canada! Seen at home in Toronto, on January 14th, 2006.67/100 (*½) "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's From the Works of Stephen King meet Drew Barrymore actress?","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter (1984) was another one of the many Stephen King adaptations that were made during the eighties. This film was also a starring vehicle for the young rising star Drew Barrymore. This movie was actually better than the previous two but casting George C. Scott as an American-Indian shot his movie in the foot and brought the overall rating down a few notches. Instead of being good, it's just an average release.Drew Barrymore stars as a child who's gifted with a dangerous power. The power to create firestorms with her mind. Her parents were a couple of hippies who were experimented on by scientists during the sixties. When they left the program, the experiments gave them powers. But their leaving the government program wasn't an official goodbye. So for years they were hounded by the Feds until that day the couple let their guard down. Why does the government want the kid so bad? Who is behind them wanting to be captured? To find out you'll have to watch FIRESTARTER! David Keith, Martin Sheen and Moses Gunn also co-star.If it wern't for the horrible casting choice of George C. Scott co-staring as a psychotic G-Man, this movie would have been very good. But this is a flawed film and it's not that good. But it's recommended for horror film and Stephen King fans. Maybe the director of this movie should have swapped with John Carpenter for each others Stephen King film projects. "},{"Title":"burn, Hollywood, burn!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Post-toddler Drew plays Charlie, the envy of children everywhere when she shows-n-tells her unique talent Mentally summoning hot orbs of pyro to flame-broil the pesky adults in her life that annoy her. You go girl...Using IMDb's scientific voting scale of 1-to-10, I casted my ever-so-important vote of a 5. Here's the breakdown...*1 point for George C. Scott's 'Captain Hook meets George Washington' fashion stylings*1 point for little Drew's hilarious over-acting and nostril-flaring during the high-drama scenes*1 point for David Keith, cute, competent, and bleeding profusely*1 point for basketballs lit on fire and sent flying down invisible fishing line*1 point for an imaginative idea trapped inside of an utterly silly, closeout-bin movie "},{"Title":"What WERE Casting executives thinking of???","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not going to comment on the movie, others have done that and I agree with those that feel the movie had far more potential than it realized... instead I'm going to explain the main reason WHY it didn't succeed.David KeithNow I dont know the man, or much of him - he may be a perfectly nice guy, and I see that he is a passable actor but he projects an empathy/sympathy factor of ZERO.   Why?  I don't know.  He and Patrick Swayze could be brothers both from their looks and their acting. Swayze comes across, Keith doesn't and that's apparent to ANYONE who sees him on screen for 5 minutes.  Keith merely comes across as a surly loser, whether or not he plays a whining, low-self-esteem type.Guess that's what is meant by Star Quality! "}{"Title":"Why the low budget?","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just caught part of this as it was shown on Carlton Cinema the other night.  Given that it was made after Carrie, Salem's Lot, The Shining and Christine, all of which were successful to a greater or lesser extent, AND the quality of the cast they'd assembled, I was astounded at the low production values assigned to this movie.With a bit of visual flair, you can disguise a film's small budget - but not if you haven't got good sound quality.  The sound quality in this film sucked big time.  There was a scene between George C. Scott and Martin Sheen where you could hear their voices echoing off the walls of the set - always a bad sign.Finally, a word of advice to all cheap film-makers if you can't afford to actually blow up a helicopter, then DON'T PRETEND you're blowing up a helicopter! "},{"Title":"Garry Hixon on Firestarter","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The timing of this movie was bad, as bad as the Blue Bird that Shirley Temple did. Although the Blue Bird was worse than Firestarter by far, people did not want to see Drew setting CIA agents on fire. They were more into Irreconcilable Differences, a much better movie starring Ryan O'neal and Shelley Long. I loved Firestarter later when it came out on VHS. Drew Barrymore is not a very good actress at all, she and Mandy Moore have the worst speech impedement since Garry Hixon herself. They live in glass houses, Mandy Moore is a complete nobody, and Drew disses her father , and is now back with Jade, John Barrymore was great, Lionel Barrymore was great, Ethel Barrymore was great, and in I love Jennie or Peggy or whatever. Steven Spielberg, thats a good one. Instead of hiring 16 year old Garry Hixon for ET he hired cry baby Henry Thomas. A total sissy. "},{"Title":"A rather silly film with decent acting.","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhat following the plot of the King novel (not my favorite of his), this movie does enjoy decent acting. David Keith shows that he is a pretty good actor. He really looks the part of someone who is weary from running away from The Shop. George C. Scott is very good as a creepy person with eccentricities. I also liked Art Carney as a regular guy. He showed that he is not just a great comic, but can act.The plot is rather silly, however. It is basically about a young girl named Charlie (Drew Barrymore), who has the ability to light anything on fire. She is exploited by The Shop, an organization of government thugs. The ending was really silly, but I would recommend seeing it on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Good, but slow","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now, the movies made from Steven King's books are not all that good too me. The only really good one I've seen is Misery. But this is not bad but is kind of boring and slow. But does have his parts. Those parts are pretty much only when Drew Barrymore is starting a fire. But other than that it wasn't very good. I haven't read the book but don't bother watching the movie. I'm sure the book is better than the movie.  "},{"Title":"Not scary but just plain fun!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, this movie is cheesy and outdated, and not very scary, but it sure is fun to watch! The fires that Drew Barrymore started were so great and realistic looking, I wonder how the film looked on the big screen when it was in theaters. The actors all did a fine job. This would make great MST3K material. If you're looking for fun and cheesy entertainment, you can't go wrong with Firestarter. "},{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes**                              What made Stephen Kings novel ''Firestarter'' so good was the fact that it                               would'nt make it as a movie. And the movie is mostly following the book so the                               result is a bit predictible. The movie itself is carelessnessy told and all through                               boring. Even more if you've read the book. The only good thing is the actors. No                               one is doing a bad job. Sheen and Barrymoore are both really good, but let's just                               say that ''Firestarter'' is a great waste of great actors.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly bad.","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a stunningly bad film - my dog could have done better if it was allowed to use the camcorder. There isn't really much need to say more but, since the minimum accepted review length is ten lines, I'll do my best. The plot is ludicrous. Fortunately, though, the acting is bad enough to make the plot look good. This, in turn, makes the cut-and-paste characterizations less immediately obvious. And all of this at least takes your attention away from the dialogue, which appears to be made entirely of balsa.If you want a good night in, rent this on DVD. Get a decent bottle of wine or a few beers, start the DVD and then go in another room. "},{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes**What made Stephen Kings novel ''Firestarter'' so good was the fact that it would'nt make it as a movie. And the movie is mostly following the book so the result is a bit predictible. The movie itself is carelessnessy told and all through boring. Even more if you've read the book. The only good thing is the actors. No one is doing a bad job. Sheen and Barrymoore are both really good, but let's just say that ''Firestarter'' is a great waste of great actors.   "},{"Title":"Firestarter","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stars Scott, Sheen and Barrymore cannot save this silly film about a little girl who can start fires at will. Based on the Stephen King novel.  "},{"Title":"Poor thriller is sparked with the help of young Barrymore.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I suggest audiophiles who loved Tangerine Dream's music in FIRESTARTER should go out and track down the soundtrack album that's been out fifteen years ago. Otherwise, this stands as almost plain forgettable. The acting, plot, and script makes this a long and painfully ludicrous experience. It needed much more smoke to fry this picture whole, but a very young Drew Barrymore saved her second or third film from a total crisp. Best remembered as Gertie from E.T., the young actress pulled off some impressive talent that would put to shame a wasted cast of familiar actors including Martin Sheen and Art Carney. Standing in front of the camera with special effects blowing her hair is one thing, and it was the best any child star could do at the time, but this was higher ground for Barrymore that later follows several more movies to date. Don't always take it from her, though, unless you're dying for more Drew. It's the fact that FIRESTARTER is an uninspiring example of a Stephen King thriller. "}{"Title":"Cheap","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firestarter is among my favorite Stephen King novels, but this movie adaptation doesn't do it justice. Drew Barrymore is a cute kid and makes a nice paperback title, but everything else is clearly beyond her acting abilities. Second, the soundtrack - arbitrary electronic background music that has rarely anything to do with what goes on. It distracts from the performances of the supporting cast, which aren't that bad, and sounds as cheap as the special effects look - especially at the grand finale.This looks and feels like a TV production, not a feature film - if you've managed to ignore it for 20 years like me, go on and read the novel - it's much more rewarding. "},{"Title":"A good story but a bad film","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again Hollywood has made a good and exciting novel into a very bad and almost embarrassing film. Good actors like George C Scott and Martin Sheen waste their talents in this waste of time. And childhood star Barrymore will most likely look back on this job as one she could have done without.As the title might indicate, the film has a lot of pyrotechnic effects but they are not very well made and seem like an attempt to remove focus from a far from convincing story line. That is to be expected from a Stephen King adaptation but in this case the director does not seem interested in putting his personal touch on the plot.Actually this seems like one of many films where the producers, and maybe the director, have told themselves that Stephen King's name on the poster will guarantee a box office hit. Unfortunately it does not guarantee a good film. Even by Stephen King standards it is below average.  "},{"Title":"Third-degree burn....","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm making a plea for all humanity hereSTEPHEN KING - STOP LETTING YOUR BOOKS GET MADE INTO MOVIES!Every once in a while, the right elements are there and you have a classic on your hands (The Shining, Carrie, Stand by Me) but if you were to make a web page about all the BAD movies based on Stephen King movies, you'd better hope your server supplies enough gigabytes.And right up there in the top ten baddies, you'll find Firestarter, another great book made bad by the director of Roller Boogie with featured parts for the guy who hung himself in An Officer and a Gentleman, General Patton, Captain Willard from Apocalypse Now, Huggy Bear from TV's Starsky and Hutch, Ed Norton, Nurse Ratched, the lady cop from TV's T.J. Hooker....But let's not forget Drew oh my gosh, what is she doing here?  This poor lady has had a rough life thrown at her from early on.  She had to wait a few years until she got the really plum parts given to her but look at what she had to do in the meantime.  The story itself - a company, who tests drugs on people to see if their mental powers can be increased, hunts down a man (Keith) whose daughter (Barrymore) has combustible powers.  The special FX are there and there's enough talent available to make you ask why????.  A question you'll ask yourself more than once if you watch this.Not very memorable.  In fact, the only people who would no doubt remember this are the ones involved, who will spend the rest of their lives trying to forget Firestarter ever happened.More power to them.One star, for Drew.  As for the rest - burn, baby, burn. "},{"Title":"A Decent King Adaptation . . .","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As flawed as the acting is in this film version of Stephen King's Firestarter, if you take it for what it was (a low budget horror flick) it serves the intended purpose.  Upon competing viewing this film, I was impressed that, for the most part, the screenwriter followed the book quite closely.  I was also impressed by the cast that the filmmakers put together.  Who would have expected to see Martin Sheen, Louise Fletcher, Heather Locklear and a talented young Drew Barrymore in this kind of film?  I will admit that in most cases, the acting was TERRIBLE.  But I think that was mostly the fault of the dialogue.  And the special effects were rather cheesy, though I think they were much better than most I've seen in movies of this style and from this period.  Overall, I found the movie to be a good popcorn flick, and I certainly didn't feel cheated out of the two hours I spent watching it.  My score  8/10. "}]