[{"Title":"I come to praise 'Dune', not to bury it...","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"331 out of 384 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah, DUNE sure is the runt of the Lynch litter but there are still aspects of it that I really love, even for all its cockeyed, club-footed awkwardness. I didn't see this movie for approximately a decade because it had the reputation, still held in most quarters, of being one of the most infamous bombs of recent memory. However, despite my initial indifference I caught it - by complete accident - on free-to-air TV one night and was immediately hooked from the first sight of its memorable, unexpected future-baroque production design. From that point on, being led through the strange world of the Emperor and his entourage on Kaitain, the oddly-garbed Bene Gesserit Sisterhood, and the Guild Navigator emissaries in all their variously-staged mutated splendour, I was hopelessly infatuated with all things DUNE. Now, I am fully aware that by most conventional definitions DUNE is not a good film. Actually, since having read all the books in the DUNE saga I am astonished to think that anybody thought that such a property could ever be a commercially viable option for mainstream cinema. It has concepts that tend to demand your full attention, which is mostly box office poison. However I loved the sheer scope of it, the fact that I was being bombarded with scores of unfamiliar terms and concepts which to me had always been the essence of pure science fiction. That it made for a choppy and often confusing cinematic experience mattered to me not at all. I was too much in love with the idea of it all and the weird, alien ambiance which only Lynch could have given the movie. Atreides, Harkonnens, Mentats, Fremen, Sandworms - I just wanted more, more, more. Superb cast, alluring music, stunning visuals - all contributing to an uncommonly arresting, unquestionably unique, cinematic experience.For all its failures I can't even imagine what any contemporary of Lynch might have done with the material. My point is this David Lynch's DUNE, warts and all, made me excited enough to want to read all the books in Herbert's sprawling saga. These volumes had been around for years. I'd seen them gathering dust in my local public library yet I felt no compulsion to read them. After seeing DUNE I couldn't wait to rush down and grab them off the shelves. That's why I'll always defend the film and why I refuse to write it off as the disastrous failure that so many regard it to be. In my mind DUNE is a success because it completely sold me on Frank Herbert's universe - a no more strangely beautiful, intellectually stimulating nor fascinating one had I ever seen on film - and compelled me to go ever further into it. I do accept most of the criticisms that the casual moviegoer has of the film but I simply can't hate it. In short, if you are curious about the film and are familiar with all the bad and discouraging press it has received over the years, yet remain a fan of exceptional fantasy or science fiction, do not be discouraged. You may find that it has elements that may just move you, bewilder you, or tantalise your imagination. You may come to agree, like a growing number of us, that it really is not so deserving of the excoriation that it has suffered at the hands - or pens - of its harshest critics. If you go into it with a forgiving mindset then you may be well rewarded. And then - if you haven't already - read the saga itself. It is formidably great! "},{"Title":"Why does Lynch hate this one?","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"226 out of 306 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To begin with, I have to say that I saw the movie first, and read the book years later. This seems to be important Nearly everybody who read the book first hates the movie, but most of those who saw the movie first seem to like it.Now, why is this so? I cannot really understand it because, in comparition to other movies based on existing literature, what we have here is a film which stays very close to the original story and does not add many new elements.When I read the book, I could see the movie in front of me in nearly every chapter. So I really don't understand what Herbert-Fans had expected from this movie...I for my part like it a lot. It has a very mystical atmosphere about it and the story develops nicely. Of course there are some elements which are simply not explained and are therefore very confusing, but somehow this seems to be a thing Lynch tends to do in every of his movies, so what? I like some simple scenes like the opening monologue a whole lot. I LOVE the music (which played in my mind all the time while I read the book), and I think the characters are very strong and (for example Letho Atreides) sometimes full of tragedy.The part I like the most though is the worm-part. I think the special effects are not always brilliant, but seeing the scenes with the worms, I am really awestruck because they are so impressing.All in all, I think this is one of the more underrated movies in Science Fiction history. It may be because the director himself was not happy with it, or because fans expected too much from a simple two hour movie. I always enjoy watching this film and listening to the soundtrack. And I would love to see a Director's Cut version.  "},{"Title":"I waited a long time before reviewing this...","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"200 out of 305 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are two groups of people who write at IMDb, the pessimists and the optimists. The pessimists love to complain about something or other in a film. The optimists try and find something good. DUNE probably ranks as one of those that feels like it's going to be good, but leaves a confusing, lackluster feeling in its wake. In an attempt to be optimistic, I will try focusing ONLY on the good parts. This might be tough.I will give David Lynch credit (indeed, as Frank Herbert did when he saw this) for trying to take an enormous amalgamation of things and ideas from the novel and trying to turn them into a movie. Lynch's visual style is very raw here and everything in the production design seems to be under his spell.The sets, costumes, cinematography, and choice of cast is excellent. All of them lend a flavor of difference that transcends whatever confusion is on the screen. (On the side note I was sick of hearing Kyle MacLachlan repeating himself over and over) The creature designs by Carlo Rambaldi are very Lynch-ien, even though we rarely get to see them.Overall, a sci-fi epic that requires a lethargic butt, an open mind, and a copy of Frank Herbert's novel to enjoy. Still, it is far superior to the TV miniseries of late (I know saying that is blasphemy to some). I refuse to rate this with stars or anything else.  "},{"Title":"Dune","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"133 out of 174 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all I've read Herberts Dune saga and I loved the first book (the one the movie is about) and liked the rest.Second there is a difference between the cinema version (137 min) and the TV version (190 min often referred also special edition) which should also not be confused with the new version from 2000 (Frank Herbert's Dune). To keep it short the 137 version is great and the 190 min version sucks.The TV version was split up to fill 2 evenings. For that they added about an hour of additional material not seen in the original version. While some of it is quite good like the prologue which went a little bit deeper into the Dune universe (Butlers Djihad) but most of it just destroys the atmosphere and the flow of the movie. On the technical side there is to note that the whole movie was Pan-Scanned which never is a good idea. Compared to the original version the quality really blows.Now to the good oneThe movie is pretty much faithful to the book. There are things that were cut out from the book or it shows stuff that wasn't there, but what you see is CLEARLY Herbert's book which I thought is nearly impossible to translate into a (good) movie. It translates the feel of the book very well to the screen.The most notable differences is that in the book Paul is at the age of 15 (at least at the beginning) while McLachlan more looks like 20 but I can live with that. The rest are minor things (like these sound modules) and some differences in continuity (the navigators needing the spice to well... navigate is revealed at the beginning).The all actors give a solid performances. Notable are Kenneth McMillan (Baron Harkonnen) Patrick Captain Picard Steward (Gurney Halleck) and Sting as Feyd Rautha which really add to the movie.The special effects range from crappy to good. The movie shines where it 's most important namely the sand worms which look fairly convincing. Personally I prefer (well done) miniature shots over those Episode 1/2 CGI effects which make especially environments look like plastic.I think everybody who calls himself a Science-Fiction fan should have seen this movie which is a jewel under all those mediocre films that were spawned by Star Wars at that time. All the fans of the book should see it as what it is A movie based on Dune. If you want the book word by word, don't watch the movie and read the book again.  "},{"Title":"A very good effort.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"85 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every time I see this film I like it more, yet can see why people would dislike this movie, and I can sum up it's shortcoming this wayNot close enough to the book to humour the people who have read the book, to confusing for people who have not. Thus Lynch managed to get a lot of bad press about this near masterpiece.It is very difficult to fit the plot of Herbert's masterpiece into 130 minutes, but I think Lynch did a good job, sadly he added som stuff that was not in the book. Where Lynch does excel is in setting the mood. To help him he had probably the best possible cast for such a movie and the best musical score ever. The acting overall is excellent (except possibly Maclachlan and Jones) and for me who read the book before seeing the film, it is hard not to see Stewart as Halleck. The timing of the acting and events is almost perfect. If Lynch had had help by a better scriptwriter to curb some of his wilder additions and flesh out the plot a bit and this could have been one of the best sci-fi movies ever. As is, it is very good, but somewhat flawed.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding Interpretation","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"102 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've talked to quite a few die-hard Herbert fans who insist that this film is rubbish. Well, I personally feel that this film is one of the most lavish and elegant science fiction movies ever made. I think it's wonderful, and am happy to have it in my collection.The movie itself inspired me to read the next couple of books in the series.I do agree however that there are some scenes that need to be added in a definitive collection. There are a couple of sequences from the Alan Smithee bootleg version - such as when the water of the Fremen warrior that Paul defeated in combat is re-absorbed into the collective water supply - that are absolutely vital to the story. Yet scenes like this were cut out of the final movie version that we all see on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"102 out of 166 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Viewers can be divided into two categories. The first are those who are looking for flashy expensive over the top graphics with some decent dialogue and structure. The second group in this case are those of you out there who love the Dune Series and would rather be in-depth with the plot then see the flashy over the top Graphics. The casting and portrayal of characters in this film FAR surpasses the ones who tried more recently to redo the movie (TV version). I Recommend One Thing if you do see this movie. WATCH THE 3 hour version. It goes much more in-depth then the normal version and is much easier to follow. The Film is worth watching at least once, and for me, its worth watching time after time.  "},{"Title":"Dated fx, but still a great story and nicely executed movie","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"70 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune. At first, I only knew it from the games. Then I found out there were books, and after that, there was a movie. I'm talking 2000 here, and I've only just recently seen it. More than 20 years after the movie was made, and seeing it in this era of very cunning special fx and 3D does make it look dated a bit. Is that necessarily a bad thing? No. The movie is pretty good actually. But the problem with it is, that you can't tell the whole Dune-story in just one movie it should have been a two or even three-piece like LOTR. People completely unfamiliar with the Dune-story and world will ask themselves after viewing it 'what the hell was that all about?' while I myself say 'that was quite nice actually'. The budget was no less than 40 million dollars, huge huge for 1984. And it shows the costumes, ships, decors and worm-fx are great. If it would be made in this year, it would probably be brilliant. In 1984 it was a bit limited because of technological limits, not creative ones.Yes, I liked it, and once more added a new dimension of understanding for me to the story of Dune. The spice, the houses, the Fremen, the worms, everything is a bit clearer now. 7 out of 10, just good. "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it, it's a story","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"70 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Over the years, I have come to the understanding that there are two schools of though here. Some people absolutely hate this movie and other absolutely love it. I'm of the latter school, regularly enjoying Lynch's twisted take on the late Herbert's fantastic story. The story follows the House Atreides on a planetary move to the spice mining world of Arakis. With it, comes the power struggle and life and death situations commonly associated with political struggle. Dark and interesting, Lynch has managed to capture all of Herbert's story and mix it with some of his sick and twisted ideas. A must watch for Lynch and Herbert fans.8/10 "},{"Title":"Dune's Devil in David's Details","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"43 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My review covers both versions of Dune, the 2 hour release and the extended 3 hour Smithee version aired on television. The first cut of the film was over four hours long, but there was never any intention to release this, and Lynch himself shot scenes which consolidated the final product into a more manageable length.Allen Smithee, a protest pseudonym adopted by Lynch when he disassociated himself with the 3 hour version of this film, is also alluded to in Lynch's latest film - Inland Empire. A portion of a film studio in Inland Empire is Smithee's Room - a metaphorical insight into Lynch's feelings about Dune, and studio-controlled film-making in general.Given the tremendous investment made by the studio, Lynch's general distaste for the final product, the repetitive cliché soundtrack, and the occasionally bizarre use of voice-over narrative in the TV version, it seems more a DeLaurentis film than a Lynch film. Although I am very interested in Lynch's films and other projects, I am evaluating this solely from my own perspective. Despite the great director's poor opinion of this film, I enjoyed it and it is one of my favorite sci-fi films. Frank Herbert, author of the novel upon which it is based, approved the theatrical version, but he had the benefit of knowing what he was going to see. If you haven't read the book, these films can be somewhat difficult to understand. And if you come to the experience expecting something like Star Wars, you should probably find something else to do.The soundtrack is repetitive and only interesting the first time you hear the film's major theme (the Eno composition). The use of rock orchestration simply does not work in this film. Happily, Lynch learned from the experience and used rock instrumentation beautifully in later films (especially Wild at Heart and Lost Highway). The camera work is generally less inspired than the rest of Lynch's portfolio. There are occasional visually striking scenes which will remind you of the film's origin, but there are too many static shots - especially during the action scenes. The soundtrack is easy to explain - like the inclusion of Sting in the cast - this is a marketing move by the production company, not a creative choice of the director. The camera work is much less easily explained. Perhaps Lynch was asked to avoid doing anything surreal or bizarre with this film (sort of like asking Groucho Marx to avoid being funny), or the studio was trying to appeal to fans of Star Wars by simplifying and sterilizing its story.The recently released special edition DVD reveals some very interesting aspects of the production. Lynch's influence, not surprisingly, is best explored in the short documentary concerning the film's design. As an artist, Lynch spent a great deal of time and energy envisioning the material culture &#150; both historical and modern &#150; of each culture depicted in the film, helping to create a consistent and unique characterization for each. This spilled over quite naturally into costume design. The sets and costumes used in this film are really spectacular. The special effects, often derided by contemporary viewers, required a great deal more effort that the synthetic art of today's computerized extravaganzas and, the documentary concerning their production on the DVD is also appropriately respectful.What you will see is an intense visualization of several, fully realized alien cultures whose art, architecture and general heritage are as well realized, if not more so, than in Herbert's epic novel. To fully appreciate this, don't just check out the extras on the DVD, turn down the sound and just watch the sets, costumes, and effects move through each scenes. There is, as with Lynch's entire portfolio, a great deal to be seen. And the acting and direction are fine throughout the film.The longer version fleshes out the stories, themes and intricate subplots of Herbert's book more thoroughly, and maintains a much steadier pace than the cinematic release. Even so, both films, to some extent, suffer from too much story, overwhelming visualization, and a un-Lynchian frenetic pace. The later TV mini-series by the sci fi channel does a better job of telling the story in its entirety, but runs about 246 minutes and does not compare to the original in terms of design. Lynch's cinematic release, by contrast, rushes through components of the book and often feels inconsistent in pace.PLOT Dune is the story of Paul Muad'ib Atreides, the son of Duke Leto Atreides the Just and his Bene Jesserat concubine Lady Jessica. Combining aspects of fantasy, sci-fi and anthropology, the story follows young Paul through a series of tragedies which find him seeking redemption for an entire galaxy by leading an adoptive tribal culture to a revolutionary cleansing of the malignant imperial system from which he sprung. The plot is exceedingly complex &#150; in both Lynch versions of the film much is left out of Herbert's original work. Subplots abound, but, true to form, Lynch avoids short-cuts as much as possible and attempts to show his audience what is going on rather than resorting to a great deal of voice-over narrative in the theatrical release. The TV version, however, attempts to provide even more detail, and uses voice-over to patch up the areas glossed over by Lynch's script.SUMMARY If you're a Lynch fan and not a big Herbert fan or you don't have a great deal of patience, see the cinematic release. It is the class of the lot.If you haven't read the book, or you are a Herbert purist who will accept only what was written, choose the Sci-Fi Channel version (review forthcoming soon) - but be forewarned - it is very long.If you want something that compromises between story and cinematic artistry, go for the TV version. The weakest link, but still OK. "}{"Title":"Something unique and special about it...","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe not everyone gets the acting or fully understands the story...but...This film is so unique its scary and I don't think there is anything quite like it. For me it has a life of its own, the acting, the music, the dialogue, the way its delivered, the mystery, I believe it...I can watch this film and have watched it over and over again and alway get something else out of it...always pick up on some small detail I hadnt noticed before, there's a lot of depth that maybe isn't obvious to a unwilling viewer.I think one of the greatest films of all time. "},{"Title":"One of the few movies with a style of its own","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seriously, I do not understand why so many people dislike this movie. I think you have to take a couple of things into account. First It is a 2 hour movie telling a story that spans several hundred pages in a book - so certain losses are just natural. Second Compared to three times recycled multi-million-dollar-trash like the new Star Wars Episodes, this movie offers something really unique A style of its own. The mixture between scifi elements, medieval setting and the culture of the the Middle East is excellent and Lynch welded them together into one solid piece of art... even though he seems to disagree today. Within this setting the lack of non-stop-action or overwhelming SFX never bothered me. On the contrary, this movie gives you time to watch... and many scenes are worth a second look. Third I loved the actors, who were just as stiff, ugly, arrogant, noble or nice like the characters they tried to represent.In the end it is a question of taste if you like this movie or not. But for me, it will always have a place in my DVD-shelf... "},{"Title":"Dune Rocks!!!!","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in years,and a couple weeks ago I caught it on TV at my buddy Zak's house and it blew my f***ing mind.Of course, I had time to become a huge David Lynch fan and study cinema intensely since the first time I watched it, but it is still a visually awe inspiring film.It is almost if not just as visually stunning and beautiful, as well as emotionally,psychologically, and intellectually stimulating as Kubrick's 2001a Space Odyssey.The cast is amazing,practically every good actor you can think of plays in this movie.The makeup effects by Gianetto de Rossi,one of my favorites, are incredible.And David Lynch's beautiful and delicate direction is some of the best in his career.And don't let me forget the scope and vision of this film are incredible,even though I can see where Hollywood tampered with it, I can also see Lynch's true intentions were with this movie,which is so great its good enough to make this film incredible. I'll end my review with my favorite line of the movie,with a close up of Dean Stockwell's moustached lips,The tooth...the tooth! "},{"Title":"On its own merits...","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have one piece of advice for anyone who wants to see this movie read the book first.  Then, my second piece of advice is after you have read the book, don't compare the movie to the book.  Let the movie stand on its own merits.  This movie, at time, a great many times in fact, asks a lot of the view.  Moreover, it makes a number of assumptions of the viewer.  I watched the movie several times before I read the book and found that I enjoyed both more once I enjoyed both several times.  The movie does leave a lot out, but, the movie doesn't ask the viewer to really understand and fully grasp the story the way Mr. Herbert wrote it.Speaking only of the visuals, this movie is incredible.  The sets, costumes, the cinematography etc. where top notch for the day.  Even today, much of this original movie could not be improved upon by the newest version produced for the SciFi Channel.  Not fully knowing how to express it, I will only say that in comparison to the new version, this Lynch version seems more real, more tangible than the SciFi version.Despite its shortcomings in comparison to the book, this movie remains one of my favorite movies of all time.  To enjoy it you have to take what is given. "},{"Title":"An insulting adaptation of a great book.","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune was considered unfilmable.  Alexandro Jodorowsky failed to get up the money for his production, as did Ridley Scott, who took up Jodorowsky's creative team.  It took nigh-endless resources from Dino de Laurentiis to complete Lynch's version.The problems with David Lynch's Dune are many.  The characters, beyond Paul, are all but undeveloped--for instance, Harkonnen is simply a grotesque figure, not a great political rival for the Atreides.  Similarly, much of the plot is simply a checklist of important scenes from the movie, cheapening Paul's internal struggles with what he is, and ruining the thematic impact of the film.  Lynch's storytelling is horrible--relying on character thought and exposition to tell things better shown.  And Lynch's own additions are abysmal--such as the contrived weirding modules.  No one and nothing is shown in the depth it acquires in the book.The final problems are incredible.  One, Paul is clearly shown as a good-guy superhero, not a man of amazing power both spiritually and temporally, who is in questionable moral ground.  Second, it rains at the end.  (This would slaughter the sandworms, destroy the spice, make conventional space travel impossible, and generally wreak havoc in the Empire.)Read the book, which is great.  Skip this garbage. "},{"Title":"Unrelentingly Awful","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"25 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this film was released in 1984, I had some misgivings, as putting Frank Herbert's epic novel on to the big screen was always going to rank with the labours of Hercules. So I went to see it and came away convinced that I has just seen the worst big-budget film of all time. Its crippling handicap was the quality of the screen writing. As I watched it, I tried to relate the portrayed characters to their counterparts in the book and found that I could not recognise a single one. I wondered if David Lynch had actually read the book before he wrote the screenplay. The acting was dreadful and the dialogue was worse. I have seen most of the cast in other films where they were actually permitted to act, which is just as well, or I would have grown up thinking that they were all overblown, second-rate hams. The biggest piece of mis-casting was to have Patrick Stewart play Gurney Halleck - he deserved much better than that and I hope he didn't spend too long regretting accepting this role. Choosing another at random Everitt McGill as Stilgar was less than memorable, not being allowed to act, but simply progressing from one sonorous pronouncement to the next.The sets were brilliant - I have no quarrel with that part of the film - but imaginative backdrops alone cannot bolster a production where the quality of the script and acting - or rather, the direction - fell so dismally short of any acceptable standard.The costumes were also very well done, with one notable, and very important exception Lynch clearly forgot most of what he had read in the book when he approved the final design of the Fremen stillsuits.On occasion, over the intervening twenty-odd years, when I have thought about this unrelentingly awful film, it has been more in regret than anger. Despite this, I never really gave up on it and, four months ago, when I found the three-hour extended version, at a price that made it worth the effort, I bought it in the hope that some extra added footage might give the wretched thing some credibility.It was a forlorn hope. This extended version is an even bigger train wreck than the original theatrical release, and was clearly re-worked for television - it is easy to spot the blanks for the commercial break cues. The editing is quite incompetent and added scenes that have no context in the story line at the place where they were inserted - for example, one repeated scene showed the same Harkonnen ship approaching the landing field at Arrakeen. Another piece of sloppy editing early in the film had Reverend Mother Helen Gaius Mohaim being transported to Caladan, the home world of House Atriedes, by the same two Harkonnen pilots that took Jessica and Paul into the deep desert on Dune, after the Harkonnen attack.There was one particular, poignant part of the novel that both versions of the film left hanging, and which deserved to be included. That was the death of Thufir Hawat, at the end, after the Imperial forces had surrendered to Duke Paul Atreides. In the film, this life-long servant of House Atreides was left standing among the Imperial captives, gazing vacantly at the ceiling, suffering from the terminal effects of the residual poison that the Harkonnens had infected him with after they captured him on Dune and subverted him to their own service. In the book, however, the dying Hawat was given a poisoned needle by Emperor Shaddam and Reverend Mother Mohaiam and ordered to assassinate Paul, this 'upstart Duke', when he stood before him. Hawat disobeyed, and as he he stood before Paul, he turned to the Emperor in a magnificent gesture, holding out his hand with the needle in its palm and said, See, Majesty? See your traitor's needle? Did you think that I who've given my life to service to the Atreides would give them any less now? Then he collapsed and died in his Duke's arms.I have read that David Lynch wanted nothing to do with the extended version, and he was right to disown it. Even so, with the original release, there was so much that he could have done to turn Frank Herbert's novel into something memorable. Instead, he made an abomination that deserves to dumped into the same rubbish can as that dreadful Starship Troopers. "},{"Title":"Outland Empire","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Say what you will about incoherence, this is more sensuous than any Star Wars. In fact, it is the most expensive 'tripping' ever produced in film - though far from the most satisfying. It helps to know the book and forget it as you watch this. Not being familiar with the book, you're left with a disjointed tapestry of weird costumes and special effects, some of them impressive, but if you are, and don't have to burden yourself with following the constantly clumsy explanation of the multifaceted Dune universe, you can enjoy this as illustration of a few core ideas. Herbert's novel was the product of strange and powerful times. The US public was experiencing the Civil Rights upheaval, its short-lived infatuation with Islam and meditation, and the same year as the book came out, LSD had spilled out of some top-secret government labs into the streets and youth culture of San Francisco. The first satellite images of Earth had just been published. The Black Panthers had entered the vernacular. So all the stuff about prescient visions, mentats and mastering mind, (herbally) expanded consciousness as the tool to the navigation and 'folding' of space, Herbert wrote with one eye on the Jordan Belson, Beatles and Maharishi crowd - the generation between noir and Lucas that for a brief time projected truths into constructed cosmologies.Herbert was more erudite than most. But he was caught under the same spell - the expectation of a noble jihad of the people and wise lamas from the East coming to teach 'the way'. And you can tell that he was exposed to Eastern thought through Jungians, by his laboriously constructed mythology and (now trite) focus on a Chosen One's journey.Lynch was a late bloomer in that scene. To my knowledge, he fell in with what was being marketed as 'transcendental meditation' in his AFI years, during filming of Eraserhead. I don't know what they practice behind closed doors - my interest lies with the Chinese model and they seem cultish to me. But, there's no doubt to me that he passed on the Lucas gig, thinking he was going to work on a vision of some power.The film outright fails because the scope of the book is too big (to think that Hobbit is being stretched into a trilogy these days), and because he lacked the right collaborators and probably the predisposition to make an 'action' Dune.Now Jodorowsky's Dune would have been something to see, probably as cumbersome about spirituality but much more organic. But, it's worth noting a few interesting things about this, in context of how Lynch would expand in later years. He zeroes in on the transcendental experience of 'awakening the sleeper'. He does so in an obvious manner. Rambaldi's spiceworms as blossoming desert flowers top his visual meditation. And that all of Herbert's pomp and mythological noise works against him submerging the idea.Keep in mind the Chinese notion - from the Tao Te Ching - that the 'soft beats the hard', stressed twice in the film even though no one actually fights in the Chinese style. Discard everything that is hard, from the crass Harkonnen to the acting style (mentat Dourif!) to the sophomoric rousing of Fremen rebellion, laser battles and final redemption.The one part that is soft is at House Atreides, the preparation for Dune. What is there? Familiar dynamics - it is soap opera if you take out the costumes. Premonitions of murder and telepathic wiring with a fabric behind reason. A woman with her box of illusory sensations. A space flight through the doors of perception. It's heady. None of it really works, because Herbert's synchretic universe is not one of internal martial arts, what we see matters. But does any of it remind you of a David Lynch film you know? "},{"Title":"One word Masterpiece","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, i will restrain myself to some lines as there's nearly everything said about this movies i guess. Just my two cents here.There are crap movies (never watch them)There are good movies (a few times will suffice)There are very good movies (watching multiple times and not getting worse)And there are gorgeous movies (getting better each time you watch'em)And Dune is for sure one of the last category. Perfect actors, great fx (especially for a 1984 movie). The awesome soundtrack really supports the play. And the best thing about it is the dense, neo-medieval, techno atmosphere.This movie really touched (or say impressed) me like very few movies actually do. "},{"Title":"Completely Awful","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I walked into this being slightly aware of the Dune universe. This film features - An incoherent plot - Lousy effects for the time period (this is following 2001, Star Wars 4-6, and Star Trek 1 & 2, after all) - Horrible overacting, - Terrible casting (Sting, really? was that necessary?) - Ridiculous fantasy/techno-babble, - Terrible music (especially the vintage 80's guitar over the closing credits, that's what you get when you pick Toto to do your soundtrack)There is really little redeeming about the theatrical version, except for the certain point where it becomes so bad that it starts to be funny. "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation of a superb novel","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"29 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For those of you who have perhaps read Frank Herbert's original Dune, and are considering viewing this movie, here's some advice don't.  Swish orange juice, toothpaste, and clam chowder in your mouth you'll get the same effect.Herbert wrote an epic masterpiece that should be regarded as the Hamlet of science fiction (actually, it is very vaguely adapted from Hamlet).  David Lynch scripted and directed a butchery of this novel.  He made so many mistakes, it is impossible to cover them all.  Here's a general idea the novel is summarized, not adapted.  The movie contains about half of the elements involved in the story, and watching it makes you feel like you're falling asleep and missing half the plot.  Everybody in the story has an agenda, but you get to see only half of these agendas, and are left to imagine the others.  Character development was mediocre, and paled in comparison to the rich depth given in the novel.  The writers obviously did not understand Herbert's technologies, because the movie displayed loads of horse dung where there should have been intricacies that would say, Star Wars, eat your heart out.  There was poor acting from everybody but Jurgen Prochnow as Leto, Patrick Stewart as Halleck, and Sting as Rautha.  And finally, the special effects of the time simply weren't up to snuff for Herbert's vision.  From the blue eyes to the force fields, everything looked horribly cheesy.  If the folks had waited a decade, or maybe used something better than a third-grader's sketch pad, then they would have had stunning visual effects.Overall, what we are left with here is a definitive flop.  I can only hope that the TV miniseries version that aired last year did a better job.  On a scale of 1 to 10, this movie is somewhere around absolute zero (-273.15, FYI). "}{"Title":"Simply horrible story-telling","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was bad for many reasons, and i could go on for quite a while listing them.before reading my long rant, i would like to recommend the Dune miniseries (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0142032/) and the Children of Dune miniseries (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0287839/). its a great series, and although it takes some minor liberties with the plot, its told well, and gets the story across smoothly and enjoyably.and now, on with the reviewthe primary fault of this movie, which made it unwatchable was the pacing. the first half of the movie focuses on the first tenth of the book. it is reenacted in every nauseating detail, including thought overs. now i am all for literal accuracy , but i was watching the movie for an hour, and the catalytic event for the story was hardly on the horizon.so I'm nearly falling asleep watching this, and suddenly there is a dramatic shift in the pace, which would normally be good, except they aren't telling the story faster, they are simply not telling it. the second half is like watching the first half, except cutting out 30 minutes of footage for every 5 minutes shown. its flash cut scenes at best, and unless you've read the book you would have no idea whats going on. on top of this, the director took some rather strange and unnecessary liberties with the plot, such that at some points it doesn't even remotely resemble the book.so the end finally rolls around, and the director completely destroyed any credibility he had left by changing the ending to the complete polar opposite of the books. i can understand subtly shaping the plot to make the movie easier to tell through film, but it was not the case here. the ending was told through voice over narrative, telling of future events not filmed.in conclusion, don't waste your time with this film, unless you are specifically looking to watch a poorly made movie from the 80's with excessive guitar shreds. watch the miniseries instead, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"If only the other three hours had been kept","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is a luxurious recreation of one of the best Sci-Fi novels ever written and has a great cast, wonderful costumes and sets and a fantastic plot line. Why then is it so criticised? Well, Dune fell prey to that most destructive of forces - the Hollywood editing process. The three years Lynch spent making this film produced enough content for a movie that would have been six (yes, six) hours long, which, of course, was unacceptable. To make the film more suitable for the mass audience the film was cut down to just over two hours and most of the remaining footage was destroyed. Arrrggghhh! Hence, the greatest sci-fi film ever made will never be seen and all we have left is an abridged version. Imagine the Star Wars trilogy cut down to a single two-hour film, or Gone with the Wind whittled down to 90 mins! Anyway, you see my point. The two faults of this film the mangled ending and the oft disjointed plot duct-taped together with voice-overs were a result of the slash and burn policy this film suffered. So, when you next watch this film, instead of thinking 'that just doesn't work', think instead of what could have been!  "},{"Title":"How can something this right be so WRONG?","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Dune when it first came out in 1984 and admittedly have had a lot of time to reflect on the (failings) of this movie.Most of this film's woes can be summed up in one word ... screenplay.But first why I liked it. Set and costume design. In one word, sumptuous. From the neo baroque Emperor's palace to the Fremen Stillgar's sietch to the'metropolis-tic' Harkonnen home-world of Giedi Prime.The costumes were indulgently impressive eg the fetishistic leather of the Harkonnens, the bizarre plastic outfits of the Emperor's Sardukar, the Elizabethan gowns of the Princess Irulan. Great efforts were made to make the various environments well worn and dirty and much of the technology appears anachronistic... of 'technology as archeology', which all fits perfectly within the Frank Herbert vision.Characters. For some reason most popular Sci-Fi movies involve characters that have little to define them from people of today, apart from latex masks and clothing. Under David Lynch's direction the peoples of the Dune worlds are human enough to relate to and 'alien' enough to cause wonder. And lets not forget the Stage Three Guild Navigator ... this was the most original conceptions of a character as you are likely ever to see. Scenes like this give you the courage to sit through the more unpleasant aspects of the movie. The customs of the Fremen as defined by Frank Herbert are for the most part faithfully rendered although being a serial Dune reader, I would have liked the movie to linger more on these aspects of the Dune world.Acting. For the most part good. David Lynch directing his favorites Jack Nance, Kyle MacLachlan and Everet McGill cant really go wrong.I particularly liked Linda Hunt hamming it up as Shadout Mapes ...the housssse keeeper... Dean Stockwell whilst an accomplished actor appeared a little wooden, but is not a problem really when compared to the ridiculous overacting of Jose Ferrer. What on earth was he thinking? And of course there was Kenneth McMillan. The Baron could have been no one else.But ...I am a huge David Lynch fan ... but .... what happened? His efforts to make the vast worlds and concepts of Dune more edible for mainstream audiences while necessary, did not properly respect the source material.In an effort to avoid the complexities of describing the 'weirding way' (properly termed 'prana - bindu' a kind of super martial art form) we are left with ... weirding modules ??!!!? ... what the hell? And to keep them in that poorly locked cupboard in the training room downstairs was just asking for trouble.And after all that spiel about crushing your enemy's nerves, exploding their organs, boiling their bottoms etc ... the Fremen simply go about making those silly sounds which cause little fire-pots to go off in the sand, the Emperors 'terror troops' obligingly falling over.It's easy to be dismissive when speaking from a time that brought us action and fight sequences like those in the Matrix or LOTR. However I felt that the scale was far to small to be convincing (this was the fight for the fate of the known universe's economic prosperity!) Individual fight scenes were obvious and telegraphed and slow and just plain boring. The final showdown between Paul, the universe's super being (actually he's not but thats another story)and Feyd Rautha, was one of Cinema's greatest anti-climaxes.I mean he's the leader of a race of people whose woman and children routinely best the Sardukar and has unimaginable mind powers (all the powers of the Bene Gesserit and more)and still he is almost defeated by the Baron's nephew after a bit of taunting about his girlfriend.Another incomprehensible departure from the novel was the addition of 'heart plugs'. Apart from the constant fear of getting it caught on something you'd really have to wonder why the Baron chose to have one himself. That's just silly and as it turned out fatal.A lot of the psychedelic special effects were pretty crappy even for 1984. What's with the folding space scene which is simply done by the Guild navigator spitting the departure and destination planets out of his mouth and then ... wait for it ... flying between them? Of course scenes like the sand-worm swallowing the spice harvester still cause wonder ... it's more that the conception of those less tangible aspects like folding space or the Sayadina taking the water of life etc really did not convince me even way back in 1984.I also could not believe that Lynch succumbed to the temptation of tying the whole thing up with a rain storm. In one fell swoop he undermines the logic of the entire film. The collecting of water in thousands of Sietches across Dune was meant to be part of a trans generational plan to terraform the planet. It's meant to be science - the movie simply has it happen by magic (for he is the Kwisatz Haderach). Given that water is poisonous to the Sandworms and that Spice is produced as part of their life cycle, Paul really is not being much of a help. His Jihad is set to destroy the Universe.This Movie if produced today under the right direction (and a totally new screenplay) could be the most amazing thing. If it were possible to create a hybrid director (although I would avoid contracting the Bene Gesserit for the breeding program) of David Linch(for his quirky, darkly comic interpretation) and dare I say Peter Jackson (for his sincere respect for the source material, attention to detail and childlike wonder that he evokes as he lingers over landscapes, people and customs), it would do the justice to Frank Herbert's vision which has as yet (wether by movie, extended DVD or mini-series)remained unfulfilled.6 1/2 out of 10 , really. "},{"Title":"A visual, auditory and mental delight","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the movie for the first time the other day and I was blown away. I'm not one who can watch a movie over and over again, but with this one I can. The stunning visuals, wild sound effects, sweet costumes and enthralling storyline took me away to a world I've never seen and make me want to return over and over. I wish I could have been a part of this movie because it looked like it was a lot of fun to make. Despite what people have said, I saw this movie without reading the books first and I did not have a lot of trouble following it. Some people see a social commentary, but I see it as a standalone; good as taken for what it is. A 10 in my  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" what you have to remember too is that dune is not a new movie and is not near as professional as todays movies are.Personally i thought that is was very good for back in the day.its the best 0lder sci-fi movie I've seen.everything about this movie is old school. i think this movie is one that protrayes the future quite well especially back when it was made.the effects remind me a little of space balls.this move definitely has its moment.i would have loved to see it back in the day in the cinemas. i recommend this movie to anyone who wants to go see an sci-fi movie.they did a great job on the worms and details. "},{"Title":"A movie never to grow tired of","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are movies that never stop to intrigue me and this one is one of those. I watched this movie for 20 times and found out I had to buy the special version on dvd. A must have.I have read a lot of comments and I agree on most of them, but as time passed by I learned to appriciate Lynch.Here is a classic discussion the book, the film, the book, the film, I get really tired of it. When are people going to see movies as movies and not as books. Does anyone know the original story of King Arthur? There was no christianity in the time he existed. How many times has this wrongly being filmed and everyone is fond of the movies. Hmm. Not to mention Robin Hood. When are people to understand the meaning of based on. "},{"Title":"Exquisitely pretentious","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A truly spectacular dud. Visually the film is occasionally impressive. Beyond this there is very little to commend it. One has to ask what was David Lynch thinking? Is the film a satirical riposte to the romantic sci-fi epic as characterised by Star Wars? Is it some sort of allegory? It is neither of these.The fairly straightforward story is mangled from the outset. Many characters are telepathic, leaving the way open for expository voice-over. This is both bungled and abused alongside a script that, amazingly, explains the obvious but fails to explain the necessary.The script itself is a soporifically contrived spiel of biblical pomposity. The cast are stranded - there is no opportunity to bring humanity to their roles and they have obviously been given no direction. With the extraordinary exception of Francesca Annis and a heroic show of Lynchian loyalism from Kyle MacLachlan there is no good acting at all.Yet, despite the bastard marriage of flashes of sophistication and long sequences of blanket awfulness, the film remains watchable. This is largely because, at heart, it is a Lynchian conception; inexplicable, capricious but undeniably visionary. One can't simply dismiss it. Add in a respectable cameo from Sting and the evergreen appeal of Sean Young and it can scrape 2/10. "},{"Title":"The reduction of a great novel into an unintelligible film","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what Frank Herbert thought of this film but I was sorely disappointed with this misguided adaption.  The novel upon which this film is based is considered a classic of science fiction.  A visionary tale of the far distant future that is a fantastic journey of the imagination.  It created a world of details and transported you into its vision. This movie, on the other hand, manages to mangle even the smallest details of the book and reduces the complexities of the novel into the lowest common denominator.  The first mistake was in casting the lead. Kyle MacLachlan and Sean Young are clearly too old to play Paul and Chani who are in their early teens when the book starts.  They are fine actors in other works but here they are clearly out of place.  The rest of the cast is fine and I must particularly commend the casting of Jurgen Prochnow, Francesca Annis, and Patrick Stewart as, respectively, Duke Leto Atredies, Lady Jessica, and Gurney Hallack.  Unfortunately the miscasting of the leads and the unintelligible script doom this movie.  If you want to go to Dune, read the book and skip this movie.  "},{"Title":"waste of time and money","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It changed my opinion on David Lynch.   A complete disappointment.  Story is confusing/long/pointless, special effects look like those from the 20's, acting is bad (or waste of talents e.g. with Patric Stewart), and directing is again disappointing.   "},{"Title":"Stupid, Cheesy, Waste Of Time","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most stupid movies I have ever seen. There is nothing good about this movie. The acting is horrid, the special effects are ludicrous. The story is incredibly boring. Don't waste your time on this movie. "}{"Title":"One for the fans.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If memory serves, this big budget turkey was part and parcel of poor marketing by the Studio. The epic novel by Frank Herbert is a science fiction classic and huge proportions. Many attempts had been made to get it made as a film before Dino DeLaurentis just went for it. He got what he thought was the best story, and the best director in the world, David Lynch (straight after the elephant man) and just went to town.The Lynch movie is beautifully shot and the acting and characterisations are first class. Lynch also stamps his trademark on the film with his own brand of visual mystique and use of dialogue. The film's major fall down is the movie watcher is at a loss as to what is going on. The original story is quite complex, a multifaceted tale of immense scale. The potted two hour story just leaves the unfamiliar wondering.As as fan of the books, I see DUNE the movie as getting to be an eye witness at key events of the story. It's like a companion to the book. I would recommend this film to anyone who has read and enjoyed DUNE. These people would enjoy this beautifully crafted film a lot more.  "},{"Title":"A rough diamond.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To all those people who trash this film, I'd like to leave something clear none of the existing versions is a Director's Cut. If such a thing ever existed (Lynch made a 4-hours long provisional cut he showed in a preview in Mexico), it doesn't longer exist, at least commercially.The theatrical cut was made by producer Dino DeLaurentiis by recommendation of the Universal suits, who wanted a shorter film which would allow to make more sessions a day. Dino agreed to do such a thing, a decission he would later regret, knowing that he wrecked a masterpiece. And Lynch allowed it in order to gain total freedom for his following project, Blue Velvet (his best film ever). It feels as an incomplete masterpiece, which it is.The extended TV version is a mess. It puts some very valuable footage back, but adds an awfully ridiculous prologue and lots of worthless stock footage and test shots which belong in the trash can. At least 10 minustes of the new footage are utter rubbish. And the good footage, we don't know if Lynch would have put it this way or not. Let alone ommiting disgusting scenes like the Baron vampirizing the flower delivery kid, or spitting on Jessica's face. WHY OH WHY was this cut? This TV version, minus commercials, runs 176 minutes in PAL time and 180 in NTSC. No 190 minutes or 4 hours TV cut was ever aired. It's cut-and-paste hack work, but we need that extra footage.What do we film fans really need? A true Director's Cut. Please, Universal suits, give all that footage you have collecting dust in your shelves (which currently gives you no money) back to Lynch (who shot over 6 hours of footage), and let the true Masterpiece that Dune should have been, be born. What? You destroyed it? God forbid! But, even if that's true, I hope Lynch still has that Mexican preview cut. It will do it. And even if he hasn't got it anymore, let him insert the valuable footage in the TV version back in the movie. Even that way, the film would be miles better.Then, re-release it, even if it's only on DVD. And destroy all the copies of the theatrical and TV cuts. And let the Greatest Sci-Fi Film Ever (better than Blade Runner, yes, even better than 2001) see the light. Please! "},{"Title":"Excellent adaption of Herbert's Dune.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have always been a David Lynch-fan, but was nervous to see this movie at last The film has the reputation of being perhaps Lynch' weakest film. I don't get it, that people say this.The movie is visually strong, the plot is strong (of course; being a close adaption of Frank Herbert's masterpiece), it has (mostly) great performances (Kenneth McMillan as the baron Harkonnen, for instance) and the music (by Toto) is also top notch.I think maybe why people dislike Dune is that they don't understand what kind of movie they are seeing It is not action, not space opera, it is not drama and it is (in some ways) not a typical David Lynch movie. The story is very strong, has some heavy implications when it comes to humanity and maybe identity, and tries to do something that seldom is done on film. (In my opinion.) This is science fiction as it is supposed to be.I won't say too much. (Probably someone else has said what I wanted to before me.) My advice Go see the movie and do not expect Star Wars, and do not expect Blue Velvet. Feel the movie instead of comparing it to some other flick.I gave it 9 out of 10, which i rarely do. I will see this movie over again right away; there is so much to absorb in one watch.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant, Methodical Melodrama and a Sci-Fi Passion Play","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's Dune is much-maligned for being impenetrable and unfaithful to the novel on which it is based.  Though not entirely inaccurate, I believe that dismissing the movie based on these points does tremendous disservice to a brilliantly conceived, methodically executed, highly stylized, piece of cinema.Admittedly, Lynch's Dune is thick.  The finer details of the plot (and indeed some major points) may be lost on people unfamiliar with the book. Repeated viewings may be necessary to fully understand the various character's rationales or the machinations of politics which drive the plot. I consider this a favorable attribute, though it removes it from the realm of light fare suitable for a casual single-viewing.In many places, the plot of the movie follows the themes of the book more than the actual narrative itself.  Remember that Herbert himself assisted in writing the screenplay, and many changes were made for the sake of the visual medium of cinema.  True, some of the subtlety of the book is lost, but the visual impact of the film would have been lessened if it remained more faithful to the text.Some also consider the melodramatic acting to be hokey - but I argue instead that Lynch has chosen the perfect style to suit the story.  When we dismiss melodrama as the low-brow stuff of afternoon soap operas, we forget that the great Greek playwrights were exclusively melodramatic - and that the style is entirely appropriate for depicting characters of saga engaged in great events and performing weighty deeds.I felt it important to devote more time to addressing the common criticisms of Lynch's Dune, because I think its virtues speak for themselves, and these points seem to be what most interferes with people's enjoyment of the movie. Taken in the appropriate mind-set, here is a rich visual treat (art design my H.R. Giger of Alien fame), masterfully crafted, and set to fantastic score courtesy of Toto.  All in all, David Lynch's Dune is a magnificent adaptation, capturing the epic essence of Herbert's Sci-Fi masterpiece. "},{"Title":"I dislike David Lynch films, but I love what he did with Dune","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 1984 film, Dune, is as unique, intense, and brilliant a film as can be. Visually, this film is absolutely remarkable. The acting talents are equally remarkable. The directing is impeccable. The special effects are wonderful. The costuming is accurate, if not originally imaginative. There is little about this film I dislike. I look at Dune the film vs. Dune the book(s) the same way I look at The Lord Of The Rings the film(s) vs. The Lord Of The Rings the novels. To make a big film adaption of either of those stories takes an incredible amount of undertaking and research, and the end result, whether completely accurate to the literary text or not, as well as matching the vision of the author or not, shouldn't be judged too critically, and should be respected. (I've always thought the Harkonens in the film look brilliant with orange coloured hair, as opposed to the black hair of the Harkonens in the book; a little change and originality can be good when adapting.) Mr. Lynch, I can't stand your other films, but I applaud your efforts for Dune. An absolute work of art! "},{"Title":"The year 10191...The Spice Extends Life...","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Dune' may have a dated look due to the poor special effects but it still is an enjoyable adventurous science fiction movie. The film is awkward and feels a little rushed but the sense of adventure is well maintained. Lynch fans who haven't yet seen this movie might be disappointed because this isn't like any of his later works. Almost everything about it, except for some of the acting is over the top. But it feels like a science fiction movie because of the unusual names, the art direction etc. With the excessive use of CGI, it is nowadays sometimes difficult with science fiction movies to feeling the experience of the world the director creates. It was fun to see actors like Kyle Machlachlan, Sean Young and Virginia Madsen who were so young at the time. 'Dune' has its flaws and there are many of it but the idea behind it is creative and the film has heart to make it entertaining enough. It is certainly not among the best of its genre and nor Lynch's best but it's fun enough to roll along with. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made that was based on a novel.","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved the story of Dune.  I read it over and over again, and had visions of the characters and the planet in my mind.  I eagerly waited for the movie.I was never so disappointed in all my life.  This movie was ugly.  It was as another reviewer so succinctly described it... an abomination.  It was nothing like the book.  It changed the story and changed the characters. I cannot believe that Frank Herbert approved of this travesty for his masterpiece.David Lynch thoroughly destoyed the movie.  I rate it as less than a 1 and do not recommend it to anyone who has read and loved the book. "},{"Title":"Big fan of the book, movie is okay.","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a fan of the Dune series since I was twelve, and I first saw the movie about that time. I do enjoy the movie, however, I can see that it would be difficult to follow without having read the book. I read that David Lynch cut about an hour from the movie's length, that hour probably would've been better left in to help move the story a little more smoothly. It didn't stay true to the book completely, but the book is so detailed that I don't see how any movie could really capture it totally. At any rate, the movie is an enjoyable experience, if a little choppy, but seeing as how it was approved by Frank Herbert himself that is unimportant. All in all I give this movie a seven on a scale of one to ten.  "},{"Title":"Deserves more credit but also deserves criticism","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DUNE is an odd film.  After having watched it several times over the years, I'm not afraid to call it a very flawed classic.  That sounds strange, but it fits for this movie.  Lynch got so many things right, but in the end the shortcomings of trying to squeeze an epic story into a little over 2 hours was simply too daunting a challenge.  Besides, I'm sure many went into the theatre expecting a film in the vein of STAR WARS.  DUNE is not a story with which one can delve into brainless.  It does require thought, for it's inaccurate to portray it as anything less than a thinking person's story.  It's not space battles, laser-gun shootouts, funny aliens, etc. There's nothing wrong with those things, it's just not what DUNE is about.  It touches on everything from politics, religion, ecology, the true power of the human mind and will when fully realized, God, etc.  Some heady stuff.  So imagine trying to fit all that in a movie.  Lynch got the feel, the imagery down, but wasn't able to cohesively bring the story around w/o really making it a Cliff Notes version of the story.  You get the main gist, but don't get the full story, the themes, etc.  So in the end it does disappoint because you're left  wondering what may have been had the movie conventions of that time  allowed for a 2 or even 3 movie epic.  Oh wait, STAR WARS did that.  I guess DUNE wasn't viewed as bankable enough to make such an investment.Anyway, I still like the film a lot.  The visual realization by Lynch makes it a classic in my book, too bad it couldn't be matched by an equally strong script.    I wonder if Peter Jackson would be willing to tackle another 3 film epic? Hmmmmmm.....   "},{"Title":"What's wrong with inner-dialog?","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people derail this film for its extensive use of inner-dialog, as well as conversations between characters that seem disjointed. I'd just like to point out that a large portion of the original novel is made up of the thoughts of the characters. How else are you going to depict that in a movie version of the story?Likewise, the dialog in the book is very complex. Characters never give direct responses to each other. One element that continues throughout the entire Dune series is that everyone has such developed mental abilities that everything they say has multiple, layered meanings. Usually, their motivations for speaking have little or nothing to do with actually addressing the statement posed by the other character (let alone giving them an honest or direct response).Like it or not, these things are part of the story. I don't think you can fault the film for portraying that. It's quite possible that it would simply be impossible to adequately convey these nuisances in the medium of film.Many people have pointed to the recent adaptation of Lord of the Rings as proof that it is possible to create a faithful film adaptation of a story like this. I contend that while films like Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter are pretty faithful to the original books, they don't make as good of films as everyone seems to think they are--at least not in a traditional sense. Personally, I found it hard to watch these films in a single 3+ hour sitting at a theatre. I enjoyed them very much, however, on DVD where I could watch them over multiple sittings. Kind of like the way you read a book! "}{"Title":"A Messiah-movie made by a God","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, ok. The summary line got a little out of hand there.But seriously, this film is so good that it's very hard to cram all the good review points into one single (small) text like this. I have to admit, I thought this movie was totally incomprehensible when I saw it in the cinema for the first time back in the eighties.And it can only be that - incomprehensible, if you've not read the book, because then it's doomed to be misunderstood in almost every part. I thought it was a big pretentious piece of boring crap the first time I saw it. And then, many years later I read the book by Frank Herbert and magically the pieces all fell into place. As they should.Then I watched the movie again and again over the years and it really saturated me with its mystical and strong-smelling scent of spice...All the actors, from Max von Sydow (so exceptionally good!) to Brad Dourif (excellent!) to Linda Hunt (truly magnificent!) to every other man and woman that made an impact through some real acting here, I say tremendous good job!And, remember, this is before the computer-generated FX era. And yet, it kicks ass in revealing that overwhelming feeling you get nowadays in big buck movies like Lord of the Rings. And another link to the LoTR-productionWhen I went to the movies to see this film during the eighties, you got a small brochure in your hand, telling you most informatively about how they made it. Apparently, the production of it overtook all the available space of every single work-room in Mexico City's Churubusco Studios. And the biggest of the sets had to be constructed outside the studios themselves. 75 different background sceneries was constructed in the eight work-rooms, which are one of the biggest ones in the world. Over a thousand people was working on the production set during its most hectic time. And another 20.000 extras was hired to appear in the movie. One other example is the fact that they made 24.000 stalagtites for a scenery, handmade prisms cut by skilled artisans. A good deal of the furniture was clad in Italian fine leather, specially flown in to the set.And all in all, 4.000 costumes were made. Nine seamstresses worked for four months, just putting together the magnificent mantle that Paul Atreides wears at the end of the movie.David Lynch, Oscar-nominated many times directed this film, and the Oscar-winning photographer Freddie Francis did the actual filming and footing of the movie. Architect and overall responsible for the unique design of the film was Anthony Masters, earlier Oscar-nominated for his work on the film 2001 - A Space Odyssey. And all the wonderful and strange appearances of the different kinds of people in the film, Carlo Rambaldi took care of. This is the man who earlier has been awarded three different Oscar-statuettes, among others for example the E.T.-creature. With a budget of 400 million dollars in the 1980s, this is a very well put together film.I give it 11 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Can´t really explain why, I just love it.Excellent ideas by Lynch from a Herberts good book.Kyle MacLachlan is greatLynch has really succeded in getting the right actors for the smaller parts such as Jürgen Prochnow and Max von Sydow.  "},{"Title":"Holds up over time","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie 17 years ago in a theater, and it is the only film that I remember getting a short glossary of terms handed to me as I walked into the show. I was mostly disappointed with the movie at the time. If you never read the book you would not know what's going on, even with the glossary handout. I read the original Dune trilogy and so I realized that so much was missing, and there were odd little additions that were in the film but not in the books, which mostly were not effective. I just watched this same Dune on DVD and am impressed that the look is still very acceptable, unlike other films whose production styles ages them badly. I appreciated the movie more for what it was, which is more of a Readers' Digest Dune. A lot of important characters are marginalized in the film, and several notable scenes are missing. A film that had more of the detailed world of Dune and all of its characters would take 6-8 hours. The Harkonnens are overdone and overacted but you do get the idea that they are despicable. Comparing the 1984 movie with the 2000 version, I thought the movie captures the spirit better, while the newer version is more thoughtful and loyal to the original fiction. "},{"Title":"So what about a director's cut?","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read Dune in 1984, prior to watching David Lynch's adaptation but with his film's visuals in mind (thanks to the magazines of the time). I fell in love with the book (of course) and soon after with the movie.Problems during the course of its production, unwise (if not poor) decisions regarding its visual effects and the pressure of condensing a very complex material in 2 hours mark all conspired against the quality of the piece, the main victims here being the story telling (which is really not great) and the pace (which is somewhat unbalanced and even clumsy). But despite of all its major flaws, I believe that David Lynch's film remains a unique piece of cinema for which a major re-assessment is long overdue and much needed. Lynch is a creator-director renowned for its vivid and otherworldly imageries and Dune is no exception. In fact the film is full of striking moments (Princess Irulan's opening sequence, the visit of the 3rd stage Navigator to the Emperor, the Harkonnens first introduction, the Atreides ships entering the immense Guild high liners etc...). Its design in general makes it a fascinating picture to watch. The sets were sumptuous (even by today's standards), the costumes superb and varied, Freddie Francis's photography outstanding and the extraordinary all-star ensemble cast provided some wonderful and memorable performances. Dune might not be flashy and futuristically demonstrative (quite the contrary in fact) which actually add to its charms but it is all gravitas and nobility, unconventional, challenging, strange and... (well okay, granted) intellectual. These were some of the reasons why the movie was almost universally paned upon its release (ironically by the very same critics that would complain about the formulaic and predictable nature of Hollywood films). The movie simply fell victim of the expectations as it did not come out as the pop-corn blockbuster some quarters have expected back then (which in itself is very strange considering the tone of the original material and the very nature of the director).Whether one love(d) or loathe(d) this film, Dune could hardly be accused of being banal or clichéd now, could it? For its defence the film main merit is to exist at all. Dune is a book that cannot be adapted effectively (as proved years later by its somewhat insipid TV adaptation) and yet the film is there in all its beauty and relative failure.As noted in some other reviews on here, the TV version of the film which was atrociously re-cut and CRIMINALLY re-framed, boasts however some never seen before footages and scenes that could have benefited the movie if only producer Dino de Laurentiis had agreed to release a three hours epic. Hey! There's an idea! Wouldn't that be cool if David Lynch was granted a director's cut? I know that would sure make me a happy bunny. And I also know that there are some of you out there that would agree... "},{"Title":"Well Sir...I don't like it.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frank Herbert's book is a classic, an epic, a book that anyone who appreciates good literature should read.  A wonderfully detailed and intricate setting combined with fascinating characters and ironic relationships make a feast for the mind.  If you can read (seems like you should be able to) and haven't already done so, go to a used book store, pick up a copy of Dune, and start reading.With such a rich story to draw upon, I was looking forward to watching Lynch's adaptation of Dune after finishing the book.  Oh man, was I disappointed, even more so than when I walked out of The Hulk.  I'm not kidding, it's that bad.It seems like the script writer had his eight-year old daughter read the book, had her explain it to his 80-ish father, and then listened to grandpa's summary as inspiration.  Then Lynch threw in some neato sound-based weirding module weapons, made the Baron stupid and able to fly, cast a rock-star to get butts in the seats, and added plenty of cheesy eighties-style guitar to make audiences in the next millennium wince.The worms are cool, but for some reason the movie's portrayal reminded me of cows.  (Weird!)  The space scenes are unique, but totally unimportant.  There are some sparsely sown tiny nuggets of good acting, but mostly the actors seem as confused as the audience.    The costumes are simply amazing.  Really well done.  The sets are also very nice, especially the Imperial halls.  If you like cool worms, unique space scenes, sparse and tiny acting nuggets, amazing costumes, nice sets, but don't give a hoot about anything else, go see this movie right now!I don't know if a film adaptation of Dune could ever do the book justice.  Perhaps, but it's obviously really really hard to pack so much into a two-ish hour film.  (We are talking about Lynch after all.  He was anything but a hack.)  I'm hoping that the SCI FI channel's mini-series is better. "},{"Title":"Prodigy Talisman","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I saw this when it first came out and recalled it now, more than 15 years later. And you know the main memory? Alicia Witt as the 8 year old prodigy playing a two year old one. She is only in two scenes, but her delivery is the stuff that embosses your memory.Got me thinking about her subsequent film career. (I don't and won't know her TeeVee work.) I've seen a few of her films and she doesn't show any talent now beyond being pretty and playing the piano. I think Mike Figgis put her in `Liebestraum' in part because of her role here she represents the human transformation from the folding of space and time. You can't get that from the Dune movies; you have to read the books. But it is no accident that she is the center of Lynch's movie, the only small gem he could get past the exhibitionistic dumbness of De Laurentiis.Then, because of the Figgis connection, I am certain Crowe used her as a taliswoman in `Vanilla Sky,' where she plays the same pivotal role as in `Liebestraum.' I mean `pivot' literally as the fulcrum around which origamic visions move.What an odd presence to have. I'll study some of her other work and get back to you. "},{"Title":"2nd worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frank Herbert put on a good face and said he was pleased, but you could see the truth and the suffering in his eyes. He died shortly after release, probably to escape the horror.  This movie sets special effects back by about a century or so, is a monument to bad acting and bad direction, and redefines hopelessly muddled plotlines. Sad, because it's such a great book.  If you've read the book you can barely figure out that it's supposed to be the same story.  If you haven't read the book, you won't be able to understand even one thing that's going on.  The sandworms are a joke, the stillsuit design completely ignores their purpose, the ornithopters are stupid, the space ships look like some kid playing with his mom's dishes, and the blue eyeballs look exactly like what they are-- some guy with an airbrush going over the movie frame by frame to try to convince you that these people really do have blue eyeballs.  Not to mention that the musical score is a travesty.  Can you tell?-- I hate this movie.  "},{"Title":"Still awful after all these years","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film in 1984. I watched it on TV a couple of weeks ago. In 1984 I thought the movie was bad. The story made no sense, the acting looked like a high school play and the score was to the ears what a visit to the dentist is to the mouth.After watching this epic on television in the year 2000 I have reevaluated my opinion of it.  It is actually dumber, duller and a bigger waste of time than I had previously thought.Still awful, after all these years. "},{"Title":"If It Were A Fish I'd Throw It Back","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"56 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film's only redeeming quality is the original score by Toto. The music, at least some of it, is appropriately celestial, ethereal, almost subliminal in its orchestration. That said, the film's other elements are awful.The plot is an incoherent mess. I had no idea what was going on. After the first thirty minutes, I really didn't care what was going on. Character and place names confuse and irritate; they are like something from out of a witch's dictionary. The characters are uninteresting, and I could not identify with any of them. They have no sense of humor, and always seem to be in a bad mood. (Whatever happened to antidepressants?). The dialogue is heavy duty, melodramatic mumbo jumbo. The voice-over technique is overused, and is therefore irritating. The casting is poor. Kyle MacLachlan is not convincing in the role he plays, because he lacks charisma. The worms have no personality. The special effects are mediocre at best. And the film is full of cheap cinematic gimmicks, like blue eyeballs, futuristic techno-gadgets, and a floating fat man.It is a dreadfully pretentious and ponderous film that takes itself way too seriously. Even Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space has some entertainment value, derived from its technical crudeness. But, apart from portions of the soundtrack, Dune has no entertainment value of any kind. The film is cold and clammy. It has all the charm of a dead fish. "},{"Title":"Lynch needed time and budget to make this a perfect movie worth of the novel","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only problem with this film is that it had to be cut in the middle of its production due to massive expenses and a length that would be commercially unacceptable.The result is a film which becomes hard to follow for anyone who is not deep into Dune's novel. The other big flaw is that only the events of part 1 of the book are described fully; part 2 simply disappears and part 3 goes far too fast. So, we get a great introduction but a very unsatisfactory development of characters and events. The development of Paul's character from a Duke's heir to Muab'dib, which is a key element in the novel, is left unexplained in this film.Having said this, the visuals are stunning, the casting and acting is almost perfect, the music goes very well with the story and the way to bring to the screen so many internal thoughts as they appear in the novel is well solved.I remember loving the film the first time I saw it, but having seen it repeatedly while re-reading the novel leaves me unsatisfied because so many things are left out.With more money and time this would have been a 10 and a perfect adaptation of a great novel. "}{"Title":"imperfect but still fascinating to watch","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When it was released, Dune was considered a disappointment, not living up to its potential of being a `serious' science-fiction classic. However, I appreciate Dune for what it is, a movie with an interesting plot, and a distinctive look and music.  The actions of the Emperor and the rival dynasties of the Atreides and Harkonnen are like 19th century European power politics at its most ruthless.  When the setting turns to the desert planet Dune, the story includes many Arab-like aspects.  Director David Lynch infuses the movie with a peculiar look, far different from the sci-fi movies by George Lucas, Ridley Scott, or James Cameron.  The music by Toto works well most of the time.  One of the drawbacks of the movie is its length; it needed to have been longer to portray the scope of the epic story.  Also, there are no great performances.  Kyle MacLachlan was just ok in the starring role.  (He is much better in his other collaborations with Lynch, Blue Velvet and the TV show Twin Peaks.)  To me the presentation of the Harkonnens is not well done, the three characters are over the top and under-developed villains.  After recently seeing the Dune mini-series, though, I appreciate more what the movie was able to achieve.  It included all the major concepts of the story in much less time screen time than the mini-series.  In conclusion, it is probably accurate to label this an interesting failure.  Yet, nearly 20 years after its release, it is still fascinating to watch.  "},{"Title":"A review of the TV Extended Edition Region 2 DVD","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review is for the TV Extended Edition Region 2 version of the DVD.I recently bought this version which has 35 minutes extra footage over the original theatrical release. I already have the original version and have watched that many times, so this review is a comparison of the two.The first thing to note about this version is that David Lynch disowned it so the director is listed as Allen Smithee (a pseudonym which is always used when the original director of a film does not want his name associated any more).Whilst the original release features a brief introductory narration spoken by Princess Irulan, this version has a longer spoken introduction by a narrator against a backdrop of still oil paintings and drawings. Some this is word-for-word the same as spoken by Irulan, but much is new. The introduction even touches on the Butlerian Jihad which explains to the viewer why there are Mentats (human computers) but no electronic computers.The film feels very different from the original version. The extra footage does add to the story and I would predict that someone unfamiliar with the film and books would find this version far less confusing. Obviously that is relative &#150; I'm sure someone who knew nothing of Dune would still find even this version very confusing, but probably not as confusing as the condensed original version.One addition that did not work for me was the increased screen time of Gurney Halleck (Patrick Stewart). The lines where he delivers poetry were very stilted and did not sit well and the scene in which he played the Balliset was laughable.The music of this version is very different from the original. It has a far more `TV mini-series' feel to it and is far less successful than the original and has also dated far more badly. It is EXTREMELY intrusive and I felt detracted from the film enormously. It was so bad that I found it extremely difficult to watch this version and completed it over a two day period rather than at one sitting. For someone who is big fan of Dune (both the film and the books) this suggests that David Lynch made the right decision in removing his name from the credits. As the film progressed the music became better but this is mainly due to the increasing use of the original score.Overall I would say that this version is an interesting addition to the DVD collection of a fan who already owns the original, but I would not recommend it over the original to someone who had not seen the film before. "},{"Title":"Lynch magnificant","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I laugh at all you with your whining about the scenery. Look at the miniseries; during many of the fightscenes you can tell that it was filmed in a studio, it's awful. In some of the scenes, though (of the miniseries) you can't tell where the hell they ARE filming. One scene makes it look like their in an office and burning filing cabinents. What the hell is that?At least the Lynch's movie didn't suck that badly. The acting in the miniseries hurts, it really does. If anyone has seen Future War on Mystery Science Theater 3000, well, the miniseries was almost that bad. The movie had so many great actors that acted great. The movie had so many no names I stopped caring immediatly. But that was also due in part to the complete pussiness of Alec Newman's Paul. Oh, god, Dune? there? We're going there? *crys*. I'm the Holy Warrior? *SOBS*. WHY ME? Boo, hoo hoo.Basically, the movie puts the miniseries in its grave. "},{"Title":"Dune","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the story is anything but simple, the heart of it concerns the planet of Arrakis, which holds a specific spice which yields a magic to sustain life, stretch the conscience to new heights, and even possibly the ability to fold space. The Emperor(José Ferrer) wishes to command that planet, but needs to rid himself of the people of Atreides who seem to be close to holding a deal with the spice planet once dominated by the evil people of Harkonnen. There's a traitor amongst the Atreides, put there by Baron Vladimir Harkonnen(Kenneth McMillan, really hamming it up to a maniacal level in nearly every scene he's featured in), so that the Harkonnen race can retake the planet and spice reserve. Paul Atreides(Kyle MacLachlan)was supposed to be a female child since that would've created harmony amongst the planets, but he is quite special in how the story unfolds. He seems to have this destiny in place to lead the people hidden on Arrakis to overtake their own planet and be the guiding force over the other planets.Trying to cram so much Herbert into a decent running time seems just too difficult a task for Lynch who tries to cover up the muddled unevenness with technical savvy. Visually, DUNE is a canvas of pure art in set design and a pleasure to behold. Yet, the film suffers when it comes to story-telling and visuals can only take you so far. This cast is really good, but they aren't assisted by the dialogue they must speak. Sting and Brad Dourif seem perfect for their benevolent roles as Harkonnen henchmen as Lynch does show his often sadistic side in film with embellishing these beasts with much more attention than the heroes which seem to come off cold. Certain characters like Linda Hunt's Arrakin Shadout Mapes or the charismatic supporting players Richard Jordan(as Duncan Idaho;soldier for Paul), Patrick Stewart(as Paul's trusted teacher Gurney), Jürgen Prochnow(as Paul's father and the leader of the Atreides), & Max Von Sydow(as Dr. Kynes)barely get enough time on screen to develop.Still, the film is dazzling to look at even if it suffers badly in the overall complete Lynch product. I can understand why people side against it since Lynch isn't really your true Hollywood filmmaker and comes the closest to being that in his film DUNE. It still has enough signature moments(specifically when we see the Harkonnen side where we see the design of their ships and planetary structure of dark, steel, and smoke;not to mention how the Harkonnen side behaves with morbid delight in their horrendous deeds)such as the weird dreams Paul has, the visual template of unusual thought narrative, and the diseased sores on the Baron's porcine face. "},{"Title":"A mixed blessing","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Roger Ebert's original review of DUNE he scorned the film badly. He wrote, This movie is a real mess its an incomprehensible, unstructured, ugly pointless excursion into the murkier realms of one of the most confusing screenplays of all time. It is a certainly strange movie. It is kind of like David Lynch wanted to combine the religious and political overtones of the film with the style of his Eraserhead. The result is it is sometimes confusing. The f/x now looks dated in many sequences although many still hold up well. The film is well-cast with actors like Kyle Machlachlan, Patrick Stewart, Max Von Sydow, and many others. They all give strong performances. Its certainly is a fascinating mess. Utterly min-boggling at times although not as difficult to follow as others have claimed. Still this is not one of Lynch's best efforts. It deserves it cult following, but will always polarize fans of the book. Watch and see where you stand. This is ultimately a love-it or hate-it affair. See it, and you will know where you stand. "},{"Title":"Flawed gem","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's 'Dune' adaptation is an oddity among movies. A big budget sci-fi movie directed by a man who is usually seen as avantgarde director, not a blockbuster entertainer. And the truth is, that 'Dune' is as far from 'Star Wars' and 'Indiana Jones' as Pluto is from the Sun.I like the film and I hate it for some extent. I love the atmosphere and the settings but I hate the way the story is told, because that is the only major problem within this film. The way the story is told is the major obstacle that prevents 'Dune' to be a great film.The settings used for the worlds of Dune and the home planets of the Atreides and Harkonnen are all different and cleverly designed. Atreides family lives in a planet with roaming oceans while the Harkonnen live in a green industrial hell, suitable for their almost camp like insanity. The Dune itself is a hot, desolate planet filled with sand, fremen and gargantuan worms. The special effects work reasonably well when placed against the modern special effects. They are aged of course, but not to the point of laughable. Time has been rather kind. Especially the sand worms are very well made.As I said I dislike how the story is told the movie is just too short and that is far too visible from all the scenes filled with characters thinking or a narrator explaining what has happened during some period of time. The biggest favour producer De Laurentiis could have done with the story would have been to break it down in the middle and do a another movie out of the rest. Now we only have a colleague of the major events that happened, but not a thing in between to tie them together in between.AS the 'Dune' is a David Lycnh movie it also has a lots of segments that clearly are creation of David Lynch. There is a lot of dream like quality in the film and the insanity of house Harkonnen is so over the top that it is almost camp like. The perverted nature of Vladimir Harkonnen is almost unintentionally funny.Before the end I have to give a special note about the soundtrack of the film. Toto has done very nice job with the music and some of the songs belong among the best movie music ever recorded. "},{"Title":"A movie with a lot of hits and misses","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently purchased the extended version of Dune and found myself watching David Lynch's original theatrical version because I could not stand the newly released version directed by Alan Smithee. If you are going to watch Dune, watch the original theatrical, the extended version is horrifically bad which I will explain as to why soon enough.To begin, Dune is not a perfect movie. It was made in 1984, there were a lot of limitations, especially with visual effects at the time, and having to film out in an open desert. Naturally, the movie has its flaws on the technical aspects. Mostly it is difficult to fit a 489 page novel into a two hour time frame. So a lot had to be cut, which in some ways hurt the film. Some things were changed or completely new stuff was added which also hurt the film.The main qualm I have with Dune is for every good thing the film has, it seems to have something bad spring up that should have been done better or removed. For instance the casting. There are a lot of great actors in this movie Patrick Stewart, Max Von Sydow, Jose Ferrer, Jurgen Prochnow to name a few. All these actors were perfect for their roles and played them brilliantly. However, this movie also has Kyle MacLachlan, Dean Stockwell and Sting. This was MacLachlan's first commercial feature. To me, he played the part of Paul Atreides as if Paul were an expressionless wooden plank. Sting plays the antagonist, so throughout the whole movie I am not seeing the character Feyd Rautha, I am seeing Sting in silly costume. Even though this movie was made before Star Trek TNG and Quantum Leap, the first time I saw the scene where Patrick Stewart and Dean Stockwell were on screen together, I laughed. It was like Captain Picard teaming up with Al. Patrick Stewart however played the part of Gurney Halleck dead on.The beginning of the movie is very well done. Virginia Madsen's character gives a brief introduction to the movie, where she explains a few things and sets the tone for the rest of the film. Next we have the villains plotting to take out the good guys, a knife fight, some human vs robot action, an assassination attempt, a battle, and so forth. The movie comes to a screeching halt by the halfway point. Most of the second act is explained through montages and more narration by Virginia Madsen.In the novel, the characters think to themselves a lot. In the movie, we get to hear what's on their minds. This automatically kills the idea of the audience getting into the character's head.Some of the costumes, creatures, and make up effects were really awesome. Why David Lynch decided to give every mentat giant furry eyebrows is beyond me.Despite its short comings, which are plentiful, its not a bad movie. Its sci-fi, its bizarre, its very visual, its got action and it does kill 2 hours if you have nothing better to do. I do recommend it.Here's why the extended version sucks - Its 3 hours. Not that a 3 hour movie is bad, a 3 hour movie with horrible pacing, dialogue, acting, etc is really bad.- The beginning is replaced with a 10 minute introduction by a different narrator (who is very annoying by the way). This narrator explains like a college professor the backstory of Dune, very poorly I might add. Rather than show us moving images since its a movie, we get still paintings to accompany this droneful explanation. The narrator NEVER shuts up. Throughout the entire film, he explains everything on screen. No joke. Given, there's a lot going on Dune, there's a lot of weird words being thrown around, but having this guy explain the movie pretty much tells the audience that they can't figure anything out on their own.- The restored scenes should have stayed on the cutting room floor. Its mostly more characters chatting about stuff the narrator already explained.- The first scene where we meet The Emperor in Lynch's original version runs about 6 minutes. In the extended version, it goes on for like 10 minutes. The Emperor not only states the Third Stage Guild Navigator will be here within minutes, he says to himself, Why is a Third Stage Guild Navigator coming here? and then asks someone, What could the Third Stage Guild Navigator want? Enough about the THIRD STAGE GUILD NAVIGATOR! "},{"Title":"Dune the picture that was painted","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is one of the best I have ever seen. It's not true to the book, but even the books were not true to themselves.The movie is great, and I can side a little with the people who have read the books that the movie is only a dim light to the books, but all in all it's dam good.The cast was great, sure some of the cast was reaching a little but they had one hell of a way to reach.The music, the score makes you almost feel your sole inside of you namely prophecy theme I can almost feel it.The movie is great, and even tho it has some shorts, I know that the movie will always be thought of as one of the best.You can't ever make a movie better then what your own brain can make while reading the book.LONG LIVE THE FIGHTERS! "},{"Title":"Harkonnens overdone, but Paul's life great.","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune, despite the discouragement from many, proved to be a wonderful account of Paul Atreide's life on Arrakis. In fact, it seems that the story is told by two directors. The world of the Harkonens is sinister and exaggerated, whereas the account of Mua Dib's adventures are very convincing. Moreover, considering the technological limitation of the 80s, they did a great job with the worms and Paul's dreams. Yes, I have to say that I especially liked the dreams. On the other hand, I also wished they had included the dinner with Dr Keynes and Duke Leto at the same table as well as some other moments. Moreover, I'd think twice before making the Harkonens laugh and grunt so much. And why was the Baron so ugly? While it is true that Dune is not perfect, it definitely has a lot to offer to its audience. At points, it surprises with its mysticism and great ideas about how to make the universal a part of the plot. I'd say watch it and tune out whenever you see a Harkonen! "},{"Title":"Much-Maligned Brilliance","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rarely do you come across a movie as thoroughly maligned as David Lynch's 'Dune'. Otherwise sane and reasonable individuals start foaming at the mouth and twitching uncontrollably when recollecting the 15 minutes they managed to sit through. Others start screaming obscenities and become unable to articulate sentences to describe their loathing of this movie. I've yet to meet anybody who DIDN'T think it one of the worst movies ever made. Why is it, then, that I love it? 'Dune' is one of my favorite movies. I have watched it several dozen times and never tire of it. Despite De Laurentiis's butchering of both Lynch's screenplay, and the original cut of the movie, enough of the Director's signature style remain for his fans, with many moments that are pure Lynch; bizarre and disturbing &#150; the heart plugs, the caged cat, the weird incestuous homoerotic undertones, the muddled dream sequences. The entire thing is beautifully crafted with genuine Baroque excess. The production design is breathtaking, with a rare sense of new worlds being created and given their own aesthetic. Every character, though thoroughly over-the-top, is original and memorable, with Brad Dourif, Freddie Jones, Linda Hunt and Sian Phillips being particular favourites.I'm not sure why so many people find this movie so unwatchable. Personally, I find it one of the most satisfying sci-fi films ever made, and I wait in vain for Lynch to swallow his pride and oversee a collector's edition release. "}{"Title":"Don't be too quick at criticising this movie!","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie i thought What is going on here? The biggest problem was understanding the dialogue and building upon the scenes that were replaced with brief narrative (as they were omitted to get the runtime down), was something that failed to help the movie. But alas, this movie is definitely unique in a positive way. There are several reasons for this. The first is that David Lynch is directing it and it is a Dino de laryngitis production with a good budget for that movie era. Its a shame that Lynch's presence isn't appreciated more for his mainly non-linear filmaking brilliance, as is shown very much on this film.This was Kyle McLachlan's first movie and although the character of Paul is meant to be about 15 as in the book, wheras Kyle was 24 when making the movie doesn't matter the slightest. I hope Kyle is very proud of his contribution in the movie for it was him who kept me going the first time I ever watched it. He looked right physically in the role and was convincing form the start. In fact the casting is prefect in this movie. Compared to film failures such as Escape from LA, which also had a great cast despite being a very poor movie, this film tops other mentionable pictures.I liked the way the story unraveled and Patrick Stewart's involvement even though he didn't have much screen time. Everett McGill impressed me in this as he was excellent in Under Siege 2. My good points could go on for a bit but there is always going to be bad points to DUNE. It was a shame it bommed at the box making under half its supposed budget, but i can understand entirely as this movie isn't for the average movie-goer who expects everything to be clear the first time. What on earth happened to Virginia Madsen in this movie, shes hardly here and she stood out as mesmerisingly beautiful. I cannot decide whether Sting was good or bad in his role but he appeared well on screen.My greatest regret was that this film wasn't made into two parts so that more scenes could have been used to build up characters, but where would be a good point to break the story up as it is quite a simple one? Cutting the film to 137 minutes upset Lynch very much but he still remained dedicated. I think if it was longer that it wouldn't have made any bigger an impression in theaters or improve the cult following. A few things were changed there and then too during the movie but it is still quite faithful to Herbert's vision of DUNE. I hope that the full intended version makes it out one day but this current region 2 DVD release will OK enough for the moment. Musician Toto again was a good choice for the music in the movie giving a feel good element. Considering the movie was made in 1983, the effects are OK but noticeably dated as computer technology weren't on hand so much if at all back then. This was evident during some battle scenes but as in the theatrical release they were all short and so didn't cause much of a problem as it could of had.This movie is a like it or hate it affair, there ain't an in between, so you will feel either bitter disappointment or the thought that movie was different and good. I didn't read the book first but found it OK then, but i recommend you read the book and see the full picture as it was much clearer watching it after. Well done to actors and crew on this film.Rating *** out of *****, a bizarre sci-fi film with good moments and acting, which overall ruled over the films various bad points.  "},{"Title":"A Premature Birth","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How many reviews have slapped this movie in the face? Hundreds? Thousands? Well this is not one of them. The problem with this movie is basically that is was done before it should have. First of all Dune is a very intricate novel with plots within plots, expanding into an epic story. It is very hard to condense a novel like Dune into anything less than 5-6 hours and somehow portray what the novel portrayed. The problem with that is that no studio is going to run a six hour movie at a theater, then you would have to release it straight to video or as a mini-series(Sci Fi channel's version), and that would put a heavy constraint on the budget. A movie of this caliber cannot work with a low budget either. Lynch's movie shows a lot of great vision, beautiful directing and settings, photography was incredible, costume designs...all the aesthetics. But dialogue constrained much of the actors' abilities, and the story just got chopped into pieces as soon as the Atreides arrive on Arrakis.The movie studio forced Lynch to cut down his original 4+ hours of film into a two and a half hour film. This left Lynch with almost no where to fit the huge story. Once in Arrakis the movie's storyline degenerates by the minute, until you are left with a confusing unemotional mush.I still defend Lynch's work all in all, his directing choices, his vision was spectacular, mostly his taste for distortion was what worked beautifully with the movie's mood and atmosphere.This movie fails in what Sci-Fi's Dune triumphs, the storyline and acting, but it triumphs where the latter fails, the vision-budget.A movie such as Dune would have had a better chance of making it if it were made in the present. Special effects are obviously better, cheaper and audiences are adapting to longer, more complex movies these days than the superficial 80's. A true gem for the Dune fan. Don't see it if you don't know anything about Dune, you'll just get confused.In a high standard scale of filmmaking I give it a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has got some lengths, sometimes it´s even boring, nevertheless it is one of the best sci-fi movies I´ve ever seen Dune contains a great nightmarish atmosphere, lots of great actors, even in the supporting roles (I really was surprised what a good actor Sting is..!) and an intelligent and demanding story that makes Star Wars Episode 1 looking like a 120-minute playstation video game. I heard a rumour that David Lynch´s film was one of the biggest flops in the history of cinema..? Well, lovers of mainstream flicks like Titanic or Pearl Harbor should stay far away, because Dune is not a typical mega-budget production à la Hollywood, it is something like a piece of art. It seemed to be impossible to film Frank Herbert´s novel, but David Lynch has done really great work with his movie!  Watch this film if you want to do a long journey into the realms of bizarre!!! "},{"Title":"A beginning with Virginia Madsen can not fail","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lynch's creative imagination gives a film with a high rate of intense images per square inch of celluloid, beginning with two consecutive solemn scenes a brief introduction with an impressive Virgina Madsen as Princess Irulan and narrator of what we are about to see, and the vision of a desert where the wind blows with an epic music.Intensity does not decay, as we found ourselves in an operatic exaggeratedly luxurious palace, the center of an already decadent empire, where very fine actors like José Ferrer and Siân Philips are dressed in spectacular dresses and matching wits with an octopus-like space- time navigator (and all that in less than a few minutes, compressing many pages of Frank Herbert's book).If that's not original enough for you, perhaps you should wait until a giant worm that causes mega-volts of static in the desert sand swallows a huge harvesting machine, or until you see a long row of men on the dunes waiting for an even greater worm and an aspiring messiah to confirm a prophecy in a mysterious death-defying ritual.If you think that stories are excuses to create powerful images, specially in a widescreen, that long row of men standing in the desert (while Paul walks towards his dangerous future) should not disappoint you, even if you are not a fan of Frank Herbert (I am not). As an image, it is one of the most powerful and cinematographically beautiful that I have seen. Lynch is to be credited for such a vision.Plus an endless list of top quality actors like Francesca Annis, Max Von Sydow, Linda Hunt or Dean Stockwell to name a few, wonderful characterizations (Jurgen Prochnow is just the right actor for Duke Leto Atreides, or Lynchian Everett McGill for Stilgar) and of course Kyle MacLachlan as the charismatic heir that becomes hard-boiled leader.9 out of 10 for a film with enough ideas and emotions to fill many films. A friend of mine had Dune as the only film in his VHS video collection I bet he left the tape inside the VHS player and eventually broke the eject button. "},{"Title":"the Versailles Palace of the Sci-Fi genre","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is the Versailles Palace of the Sci-Fi genre.Don't need more, but minimum comment needs 10 lines, so1. The best way to consume this product it's sit down, believe all you see, forget the real world, and enjoy. You will receive a nice present for your effort, surely. If don't, sorry man, you're probably dead.2. Any critic should be done with much care, because it's a 1984 movie.3. A book it's a book, and a film it's a film. They are different things, with opposites purposes.4. I can feel the grand illusion put on any line by the producers, also the sincere innocence of the ideas.5. Men and women trying to be child again, playing with sands castles. So beautiful... "},{"Title":"a movie I enjoy seeing again and again","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My 1st real contact with the Dune Universe was around 1993 playing the strategy game Dune II on Amiga. Sometime later I watched part of the old movie on TV but I didn't get too interested. I thought it was boring or confusing. Anyway, this Dune thing kept showing up from time to time, like seeing a Dune VHS in a video-rental or such.When I was shopping for DVDs a while ago I kept stumbling over 2&#128; copies of the movie. The shop seemed like wanting to flood homes with this flick at such a price. Finally I just bought it. Kept laying around at home until I finally put it into my xbox to try it out. I think I was afraid of watching this movie which I suspected to be too complicated with lots of weird dialog and such. That all changed to instant fascination when I saw and heard the beautiful Lady Irulan's introduction The Beginning is a very delicate time. Know then that it is the year 10191...Now I really am in love with this film. Especially the beginning and the end-credits with it's great score. Sometimes I even put it on while taking a nap listening to the score and the great actors. Now I have ordered the longer DVD version, the 1st book, and the 2 other TV-series as well because I just want more of it. Will always have a place in my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Superb.......A Masterclass..","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a true master-class of art,the true scale of props/sets costumes+original designs is above all,and compared to today pix elated cartoons/video game made films,is on top 'bar none',such hard work has gone into producing dune and not just a few knobs(nerds) sitting on their arse's pushing keys on a qwerty to make such effects like in today cheap/made blockbusters(what a laugh).The Dune sets are superb,as so is the cast,the story it self is quite simple to follow,unless of course you are simple! It should be placed in an art gallery as a true Masterpiece.The politics involved in this film reminds one of the English Civil War and the demise of the Russian Royal Family by the Bolsheveks.Now is this down to the fantastic costumes and hand built sets, or the way the story rolls, In a nutshell Its a futuristic Revolution against Artistic Licence.Well done David.I'm sure Artist Damian Hurst from my home city of Leeds would be proud to show such super work of this quality if he'd created it,Dune is not Oxfam,as is so much of the film Rubbish been constantly produced in the Us Today and Everyday. "},{"Title":"A true Epic. One of the greatest Sci-fi's","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know a lot of Dune fans do not like this. I consider myself a Dune fan. The books are my favourite science fiction books and I feel on a level with the Lord of the rings when it comes to literature.I know it changes quite a few things and leaves quite a few important things out. However despite all this I feel this is a truly great movie and though not completely accurate it catches the spirit of the novel.I have seen the television series made later and though that is more accurate to the book I feel it does not at all capture the spirit.this movie captures that spirit and the epic scale of the book and also far more importantly the spirituality. I would take the movie over the series any day.Whether a fan or not it is worth watching this movie. For those who have never read the Dune books or know much about them you will find this a wonderful piece of cinematography from the 1980's that was groundbreaking for it's time and may bring you interest in the novels. For those fans who have never seen it you will find an interesting take and I hope like me look fast the flaws in the story-line to see how the spirit of the novel was captured.I saw this movie when I was just 7 back in 1984 and I have been fascinated by it since, even back in those times when I could not understand it at such a young age it enthralled me and it was certainly due to the movie that later on in adulthood I went on to read the novels and to this date I have read every one by Frank Herbert and by his son. "},{"Title":"Epic","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" More people should be exposed to this film.  It may have been a disaster at the box office in its day, but there is an audience for this film and a devoted one at that.  Herbert's vision is as unique, complete, and detailed as a director could hope for, and this film does a good job of putting the story on the screen.  If you like the film, be sure to read the book. "},{"Title":"Missed the point","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favorite books, but the screenplay bears little resemblance to the original story line. The weapons are pure fiction, the evil character an unbelievable buffoon, and the major point of the story is completely overlooked. This Baron was not sinister, and certainly not perverse. The Emperor is portrayed as a weakling who bows to the will of the spacing guild at the drop of a hat, VERY REGAL. Even the Fremen were misrepresented. Where were their Burkas, the capes, the disdain they had for the fighting ability of their enemies? This movie did not impress me as a story of a feudal coup for revenge against a generation's long enemy nor as a Baron capable of plotting the overthrow a galactic emperor. I doubt the screen writer ever read the book. "}{"Title":"Potentially good movie marred by poor editing","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this one when it was released, in  the huge, domed Colosseum cinema in Oslo. Being a regular customer, I noticed that nearly every movie shown there appeared to be very good, great or even a classic. It must have been the plush seats, the chandeliers, the palatial surroundings that did me in. Even Quest for fire thrilled me at the Colosseum...But Dune, even here, was a turkey. A leaden script with no continuity, unannounced actors popping up all over the place, sodden special effects - you name it! And I had no knowledge whatsoever about David Lynch - he could have been anyone for all I cared.Fortunately the movie now seems much better! It started off our local Film Society season in September, and the crowd loved it. It's still hairy and risible in places, yes. But since David Lynch now is a household name, it's easier to appreciate it. Dune is at least recognizable as a typical Lynch-movie, full of bizarre visuals, kinky costumes and a fairy-tale plot. The last half-hour everything goes unhinged, of course, and dozens of pages of script is rushed through at near light-speed. The plot becomes almost impossible to follow. Dune at this stage, looks like a potentially great movie, partly ruined by senseless editing and hurried matte effects, especially in the guerrilla attack on the castle near the end. The warriors riding the sandworms look like dummies, and the background seldom jells with the action. Still, Kyle Mac Lachlan is very credible as the hero. And those supporting actors! Stewart, von Sydow,  Stockwell, Mangano, Sting....has there ever been a movie that could top that idiosyncratic list?  "},{"Title":"The Best Bad Movie to Forget About","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there is one major movie that can be lost and forgotten about, without a loss to cinema, it is Dune. This was an enormously expensive movie to make, and it looks it; it takes a lot of money to film something that visually looks this drab, this depressing, and this off-putting. I didn't know that David Lynch both directed and wrote this movie until years later, but when I did, everything made perfect sense. The author of the book chose the Wrong person to do a screenplay of it! Lynch wrote the movie not caring if it was coherent or made sense to the audience. He directed all of the scenes to be bizarre for the sake of bizarre, and off-putting for the sake of itself. In short, he directed it for himself, not caring what the audience would think. This works if the director of a film is realizing his vision and his vision happens to be accessible to the public, but Lynch's vision and mentality are anything but that. There are artists that paint for themselves, and have contempt for what viewers think. I don't respect these people, because they're not artists; the definition of art is that it communicates, to a purpose. Art is by definition a form of communication. Here, Lynch does not communicate, nor cares to. The result is incoherent, off-putting, repellent, and contemptuous of its audience; in other words, the film is pure Lynch.If you happen to have Lynch's peculiar mentality, with a preference for bizarre visuals without context, you'll think the movie is brilliant. If you like a movie to have more than empty style, if you want it to have substance, meaning, hope and a storyline of some kind, with characters you care about, you have described something that Lynch does not care about, and will not produce. This film is the most pure example of that; he eventually met his karma with Twin Pinks, when his nonsensical and bizarre scenes reached the point where it became clear he was jerking around his audience to no purpose with no plot in mind, and the series was canceled suddenly at the height of its popularity; a singular thing to happen to a popular series I think.Thankfully, Lynch has been on a decline ever since, and people have finally caught on to his Picasso-like style of painting something bizarre for its own sake, and letting audiences read into it whatever they want, with no real direction or statement intended or cared about. If there was ever a movie that deserves to be lost deep under what it is named for, it's this one. There is only one mystery that remains that is a big one; how did a screenplay this incoherent, horribly written (especially the dialogue), and meaningless get approved with a budget of $40 million? Are the studios this easy to dupe? Please sign me up.... "},{"Title":"Nice look but very awkward feel.","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the book and a lot of background information on Wikipedia. In my opinion it's a largely disappointing film and the editing and general storytelling are surprisingly weak. They constantly revert to voice-overs because they can't explain the story otherwise and a lot of dialog is blatantly meant to explain what is happening and because of this it feels very awkward. The acting generally suffers because of very dry and formulaic dialog straight out of the book. Piter and the baron are portrayed very decently, while others like Paul and Jessica sometimes look plain silly. For modern audiences I think this movie looks downright silly in a lot of ways. Having the baron float around in stead of walking with supports looks really outdated now and this is especially true for things like the shields, the guns. The way The Voice is portrayed and the thoughts of the characters are expressed, doesn't do wonders for the film's realism (which is important even in science-fiction) and generally disrupts the viewer from becoming immersed in the story. Most of the imagery and mood setting scenes (stormy Caladan and unforgiving desert of Arrakis look great) work their effect well and are definitely something the movie format adds to the story, but other than this it's just too messy and stiff to be an entertaining movie. The main problem is that Lynch in my mind isn't the right director for this because he has trouble streamlining the complex story into a fluent script and doesn't mold the story enough to the specifics of the movie format. "},{"Title":"Impossible mission failed","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I had to direct Dune movie, I neither would know where to start. But this ancient piece - or rather Ruining a story 101 is failed beyond imagination.First, Lynch tried to use up whole book of Dune. That's a mistake. Even bigger one is that he never grasped the content, it's all 11 replayed. So, viewer has no real idea what's going on. Did director?To fit several hundred of pages into compact a movie, you have to know what to pick and what's important. None of this in movie. It's like he took every sub-story from book and cut off first and last quarter of it, so all subplots have middle part, progression, but no intro or conclusion. Special effects are crazy. They're really special because if often feels like clay motion, not a movie. Nothing alive or fluid, especially painful for worms who yawn most of the movie. Strange enough, same goes for real actors, I guess they tried to catch up with static poses and acting of worms. I don't think that some parts of the movie could be done without modern 3D technology, Lynch should have waited 20 years or so. Shields and explosions look REALLY bad, same for blue eyes.For costumes, some were quite cool, like stillsuits and uniforms of Atreides. Then again, some downright sucked (Atreides/Harkonnen/Sardaukar solider suits).I have no idea why Lynch pictured far future in noir style of 50's, and I think I don't want to. It's elegant, but not futuristic in any way.And finally, gross. Why are so many things so gross in this movie? Dead walls of fremen hideouts, eerie makeup on most characters (especially irritating Thufir Hawat's mouth) rotting face of Vladimir Harkonnen and those awful, awful space navigators. It's like watching intestines of some animal for 3 hours.I wouldn't want to go through this again. I think this movie would make a nice learning for cinema schools How to mess up a movie.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Ambitious, mystical, innovative, imaginative.... and REALLY poor.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Obviously, Frank Herbert's novel Dune is acknowledged as a genre masterpiece and there will be people who are great fans of the book who CAN make sense of this huge-scale film adaptation. I have never read the book so my review is solely based upon the film. And unfortunately I must report that the film is terrible. Perhaps lovers of the book will tell me that transferring it to the screen was a staggeringly difficult task, and that director David Lynch should be applauded for at least attempting it. But in truth, if you come to this film with little or no knowledge of the source material, you will be left confused and frustrated by what is on offer. Sorry, but any film-maker intent on bringing a long and complex cult book to the screen should at least try to make the film accessible to all viewers. Peter Jackson did it a couple of decades later with his Lord Of The Rings films; here, Lynch simply alienates members of the audience who are NOT disciples of the book. His screenplay is muddled and very confusingly structured, and as a director he fails to coax decent performances from most of his astonishing cast.Dune is a nickname given to the planet Arrakis, a sand-covered wilderness which is the only planet in the universe where a priceless spice can be found. The spice, when harvested, enables people to travel through space and time. The planet is guarded by gigantic worm-like monsters which burrow through the sand and devour everything in their path. At the start of the story, the year is 10,191 and the universe is under the control of Emperor Shaddam IV (Jose Ferrer). Another royal family, the Atreides clan (father Leto, mother Jessica and son Paul - played respectively by Jurgen Prochnow, Francesca Annis and Kyle MacLachlan), travel to Arrakis where they learn they have been lured into a trap by their enemies. Paul and Jessica escape into the desert where they discover a huge tribe of native warriors living in the caves. The warriors believe in a long-foretold prophecy that one day a messiah will come and lead them to power.... and young Paul turns out to be that very man.The plot in synopsis-form sounds imaginative and pretty serviceable, but Lynch gets bogged down in the impossible task of setting into motion various story threads that will brings the parts together. An abundance of characters are thrust into the mix - many of them played by very fine actors - but few are introduced meaningfully. The dialogue is riddled with baffling references (presumably, if you've read the book you'll get the references) which rapidly lose the viewer. Furthermore, there is evidence that Lynch realised somewhere along the line how incoherent his story was, as many of the characters provide whispered voice-overs to convey their thoughts. While these voice-overs help - slightly! - with the audience's comprehension of what the hell is going on, it seems a clumsy and unwieldy device, probably added belatedly when the film's makers finally acknowledged what a muddled film they'd made. Some of the special effects are quite innovative, and (in isolation) certain sequences are spectacular and highly imaginative, but when viewed as a whole Dune is an utter mess of a movie.... and truly deserves its label as one of cinema's most heavily-criticised debacles. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is terrible, perhaps one of the worst movies I've ever seen not starring Billy Baldwin. I remember seeing this movie when it first opened in the 80's and disliking it then because it was incredibly plodding and confusing. This was on the heels of Jedi and other popular sci-fi movies of the time and just couldn't compare. After not seeing it for 20 years and still hearing the sci-fi fan boys rave about the Herbert novels, I finally decided to read the novel myself and then watch the movie. The novel is okay -- it has it's own plodding pace but at least you understand why things are happening. Then watching the movie, I hated it more than when I originally saw it -- the movie does a complete disservice to the book. If you watch the movie as a standalone, you have no idea how the plot points advance so suddenly and conveniently. The storyline will advance and unless you have the back-story supplied by the book, the events of the movie seem like a series of convenient points strung together. Save three hours of your life and stay away. "},{"Title":"Still a spectacularly bad sci-fi epic.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  3 out of 10Dune is infamous for so many reasons, and not surprisingly, it has since then grown a rather large cult following of devoted fans, mostly those who are already die-hard David Lynch fans who embrace virtually everything the man so much as lays a hand on or die-hard fans of the original novel. Seeing this film after so many years, I can say without a doubt nothing's changed (except perhaps my amusement over the film's more unintentionally humorous moments).  This is still a terrible film by most counts, but like some of the worst of big-budget sci-fi, it's not without its odd charms.The first strike against the movie is its incomprehensible storyline, an already complex tale is made into a convoluted mess by a compressed running time.  Characters are introduced and thrown out just as quickly, subplots end up nowhere, and the central story is resolved a little too neatly.  As far as Lynch's direction goes, that's an even further gargantuan mess. The man goes through as many lengths as possible to ensure this film be as weird as possible, meaning odd-looking characters and strange dialogue enunciation for no other reason than to make this movie more sci-fi, as if though the man actually had even the slightest understanding of the genre. And then there are moments that are just plain silly, such as the introduction of Feyd Rautha and Rabban, a scene which is actually played with blaring rock music.But as I said before, the movie is not without its charms.  Some of the performances are really quite good (particularly Patrick Stewart), the score is appropiately bombastic and wondrous (when there's no electric guitar), and the film does sometimes capture the scope and grandeur of an epic, even if it fails completely on a human level.  Even some of the bad stuff has a certain flavor, such as the hilariously dated special effects and awful battle scenes, which are good for some belly laughs; that is, unless you're expecting a quality film, by which you'll probably be horrified much like I was on my first viewing (which would have been a 2 out of 10 way back then). "},{"Title":"An abortion of a movie.  Read the book instead.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is just another example of David Lynch satisfying his own infantile need for the grotesque.  Dune is one of the finest science fiction novels of all time, in every sense, and has very little to do with this film.  Even if you have NOT read the book, I feel sure this movie will disgust you. At every revolting moment in the film, realize you are watching another example of Mr. Lynch's perverted imagination, not the author's.  Watch the TV miniseries (2000) instead.  This is garbage, and puerile garbage at that.  Yuck. "},{"Title":"Cast is biggest letdown","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hate to begin any rant with a disclaimer, but I do have to say that Lynch, who is usually superb, was working with some of the best actors in the business. However, as a fan boy watching his very favorite science fiction novel translated to the big screen, I have to say I couldn't imagine a cast less suited to the task.The best example of this in the film is the choice of casting Patrick Stewart in the role of Gurney Halleck. Stewart interprets the role as a pompous and boisterous swashbuckling type, an ever present aura of conceit and panache accompanying his instruction as he trains young Atreides in the martial sciences. Somehow, the grizzled mercenary who was tortured by the Harkonnen, serving out of gratitude for his rescue from their dread clutches, hard edged and mentally scarred, is translated into this Pirates of Penzance extra. This is a far cry from his portrayal in the novel, and serves as an example of just how far from the spirit of the book the film went.MacLachlan, Madsen, and Young just do not convince me in their respective roles, and while they deliver their dialog competently, I see their interpretations as being at odds with the complexity of the characters that Herbert created. Maybe my translation of the characters simply differed from Lynch's; I am unconvinced, however, as the later incarnation on SciFi channel seemed to fit my reading of the novel's dialog to a far closer (and much better acted) degree. I can only conclude that Lynch somehow fell victim to typical Hollywood-ization (rare for him) and cast the film according to what was seen as hip at the time. The exceptions to this rule are Sting and Dean Stockwell, who stood out amongst their contemporaries and fulfilled their roles expertly.To compound the problem, the cinematic devices used to tell the story fall short of doing so with any clarity. Even fan boys who know the story (like myself) would have trouble following events. An uninitiated viewer would be lost within 30 minutes, and if they felt anything like myself, they just wouldn't care. I can't even chalk up a worthy effort on this one; this film gets the flat end of this reviewer's frying pan. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I saw this film I thought that it couldn't possibly be as bad as I had heard.  After all, the book is one of the best science fiction novels ever written. However, now that I have, I think it is a vast understatement to call it bad.  This horrid piece of cinematic garbage is the absolute worst pile of crap ever caught on camera.  Every aspect of this worthless piece of filth is awful beyond all description.  The director must have had his head turned the other way with his eyes closed and his ears plugged, because everything the actors do is either way over the top or bland beyond all hope of recovery.  In fact, the only decent actor I saw in this movie was Patrick Stewart, and he's obviously trying to work with what he has.  Unfortunately, what he has is absolutely nothing.  Not only that, but he is miscasted and underplayed.How could anyone get this story so wrong?!?  The acting is wretched.  The cinematography is bland and uninteresting.  The special effects are cheesy, thrown together, and annoying.  Whoever made the soundtrack was obviously trying to put the audience to sleep.  The lighting is dull and the costumes and makeup are stupid.  There is not a single thing that is good about this movie.  I got up in the middle of it and went to watch my little brother play computer games because it interested me more than watching this pathetic excuse of a movie.  And what the hell is the point of the princess fading in and out at the beginning?!?    Is anyone actually interested in what she has to say?  All she does is explain crap that could be figured out by watching the rest of the movie! Speaking of which, I noticed that unless you've read the book, this movie is completely incomprehensible.  And if you have read the book, you realize what a stinking pile of crap it really is.  My humble opinion is that everyone involved with this utter waste of time, energy, and resources needs to be rounded up, tortured, and shot. Dune is the WORST MOVIE EVER MADE.  EVER. "}{"Title":"Space Trainwreck","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"28 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune's trip to the screen took so long and involved so much squandered effort, one feels that out of pity, you should say something positive about it. But that's almost impossible. Look no further. You've found it - one of the worst movies ever made. Anyone who voted for Ishtar hasn't seen this. This is film-making at its most inept, convoluted and stodgiest. When I first saw Dune (in its original theatrical release) there were two distinct omens; upon buying your ticket you were handed a list of terms and definitions used in the movie. Apparently the filmmakers were so worried that this weird, bookish film was such an indecipherable morass that the viewers who hadn't drank the Frank Herbert Kool-Aid would willingly consult a glossary to get back on track (you know research!) The 2nd warning sign is the introduction to the film, clearly duct-taped on by desperate producers watching their profits evaporate, which shows Princess Irulan's (Virginia Madsen) floating head staring down the audience, didactically explaining still more obscure plot-points in positively boneheaded, stilted verbiage (with royal enunciation, ...and oh yes, I forgot to mention, the spice is crapped in big piles by an organism that looks like a blood clot, on the planet Jargon 7&#133;) At just the five minute mark, you have already sat through the most obtuse piece of film you ever will. Why Irulan (a fourth tier character, lost in this pile-up) is handed this ignoble task, may simply have to do with which actor was willing to come back and film additional footage for a few bucks. It's just one of thousands of questions you'll have.Moving on. The big plot point is that a privileged young man turns out to be even more privileged (with galactic implications) than he imagined; that's something you can really relate to. We all thought I was a messiah once in the third grade. As portrayed by Kyle Maclachlan, a wooden actor, Paul Atreides is unbearable, and once his true calling is revealed, he becomes even stiffer and duller. Are we supposed to like Paul because he smiles a lot?The movie is ceremonial & pompous. Characters lack an ounce of individuation, and speechify instead of relating to each other or moving the plot forward; talking in explicit meaning, as if communication and culture were only about passing parcels of information. They talk and talk and talk, and when their lips are closed they still talk via some hideous voice-overs. I'll be damned if I could tell you ten words that were important in the whole movie. Only Spawn handles language as stupidly as Dune. If you like movies to signify overt meaning literally, so that you don't have to reason things out yourself, this one's for you. Lynch (also the films author) constructs dumb illegible visuals, and forgets that a smart camera placement is worth ten pages of script. This is so non-filmic, that it's nearly impossible to believe it's a David Lynch movie. There is nothing more to say about this film except that every time it's creators make a choice it's a bad one, resulting in an utterly bewildering movie. DUNE is such a hopelessly, stupidly literal film, it easily claims a spot in my trifecta of the worst three films ever made. If you just want to see a decent escapist space opera, just rent Stargate, which is not great either, but it fails much less and has fewer pretensions than this.I really need to rent this again just for the laughs. I had almost forgotten that every line that issues from the 6 year old red-head is so poorly dubbed that I was howling.Sidenote It's difficult to imagine how you could make Dune worse, until you see the TV version. It's so bad that David Lynch takes his name off of it. That version begins with a narrator intoning over courtroom artist quality drawings (of scenes that took place before the film started) again in an attempt to correct its flaws and frontload a codex. I think you get the idea.The best you can say about this piece of space-corn may be that it put Kyle Maclachlan in the hands of David Lynch, setting the stage for Blue Velvet, although what K.M. contributes there could have probably been done by anyone. Let's call it a draw with Twin Peaks. "},{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're a fan of Frank Herbert's novel (And I am. It's my favorite novel of all-time), chances are you're going to find a lot to complain about when it comes to writer/director David Lynch's controversial 1984 film adaptation. Not the minor tweaks, inevitable omissions and odd aesthetic choices, I'm talking fundamental changes to the heart and the subtext of the story. But despite this, I adore this film. Is it a good adaptation of 'Dune'? No. It's not the dropped characters, like the Fenrings, or reduced or totally omitted story lines, such as Thufar Hawat's time among the Harkonnens (Though, because it's Lynch, we do get Hawat having to milk a hairless cat). Or even the fact that the bulk of Paul's time with the Fremen is told in montage form. It's turning Paul into an actual deity, without all of the subtext of religious manipulation.But, if you choose to view the film on its own terms and in the context that Lynch presents it, I still believe it works exceptionally well as a piece of epic space opera. With some incredible design work, an amazing score (By the rock band Toto!?--with an additional track by Brian Eno!?) and a cast who absolutely inhabit their roles, 'Dune' is, in my humble opinion at least, a flawed masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Amazing production... not fun to watch","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is well produced. It looks great. The sets are massive, the puppetry is well done, and the costumes are great. There are special effects in this film that were original for the time, but they don't hold up well. Outside of that, David lynch added some amazing visuals. With a lot of practical items.The acting is decent. You have a great cast. There are a few stupid moments, but that's typical of Sci Fi stories.In the end... the movie wasn't all that enjoyable. The pacing felt more like a TV show and it lost my attention. In the battle scenes, I found myself laughing rather than rooting. The internal dialogue helped to explain the character's motives, but it doesn't work well in the film. So, I gave it 4 stars for the production. "},{"Title":"Odd but not exciting....","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I decided to watch this film because a guy in my class thought this is one of the weirdest films he ever saw and that you would easily get lost if you have read the books. For me, I didn't understand what the hell was coming out of everybody's mouth. It sounded as if they were speaking gibberish for a 1980's Sci-fi film. I wouldn't really call this the most weirdest film I've ever seen but more likely, it's just odd and too fast to understand it to be honest.I haven't read the books but I say I wouldn't understand them much either. Maybe not but if I really didn't understand the film, then I won't understand the books. The only advantage is seeing Sir Patrick Stewart being involved in this since I'm use to him in Star Trek! "},{"Title":"Creative & Awe-Inspiring Half-Baked Space Disaster","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it very fitting that Sean Young was in both this film and BLADE RUNNER as the love interest of the protagonist. This film has a lot in common with the other grim futuristic science fiction film especially in terms of deadeningly slow pace given life by a choice cast and some of the most visionary and creative production design seen up to the time.Films are only as interesting as their antagonists, and Lynch's DUNE does an excellent job setting those up. The Harkonnens are wonderfully nasty and amoral beings living in a cold and sterile industrial hell- planet with smoke stacks, cables, and cubicles as far as the eye can see. The Imperial planet is austere in a Victorian sense and the Spacing Guild presented in such a ghastly and grotesquely inhuman fashion that they're as interesting as they are stomach-churning. All three of these villainous factions give the film the life that it has. Unfortunately, the good guys are quite one-dimensional and dull in comparison. Kyle McLachlan doesn't really get to do much with his part, other than slowly become more obsessive, powerful, and unlikable as the film progresses. Ms. Young gets to do even less and maybe has 3 or 4 lines. You know you're in trouble when a narrator has to tell us, Paul and Chani's love grew because the film gives us no other indication of this. I believe that's where the film fails, is in giving any depth to its main characters or any believability or humanity to their character arcs. This may have been the result of numerous cuts made to the film based on an already quite abridged script. A lot of the narrative failings fall on the shoulders of director Lynch however, as he is so unable to show what is going on that he relies on characters' inner monologues to tell us what is going on, and much of the time quite unnecessarily.Despite its great failings and bizarre combination of confusion and slowness, DUNE has well-realized otherworldly atmosphere aided immeasurably by the costuming department who went all-out in creating a visual style for the film that has never been equaled since. It's a truly unique mixture of styles and various steam-punk / H.R. Geiger influence on display. Historically, this film represents a major crossroads of some of the best special effects people working at the time, with makeup artist Giannetto De Rossi, mechanical effectsman Carlo Rambaldi, explosive engineer Kit West, and miniature set guru Emilio Ruiz all combining forces for the only time in all of cinema. The results are a mixed bag for sure, but on the occasions in which this film works, it's utterly amazing. "},{"Title":"I walked into this blind, and that was a mistake.","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" -Note this is after watching the Theatrical Version-I realize after sitting through DUNE that I probably would have a much sunnier disposition towards the movie had I read the books first. And that's the central problem with this movie it requires the viewer to do the legwork before the lights dim and the credits unfurl. There is a massive barrage of information that comes at you from the very start, with exposition delivered through internal thought or just characters speaking it outright. There's even a floating head in the beginning of the movie that starts spitting out background to get you up to speed. For someone who's never before heard the word Arrakis or Spice, this narrative is impenetrable. Simply put, there is no way to get that much literary material into a 137 minute runtime.That said, it's clear this wasn't a movie made on the cheap; the budget's right there on the screen in those huge sets. But the movie's tone is too often soporific and these huge ships just lumber along. I wasn't expecting galactic warfare or dogfights, but does the whole thing have to be so subdued? Patrick Stewart, for his part, at least gets some dashing flair, and seeing the bass player from The Police was pretty cool. If they'd played up the camp a bit, then we might have something more like FLASH GORDON (c'mon, it's got a score by Toto!). But on the whole, this is just an incoherent mess. I'm fully aware that if I return to this after having read the source material, my reaction would probably be a whole lot different. But as it is, this is not something I want to return to anytime soon.3/10 "},{"Title":"Original and compelling, though confusing at times","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Althout the film, as a whole, is obviously a failure if we apply standard, cinematic measures, the scope, the story, the setting, the costumes, the original world and an overwhelming, quirky, noir baroque atmosphere are so compelling that it's difficult to pause watching the film once started (and I mean the 3-hour version). The voice-over, while irritating at moments, adds to the strangeness and unfamiliarity of the picture on the whole. I loved the actors and acting, especially Kyle MacLachlan as Paul, and his journey from an innocent lad to a man. What has failed? The ambition of the director proved to be too big for creation of such work at this time of cinematography. It could have been made more cohesive, as without having read the book, the viewers fail to understand many things in the film. Lynch wanted to tell too much at times, which resulted in quirky cuts and jumps, and some things are just stated or mentioned without explanation. The special effects are dated and some of them look quite funny today. But on the whole a compelling work of art. One of the strangest films I have ever seen. It definitely deserves attention. P.S. I haven't read the book. "},{"Title":"Often visually beautiful and delightfully complex","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, OK; It's another Messiah story! These films are so overly present in the history of science-fiction/fantasy films. Even in the last decade or so we have seen these films being constantly produced (see The Matrix (1999) or Avatar (2009) as just two recent examples). It's the narrative of a young man, who progresses through a story to become the legendary myth of a person embodied as the saviour for an entire race, universe, galaxy... However, if we move back to 1984, the Hollywood film industry was still trying to capture that cash-cow essence of Star Wars (1977) and it's celebrated special effects, and it's fantasy setting. Therefore, any project that had space-ships, monsters etc were being made regardless of their relationship to the kids film. Dune, based on the epic and elaborate novel by Frank Herbert, is a very complex piece of cinema, that baffled many audience's and critics alike (I personally can't see that it is confusing at all). But then, if we look at the majority of the genre films made at the time, we can see how it could be see as perplexing next to the generic, simplistic stories being told. Inevitably, the film was a major flop, and with the $40 million budget, practically bankrupted 20th Century Fox, and also (thankfully) convinced director David Lynch to never work on a big budget, Hollywood-funded film again, and due to his contract with Dino De Laurentis, he was able to make his masterpiece, Blue Velvet (1986).Dune is a narrative of warring planets, and the machinations of the politics that rule the galaxy. Dune is a desert planet that has never seen water, and on this planet is a substance called spice melange, that is the most important essence in this world. Whoever controls the spice controls the universe. The spice enables a means of travel without moving; it has the ability to fold space, and also expands consciousness. The main warring houses are of the Atriedes and the evil Harkonnens. Paul Atriedes (Kyle MacLachlan) is the son of Duke Leto (Jurgen Prochnow), and his mother Lady Jessica (Francesca Annis) who is a member of the Bene Gesserit, a race of women who are able to read minds and control the minds of others. With his royal connections, Paul is held in high regard. But as the story progresses it is clear that there is more to this boy that was first expected. After a conspiracy to create a war between the Atriedes and Harkonnens, Paul and his mother are left stranded on the planet Arrakis (also known as Dune), where the prophecy of the saviour and the dreams that Paul had been haunted by, comes to pass.Whilst the films narrative complexities are difficult to concisely lay down the full story, the essence is very simple. It is incredible that Lynch's screenplay managed to deal with Herbert's book, which is incredibly sprawling, but he managed admirably. The sets and costumes for the film are incredible, and even today (and after seeing the films several times) I am amazed at the look of the film. The costumes and props are incredibly eclectic - we have iconography from all over the place Victorian austerity, 1930's telecommunications items, Nazi-style uniforms, and elaborate baroque back-drops. OK, so many of the special effects are incredibly dated, and others seem to have been cobbled together at the last moments on a shoe-string budget, but this does not hinder the experience of the film. Produced at a time when complex genre films were simply not being made, it is a film to watch several times, which reveals more each time. It was a project that was always going to be difficult to produce, with two other notable directors being previously attached to the film (Ridley Scott and Alejandro Jodorowsky - wish the latter happened with the proposed cast of Salvador Dali and Orson Welles, and music by Pink Floyd), it's amazing the film was made at all, and I salute Lynch for an admirable, often visually beautiful, and delightfully complex film, that I love more each time I see it.The film also has an incredible supporting cast (Brad Douriff, Jose Ferrer, Patrick Stewert, Max Von Sydow, Dean Stockwell, to name a few), and there are very Lynchian elements that delight me every time. I mean, where else in Hollywood genre cinema would you see the main villain of the piece, Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (Kenneth McMillen) having his face injected with diseases by his personal doctor?www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"It's a shame people who haven't read the book discard this move","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie before reading the book, I only understood the mood and some of the plot so I wanted to read the book. After which the movie really shines. This is a movie made to complement the book after reading it, to give a similar experience as the book but as a movie. Very rarely, if ever, has a movie based on a book built on the fact that you've read the book. If everyone had read the book I believe the score for this movie would be much higher.All I want to say is, if you for some reason feel drawn to the book or movie, read the books, watch this movie. It is one of the most amazing movies ever made! "},{"Title":"Greater Than The Sum of its Parts","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune has its weaknesses. For one thing, it's willfully disgusting and unpleasant. The acting is bad at times, as is the screenplay (we'll never make it to the safety of rock... well, maybe that small one.) The effects budget seems to have started out strong but then run out.Combined with the self-importance of the characters, the result can be MST3K-worthy. Tom Servo might have something to say about the taste in jewelry of Padishah Emperor Shaddam the Fourth, who wears what looks like the hood ornament from a 1982 Chrysler around his neck. (I assume that the Harkonnens prefer the cushy ride of a GM, and that House Atreides thus corresponds to Ford.) Then there is the confusion that the film seems to provoke among its viewers, myself included. And I am not referring to mental games a la Usual Suspects. It's not that the plot is complicated; the problem is the fact that the film's makers did not seem to emphasize comprehensibility. At least, they were not willing to sacrifice aesthetics, running time, etc. in the interest of making Dune easy to follow.And yet, there is something relentlessly appealing about Dune. There is brilliance in spots, of course. It emanates from Francesca Annis, the real lead of the film. The look and feel of the film is instantly identifiable (a sort of morose art deco) and utterly convincing.Finally, there is Kenneth McMillan; Dune paints with a broad brush, and never is this more evident than in its antagonist. It's not easy to portray an obese pedophile with disgusting facial boils in a way that's nuanced, but somehow McMillan manages it. His Baron is made to seem human, almost a man one could enjoy dinner with (although I'd recommend a strategically positioned centerpiece, or maybe even a Japanese screen.) Beyond these technical strengths, I think Dune is appealing - and will age well - because it accurately reflects the shape of the real future of Earth. It fills a niche left untouched by Star Wars, with its campy gorilla suits, or Star Trek, with its Woodrow-Wilson-in-Space ethos. The world of Dune is one of body modification, drugs, obesity, religious fanaticism. It's a scary, evil, wide-open society of extremes.Dune, ultimately, is a lot more plausible than it ought to be, and has a lot more to do with actual audience members than does most science fiction. That's unfortunate, as is the failure of the production team to tie up loose ends and deliver a more cohesive overall result. "}{"Title":"Interesting treatment","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frank Herbert consulted on the appearance of the sets and costumes and these are two of the best features of the film. Beyond that, it's a matter of perspective. Viewers who have read Dune first may have a moment's difficulty with some of the adaptations in the film, and overall the Sci-Fi Channel's miniseries was closer to the novel. It's in the eye of the beholder whether the characters in this version look more right than the characters in the miniseries but, hey, Sean Young with brilliant blue eyes is worth seeing any day! This is a good treatment in its own right, however. See the longer version; like the truncated version of Shogun, the shorter one is choppy and confusing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie (but only for those that have read the book)!!!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know only two kinds of people with respect to opinions on this movie - those who really like it and those who really hate it. I actually belong to the first category (and thus my little review is not exactly fully objective). Admittedly, there is little sense to watch the movie if you don't know the book (even the longest version - apparently there are three that differ by the running time - it will be freakishly difficult to understand what's going on) - I made that mistake the first time I watched it (did not understand much and was not very impressed). Once you have read the book though, the effect is simply fantastic. Some of the book purists complain about treatment of some plot lines (and not without a reason) but I still think that the movie perfectly reflects the spirit of the book. Unlike the recent miniseries from the S-F channel which was kind of stiff and even boring (let alone those bizarre hats for mentats ). The casting for the movie was great - after watching Kyle as Paul Atreides you cannot imagine anyone else in this role (something like another actor playing Luke Skywalker or Han Solo). I realize that I did not give an overly solid argument why I think this movie is great but such is its nature - you either love it or not and you have to watch it yourself to see. I simply wanted to cast my vote and perhaps convince a few more people to give it a try - it's worth it! "},{"Title":"A confession of a non-book-reader","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Perhaps I should read the book, I was first introduced to this film while I was in the service in the 1980's, I find it mind-stretching then as well as now. While the quality is a little grainy, and the line is a little juvenile, I regard Dune as a fairly good film. But then it is easy to call it a good piece when compared with the schlock Hollywood is emitting. Even though I have never read the book, I could tell this film is like many films based on books. Much of the detail in the book has to get cut as the 25-to-200 hours of reading time has to be telescoped into the standard 90-110 minute attention span of your typical, illiterate, movie fan.It looks like Mr. Herbert's book was written with the same care as Michener's Centennial because there are so many loose ends in the plot and the detail work it does indeed let you down. I always wondered what that instrument Gurney was packing would should like, as well as see what really went on with Paul's guerilla war. The voice-over said 2 years. The action on the screen looked more like 2 weeks. If the novel is 1/2 as good as sci-fi-fans attest. Dune should have been handled like Centennial, with multiple installments or a miniseries.But despite the Reader's Digest treatment all movies seem to get, I consider it good entertainment, and a interesting take on religion, culture, and how society treats their resources. Kind of looks like to me we didn't learn very much over 81 centuries....t.r. "},{"Title":"Grimy, economic, surreal. What more could you ask for from David Lynch!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lushly stark. Intriguingly Simply. Evocatively deadpan. David Lynch's 1980's take on this grand-scale story is all these things and more.This film has been among my favourites for a goodly length of time. Maybe it was a small obsession as a young lad, but I watched it over and over again till i could quote large portions of it and annoy family and friends! Nice.In typical David Lynch style this film is both visually arresting and multi-layered, capturing the essence of a VERY lengthy novel. It's probably easier to say this, though, when the film led you to the novel and not vice-versa.I think part of the hook for me is the mystery surrounding the story. You get a sense of something much bigger/wider going on but you can't quite grasp what it is. This led me into the book(s) where the story originated and continued. Lynch creates this mystique, i think, as much by what he leaves out as by what he includes. The economical use of dialogue heightens this feel and intensifies the contrast with the seemingly simple 'veneer' plot.The grandiose costuming is stunning, particularly contrasted with the (often) dim lighting and grimy aesthetic. These combine to create the very real, though alien, feeling environment which Frank Herbert's incredible detail brought to life in the book. A love of science fiction is not a prerequisite for this film, but an appreciation of movies that are not so straightforward will likely mean you will get more from it. If you enjoyed this then I would suggest the following film experiences to enrich your stockCity of Lost Children (Jeunet & Caro) Delicatessin (Jeunet & Caro) American Astronaut, The (The Billy Nayer Show)Cheers, Jacob.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF MY FAVORITES!!!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I DID read the Frank Herbert novel and found the 1984 version of Dune to be more faithful to his words and vision than any version made since. The actors that were brought together to portray Herbert's characters were superb, and the screenplay was extremely well-done. In my opinion, Lynch made an excellent movie. It's true, it IS slow in places, but that's only because we, as a culture, have become accustomed to seeing an explosion every three minutes. A true purpose and meaningful dialog seem to evade our movie-enjoyment radar. It also seems as if those explosions are supposed to take the place of that meaningful dialog, or the contemplation of higher issues.This, the 1984 version of Dune, has been called STAR WARS for the thinking-man, and while I am a fan of the Star Wars franchise, I hold these words as true. The believable characters, believable accomplishments for the time-period depicted, and dialog that seems reasonable, make for a great movie.A word about the longer version... There IS, indeed, a longer version of the 1984 picture. This version, however, was practically disowned by David Lynch; so much so that the director credited was Alan Smithee. As some may know, Alan Smithee is the catch-all name used by directors that wish to divest themselves from works they've created. The longer version is almost 4 hours long, and as far as I know, has only been seen on the Sci-fi channel once or twice. I have never seen it on DVD or for sale on video, although I have taped it from the Sci-fi channel.I love both of these versions of Dune, and would highly recommend them. If you watched once and didn't get into it, try it again, but put aside your expectations and preconceived notions about traditional cinema.  "},{"Title":"A Very Underrated Sci-Fi epic","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my personal opinion, I feel that the 1984 David Lynch version of Frank Herbet's Dune is a very underrated sci-fi film that has not received the proper credit it deserves.Despite some sloppy plot structure and character development caused by numerous scenes, that I thought were very important to the story, being cut I think the film has great special effects,costumes,sets, and one heck of a music score by the rock band Toto.In closing, I think sci-fi movie fans who hate this film should give this film another chance, in fact see it several times, in order to truly enjoy it. Also I think this film would have done much better at the box office if David Lynch had kept in all the cut scenes and released the film in two parts. I feel this would have allowed viewers to follow the story more easily than they did with the 137 minute version.P.S. - I am still hoping, like many other people on this site, that Dune will one day get a proper special edition DVD release with a massive deleted scenes section as well as the extras that are currently on the UK special edition DVD. "},{"Title":"Slow Buildup, Rushed Ending","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the film version of Dune at the same time as I was reading the novel. In retrospect, it is clear that Lynch had read all of the Dune novels and respected them a great deal, because his film version was very true to the books. Lynch excels at conveying the very alien atmosphere which Frank Herbert depicted as the very, VERY far future.The difficulty is that no two-hour movie could hope to depict the entire novel. So, what the viewer sees is a very meticulous build-up, the house Atreides' migration to Arrakis, the Duke's murder and Paul and the Lady's Jessica's escape to join the Fremen. By that point, however, we're almost out of time for the movie, so the remaining three quarters of the book has to be summed up via voice-overs and a rather contrived ending scene which does not bear many similarities to the book. I have heard that there's a director's cut of this movie, I would hope it contains more of the book.As a fan of all the Dune novels, there are only two things I objected to about the film 1) That all the Bene Gesserit were bald -- in none of the books were they ever depicted as bald, in fact, one of the Lady Jessica's most distinguishing features was her copper-colored hair, which she passed on to many of her ancesstors (also Bene Gesserits). 2) The casting of Patrick Stewart as Gurney Halleck was totally off the mark. Not only did Stewart play this role horribly, shouting his lines in an emotionless monotone, but in the books, Halleck was described as a short, fierce-looking individual with a large scar on his face -- I think that Johnathon Rhys-Davies would have been a better choice.  "},{"Title":"The Original Movie IS The Best","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DUNE was wonderfully stange when I first saw it in 1980-something.  We are not comparing it to the book.  We should compare it to great films like Blade Runner which were way ahead of their time.  Watching the Sci-Fi Channel version of Dune is like watching an old Star Trek TV series.  It looks primitive now.  Television just does not reach the same level of realness.  The TV version is not believeable after seeing the original Dune.  You must see the Lynch DUNE.  It is mandatory for science fiction lovers.  I read enough on my job but maybe I will break down and read the book some day. "},{"Title":"The Original Movie IS The Best","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DUNE was wonderfully stange when I first saw it in 1980-something.  We are not comparing it to the book.  We should compare it to great films like Blade Runner which were way ahead of their time.  Watching the Sci-Fi Channel version of Dune is like watching an old Star Trek TV series.  It looks primitive now.  Television just does not reach the same level of realness.  The TV version is not believeable after seeing the original Dune.  You must see the Lynch DUNE.  It is mandatory for science fiction lovers.  I read enough on my job but maybe I will break down and read the book some day. "},{"Title":"An Essential Viewing","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have not ever seen Dune, You must see this movie.  It is a futuristic drama suspense and action movie. The story is quite a good one as it's basis would seem realistic. The colcluive at or near the end is quite incredible. Some of the special effect were on a b grade budget but there are sequels that follow this movie that have fulfilled that desire.  Every person seems to get something different out of the movie and it's no wonder it became so popular "}{"Title":"A must for real fans of the Arrakis","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune, the book is one of (if not the) the SCI FI pinnacles of the breed and can only be compared with  tombs such as Lord of the Rings with a depth of characters only now mirrored by Iain M Banks. For fans of the series, Dune the Movie should not be a disappointment, Frank (who died in 1986) approved of David's interpretation and his son, Brian also gives it thumbs up. The film is a little disjointed in sections, but the film's ambience and pure loyalty to the Dune novel is commendable. The cast is absolutely perfect; one easily can forget that much of them ever appeared in Twin Peaks. If you enjoyed Herbert's books or would like to know more about the background of the characters, do read Brian Herbert's prelude, House of Atreides.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but lacking.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, I guess I'm one of those Frank Herbert fanatics.  However, if you try to transport this book into a two hour movie, there are sure to be disappointments.  I disagree with others who think the original book is unapproachable (I read it when I was 16, and I didn't have problems). Given that, there are *significant* plot issues in the book that simply don't appear in the movie.  The ending of the movie could also qualify as the corniest of all time.  It turns the whole exploration of manipulating religion to serve those who would take power into a postmodern Jesus story. Taking the movie on its own, however, it is very good.  It is visually superb and it has an excellent soundtrack.  I always thought that Dune would make an excellent miniseries, and for those of us who would like to see a more faithful interpretation of the book,  it looks like we'll get our chance this fall on Sci-Fi channel.  I look forward to it. "},{"Title":"Epic Science Fiction.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the few epic science fiction movies ever made. Full of wondrous imagery, good performances, and an astounding music score. The action is also terrific. I first saw this movie sometime in January, 1996. I then got the book from the library, read it, loved it, bought a copy of both movie and book. I hope they will release an uncut 4 hour version of this film sometime.  "},{"Title":"Sci-fiction cult movie","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best science fiction novels, brought to film by a cult movie director and a top of the range cast. Filmed in elaborate sets in Mexico, the story is rather complex (perhaps to much for an average audience), but understandable if you pay close attention to it.The plot is about controlling a mind-expanding drug, with other mystical subplots, about a legendary messiah...You get to watch Sting on a villan role, Max Von Sydow, Sean Young, etc.A true collector´s item!!! "},{"Title":"Dune comes to life David Lynch style","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I just want to say that anytime a director decides to make a movie based on one of the truly great science fiction or fantasy novels they will not be able to please every hardcore fan of the novel.  David Lynch certainly had that problem with Dune, and I fully expect many hardcore Tolkien fans to be dissatisfied with the upcoming Lord of the Rings trilogy. That is the crux of the matter- Hardcore Star Wars fans embraced Episode One *because* Star Wars was originally a film while Directors that attempt to translate epic novels to film often find that they run into cries of outrage from the hardcore fanatics.All that being said, David Lynch did an *incredible* job translating the essence behind this book to the big screen.  Dune the novel was a story about a boy, Paul, and his evolution into ultimately the most powerful man in any universe.  The plot was merely a vehicle for Herbert to explore this transformation and how Paul handled the transformation.  In this respect the movie does NOT dissapoint.  MacLachlan does an excellent job of portraying Paul and the score is thrilling.  The graphics and scenery are not mindblowing, but done very well for a movie in the early 80's.  I found myself forgetting I was watching a film and enjoyed myself.  While not a substitute for the reading a truly great novel, this film did a very good job of capturing Frank Herbert's style and intentions behind the movie.  I gave it an 8 - Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I never read the book and I still enjoy this movie","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly, the main plot is not hard to follow. You may not get the backstory for every character, but the plot points are not difficult to grasp. Of course, this requires you to use the power of deduction, like most Lynch movies. It's also has some of the coolest looking art direction ever. Hearing the characters thoughts, and the surreal dream sequences, helped to give this movie a phsychic, metaphysical vibe that enhances the mood quite a bit. The only bad thing about this movie are a few dated special effects.  "},{"Title":"Valiant attempt at a master's work","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie does a great job at bringing Frank Herbert's novels to the big screen. It unfortunately tries to accomplish too much. Those of you who know and love the author's works will undoubtedly love this flick. Those of you who don't will be wondering what the heck is going on...Moral Read all of the books!! They are an awesome commentary on the rise and fall of revolutions, ideals, religion and society. Then, revel in this beautiful austere dramatization of a true artist's vision. THE SPICE MUST FLOW.....!!! "},{"Title":"true cinematic masterpiece","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is in reference to the full unedited version. This film is a visual and intellectual masterpiece. The story is deep, powerful and meaningful.  Only thing about it, if you don't like voice overs then it might get to you. To truly appreciate what David Lynch meant with the film you must see the full unedited version which is approximate 3+ hours. A definite for any sci-fi fan or anyone who enjoys epic stories told on a grand scale. "},{"Title":"A triumph. And yes, I have read the book.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps I saw the shorter version, but it was the slightly disjointed nature of this film that I loved.  Also the quietness.  It was less of a flow and more a series of scenes.The film certainly leaves unanswered questions - and I am very aware of this as I saw the film before reading the book - but I think its overall atmosphere more than makes up for any holes you may pick in the plot.And in reply to a previous message the wyrding modules are my favourite sci-fi weapons ever.  Including light sabres.  A matter of personal taste, I suppose. "},{"Title":"a classic indeed, but not as intangible as it seems","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  personally i thought that this is one of the must see cult movies, but apparently some people disagree, stating that the plot is a mess and the story really sucked, but some movies were not made for the common audience and this movie does require a bit of extra knowledge about the plot and the backgrounds so i would like to suggest to people who are going to see this movie to at least read the book first. But after that there is no stopping to let you rate it 9/10 after that, because then you see what a great story lies beneath the movie.  "}{"Title":"The longer version was Excellent!","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the Short version was a bit disjointed. The Longer version was clearer and much better both visually and story wise. That is why I consider this an EXCELLENT FILM. I can't understand why they even Released the Shorter Version. Artistically the short version didn't MAKE IT. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE GREATEST SCI FI STORIES EVER PUT TO FILM!!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For having once been a novel and definitely geared for the deeper person, this was turned into a great epic picture. This film has a great cast supported by spectacular special effects for the genre, this film will keep up with any of the great sci-fi movies of our time and challenge them in substance to boot. I think this is a great. "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pretty good adaptation of Frank Herbert's Dune.  The storyline will be difficult to follow only if you are completely unfamiliar with modern Science Fiction.  You aren't suppose to understand everything, it is an alien world that doesn't have a society like ours - that's why it is called Science Fiction.  Lynch's film does a good job with the special effects, they are highly original and don't look like everything else coming out of ILM.  This is serious sci-fi film.  Not many light moments.  Average acting. "},{"Title":"A truly magnificent Science Fiction classic","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is the truly complete package, and one of the great Science Fiction yarns of all time.  Frank Herbert's story is perfect, and its adaptation to the screen not far behind.  Sting is truly and deeply evil as Feyd-Rautha.  There is no point at which I don't believe in the evil of the entire Harkonnen people.  The concept of folding space is explored along with its relation to the Spice.  The music by Toto makes the movie truly dramatic and powerful.  The melting hand scene is another of the powerfully directed.  You get a real sense of Paul's pain, as he believes that the flesh is melting from him.  And then he is faced with the truth of the pain that is was simple nerve induction, and that the real test isn't pain resistance, but crisis.  How would he handle the crisis?  Paul's response was that he `saw the truth of it'.  Linda Hunt plays a small but powerful roll as the Shadout Mapes, and her response to Paul saving her life at one point in the movie.  She says to him, `We Fremmin pay our debts!!'  and then gives him information that some one is going to betray them from within. Probably the best scene of the whole movie is the conversation between Paul and his father the Baron, played by the ever enigmatic Jurgen Prochnow, that takes place shortly before their move to the Spice planet, Dune.  He tells Paul that without change something sleeps within us, `and seldom awakens'.  It is time for the sleeper to awaken.  That truly becomes the theme of the entire movie, as Paul continues to seek the change that is necessary for him to become the savior of the Universe.  I also loved the fighting armor that looks like glass cubes on the fighters.  The brilliant Patrick Stewart best demonstrates this, as he trains Paul to fight.  The effects may seem a little cheesy now, but in 1984, they seemed really fine.If ever there were a cult classic, this movie is it!!!  "},{"Title":"Excellent classic","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You must see the original uncut 4hr version before you can comment on this movie.  It includes a lot of missing information...  Good luck finding it. To those who couldn't follow the movie - read the BOOK or get an education. "},{"Title":"Very good film, I rate it like Star Wars","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After 10 years I took the time to review the film again. I have run the film 3 times last week to get a good feel of it.To me the total of the film (ie scenes & play & music!) make the film a very good one.Is it overhyped? I don't think so. The only thing is that it is not an easy film to follow. (ie it requires a bit more brain than average). I would like to compare its complexity with the books of Tolkien. Even if you have read the books of Frank Herbert (which I had done already during the 70's) the film is not easy because the changes they made in the plots. But overall I found the film a very good representation of the style of the big books of Frank Herbert. "},{"Title":"A bit surprised at the negative reactions...","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've noticed that some people are pretty harsh on Dune, and in some ways they're right.  This is not a rollercoaster ride in terms of pacing, for one.Probably the biggest knock you could really level at the film is that you really do need to have read the book beforehand, or you'll probably get lost quickly.If you HAVE read the book, however, it's probably a lot more pleasant on your mind.  Since I know what happens, I was never really lost.  It's also fun to see some of the more exotic technologies visualized (though the 1984-era special effects probably don't do everything justice, like the ornithopters).If the structure isn't the best, the individual bits probably are.  I liked the acting - a bit over the top, but it's not exactly a small drama (think Greek epic instead).  The costumes were definitely appropriate, and the theme is weird yet compelling.It IS a cult hit, contrary to some naysayers - the key is that a cult hit isn't universally accepted (otherwise, it would have a very huge audience). I'd recommend it if you read the book and are interested in seeing all that text brought to life. "},{"Title":"Theatrical vs TV version","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having visited the local video shop recently and rented the TV version of this film, I'd like to dissuade anyone from making this same mistake. It's not that I don't like Dune as a film, despite its many flaws it's the closest Lynch will ever get to a rip-roaring yarn, it's this abysmal voice over at the beginning and above all these high school pencil drawings that accompany it. Many of these extra minutes of actual footage that I expected are used up in this cack-handed introduction that treats you like a complete idiot. I've never read the book, but I far appreciated the original and visually more beguiling introduction. I can't see I got anything additional from this version apart from a constant suspicion that I was in fact seeing less rather than more/  "},{"Title":"One of the best Sci-Fi movies","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, I know, its a little provocative, but the movie has a consistent design throughout the story. And the actors are great. The Atrides are shown as the family of the csar, and the design from the interior is great. Look at the ship-style design from the interior of the House of Atrides. It has no great special effects like star wars, but it has a message. No fear. "},{"Title":"Hard Core Sci-fi","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first tried to watch this movie somewhere around 1985 when I was about 9. My attention kept waning and I barely remembered the story afterwards. However, the images of giant worms and that freaky little girl were forever stuck in my mind from the experience. Over the years I tried to watch it a couple more times but always either couldn't finish it or fell asleep. Then I tried the novel upon the suggestion of my friends... got halfway through it. That was more than 10 years ago. Then, last night, I decided to watch the movie again with determination to finish it. I did. My impression was that the movie was good, not great. The drawbacks are also its strengths if that makes any sense. The plot is incomprehensible yet at the same time it adds a sense of epic proportions to the movie. The effects are dated yet it must be remembered that for the time they were pretty good. The musical score seems detached but still fits in somehow.The electric guitar when Paul rides the worm to me was the most unusual By far the best part of this movie is the visuals. The people with blue eyes, the flying baron, the little girl, and the worms are something that few people would quickly (ever?) forget. For this reason, I recommend the movie. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Not as bad (or as good) as they say.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is always a problem with taking a great book to the screen The ideas in books are told in words, ideas in movies are mostly told in pictures with words as backup.  Complicated, abstract ideas don't photograph well.  When I saw Dune the first time, I had to keep leaning over to explain things to my wife.  (I'd read Dune, she hadn't.)  I thought it was an occasionally interesting, generally middle of the road picture. She hated it.  (Patrick Stewart as Gurney Halleck is the best part, according to both of us. It's a gem in poor setting.)Read the book first, so you can fill in the (huge) plot gaps, then try the movie, without expecting too much, and you'll probably enjoy the good parts. "},{"Title":"Not great but surprisingly good","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune sucked me in.  I was channel surfing when I came upon the movie and couldn't change the channel.  Admittedly it was over-complicated, but it made a noble effort to be true to the book.  I couldn't always understand it, but it was interesting throughout (though the effects look a bit dated). The acting was generally good as well.Dune succeeded hugely in one sense - I greatly wanted to read the book after seeing it, which is probably a good reflection on the movie. "},{"Title":"Excelent","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that has a lot of subtlety.  It really needs to be seen twice in order to get the full effect.  It's not a movie for a casual friday night.  This is one to watch on a saturday afternoon when procrastinating. "},{"Title":"Dune is a classic.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people don't believe this, but Dune is a classic piece of film making. It has an artistic style all its own. To really get the full effect, I suggest that you watch the TV expanded Alan Smithee version the next time it airs or if you can find it at a video rental. It attempts to capture the complexity of the novel, which is a very difficult task, and should be applauded for the hard work.If you don't believe me, then perhaps you may want to check out the Sci-Fi Channel's six hour Dune mini-series coming to television in a couple of years. "},{"Title":"A complex science fiction flick for adults","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This well scripted and well-acted effort requires a good memory on first seeing, for the action is fast, the cast is large and the names are unfamiliar.  The 190 minute version is easier to understand than the earlier cuts.  A mixture of allegorical science fiction and fantasy, the plot extrapolates on human religious and technological themes.  Not for children or teens. "},{"Title":"A visual masterpiece!!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I freely admit that Dune, as bad as it is, ranks among my all time favorite movies. I don't care about the incoherent plot, or the crummy special effects --- Dune is simply the most visually stunning movie I have ever seen. Every set, every costume, every prop -is a brilliant and unique work of art. The whole movie is enveloped with a sort of dark, nightmare-ish atmosphere that I find very appealing. It is indeed unfortunate that David Lynch's interpretation of the novel is so widely misunderstood; it is my opinion, however, that most movies that are truly worth watching, are not the kind that appeal to mass audiences anyhow. "},{"Title":"Long, layered plots, and who knows what humans 8000 years in the future will be like?","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit that I've never read Dune, so I'm taking it on faith that Smithee is being reasonably true to Frank Herbert's tale.  The film takes the three predominant religions of our times, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and combines them in a way that needs some 8200 years into the future (if, indeed, the year 10,191 is based on the Christian calendar) to pull it off.  Since we don't know how humans eight millenia hence might behave, the producer was free to have them do whatever he wished.  They certainly have all the weaknesses and strengths of contemporary humans, so, apparently, nothing has changed much -- except that technology and some mind-expanding material, Melange, enable humans to travel without moving.This film has numerous plots and sub-plots, so it takes some time to develop them in a way that makes sense.  Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy moved along in a similarly slow and careful fashion.  As for the acting, some of it seemed a bit melodramatic, but again, we have to accept that humans some 8200 years hence can be whatever the director wants them to be.While the 137 minute US version is just barely enough to make some sense of the story, the full-length version, which provides an explanation for some of the seemingly disjointed action, is more than most people will sit through voluntarily.  On the other hand, if I hadn't read Arthur Clarke's 2001  A Space Odyssey, before I saw Kubrick's movie I wouldn't have understood some of the strictly visual scenes that occur at the end of the film.I liked the film for the way in which it mixes religion and human nature. "},{"Title":"Very cool, you need to be open about it","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So I noticed the last guy's comment, I had to rebut.  This movie is just great, and the book better.  Great sound track, great concept.  Good acting, mixed with great cinematography and a good story make this a fantastic selection.  The way they allow you to hear what the various characters are thinking is unique and adds a great depth to the plot.Not all science fiction has to be Star Trek or Star Wars.  I like them too but there's always plenty of room for something else.Read the book.  Play the game on your computer.  (Dune I, not Dune II) And see the movie.  Guaranteed  You'll love it.That's my two cents. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi with guts & imagination.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is a truism that big-screen sci-fi drags decades behind the written stuff, and even then is so softened and romanticized that it bears little resemblance to it. This is not true of Dune.Not primarily played for laughs, love interest and- most crucially- not aimed at 12-year olds, Dune is a big film big in conception; big in execution.Frank Herbert's Dune novel was a major (and weighty) contribution to the traditional sci-fi genre. Strong narrative combines with novel ideas and strange landscapes to great effect. What is happening unfolds only gradually. Lynch & co have performed an excellent job in translating this so faithfully to the silver screen. Because this is not dumbed-down sci-fi for pre-teens there have been howls of protest that it demands attention to understand what is going on. It does!Here we have a story on screen that- certainly- features special effects and alien landscapes, but which is also sombre and strange. It is- as the original novel was- packed to bursting with ideas. At the end you are left panting for more, wanting to know where the story will go, what will happen next all that is how it should be; the shame is that we never saw a sequel. "},{"Title":"A fair adaptation of Frank Herbert's novel.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie Dune serves the fans of Frank Herbert's work well generally, because it is the one true glimpse of the world which he created.  While Herbert created his Dune with love and tenderness, David Lynch went wild with many aspects of this film, and the truth and beauty of the novel is lost.  However, it still gives some vision to the world Herbert created, and that is good enough for me.  I would love to see this movie remade today, using many of the ILM-type of effects used in The Phantom Menace, but without Lynch's gory, sadistic undertones. "}{"Title":"Confusing, but that's the way it's supposed to be.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read the book and saw the long version of the movie first. I instantly loved this film! Maybe it was the fact that I did see the longer version which was not quite as fragmented. However, I think that it was just the fact that the movie so perfectly captured the atmosphere of the book. If you read the book you will find that it is just as confusing as the movie, at least at first. You get only a vague feeling of what is happening until the middle when everything clicks.I also thought that the casting was wonderful! Kyle MacLachlan as Paul was wonderful and the casting of Sting as Feyd Rabaan was inspired! I had always pictured Feyd as a rock star personality who was extremely violent and flamboyant. Patrick Stewart (who I always love) was a treat even in his minor role.Overall, it was a great movie if you just let the movie do its work and accept the discrepancies. "},{"Title":"You won´t find better than this anywhere ! This, is DUNE !","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If there is one thing that can be said about this movie is that truly is DUNE.It´s the perfect movie adaptation. I don´t care about what the purists say. In atmosphere nothing can surpass this. It´s perfect ! It´s DUNE. It couldn´t have been done better.It captures perfectly the atmosphere of the first book.This was only a flop in the States, because it was publicized as if it were a new STAR WARS, wich obviously it is not. And I´m glad it isn´t.Imagine what would happen if DUNE was directed by George Lucas instead of David Lynch ! Probably exactly what the studios wanted it to be, a great adventure movie, but it wouldn´t be DUNE anymore.David Lynch was the perfect choice for DUNE , and I never understood why he thinks this is his worst movie. Probably because Hollywood didn´t let him had much control over the final editing and that´s the reason why DUNE sometimes looks a bit fragmented. If this is the case, I can understand the disapointment of David Lynch.But this still is the best sci-fi movie I ever saw !  2001 , Blade Runner , ALIENS , STAR WARS , all are great, but never a scifi world was so better depicted as it is done in DUNE. Specialy such a difficult world to create.I´m glad that more people are apreciating it each day it passes, because it really deserves. It´s destined to become a classic.Maybe this is a movie for people who love science fiction only. Who knows.Excellent movie, excellent cast, excellent production design, excellent soundtrack and excellent atmosphere.The only bad thing about it, is that it is too small. It should have been at least 4 hours minimum.Other than that it´s a scifi masterpiece. Perfect for fans of scifi and fantasy. "},{"Title":"A wonderful rendition of a classic novel.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I myself am a fan of science fiction and by far the greatest science fiction novel of all time is Dune.  In many cases, the movie rarely portrays the book appropriately.  I am happy to report that in this case it does.  With a script that faithfully follows the book and a cast that brings the characters to life in a way that no one else could, this movie delivers every aspect of the book to the silver screen in glorious, life-like, reality.  This movie is definitely a ten as is the novel.  I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Positive review of movie","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the best all-time motion pictures for special effects. For it's time, Dune surpassed shows like Star Trek and Star Wars.The all-star cast was a definite bonus for the movie.The soundtrack, performed by TOTO, was very moving and compelling. This movie rates a 10 for overall performance. "},{"Title":"This was cool","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a science-fiction fan for as long as I can remember, and Dune pretty much summed up my sci-fi viewing history from when I was seven to when I was ten. Now I'm twenty and I'm begging my mom for a copy of the widescreen version for my birthday or Christmas! *hehe*  "},{"Title":"A hidden gem of a movie...","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's version of Dune is a masterpiece.  A great movie with great special effects and an even greater cast.  The cast has so many well known faces and so many up and comers that it is almost impossible to count.  The directing is solid and the screenplay is intricate and well paced.  A great movie for any sci-fi lovers out there.RATING = 9 of 10 "},{"Title":"The best possible interpretation of an impossible to film story","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune and the following books were probably the most sophisticated science fiction stories ever written, and from which even a mature adult could learn things about our own society and instincts. The extraordinary world of Arakis was well captured in the film, and the mystical nature of the Bene Geserit well defined if not faithful to the original book. The ending was indeed hasty but left the possibility of continuing the story open, which, regrettably does not appear to have happened.  "},{"Title":"Daring attempt at intelligent Science-Fiction.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is one of my all-time favorite movies as well as one of the best SF novels ever written. The only two things that mar the beauty of this atmospheric and suggestive film are the poor special effects and the much-too-short length (i.e. the editing). Rumors abound that it was originally intended to be _much_ longer, which would have done it more justice.Still, Dune is a must-see for any true Science-Fiction lover; in my opinion it is the best movie David Lynch has made. "},{"Title":"One of the best epic sci-fi movies ever","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a movie, it is a piece of art. The intrigue in this movie is so difficult that it is necessary to read the book first just to understand all of the details, but that - my friend - isn't a minus for this movie; it is a plus. The footage is perfect and the things in this movie that maybe isn't so great just makes it better. My favorit thing about this movie is the sandworms and the kid Alia. The sandworms is magnificent and  one can easily appreciate their sice. Alia is one of the most terrifying persons on screen - ever. Her voice makes me cold and I just wish I never have to meet a child with a voice like that.And how can this be? Because he IS the Kwizats Haderac! "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Wizardry!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent cast of characters with a good script. Good acting, though the plot can be confusing at times If you like science fiction films, put this one on YOUR list! It's a must see!  "}{"Title":"It doesn't have to make sense or be identical to the novel","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this movie many times and enjoy it more each time. It is often faulted for being too confusing, and maybe it is at first, but that is the charm. Paul's character development is key and supplies the energy and power that draws me back for more. Some movies are meant to be viewed once and that's fine, but Dune requires careful attention. Watch it again.  "},{"Title":"The movie fanboys love to hate - but secretly love.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ahhh... Dune... Desert Planet... Home of the fantastic hate from the secretly admirers of this (very) underrated work of Art. And let us not fool ourselves; it is a work of Art, whether fanboys of the Books care to admit it or not (they love it, but dare not say it).All the troubles from the meddling studio and producer aside, this is a Lynch movie. And what would you expect from a Lynch movie? Bizarre and amazing things of course.It follows the Dune (first) Book quite well. But what is interesting is that it cuts out all unnecessary things that would not do a damn thing to the story itself. Instead, Lynch adds things that don't exist in the original story and they work excellent (the weirding module, Baron's skin disease - typical Lynch moves).By the way, let the - it's not exactly like the book, so I hate it, but I love it in secret - fanboys cry all they want; because even the Books Author (Frank Herbert) loved ithttp//www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Zw10o48NoEAnd what is there not to love when you have- A superb cast of actors. - A superb Sound Track - A superb visual feast of effects and scenery - A rather interesting choice of wardrobe. - The inclusion of Lynch's own material and cutting of unimportant clutter. - Memorable shots and sequences.In the end, could it be better? Yes, if some people were not to meddle with the Directors' Cut. But we'd still have all the gorgeous stuff this movie is made of.Dune... Desert Planet... Jodorowsky's 16 hours version? No thank you. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to enjoy this production, but didn't get there!","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess my recollection from when it came out and I first saw parts of it but never the whole thing made me eager to eventually sit through it after purchase and see if what I remembered and enjoyed was through the whole movie. Alas I didn't even get to the end, the wooden acting and confusing synopsis just fell flat. Technically I did mute my criticism of any special effects and made sure I made no comparisons to todays near perfect computer and FX driven productions. So looking at it as if it was not over 20 years old allowed me to just concentrate on the plot and movement of the movie towards a finale. As I say I didn't get through it, just not my cup of tea. "},{"Title":"He who can destroy a thing, controls a thing.","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a very strange, vicious, beautiful place, from a very renowned series of novels by Frank Herbert and his son. Book fans and sci-fi aficionados should already be familiar with this fantastic franchise full of otherworldly planets and empires, of fremen and sandworms, and the spice melange.This 1984 film is an attempt to adapt Frank Herbert's deep and dense story into a palpable format. At the time of its release, the film was a massive flop, and it has garnered its fair share of complaints. So much so that even director David Lynch condemned the film as his biggest failure, and has effectively disowned it. The biggest issues are that the film is gaudy, messy, and pretentious. Chances are that if the world of Dune doesn't captivate you, these issues will beat you over your head, and you'll walk away thinking the film overly long and dull.Dune does captivate me, however. From start to finish, it dishes out a plethora of fantastic imagery, thanks to its strange array of baroque props and costumes, its elaborate settings, it the story overall. David Lynch manages to squeeze in a few of his signature freak-out scenes, with strange images and scenes overlaid over each other in surreal montages, mostly during dream and spice-induced sequences. The man also tends to focus a lot on strange and grotesque details, many of which are so weird and out-there that they might seem out of place or unintentionally funny. And yet, that's one of the things I love about this film the strangeness of it. I believe it's immensely successful at being otherworldly, and I feel that's most appropriate for Dune.This film's pacing can be a hit or a miss though. The first half is entirely devoted to House Atreides settling on Arrakis, and these scenes can be rather dry. The more interesting segments occur in the last half, with the fremen uprising against House Harkonnen. There are big, epic battles at key moments, but they are pretty short, and special effects are of such mixed quality that it can be distracting (the biggest gripe I have is that many guns go off without producing any visible beams or bolts). What really makes this film interesting will be the individual scenes involving the characters and their journey.That brings me to the most important aspect to this film the story. Fans of the book may complain that the film swaps out desert power with weirding modules, thus undermining the tactical prowess of the characters. However, I feel the movie does the book decent justice, especially in the overall tone and style. A lot from the story and characters are lost between the book and the movie, but the fundamentals remain. On its own merits, the movie is not hard to follow, even with its vast array of Dune lore laid out. The plot is sound and interesting, and there's just enough to the characters to make them endearing. As the plot and characters progress, themes of destiny are strongly enforced.On a cinematic level, the film is superbly constructed, with quality photography and very vivid editing. A few shots appear cheap, especially with some special effects appearing incomplete or gaudy, but other effects are great. Acting is very strong all around Kyle MacLachlan is especially powerful and commanding as Paul Atreides. I enjoyed the performances of Francesca Annis, Sean Young, Jose Ferrer, Brad Dourif, Linda Hunt, Dean Stockwell, and Max Von Sydow. Kenneth McMillan is extremely hammy as the baron, and I love him that way. Sting offers a brief and gratuitous cameo, but he delivers a deliciously fun performance as Feyd Rautha, and he delivers one of the best psychotic smiles of all time. Writing can be a hit and a miss; I love a lot of the lines, but some of them are dumb, and there is a ton of exposition (especially regarding voice-overs, which are used to death here, and probably aren't necessary). This production uses some very elaborate, very interesting, and very big sets, props, and costumes. The music, by the rock band Toto, is really awesome and epic, and is one of my favorite music scores.This adaptation of Dune has its share of issues that hasn't sat well with many viewers. However, it is a big, sweeping, epic sci-fi adventure with a very interesting universe. The film has a strong emotional power in its presentation, and that alone has cemented it as a personal favorite of mine, despite all its problems. For the open-minded sci-fi fans, I recommend giving this film a try. For an alternative adaptation, however, the Sci-Fi Channel miniseries Frank Herbert's Dune should be worth a look as well.David Lynch's Dune has an extended cut available on DVD, which runs for about three hours. There is a wealth of interesting new scenes, but this version is very cheaply edited, it has a terrible prologue, the pacing is substantially slower, and since it was made for TV, all the bloody scenes were cut out. I personally prefer the theatrical cut, but the extended edition is worth seeing for fans.5/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Very Good | Film Perfect) "},{"Title":"iconic","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you can hack the nonlinear quality of it, the concatenations, this is the best sci-fi film in my opinion. If you are used to a brick-solid plot-line, obvious storyline, then this will be difficult to follow. There are many elements, threads, characters, and to have them all woven together in under two hours is a formidable task. The film-makers all did a good job. The acting even for one-line actors is superb, the attention to detail of sets a work of love, and of course the range and depth of ideas from Herbert's original astounding.It also serves well as a symbolic vessel, reflect on its potential meanings. eg The dreamer shall awaken? That's you, buddy. The hand? Referring to metalanguage, including genus of concept. More advanced investment symbol for rerooting. If only we can evolve the social equivalent of the opposable thumb. The notable near-absence of computers? Emphasis on the human potential, mentats and all. Vocal weapons? The power of converting thoughts directly into words. And of course the Bene Gesserit's Voice, ala hypnosuggestion. Spice? Oil, but this may be too close to the original laying by Herbert. More interestingly, the psychotropic effect of pot, ganja, weed. Arrakis? The Arab world, is humdrum. How about the importance of potable water, which is set to be the primary issue in the next global theatre of war? Dream sequences? Prescience, not in terms of the character and the fantasy world, but in terms of you watching the film or book enabling a comparison of your future projection with others. The Guild? And the Emperor? The power-brokers the governments, moneylenders and businessmen. The Guild want to kill Paul before he awakens. Somebody doesn't want you to wake up to the world situation. Guerilla fighting of the people of Dune? Notice, men and women. It's grassroots up. Everyone does their share. The sense of oneness is shared. The trust they invest in certain leaders. The simple way of electing a leader. Hand-to-hand final fight between Paul and the Harkonnen? Conflict should be resolved in this small way. Not the Emperor and his generals firing through virtual screens. Hand on heart when Duncan leaves Paul? Obvious meme. Let's not turn it into the Vulcan V, but it might be useful. The Gom-Jabbar and Paul's test? Reprised in Fight Club, and inherited from North American Indian ritual when a boy becomes a man and has to transcend the fear of pain. The film's retro-styling avoids the obvious dating of so many sci-fi's. Since the theme is about time and prediction, it is a beautifully appropriate realisation.I watched it as a teenager having not read the books. I didn't have anything to compare it to, so it had nothing missing. Although Lynch had to compromise, the editors did an amazing job to make the whole thing hang together for a teenager.Superb film/book, both realised incredibly well. "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune along with Star Wars and Avatar from James Cameron must be one of the greatest science fiction movies ever made. I usually hate almost all the horrible and overrated movies that were made in the 80's, but this was one exception, mostly because this was ahead of its time, and has incredible special effects, a complex and epic plot, interesting characters...Also, the performances were pretty good(Specially the one from Sting), and all the scenes from this movie were memorable.I love this movie. I never expected to like this so much, mostly because I read the original books in which this is inspired, and I didn't care for them at all. Fortunately, this movie is way more interesting than the tedious and overrated books.Dune is one of the greatest movies ever made, and also it is one of the most underrated flicks from the whole history. "},{"Title":"The Sleeper Has Awakened","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has a bad reputation it probably doesn't deserve. It's actually quite good for what it is. It has some really good actors who put a lot of effort into their roles (There are no small roles, only small actors).The plot actually stays pretty close to the book. Oh, they took some liberties, like the weirding module sonic weapons. Still, the costumes, the sets, they all take you into this strange universe.Now, for the purists out there, there are actually several versions of this movie, including the three hour theatrical cut and the four hour television cut. This is essentially because David Lynch filmed everything that was in the book, but then tried to edit it down into a 3 hour movie. The four hour version includes a different voice-over, (Virginia Madsen's character of Irulan is rendered completely irrelevant in this version.) and a detailed back story trying to explain why these futuristic people didn't have computers or robots, which is what everyone expected to see in a 1984 Sci-Fi movie. "},{"Title":"Glorious, Brilliantly-Made, Lavishly Visual Epic Interplanetary Science-Fiction Soap-Opera / Religious Parable","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The desert planet of Arrakis produces a precious spice called melange. Duke Atreides is given the rights to mine the spice, but this is a ruse to allow his enemy, Baron Harkonnen, to attack him. At the centre of these events is the Duke's son Paul, who appears to be the messiah of the Fremen, Arrakis' indigenous tribes, a mystical warrior who will lead them to freedom. Is Paul Atreides truly the Universe's super-being ?Dune, a magnificent movie, is a great example of why film critics should all be shot. It was a hugely ambitious project; filming an epic and much-beloved science-fiction novel set on several different planets, with dozens of characters and subplots, and a complex religious / scientific subtext. It cost an enormous amount (forty-five million dollars was reputed to be the most expensive movie budget at the time), was a massive undertaking, and everyone who worked on it did a fantastic job. Then it came out and a few pencil-necks who wouldn't know one end of a camera from another, couldn't grasp the plot and whose only means of stroking their collective egos was to agree that anything so original must be bad, all decided it was rubbish and savaged it. As a consequence it destroyed the movie's chances of success and nearly ended the careers of one of the most fearless movie moguls and one of the most talented film directors there has ever been. Don't believe a word they say. This is a terrific movie in every respect; it looks sensational, it has a fantastic cast, and the plot is engrossing, incredibly original and never confusing unless you're a congenital moron. All of the incredible landscapes and lavish visuals are realised through stunning sets and special effects (by Barry Nolan, Carlo Rambaldi, Kit West and Albert Whitlock), and Freddie Francis' photography is unforgettable. We see opulent palaces, vast deserts, mutated creatures which fold space around them, bizarre vehicles, hideous machine worlds, giant sandworms, hidden reservoirs, all bedecked in rich green and gold. Every scene is nothing short of stunning to look at. There is a great stirring score by rock band Toto, which creates an alternately beautiful / horrible atmosphere in perfect harmony with the imagery, as do all the imaginative sound effects by Lynch's key collaborator, Alan Splet. The large international ensemble are an amazing bunch of weird actors, almost the cult movie fan's dream cast. MacLachlan (in his movie debut) is excellent in the lead, carefully timing Paul's transformation from inexperienced youth to freedom fighter to messianic saviour, and his handling of the subtler scenes is remarkable, like the epiphany he has whilst hiding in the rocks from the crashed thopter. Everybody else is great in support, with particular honours to Dourif, McGill and Prochnow, but all the actors playing the crazy red-haired Harkonnens steal the movie. McMillan is unforgettable as the corpulent, hideously perverse, floating fat man, Smith plays the whole movie with a delicious maniacal laugh and Sting gives the ultimate cocky pretty-boy rockstar actor turn. Look fast too for Lynch himself in a rare acting role, as the captain of the spice harvester that gets creamed. All of these rich performances, amazing sets and evocative scenes are wonderful, but equally wonderful is the plot. Nobody ever made a good movie if the story wasn't interesting, and what is really rich about this film is the story, which is filled with fascinating archetypal characters; heroes, villains, traitors, warriors, mothers, sons. It deals with loyalty, warfare, ecology, religion, love, revenge, mysticism and transformation. It's full of profound moments; Yueh's grief over his betrayal, Paul's wonderment as his dream unfolds, Leto's words of wisdom to his son, the mental torture of the gom-jabbar test, Hawat's despair at his failure, Chani's infinite love for Paul. It's a deeply moving story, and the most unjust of the many criticisms it received is that the reviewers didn't see this. Brilliantly designed by Anthony Masters and Bob Ringwood, shot mostly in Mexico and based on the classic 1965 novel by Frank Herbert. Unhappily, it was re-edited for TV into a three-hour version Lynch disowned with the usual Alan Smithee credit; this review is of the original cut. It was also remade in 2000 as a three-part miniseries by The Sci-Fi Channel. Lynch doesn't talk about this movie because to him it was such a painful and arduous monster to make, with such an unpleasant outcome. But for me it's amongst his best work - it may not be perfect and it may have been horrific to work on but his ambition, craft and superb artistic sensibilities produced an incredible experience and a truly great science-fiction film. "},{"Title":"dune the first one the best one","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune has been one of my favorite movies for years. yes some of the (effects) are a little cheesy, but it made up for it with story, and a strong acting cast. No most of the actors were not considered to be A rated actors. They are however very wonderful. To be perfectly honest after having seen the movie numerous times, and having read the book repeatedly I feel that it is very close. There are about 3 or 4 scenes from the book I wish had been brought to life in the movie. I felt they were fairly important to the story, and thought that they would have made the movie complete. Still the movie can stand alone. Dune the sci-fi version however.... I can not back that movie. I found the casting ridiculous, Jessica has to have red hair it is critical to the story. Why is she blond? I don't feel they cared enough to do the movie I was waiting for the Improved version, and what we got was a substandard incomplete mess. Just something to boost ratings. I love dune. The original is the best, watch it. love it. enjoy it. It is sci-fi at it best story. "},{"Title":"Desert-Planted...","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Much like the books of J.R.R. Tolkein and C.S. Lewis, Frank Herbert's series garnered a sizeable and feverishly dedicated audience from the very beginning. When I heard that it was finally about to be made into a film, I ran out and got the first book. It took me about a week to read, and another to digest it all. The richly detailed, heady scenario of strange people, weird flora and fauna and terrestrial similarities to Earth set in a far distant future, completely captured and astounded me.But not nearly enough as the very idea that someone would be crazy or ballsy enough to dream of turning it into a movie. Take a science fiction/fantasy series, whose first novel alone is large enough to cause blunt-force trauma if you dropped it on someone's head, and cram every nuance of Herbert's epic tome of geopolitical and theological intrigue, betrayal, corruption and redemption into TWO HOURS? Good freakin' LUCK. It would never work.And for ten years after its initial publication, directors of every stripe from Alejandro Jodorowsky (EL TOPO) to Ridley Scott (ALIEN), as much as they admired and obsessed over the project, all finally admitted defeat. It would require a six hour movie at least to take a MODERATELY satisfactory stab at a project, whose end product could never truly satisfy all of the meticulous fans who were members of the DUNE cult.But then came expansive producer of the mega-blockbuster, Dino De Laurentiis. And with him, everyone's favorite geek-auteur, David Lynch.Did they truly succeed in taming the wild Herbert-born beast? Yes and no. Yes, in that not only did they get the blessing of the late author as the laborious, protracted work began on pre-production, but they did manage to get the damn thing off the ground, which others had never managed to do.And no, in that Lynch still did not capture all of the odd splendor and power of the tale, mostly because he wasn't allowed to, if you know of the famously antagonistic relationship that he and De Laurentiis shared with the studio backing the movie, Universal. Like THE HOBBIT and THE RINGS TRILOGY, it certainly helps a lot more if you have read the source material. Even so, you still feel at times like you need to keep a glossary of terms and a cheat sheet handy, just as insurance against getting lost in all the myriad details.For those who have no intention of ever going near DUNE, CHILDREN OF DUNE or any of the many sequels, a quick guide for getting desert-planted. This is not a Tale of Two Cities, but of four planetsPlanet Caladan, home to the good guys of House Atreides Duke Leto (Jurgen Prochnow), his longtime concubine and companion, the Lady Jessica (the radiant Francesca Annis), his son, Paul (Lynch's alter-ego Kyle MacLachlan) and the Duke's most trusted advisors, Thufir Hawat (Freddie Jones), a mentat or trained human computer who can figure out all sorts of complex equations just by intense concentration; Guerney Halleck (a much younger Patrick Stewart) and Duncan Idaho (the late, great and underused Richard Jordan).Next is Planet Giedi Prime, home to the really, REALLY bad guys in House Harkonnen Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (a pestilently, OTT Kenneth McMillan); his own mentat, Piter De Vries (Brad Dourif), and his unctuous nephews Beast Rabban (Paul Smith) and Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen (Sting).Planet Kaitan is the home of the ruling emperor, Shaddam IV (Jose Ferrer) where he resides with his daughter, Princess Irulan (Virginia Madsen). In order to maintain a controlling grip over the two houses constantly at odds with each other, the Emperor keeps a reluctant alliance going with several duplicitous, interested groups, among them the Bene Gesserit, a mysterious and ominous order of psychically powerful nuns, presided over by the imperious Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam, (Sian Phillips.) But the main source of all the drama and turmoil lies on the Planet Arrakis, aka DUNE, the desert planet. The entire universe practically runs on what Dune offers - the precious mineral known as spice or melange. As you will hear often, he who controls the spice, controls the universe, and that is what everyone, from the Emperor to the warring Houses to the Bene Gesserit, is after. And not surprisingly, Dune holds yet another internationally diverse cast of characters determined to stop them.And then it gets even more complicated than that, what with a strange prophecy that may or may not be a myth, about a One True Being (sound familiar?) who can unlock the mystery of where spice comes from, and by doing so, bring unity to all the fractured worlds.So you can see how any director, let alone Lynch, would have their work cut out for them. To his credit, he masterfully achieves with DUNE exactly what any movie is supposed to do - transport the audience to another world for two hours, (and DUNE is almost three in its original form). But be warned Lynch has taken his own liberties with details and story lines, adding his own quirky and unique touches in the places where a lot of Herbert's concepts either couldn't be used, or had to be excised for time constraints.Part of the reason that DUNE has gotten such a bad rap over the years, is because like the book, the audience actually has to PAY ATTENTION, which is more of a European than an American philosophy for making movies. But if you give it half a chance, and you're not a die-hard Herbert purist, you will find that making an investment in this film is surprisingly more rewarding than you would ever expect.And yes, that's even with a score by Toto (with assists by Marty Paich, Allyn Ferguson, Brian Eno and Daniel Lanois), which isn't half as bad as you might think - exactly like the film itself. "}{"Title":"Not exactly the best of the bunch but worthy of attention.","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember when first saw the 1984 version of DUNE. I was quite impressed and well, quite confused at the same time, mind you I have never read Frank Herbert's classic novels but I was aware of them and had played the WESTWOOD games. Even then the movie struck me as ones of those rare gems. Not quite PERFECT but its the only of its kind out there. I'll be blunt. DUNE is not for everyone. It's not a pure Fantasy... or Sci Fi or action OR even Sci Fantasy like Star Wars. It has its own unique style. So why am I giving this movie a 5 out of 10 if I enjoyed it so much !? Because then I saw the SCI FI miniseries. THAT's what DUNE should have been and is. So the end verdict is.The Extended Cut is good for nostalgia's sake and its GOOD movie if you compared to the time it was made and David Lynch certainly tried his best to capture the books to his ability and he did well BUT DUNE has already been updated and done better so no point going through this unless you actually prefer this or just wanna see how the classic was. "},{"Title":"An excellent adaption","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people pan this movie, so I'd like to write a positive review for it.This movie started my life-long appreciation for Frank Herbert's Dune series and of David Lynch's films. I read the Dune books immediately after seeing the movie and many of David Lynch's films are on my list of favorites. Every few years I'll pick the books up again and re-read them. To date I have read the series many times.I don't have a problem with the changes the David Lynch made, they make sense when translated from the source material. The book is very dense and rich, covering philosophical, metaphysical, religious, and socio-economic topics which any writer/director would have trouble putting to film; Herbert was a very experienced man, and an intelligent writer. Considering this, I think Lynch made excellent choices with regard to his creative additions/subtractions in the movie; the plot foundations of the book remains intact, the action is enhanced, and just enough of Lynch's Gothic ambiance makes it into the film to help realize the bizarre truth of the Dune universe.Everything about the movie appeals to me; the effects, the players, the performances, the music, even the ending titles. I'm not aware of many other credit sequences that feature the actors in full costume sitting, hauntingly, for 5 seconds for the camera.This movie has remained one of my favorite science fiction films during the last two decades. It is a excellent achievement of the imagination. "},{"Title":"Not bad.  Not great, but not bad.","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've now seen this 3 times (the first one many years ago and the third just a day ago from a rental) and felt that I could actually comment on it now. First, like most folks, I read the books (the first five) before I saw the movie. For those not familiar with the books, they are long, so it's no small wonder that this film cuts out quite a lot of it. But this is nothing new. You just can't fit 500 pages into 2 hours. Second, 80% of the movie is character interaction. That is, the reason the characters do what they do is because of things that have gone on before. Again, hard to do in 2 hours without boring your audience (something all too easy to do in a movie theatre or on network television). So now David Lynch tries to put together a movie that already has two strikes against it. In my opinion, he did a nice job. It is entirely possible to watch this movie and not really miss anything. The edge of the puzzle is jagged, but the picture in the middle is clear. Sure, the special effects don't stand up to today's CGI, but they were good for the time and still convey a sense of everything going on without being cheesy or forced.In short, if you get the purist stick out of your butt, you can enjoy this movie. The characters were finely cast, the dialogue only catches your attention a couple times for sounding hokey (what movie doesn't?), and it is easy to suspend your disbelief and get caught up in it. It's not the best movie you'll ever see, but it's a long way from the worst.By the way, if you haven't read the book (or books if you want to read the whole series), do so and you'll get a much better and lengthier look into the characters themselves. "},{"Title":"one of the best sci-fi movies ever","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure that others have commented on what a great movie this was. It was not great for its following of the book, but it was great in its own right. Several other adaptations from the book have been attempted, but none have come close to the greatness of this movie. The part I would like to mention is the cast of future stars. So many actors got noticed from this film. Patrick Stewart went on to command the Enterprise. Dean Stockwell became one of the two stars of Quantum Leap. Jürgen Prochnow, already famous from Das Boot, went on to do The Seventh Sign - a great, somewhat sci-fi movie. He will be in the 2005 movie version of The DaVinci Code and The Celestine Phophecy as well - both new age, if not sci-fi books that will be difficult, like Dune, to make into a movie. I also can't leave out great performances by already famous Sting and Max Von Sydow. Virginia Madsen was in The Hot Spot and Sideways - not sci-fi, but still noticeable. Linda Hunt was in several notable films - and several others such as Kindergarten Cop. Even Brad Dourif went on to play the slimy Grima Wormtongue in Lord of the Rings. This movie was the start for many great actors and it's fun to watch simply because we now know that almost everyone involved in this movie went on to so much more. It's fun to go back in time and see what these actors were like before they became stars. "},{"Title":"You can forgive most of its mistakes","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, the film is confusing and annoying. Yet the story, when you finally filter all the rubbish (the pathetic Harkonnen world, and some other inventions absolutely missing in the original books), is catching enough to make you dream. I must confess I fell asleep the first time I saw it, but I saw enough to feel curious about this movie and saw it again. Some actors really fit the characters (Leto, Jessica, the Judge of Change - Max von Sydow -, even Paul Atreides). Others simply suck Sting as Feith Rauta, the Beast Rabban, the Mentats... How can it be possible to put so many good and bad choices all together in the same movie? Overall, I think the story is fine, so I forgave most of the faults in this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best sci fi movies ever","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this film when I was really young and really liking it. As I got older, I saw it a few times and always thought highly of it. I have never read Dune, but I read the last book of the series, Chapterhouse Dune. That book was pretty amazing, so given that most people say Dune was Herbert's best work, it must be pretty damn good. So I hadn't seen Dune again until recently when I sort of discovered David Lynch. I watched a ton of his short films and have now seen just about everything he's done except for Eraserhead. I went back and watched the Sci Fi Miniseries and then the original Dune. My thoughts on Dune...I don't know how faithful this rendering is to the book, but regardless, it stands on its own as a masterpiece. For the most part, I think the casting was inspired. MacLachlan is too old for Paul, but he's incredible. Sean Young was amazing. Patrick Stewart, Dean Stockwell, and Sting, all amazing. Lynch makes the setting believably dark, in a style similar to many of his other pieces.I'd say my only complaint is the special effects for ships in space. Some of the ships look really bad (such as Shaddam's golden ship). Other than that, the effects are great, including the Wailing Module, the Voice, and the worms in most shots. I should add that Lynch's rendering is a bit more positive than Herbert's conclusion to the Dune story, but that should not detract in the least. If you're even remotely a fan of the genre, or of fantasy, or of philosophical/political work, you ought to see this movie. The 6/10 rating is ridiculously low and unfair. I give it a 9/10 and suggest that it's every bit as good as the Star Wars films (IV-VI). "},{"Title":"wasted chance (spoilers)","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Transforming Herbert's large novel into 2 hours 15 is a nonsense, as well as choosing Lynch as the director at the time. Later, with better reputation and stronger influence in Hollywood, he would have had a chance, but as the studio decided to cut the original 3 hours without his assistance, it couldn't have ended much better. Still, it is not a waste of time, the film is quite enjoyable. Not really for the line of stars it gives little to do or say (Sydow, Young, Sting), but surely for the sets and some impressive scenes. Lynch is a filmmaker of great visuals and there are pleasing moments- Paul's test with a burning hand in the box, baron harkonnen's outrageous entertainment with captive youths, the opening scene with the navigator- a large ball of slime and flesh floating in the thick gas of spice. However, imagination is all Lynch delivers. Ideas, even his typical symbolism are not really present, expect for the offensive drug theme (spice is in Lynch's eyes obviously a metaphor for drugs in general and its destructive results on civilization under dictate of some strange space mafia). As a substitute we get silly and awfully pretentious dialogues, filled with laughable mythological clichés.Actors do all to save the scenes. McLachlan, no matter how unexperienced, is a sympathetic hero, Prochnow delivers some needed subtlety and MacMillan as the fat floating frog- faced villain is delicious But, at this point- why the hell does Lynch make him a homosexual?! he is known for being a conservative, but this is really annoying.If the first hour or so has a sense of build up, it all gets lost as Paul meets the Fremen. From this scene on it gets blown up into a messy, episodic form, mostly Star Wars- like adventure (with very dated effects). As the film proceeds towards the end, it starts looking nearly like a trailer. The hour which was cut out is really missing here, many scenes don't make sense and most of the characters become ridiculous as the ride on sand worms and blow the hell out of the baddies. It gets even worse when Toto's awful, pathetic, anthemic rock tunes join the scene (the orchestrated parts are acceptable but only Brian Eno's Prophecy theme has positive effect). In the end it's hard to care about the characters, since they get so distant and empty. And the climax with Paul having a fair fight with Fed (why???) is pure rubbish. Shame, since the sets are truly great- Harkonnen palace- a large indutrial skeleton, Atreides house with boat- like interiors, desert locations and in places the mood does overpower silliness of the narrative and dialogue.  "},{"Title":"Underrated and butchered classic...an amazing vision...","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok. There are bad points and there are good points to this movie. But what makes me so upset is the fact that the studio released this version, and David Lynch didn't hardly get a look in as regards the final cut.This movie was supposed to be over 3 hours long, and if you look at it in that way, you will see a film that was way ahead of it's time in production values alone. If you have the good fortune to see the longer version, (the Smithee one...yes, it is that bad) there are a few scenes in there that didn't make the final film, but as you watch the special edition version, you get the feeling that there is so much that you have missed. I saw the sc-fi version a while back, and to be honest, the best parts of it were nearly directly inspired by the Lynch version anyway.So...the good points1. The costumes Perfect, astounding, inspired. What more can I say?2. Set design See above. Way, way, ahead of it's time, and visually stunning.3. Cinematography Some of the best I have ever seen. If you get the special edition on DVD, you will see what I mean. It's worth watching the film for the photography alone. The spectacular colour, lighting, moods etc. Visually brilliant.4. Idea, and concept I'm not talking about the script, but Lynch's take on an already saturated topic. No-one since has used dream sequences like he has, and the 'weirdness and etheral quality' this gives only adds to the film.5. Casting What more can I say? Perfect.The Bad points1. The length Ok. If Gone with the Wind, or Ben Hur had been cut down to 2 hours, it would have been a disaster. Get my point?2. The script...makes not much sense, and the characters are not fleshed out. Because of the length.This film...like Blade Runner, was butchered. After Blade Runner was given a director's cut, it became one of the most popular films in history.So, Mr Lynch, if you are reading this, please release a directors cut. I love this film with a passion, and it is wholly unfair to see this masterpiece in a inferior version.Kimberley "},{"Title":"Dune","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overlong but visually stunning adaptation of the Frank Herbert book directed by David Lynch about Paul Atredies (Kyle MacLachlan) and his destiny to lead the people of the desert planet Dune, which is the largest producer of an intergalactic spice, to freedom from an evil empire.Although it has great production values and a cast that tries its hardest to bring out the life in their characters, Dune never quite comes together. It's ability to be enjoyed is hampered by it's attempts to be as intellectually stimulating as possible and as a result tending to bore its own audience and hampering our ability to make an emotional connection to the characters (example summarizing Paul's relationship with the beautiful Sean Young).Rock singer Sting appears to be having fun as a lunatic killer with red hair.Film is greatly redeemed by it's production value and bizarre atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Some nice ideas ruined by an overly long plot","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERSSomeone had told me there was a religious undertone to Dune. Something to do with the whole messiah and the saving of the world. With this in mind I'd figured I'd watch the film, then if I felt the same way I could write a review on it for a pointless university module on religion in film. Ultimately though, the film not only failed to live up to any religious usage, but to me it failed to live up to any sort of expectation.In Dune two houses, the House of Atreides and the House of Harkonnen are sworn enemies when the Atreides are sent to the Dune planet to oversee mining of a precious spice. This spice is an addictive magical substance which would turn it's users eye's blue overtime. The son of the Duke, Paul, is questioned throughout as being the one or the legend and eventually it is Paul who recovers from a family disaster to save the universe and discover the secret of the spice.I'd expected so much from this film, perhaps that was the problem. A few years ago I'd seen parts of it and felt it was quite good. Added to this was my intense enjoyment of the computer game sequel, and therefore a thorough knowledge of the main sides in the war and their key members. The problem is though that Dune is just far too slow. With such a superb cast (Francesca Annis, Patrick Stewart, Dean Stockwell, Brad Dourif, Kyle MacLachlan and others) it had potential, as it did with certain graphics which were equally impressive. The language as well is at times amazing, mainly in the way it feels almost like a Shakespearean performance. Despite the casting, graphics and language however, the film is far too complicated and dull to really impress. For the first hour it has potential and grasps the attention, however after the first major battle, it just seems to slink into confusion as Paul Atreides moves from genius prince through to nomad messiah. Added to this the misusage of the novel idea of hearing major characters thoughts and the film feels slightly disappointing.David Lynch as a director has done some amazing work over the years (The Elephant Man and Mulholland Drive to name two) but in Dune he makes a miscalculation. I have no doubt that a lot of people are right and that the book itself is amazing, but the film itself just drags too much and fails to keep an audiences attention. It's a shame really as there was great potential here. "}{"Title":"On second viewing...nope, still weird.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Dune not long after its initial 1984 release and remembered it as being strange, yet interesting. More than ten years later I chalked up the strange part to the fact that I last saw it at the age of 11. So, I rented the DVD to check it out again...then I remembered that David Lynch was nuts. The film was still strange. The story of Dune is just too vast and complicated to successfully fit into a two (or even four) hour movie. The concepts and characters in the film grab your interest, without a doubt, but the film left me unfulfilled and asking questions. It has that special Lynchy spin to it (which I'm not a fan of). That's when I finally broke down and read Frank Herbert's novel, which is excellent. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the most inventive and intriguing films of all time. The casting and performances are first-rate. The production design is truly unique. Yes, some of the special effects appear dated, but overall the best SciFi movie ever made. "},{"Title":"the early worm catches the bird )","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This impressive piece of fantasy-fiction deserves respect. It was a very ambitious project, yet too early. Just as Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, to work properly, Herbert's DUNE trilogy required a lot more cinematic resources than you could get back in the early 80's. Bakshi failed, and so did DeLaurentiis. But not completely. DUNE was state-of-the-art, it has it's very own, unique impact and delivers plenty of the most memorable and captivating scenes ever brought to screen. I like this movie very very much. As i mentioned already, it's impressive, captivating and just good entertainment, to say the least. My hope for DUNE a remake in the caliber of Jackson's Lord of the Rings. A trilogy maybe? Anyway, as long as nobody comes up with it, i watch DUNE every once in a while. And hey, it's a David Lynch movie! "},{"Title":"Best Sci-Fi movie of all time","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is the movie to see if you are a sci-fi afficionado.  David Lynch weaves his unique brand of surrealism into the dark futurism of Frank Herbert.  The result is a masterpiece.  A word of warning, this movie was not, nor will it ever be appreciated by the masses.  It's references are arcane and its setting relies on the viewer to transport him or herself into the future to realy absorb what's going on in the plot.  That is why it never made it with the masses.  Too much thinking required...but for those of you that appreciate the occasional puzzle or flirtation with spiritual esoterica, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"SEE BELOW","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An incomprehensible disaster with touches of creative genius. That's all that needs to be said about this film (now deservedly disowned by Lynch). It's only worth checking out to see Lynchs' attempts at science fiction. This last sentence has been included because you need to submit at least 4 lines for a review to be posted, otherwise I have nothing left to say about this tragedy of a film that only just beats Lost Highway as Lynchs' worst film so far. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is impossible to put all of the details from the book into the movie, especially if you have to make it two hours long (or short), but I think that Lynch made a perfect visual impression and an unforgettable style. Making all of his characters realistic and putting them in a fantastic and impressive visual environment, he created the complete world of Dune.The worms are great. They're big and dangerous and made absolutely realistic for that time. The soundtrack I could listen to all day long. It has got that mystic and prophetic touch that it makes me wonder if they could make books with speakers to play it while you're reading it. The only thing that is a little bit stupid is that in year 10000 and something they refer to an ultrahigh - technology weapon as weirding - something magical?! And also they could have showed a little bit more of the city on Arrakis. I also saw the mini-series and I can say that even though t goes into more detail and reveals more f the book material, it's to slow and, besides the desert suits, it looks poor and not inventive in comparison with Lynche's visual masterpiece which is much stronger for the person watching it. And the special effects SUCK! Even though it was made in 2000, the poor computer animation is zero compared to the primitive  effects from the 1980's. The worms are ugly and not as half as impressive as the ones Lynch filmed. The soundtrack can't even be compared to Toto's masterpiece. I think, that if we want the best Dune movie ever, someone should give Lynch a two-hundred million dollar budget to do a trilogy! "},{"Title":"See it for the worms!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the people in this film do a competent job of going through the motion, the real stars of this picture is the Sand Worms.  The Sand Worms are huge, awesome, dangerous, menacing, and heroic.  The also hold the secret to travel through the universe.  When the worms are off screen the picture drags, but when they appear or threaten to appear the pace picks up considerably.The academy should have given as special Oscar(R) for originality for special effects for the Sand Worms. "},{"Title":"Not a fair representation of a really good story","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw Dune, I had not yet read the book.  I thought the special effects were really good but I felt there wasn't much of a plot there, or that it was too difficult to follow.  Once I read the book, I watched the movie again and realized what had happened.  They skipped very important plot elements in the story (the Bene Gesserit selective breeding, the genealogy of Jessica, the Fremen culture, Paul's son, and on and on.)  They also added things to the story that weren't there (the Baron's diseases, all this stuff about the second moon, Weirding modules, Paul drinking the Water of Life in the middle of the desert, and much more.)  I think the multi-part version of Dune that appeared on Sci-Fi is much closer to what the story was really about.  If you want action, this is a good movie, but stay away from it if you want to experience the story the way Frank Herbert intended. "},{"Title":"A fascinating, if seriously flawed film","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The novel is much better, but this epic has excellent music by Toto, hypnotic images, and Kyle Maclachlan (his film debut). Its only problems are some weak acting, rushed FX, and a complicated plot. However, unlike the book, it's a strange film, which I like (thank you David Lynch). Joe Bob says check it out (hehe just kidding). "},{"Title":"What FH thought of it all","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was in the process of having Frank Herbert autograph several of the books, when I suddenly recalled that the film was probably in post-production. Since there was no else attending (which I thought a bit strange), I took the opportunity to query him about his reaction/thoughts about the film.First and foremost was that he said he was happy with the way David Lynch had brought it to the screen. He said he thought they'd done a tremendous job with the effects and really brought the feeling of Arrakis to the viewer. While one would not necessarily expect the author to bad mouth his own work (tho some have asked to have their names removed), he was so clearly enthusiastic about the whole business, that I can't believe he was trying to talk up a failure to one lone fan. "}{"Title":"I tried to appreciate it","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch, to me, is one of the greatest directors/writers in the film industry and I am grateful for the existence of such incredibly unique people such as Lynch in the industry, but I just could not find myself liking this film. I thought the idea was decent, perhaps this is not attributed too much to Lynch since the film is an adaptation from a book. I thought the beginning was not too bad either, but aside from that, I liked nearly nothing else. It was boring, long, the acting seemed sloppy, and the visual effects aren't that great (but I don't condemn the film for this. I'm just about confused as to why - sponsors and the like shoved out 40 Million big ones to make this film - and it wasn't as if time was of the issue, when Star Wars made seven years earlier had thousands and thousands of times better visuals than this film. I like Lynch too much to consider this film among his films. I want to erase this film from my memory. I tried really hard to like it. I just couldn't get on board the Lynchian bandwagon of inscrutable bizarreness. I loved Mulholland Drive, Elephant Man, Twin Peaks, and even Blue Velvet. This one I could not. Stay away from this film. It is not one I would like to associate with someone like Lynch. No matter how weird his movies are, this is not one of those times where the weird is good... a good weird. Dune is just... bad weird. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's Dune","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Dino de Laurentiis hired David Lynch in the early 1980s to adapt Frank Herbert's science-fiction opus Dune for the screen, he was no doubt hoping for something along the lines of the Star Wars movies, with great special effects and exciting action scenes. He must have been disappointed, since the final result, about 40$ million later, looks less like Star Wars than Zardoz, the incredibly strange John Boorman science fiction film. Neither movie is very good, but the experience of watching them is simply so utterly strange as to almost make up for their many failings. At least I could understand Dune somewhat better than Zardoz, as I have read the original Frank Herbert novel. Still, I can see how anyone who was not familiar with Lynch's source material would have been completely baffled by his adaptation, which is not very good. The core of Dune is a fairly simple adventure story about a prince whose clan is wiped out by their ancestral enemies, who he flees by going into exile among the Bedouin-like tribes of the desert planet that his father formerly ruled. They receive him as their Messiah, and he builds them up into an army to exact revenge on his enemies and overthrow the Galactic Emperor. But around this core, Herbert constructed an incredibly elaborate, complex portrait of an exotic far-future society closer to the Middle Ages or ancient Egypt than our own time, coated with multiple layers of political, religious, historical and religious allegory. I can understand why Ridley Scott, with his talent for creating almost obsessively detailed worlds, was also approached for Dune. The problem with adapting Dune is that these of the sort of details that work better on the page than the screen, where lengthy exposition is usually deadly and names like Shadout Mapes and Feyd-Rautha have to get past less than receptive audiences. Lynch's script strives to be as faithful to the book as possible, and the result is a film overstuffed with characters whose significance has vanished in the transition from page to screen, half-explained conspiracies and subplots, and dramatic events that are quickly rushed through. Lynch is obviously a very gifted filmmaker, but I don't think anyone would consider storytelling as one of his gifts- it's no coincidence that this, his most plot-oriented film, is also his biggest failure. Epics need storytellers like David Lean, directors who are willing to put style at the service of content, whereas Lynch's strongest work generally emphasizes the creation of a particular mood over story, which is either slim, as in Blue Velvet, or nonexistent, as in Eraserhead. In Dune Lynch's desperation to hold the monstrously complex plot together is such that he often resorts to explaining the characters' minds through clumsy voice-overs representing their inner thoughts. For De Laurentiis and Herbert, it must have seemed like an intriguing idea at the time to give the maker of Eraserhead a chance to make a film on an epic scale and budget, and at least visually the movie is impressive. There's always something interesting to look at on screen, though the production design is clumsy as often as it's brilliant. Take the execution of the stillsuits worn by the inhabitants of Dune, which function as portable plants for collecting bodily moisture and converting it into drinkable water. As shown in Dune, the suits include little nose pieces that give the unintended, unforgettably surreal impression that the characters are all wearing halved, Groucho Marx-like fake mustaches, a detail that might have seemed more at home in Twin Peaks. Lynch's talent for surreal, disturbing imagery really comes into play with the scenes involving the Space Guild Navigator, a huge talking worm floating in a tank, and the villainous Harkonnens, who live in a nightmarish industrial world shrouded in darkness and smoke. In other scenes, however, Lynch's propensity for dark cinematography is out of place, particularly when the action moves onto the deserts of Dune. The biggest problem with Dune is simply that it takes itself much too seriously. Herbert, as I said already, used a pulp science-fiction plot as the vehicle for all sorts of other preoccupations while still creating a fun adventure story, but the movie mostly just reflects Herbert's pretensions. It feels laborious, as if Lynch regarded the project as essentially a gigantic chore, and lacks of any of the book's sense of exhilaration. Lynch's direction only comes alive with the depraved villains on Planet Harkonnen. Earlier this year, I read a biography of Herbert written by his son that included a detailed account of his involvement with making Dune into a movie, and my impression was that he was too involved with trying to safeguard his work. The directors Scott and Alejandro Jodorowsky were dropped after Herbert realized that they would have made substantial changes to the book, and Lynch was brought on board to write an adaptation that would be as faithful as possible, but it's clear that what was needed was a hands-off attitude on the author's part that would have allowed the filmmakers freedom to make the necessary changes. "},{"Title":"A few brief words from the fence.","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yippee for havingPaul from the book having a head on his shoulders and a brain between his ears grace us with his presence from the start. Even without the book and the actor in this movie to compare him against, the Mini series Paul came off as a butthead. I couldn't forget he looked nothing like the part whereas with the movie I dismissed the actor's real age.Irulan seen in her place--which was not all over the place. She was an observer, not a frigging mover and shaker!Usul, melange, the Litany Against Fear--taken and used. Would it had killed the mini-series writers to have those words so loved by Dune fans? The Bene Gesserit acting cool and controlled--Annis is awesome. The part where Jessica looses it over Leto, still gives me chills cause it's pops up so suddenly and runs so deep. I had problems with them in the mini series, continuously openly nervy--The dialog and acting during the scene with the box made particularly me sick. And Paul had not been trained in the Voice yet! The detail shown in the way the Fremen lived, grimy battle hardened and thin! 2000 remake--plump, looked like they washed every hour sietch people doing outdoor lunches, fighting outside in homespun--I don't think so! The Sadukar were treated with more dignity. I was scared into liking of Lynch's concept of these dark suited automatons. How much dread could be done from the remake's Italian Renassiance Honor Guard unis? Easier to understand why the Fremen kicked their butts!Yueh's part was in it--no doubts as he had his diamond tattoo! Sting as Feyd--Crazy, man! Loved him! Hated, hated in this theatric version.The Baron's crapped up face. He was supposedly fat, not oozing pus and disease! The Weirding Way! Inaccurate, totally confusing--Herbert mentioned nothing about sound mechanisms.Duncan Idaho, the only one who didn't look like the way Herbert had described him and he was so blaaah compared to everyone else.Thufir Hawat, mercy those eyebrows! The last half hour was horribly rushed. This movie needed at least another hour tacked on to balance the earlier detail.Finally I'd saved the absolute worst aspect of this film for last, the the drip drip--go away not accurate ending. The mini series version carried that part off flawlessly.Hopefeully someone someday will do a film that will do justice to all the parts. "},{"Title":"I made my dad take me to it when it was released","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To all of you that think this movie is bad, it wasn't. I made my father take me to it back in 1984. He absolutely hated it. Complained to me why he should go to such a movie, what did this mean, and what did that mean. Reminds of the hoards of people that can't read a Tolkien novel, and Herbert is way harder to understand. Back to my original story, I taped it on HBO. My dad watched it and watched it and watched it, I don't think he ever got it but he finally understood the terminology, and understood the movie. To this day he does not like the extended version. But he still watches the original once a month.Elriclives "},{"Title":"Candidate for the absolute worst sci-fi movie adaptation of a GREAT book!!","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The book Dune was a sci-fi classic - impeccably written, with a huge amount of background details, a first-rate plot and no shortage of VERY well developed characters. It ranks right up there with the Foundation Trilogy (Asimov), and is well worth reading several times. In contrast, the movie this wonderful book inspired is incoherent, with poor character development, cheesy special effects (the shower scene with the Baron and/or Sting was almost obscene, for example!!) and so many reprehensible deviations from the book that it was, for folks who had read and appreciated the original literature at least, a complete and absolute abomination. The philosophical elements were nearly completely lacking - in the book, for example, the weirding way of fighting was centered on absolute control of mind and body, and complete awareness of their limitations and abilities at all time absolute focus and rigorous training being key to success. In the movie, they substituted a silly weirding weapon which was completely lame and and a repudiation of all the book tried to convey. If there was a zero rating, i would not hesitate to use it to describe this absolute bomb of a movie. "},{"Title":"the Dune movie could have been so much better","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" i for one am p***ed at whoever wrote the screenplay for this movie...dune should have surpassed star wars in all fields..star trek in all fields...dune isn't science fiction, it is literature too inventive and too imaginative to be considered literature so they dubbed it science fiction..the movie is only understandable to those that read it..what a shame.. how could george lucas become inspired by this book as all who read it were and make his own story VERY similar in so many ways, make movies of it and never speak of the original story that inspired his touching but very obviously based and inspired  WORK OF ART... damn them..... and damn all who have the power and resources to make a new and better Dune movie and don't... if were going to remake War of The Worlds and Tron and Willy Wonka and make movies out of every comic book character that ever was... eventually someone will say what haven't we remade into a better and still cleashaic movie?...i just hope the answer is Dune....... "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here's a few words on the mini-series for those who haven't seen it. The makers of this TV version claim it's a re-edit of the David Lynch film, with a better prologue and extra scenes. Don't believe a word of it it's just rubbish.The prologue consists of crayon drawings. Yes, *crayon* *drawings*. These ghastly and amateurish images are also used throughout the film in place of the superior mattes that were originally used in the cinema version. Also, instead of the beautiful tones of Ginny Madsen, we have to listen to some guy who sounds like he's been smoking since he was 2. And his pronunciation differs from what the characters are saying.A number of cuts have been made, especially with respect to the brutality of the Harkonnens, which Lynch so lovingly portrayed. Curiously, despite having his name removed as writer and director, David Lynch's cameo still remains!There are some good additions. Jack Nance gets a few extra seconds of screen time!!! You gotta love the scene with Gurney Halleck jammin' on the electric lute (not). There are more scenes of the Harkonnens gloating over the captured Atreides, and Yueh's death. And finally we get a proper look at Molly Wyrn, with extra scenes of Fremen rites. However, as these scenes were unused in the film, there's no proper sound or FX editing. For example, the Fremen don't have blue eyes.Finally, and most perplexing, the film has been re-graded to give it a very different look. Gone are the dark and brooding tones, replaced with bright and garish colours. The final effect is to make this Dune look like a bad TV movie, and remove all of the cinematic touches from the Lynch film, be they in photography, sound design, score, or editing.But all these changes do is make the first half drag, and the second half suffers the same problems as the Lynch version too rushed, and a diabolical ending.So, if you're a fan of the book, the Lynch film, or the new Sci-Fi channel version, avoid this! It's infinitely worse. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I usually love cult movies, and have an interest in science-fiction. I love the Star Wars saga, and after initially not liking the sequels have come to love the Matrix Trilogy. I though Flash Gordon was great campy fun, and thought Serenity wasn't bad (but not as good as the Browncoats made it out to be). However, I just can't understand, after watching the film yesterday and today, why people I know love this film. I got a 130min cut free with The Observer newspaper, but I doubt I could stand any extended versions.Now, the film isn't a disaster. David Lynch is not a hack, and there are some great shots and surreal visions. People might think I didn't like the film because of the special effects, but I thought they were quite impressive (I'm not a CG-hater, but it's definitely overused these days). Having only read a bit of Dune beforehand, I still managed to understand the basic plot line. However, what I didn't like was the acting and the dialogue, which nearly killed the movie for me. Internal monologues are not a bad idea, but were overused and treated the audience like idiots, when what they're thinking is clearly expressed in their emotions. You might think criticizing dialogue is rich coming from someone who loves the Star Wars saga, but in the much maligned Prequel Trilogy, at least George Lucas lets the characters shut up every once in a while. Your father is dead! I know! Why? Because he is the Kwisatz Haderach!. Also, trying to get people on film to shout other people to death is nigh-on impossible to pull off (on Wikipedia I read that they merely shout Muaddib as a death-prayer, which would have been visually more effective).There are some great moments in the film. The baron is so repulsive I nearly threw up, and that's a commendation to the great make-up artists. Patrick Stewart is, well, Patrick Stewart (was this man born 45? He doesn't seem to have aged in the past 20 years) and the vision, as described in these boards, can be wonderfully otherworldly and epic. With a lot of the redundant dialogue cut, and a less woeful knife-fight, this could have been great. I almost gave this a 4, but the vision behind the film tilted it to a 5. That, and the Toto soundtrack, which valiantly defied my expectations and turned out to be rather damn good (I'm a sucker for '80s synth soundtracks).Amir "},{"Title":"A big piece of cheese","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The horrible fx, the bad acting, the wrong casting, songs by toto!!! the ridiculous guildsman who looks like a flying piece of bread...I can't figure out what's the worst in this movie. It was a ridiculous interpretation of the book, and almos an insult. But let's put away the fact that this is an adaptation of the best sci-fi novel of all time and look at the movie as if it was only a movie. Taking Dune only as a movie, well, it's still a very bad one, one of the worst sci-fi movies I ever saw, along with the Arena, T-Force, or The Soldier with Kurt Russel. Dune has ablolutely no cohesion. 1h20 is spent for putting us in situation, then, there's 40 minutes left for the rest, witch is thrown at us in an orgy of bad editing, incomplete informations, confused scenario and very, oh my lord! so very bad acting! Try to put a 500 pages book in a 2 hours movie and here's what you get. Now there's a new extended version, but the short version is so bad and so off the track according to the book that i don't even want to give new version a chance. "},{"Title":"Poetic surrealism","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had read Frank Herbert's SF classic before I saw David Lynch's adaptation and since I grew up with Star Wars, I had always envisioned the world of Dune as something similar to that. However, I was not unfamiliar with Lynch's other works either (I had seen Eraserhead, The Elephant Man, Blue Velvet and Wild at Heart up to then) so I sort of knew what to expect. Something different. Something unique.And that's exactly what you get with Lynch's take on Dune. It is strikingly different from how most readers would imagine the novel put on the screen. It's bizarre and unsettling, yet, in a weird way, stunningly beautiful and poetic. And though at the time people were reluctant to accept this surreal, baroque nightmare as a faithful adaptation of Herbert's novel, interestingly, Sci-Fi Channel's new version in 2000 basically followed Lynch's designs, too, proving how memorable and influential his vision had become in the interim years. As it turns out, Lynch redefined Dune.Lynch's Dune is a miscast, chaotic mess with gross moments and a lot of cheap, outdated effects (even for its time), but it has a spellbinding vision. It's a truly unique work of art and it should be appreciated as such. I love it. "}{"Title":"Dune (web)","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is maybe the only movie that i went to see with my dad only and this was in 1985 when i was then 10 years old. I think that we expected to see a fun space-opera as « star wars » so we were a bit perplexed with this one. For me, it wasn't bad, just very strange. Now, 30 years later, i find it more powerful and finally excellent and i think that Lynch is maybe a bit harsh with himself  for one time, we have a Lynch's movie with a quick pace, a (rich and deep) story clearly told and meaningful and its design, its dream sequences are enough strange and poetic to tell the difference with other traditional movies. With this screening, 3 things come out  1) it's maybe the only SF movie that is steam-punk oriented  Dune's worlds seems like the old Europe with only better technology ! 2) As deserts fascinate me, i like this strange planet which is a distant cousin of Tatooine and Sarlaac monster 3) the thematic is deeply religious with the special one, the prophecy and in that field, it beats the same ideas used in « Star Wars » without hesitation ! At the end, the best proof for this movie being good is that after it, i want very much to read the novels ! "},{"Title":"This film is a hot mess","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While it shows lots of promise, Lynch's Dune never quite reaches its potential. The story has been changed too much, the characters are too one-dimensional, and the acting never really has a chance to shine.Great sets, great costumes, great casting, and great effects (for its time). Still, it doesn't resonate like it should. I get the feeling that nobody knew what to do with this sprawling epic of a story, and therefore it just stalls and sputters.That being said, it is worth the effort of watching, because it at least gives us a rare glimpse into the world of Dune, even with its shortcomings. "},{"Title":"The sheer daring of it!","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The books by Frank Herbert are about a young man coming of age on the planet Dune, where the drug spice needed for space travel is linked to gigantic predatory worms and galactic intrigue that makes the da Vinci Code look like toddler's play.The Dune universe is a rich one, like Middle Earth. That comes with a problem it would be insane to attempt to capture it in a 2-3 hour film. David Lynch was insane enough to try. Unfortunately for Lynch, 1984 was not a year when you could make three cinematic movies that are not sequels, essentially an 11 hour-long movie spread over three release dates. That had to wait for New Line Cinema's well-rewarded trust in Peter Jackson 15 years later. Who knows what Lynch could have done with that more recent format.The result is a failure by conventional means because the filmed material had to be cut so drastically that it became confusing. Lynch was forced to compress the entire second half of a long book into 30 minutes, almost as an afterthought to the grand beginning.However, the spoils of war are so wonderful in this film, that I give it a 6 anyway you will not be happy after seeing it, but you will go Holy ... during the film and wonder what could have been? The set design is incredible. The spaceships are bizarre baroque things so different from anything conventional, it puts an entirely new spin on what one can do with SF visuals. Baron Harkonnen is so juicily evil in his corrupt world punctuated by gay snuff sex that even the most hardened viewer has to shake their head in disbelief. Only David Lynch could have pulled this off, and Kyle MacLaughlan is well-cast as the young future emperor, a somewhat ambiguous hero.Unfortunately the movie is very faulty in its brevity. I hear that Lynch had hour(s) more shots, and I suspect if he somehow could take that material and assemble it his way, a great film would result. But Dune tanked so badly that he'll never have the opportunity. Nonetheless, I predict that Dune will be regarded by critics as an important film as time goes on.Instead we a have a competent but somewhat lackluster mini series that came out years later. It will have to do, until a director daring enough can make an 11 hour film of Dune that does the big concepts justice on the big screen. "},{"Title":"A great story wasted","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie, based on a story that could have spawned a star wars like saga, suffers from many flaws.Some of which are its ill pace, its goofy designs, its strange camera work and its overacting characters.It can sometimes be boring, sometimes be ridiculous,and other times be annoying, mainly because of its narration...Good acting still occurs occasionally, like from sting, and good shots also pop up here and there, like the wonderful arrival of the navigator's ship on the emperors planet.I'm not a die hard Herbert fan, I have never read the book, but this movie is just sloppy, which is surprising because it comes from Lynch.Go watch Jodorowsky's dune instead. "},{"Title":"I Guess a Dream Unfolds?","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had heard numerous good things about Dune. Perhaps it's because it's been so many years and people try to pick the worst scenes and find humor in them. But for me, Dune is straight garbage. I cant believe I wasted 135 minutes of my time watching this trippy film with no retainable substance. Sure, Dune lovers may enjoy this film because of it's reliance and interpretation of the book, but it has nothing for people who go into it with no prior knowledge.It's the year 10,091 or something, which i'm not sure why it needs to be THAT far in the future, and there are 4 different worlds, none of which you can remember the name to. One of the planets is relying on some random 'prince' or 'duke'-esque figure to save the day by attaining the rice. Throw in quite a few nipple bursting scenes, Sting attempting to act with a weird hairdo, and voice-overs that attempt to guide the audience but end up doing the complete opposite, and you have Dune. It does have the great Patrick Stewart and Max Von Sydow. But don't worry, they only make glorified cameos here. The problem with Dune is that there is such a lack of real communication between characters. We don't learn enough about either the heroes or villains to care in the end. It's basically voices in their head that do most of the talking.The first half is also surprisingly action-less with a budget of almost 45 million in 1984. The budget doesn't even become useful in the climatic battle scenes that are cut off by more over-acting, magic blue wine, and nipple bursting. I cant pretend that I know exactly what happens in the film or what it means for any stretch of the imagination. But I do know how a good film works, and Dune isn't one of them. Basically the only redeeming thing about Dune is it's catchy score.+Score -Can't follow the story -Poor use of special effects-Undeveloped characters -No communication between characters -No substance 3.2/10 "},{"Title":"Confusing and Underwhelming-A  Real Bomb","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the shorter version, the first half hour is tiresome and boring. When I watch this film, I usually start the DVD about 30 minutes in. Too many confusing characters. A waste of such magnificent acting talent and special effect artists' work. Even on a big screen TV, the landscapes look cheap, dark, and murky. The 190 minute TV version is far too long, but at least you get to see more of the excellent creature work by the creator of E.T. You would never know that there were over 4,000 costumes, huge, intricate sets, and sweeping landscapes. It somehow just doesn't translate well to the home screen. A murky and grainy video transfer by Universal doesn't help. The Mad Baron is just too disgusting and weird. Sting is incredibly skinny. Everybody is supposed to be weakened from extended spice use, but it comes off as Homophobic instead! The Emperor Worm (an amazing puppet) is fascinating, but it is barely seen in the original short 138 min. version. The special effects look very crude, except for the fighting shield. The expensive sets look really bad. As presented, it's an Allegory for everything from evil, corrupt governments, to drug dependence, to the Coming of the Savior. It's PG-13 rating is due to violence and gore. The Mysticism hard to understand. Maybe more under-dressed maidens would have helped, as much as I hate to admit it. Sure, it has a rousing climax, but, overall, it's too little too late to save the picture. By this time, nobody really cares when it finally rains on Dune! They just want to leave the room! It might actually play better as a 4 or 6 part mini-series, on a Sy Fy channel? Needs to be remastered for better image clarity. Really chopped to pieces in the theatrical cut. I still feel like I haven't really seen all of it! "},{"Title":"Dark and visually impressive sci-fi epic","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The adaption of the sci-fi novel Dune had been in the pipeline for a number of years before it was finally made. Initially it was to be directed by Alejandro Jodorowsky with input from Salvador Dali, both men famed for their surrealist leanings. This collaboration did not ultimately happen but the movie was eventually directed by another famous surrealist film-maker, David Lynch. At the time he had come off the back of the big success of The Elephant Man, while his name had been made by the unique nightmarish Eraserhead. From what I can recall, Lynch hadn't actually read the novel and was most interested in possibilities inherent in the name Dune itself. He agreed to make it on one provision and that was that if he did, producer Dino De Laurentiis would allow him final cut on a subsequent movie of his own. So in this way, Dune was directly responsible for Lynch's next film, the classic Blue Velvet.What of Dune itself? Well, I myself have not read the novel so I am depending entirely on the film for the story. Without prior knowledge of the book it is quite hard to follow overall it has to be said. Key information is presented briefly and a rewind function certainly helps! Its story basically is about two rival houses &#x96; the House of Atreides and the House of Harkonnen &#x96; that inhabit separate planets and vie for dominance. The Emperor of the known universe plays them off against one-and-other, over a substance known as the Spice. This precious material allows for the folding of time and subsequently, long distance space travel. It is the only substance known that can do this and is therefore hugely precious. It only exists on the desert planet Arrakis, also known as Dune. One of the people involved in this drama, Paul Atreides, emerges as a messiah figure prophesised by the people native to Arrakis, the Fremen; he changes things irrevocably.It's quite obvious that Dune was given the cinematic treatment off the back of the success of the Star Wars films. It has similarly high production values. The sets, costumes and cinematography are all of a very high calibre. It's extremely visually impressive. It could be argued that Lynch's personal style is lost in this huge big budget production in a genre unfamiliar to him. To a reasonable extent this is certainly true. But there are some clues in the lighting of shots and of course the cast, several of whom he worked with on other films. And also the more grotesque details were seemingly not in the book itself and added no doubt with Lynch's influence. So there are some elements of his style here for sure. I find Dune overall a film that improves with repeat viewings. The fantastic production design really helps but I also like how, despite surface similarities, it goes for something altogether more left-field than the Star Wars films. Hard to follow for sure but worth the effort if you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"A really solid science fiction movie, but an ordinary work for fans of David Lynch","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that this movie (I have only seen the extended edition) is a really epic and entertaining one with an unique and mysterious atmosphere and brilliant acting. Especially Kyle MacLachlan is doing a great job, the special effects and graphics are really great for a film from 1984. Of course, it would have been more intense and interesting to make a trilogy about it, but the film still shows the most important elements.The only critical points are the lack of action and the weak end fight scenes and the fact that the young and brilliant director David Lynch didn't have the possibility to introduce his own and personal surreal style in this movie, especially of the short dream sequences which are nicely done. That's one of the reasons why Lynch doesn't like this movie and chose a nickname in the end as Alan Smithee to not be identified with this movie.All in all, this one is a really solid science fiction movie which presents an interesting world full of legacies and mysteries. It is more interesting than the endless Star Trek movies and more down-to-earth than the Star Wars blockbusters. This movie is something like an inside tip, so give it a chance! If you watch this film because of you're interest in the genre, you may like this one even if it is nothing extraordinary. If you watch this one because you heard that it has been directed by David Lynch and because of Kyle MacLachlan (both worked together in the weird and surreal Blue Velvet, and the legendary Twin Peaks series), you may be disappointed as it is a quite ordinary and logical movie for David Lynch but it may show you that he has some special talents and does a solid job even if this is not exactly his kind of thing. "},{"Title":"Too much too ambitious but what a lovely mess","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the year 10,191. The universe is ruled by Padishah Emperor Shaddam the Fourth. The most precious substance is the spice, melange which is used to extend life and fold space. It only exists on Arrakis also known as Dune where the local Fremen long for a prophesized messiah. The emperor plans to dethrone Duke Leto Atreides (Jürgen Prochnow) fearing his new weapon, the weirding module. First he allows the House Atreides to run the spice production. Then he supports the jealous House Harkonnen to invade and kill all the Atreides. There is something about Paul Atreides (Kyle MacLachlan) that concerns everybody. He and his mother Lady Jessica manage to escape the massacre. They find shelter with the Fremen as he falls in love with Chani (Sean Young).There is a dense introduction and lots of expositions. It is way too complicated for novices on the first try. I'm sure many people glazed over. The style is impressive. It has a great unique look. The production value is all there on the screen. The cast is also impressive with some strange outsider casting like Sting, a whole lot of experience, and some newcomers who would become big stars. They all work in their own way. David Lynch is definitely going all in with this movie. It has its Lynch weirdness but he holds it back enough to allow the story to make some sense. The weirdness sometimes works but sometimes pumps up the cheese factor. It just won't make sense to most people who haven't read the books. It's probably a movie that is too ambitious to work completely. It's also way too melodramatic at times. It works better after a couple of viewings to understand what's going on. "},{"Title":"Scattered Mix/ Some datedness","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Over the last several decades following Dune's release, I've caught portions of this movie several times, so decided to check it out on DVD in it's entirety, the 137 min version. It is certainly a 'mixed bag' of a movie. Directed by David Lynch, the way the movie is all over the place, you can tell that the studio chopped it up, and some old quotes from Lynch seem to confirm that as there is a 3+ hr version apparently. Not that it would've greatly improved, but I thought the movie had a pretty good narrative. However the introduction was cluttered. A friend of mine said the book it's based off of was uber-detailed and not easy to follow. Perhaps this affected putting together the movie. I like the music until the rock-guitars started coming with the worms making it feel ridiculously dated. The effects were anywhere from adequate to awful - taken the movie's age into account 0 maybe good to poor would be fair. I liked some of the execution with the worm scenes - strong SCIFI. The costumes and sets were inventive and interesting. The acting was mostly satisfactory - Kyle McClaughlin did pretty well in his debut. The movie was ambitious, but didn't make it to it's potential. It felt disjointed and some scenes rushed or not well explained. Worth a look though, but keep a lid on your expectations. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Glorious Confusion...","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's Dune is sci fi flop from 80's that has become a cult classic. Like many Lynch's other films it's very weird, bizarre and almost impossible to comprehend. But really that is the appeal of Dune. I like David Lynch's for quite a bit so Dune is right up my alley.I like the overall strangeness and all the weird stuff happening in Dune. I love the concept of the villains - *beeping* ugly gingers with skin diseases. Also the cast was great. We have Brad Dourif, Patrick Stewart, Sting, Kyle MacLachlan, Virginia Madsen, Jürgen Prochnow, Dean Stockwell and Max von Sydow. They all give strange, performances and by far the best was Kenneth McMillan as the Harkonnen. I loved that ugly, disgusting bastard.The sets and costumes are great, the visual effects look at times dated but overall still hold up. The soundtrack is amazing and epic. In other words, Dune is a fun film. However, there are some massive problems with the film. The script is incomprehensible and makes Dune near impossible to follow. While the overall story is kinda clear but the details are very convoluted and borderline nonsensical. If these problems bother you a lot then please don't watch Dune.I liked Dune quite a bit but it's not for everyone. If you like the work of David Lynch and can appreciate campy nonsense then this will give you endless hours of entertainment and numerous lines to quote. But if you expect Star Wars or Wrath of Khan, stay away from Dune. "},{"Title":"Bloated science fiction film, a bit of a mess.","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is set in the year 10191 at which point the known Universe is ruled by Padishah Emperor Shaddam the Fourth (José Ferrer), this is a Universe where the most important thing is a substance known as Spice which allows for instant interstellar travel. Spice is only found on one planet in the entire Universe, the desert planet Arrakis which is also known as Dune. It raises considerable political eyebrow's when the Fourth Emperor hands ownership of Arrakis over to the Atreides family from their hated enemies the House of Harkonnen, the handing over of the ownership of Arrakis is just a smokescreen in order to wipe out the Atreides, the Harkonnen's & the Emperor's personal army are sent to Arrakis to kill the Atreides including the Duke (Jürgen Prochnow) & his son Paul (Kyle MacLachlan). The Duke is killed but Paul manages to escape into the desert & join the native Fremen tribe who want their planet back, Paul has immense psychic powers & uses them to train & help the Fremen as they prepare to to battle with the Emperor & his evil empire...Written & directed by David Lynch this film is based on the novel Dune by Frank Herbert which was first published as a book in 1965, several filmmakers had toyed with the idea of filming it before this version was produced. I have never read the original Dune book so I cannot say how this adaptation compares but judging by those who have Lynch's script seems to retain enough detail to confuse regular audiences like myself not familiar with the source material yet takes enough liberties with the story to disappoint fans who are familiar with the book & therefore falling between two camps & not really pleasing either. It's a compromise that doesn't satisfy anyone particularly, having just sat through the original theatrical version of Dune for the first time I am in two minds. While the film is fascinating to watch with some of it's bizarre imagery & ideas I just found it too confusing, I had a really hard time keeping track of everyone & everything that has going on. The insistence of using odd names doesn't help because it's difficult to relate a name to a character, the dialogue is stiff & dull & the entire film takes itself deadly serious. I don't think think there's one light hearted moment in the entire film, it makes the two & a bit hours duration difficult to endure at times, with a plot that obviously mirrors contemporary issues on Earth like political unrest, people in power abusing their position, drugs, the idea that if you control something worth money that your powerful, the whole cross culture acceptance, drugs, religion & environmental concerns so I guess the book tried to say a lot & the film also tries & while these issues are valid they get in the way of an entertaining film & are never addressed with any great conviction. I just find it hard to believe that the average person is going to sit through this (whether it's the 130 minute theatrical cut or the 170 minute extended television version) & enjoy it, the story is too complex & challenging & it's not told in a very likable way either. The scope of the film is too big, it's difficult to follow & understand & the lack of any humanity to the character's makes it difficult to relate to anyone.It's not all bad news though because the look of Dune is fantastic with some great special effects & amazing production design, the sets are memorable from the wooden elegance of the Atreides home planet to the art deco style of the Harkonnen's to the barren desolate wastelands of Arrakis. The costumes, props & production design are magnificent & it's quite easy to be drawn into the wold of Dune & it's politics. Some of the models look a bit like models & some of the effects are not as good as other's but generally they are impressive, there's none of this CGI computer effect work which plague films these days & I defy anyone to say the giant Sandworms would have look half as good as CGI computer graphics. The extended television edit was put together by the producers using outtakes, unused footage, deleted scenes & even repeating a few moments as well & some shots are missing special effects (the Fremen & their blue eye's in particular) & was sold to television stations who spit it into two parts & showed it over a couple of nights, apparently this version is even worse, has no pace & is even more of a mess.With a supposed budget of about $40,000,000 I suspect all involved thought Dune was going to be an epic, some of the numbers involved are epic like apparently 1,700 people worked on it, it had 80 sets on 16 stages & took over six years to make with director Lynch working for three & a half of those. The acting is very wooden, there's a good cast here that are given horrible dialogue that means nothing & are asked to create proper character's around it which was never going to be easy.Dune was obviously made at the time it was to cash-in on Star wars (1977) but while Star wars is a fantastic film that is hugely entertaining Dune isn't, by the time the end credits roll on Dune you are wishing for the sheer simplicity, likable character's & magical touches seen in Star Wars rather than the confused politics seen here. "},{"Title":"Awe and Confusion are your friends","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what can one say about this movie? There are many words you can describe it with Amazing, terrible, awe-inspiring, confusing, brilliant masterpiece, steaming pile of crap, genius at its best, overrated monstrosity, enjoyable, boring, a must-see, an avoid-at-all-costs. Whichever word you pick you won't be wrong. But, it matters not, for whatever word you pick, your mind will always desire to go through it one more time. And the more you see it, the more you want it. Perhaps that's true for most David Lynch films. They torture you but somehow you enjoy it and always crave for more.David Lynch took a very difficult task. To convert a novel, with a cartload of characters in it, each with their own different agendas joined in an immense and perplexing plot, into a 137-minute-long movie (190 minutes later, when it was adapted for TV). For that the film suffers (as always when you have to deal with book-to-film adaptations). As a result the film seems more like a slideshow than an actual film. We go through the story, covering the most basic plot lines in small autonomous scenes, that try to get the viewer acquainted with the characters and the storyline. It can be confusing. However, if you are not a mindless drone, and you understand some basic stuff about sci-fi, you can understand what's going on without having to read the novels. The film throws at you several pseudotechnical terms, names and places, but not without ensuring you understand what are the premises of the universe the story takes place in, as well as the relationships between the characters and the planets. Especially after the first half, the film seems to rush to the end, going through the events of about 5-6 years in a summary. This can be annoying for the usual movie-goer, and a weakness for the film, but it's not that bad if you try to fill in the gaps yourself using your imagination.What the film does particularly well is in how it submerges the viewer into what they see in front of them. It manages to give you the feeling that you are not actually watching a movie. It's more like watching a theatrical play, while having the book it's based on read to you. Most movies rely on weird , cheesy and cliché dialogues between the characters to describe their feelings, thoughts and the plot to the viewer. What Dune does instead, is it relies more on the characters' mental voices, i.e. that voice that talks in your mind when you are thinking, and lets you know what they are thinking and feeling, while at the same time dialogues are written to be more realistic, the interactions are made to be more real. At the same time, the bad guy and his minions, are not given mental voices or they rarely have them, which sets them apart from the rest of the characters. Instead they are made to gloat, and their thoughts are seen more through their intense actions, which makes the viewer despise them even more. In conjuction with the great acting, this leaves a sweet taste in your mouth.The other great thing about the film is the atmosphere it has. An amazing baroque atmosphere at that. If you are a Warhammer 40K fan, then you are gonna love the palaces, the scalpted ships, the uniforms, the speech. The soundtrack is not something that stands out, but whenever you hear it, you can feel the hairs on your skin standing up. The effects, although very limited in their technology and apparently in their funding, manage to deliver greatly. The gigantic worms inspire awe and terror in your heart, the battle scenes are brutal and gritty.So yeah, in summary, you are gonna find yourself discomforted by the whole way the film is presenting itself, mainly because of the slideshow-y screenplay (and some disturbing images David Lynch throws in the mix whenever he can, as he usually does), but once you get past that and understand that what you are watching is not a film in contemporary terms and you can't be as a passive audience as other films let you be, but rather you have to let your imagination and thinking loose, then you are in for a ride of sheer awesomeness. If you haven't read the Dune novels yet, then this film will make you want to rush to the library and get them.My rating is an 8/10, but it's rewarded only because of how the film made me feel and the sweet taste it left in my mouth. I can't rate this the way I'd rate a regular film, so don't take it in seriousness. However, at the end of the day, I do wish that more films based on books were presented in the way Dune does. "},{"Title":"I just can't dislike this movie!","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this film about 25 years ago, and back then my idea of a good movie was Commando or Cyborg. Consequently, this, plus the fact that I'd never read any of the Dune books at that point, meant that I found Lynch's vision peculiar in the extreme. BUT, I also found it strangely fascinating.... so much so, that I got a friend of mine to watch it with me, so I could show him how weird it was. But again I found it strangely fascinating, and I found myself being drawn into this incredibly and unique world that Lynch (and obviously Frank Herbert) had created.Fast forward 25 years, and after numerous viewings, this is one of my all time favourite films. I've also since read all of Herbert's Dune books (Dune itself a number of times), and I'm only too well aware that Lynch's film isn't exactly 100% accurate to the book (Hell, in some places it's not even 1% accurate!), but that isn't a problem for me, as the FEEL of the film captures Dune absolutely perfectly for me. It's weird, it's beautiful, it's haunting and it's TOTALLY unique, and for that this movie stands alone and ranks as one of my favourite films of all time. (The truly daft ending with rain falling on Dune that would kill all the Sandworms and therefore end the production of the Spice, is the only thing that stops me giving this movie a 10 out of 10)As an aside, I would dearly love a studio to buy up the rights to this movie, fully remaster it, add in a number of the excellent scenes from the terribly voiced-over extended TV version, plus perhaps shoot some new scenes to supplement it, and sympathetic re-do a few of the less successful original SFX scenes with some subtle CGI. That'd be something to behold! "},{"Title":"Dune (1984)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For once, I might actually be at an advantage for not having read the book. I don't know how much is removed from the novel to condense it into a feature-length film... I'm sure it's a lot, but I don't miss it. I had heard the film was impossible to understand without knowing Herbert's work, but for the most part I didn't feel lost. Yes, it's weird as hell and some stuff doesn't make sense, but that's David Lynch for you. I got on board for the bizarre ride and was treated with giant worms and funky outfits and other fun stuff. It's got a number of Lynchian touches, particularly his dreamlike sense of worldbuilding. And what a cast! I knew about Maclachlan and Sting, but I had no idea about Dean Stockwell, Brad Dourif, Linda Hunt, Max Von Sydow, Jose Ferrer, Virginia Madsen or Patrick Stewart. Every five minutes it was like Holy sh*t, HE'S in this?! Some of it is too silly (and the blue-screen work and special effects are pretty shoddy), some of it is a little dull, but in general I was entertained. It didn't make me want to read the book, and I don't think I'd watch it again, but I liked it more than I expected to. "},{"Title":"Has its moments","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read Dune when I was in my teens (I read a lot of science fiction in those years). I was never completely sold on it - it made me work too hard. I liked my science fiction to give me an easy ride, and Dune was heavily plotted, densely textured, and required more from my underdeveloped little brain than I was happy to give it.I did like the sand worms, though.Enter David Lynch's film some 15 years or more later.Lynch has successfully managed to maintain much of the denseness which characterised the novel - the film is also rather hard work.But does it have sand worms? Yes it does, and they are well realised, so I can forgive it much.Actually, there is a lot to like here. The Bene Gesserit sisterhood is loathsomely Machiavellian, the Harkonnens are vile, the world of Dune and the Fremen are brilliantly realised, and the effects generally are extremely well done for the time. There is a huge and star-studded cast, an epic feel, and Herbert's multiple plot lines intertwine nicely.It is still hard work, though. "},{"Title":"It doesn't work, but...","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" DUNE has a lot to offer although a cohesive plot is not one of them. Perhaps Frank Herbert's mammoth book is simply not meant to be movie (at least not one running less than 5 or 6 hours). David Lynch tries mightily to balance Herbert's eco-philosophy with his own tilted view of the world. It's artistically stunning, occasionally rousing but too often muddled. Kyle MacLachlan is saddled with the daunting lead role and although he's gone on to quite a successful film career, he has neither the presence nor the gravitas to carry this particular film. Fortunately Lynch provides a brilliant supporting cast Francesca Annis as Lady Jessica; bushy eye-browed Freddie Jones; Kenneth McMillan, stealing the show as the grotesque Baron Harkonnen; Dean Stockwell; Linda Hunt; Max Von Sydow. Virginia Madsen pops up as a large talking head and Sting is pretty colorful as the demented Feyd Rautha. The cinematography by Freddie Francis is stunning and the Anthony Masters's production design is perfect. Fingers crossed that Lynch produces some sort of true director's cut at some point. "},{"Title":"Stunningly original but nonetheless flawed","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I judge movies based on how internally they were flawed, i hate comparing movies because no movie should be held accountable to any standard besides the one it sets for itself. Having said that, Dune is truly visually stunning, and disturbingly original. I love the ornateness of the designs; the antiquated elegance and systematic royalty of the Emperor's residence on Kaitain and house Atreides on Caladan, and the grimy yet evoking color scheme on Giede Prime. All the visual aspects of this movie is rare, original, and enthralling. The journey the characters take is at times a bit confusing and convulsive but it is beautiful and visually exciting. The music in Dune adds to the epic feeling that the movie gives, and engrosses you in its wonderful and emotionally thrilling score. Dune is not for casual viewing, to fully enjoy (and try to understand) the characters, the complexity, and the convulsed brilliance of Dune, you need patience, an open mind, and three hours of your time (and undivided attention). Enjoy! "},{"Title":"It's fascinating but unfortunately, most of its fascination and aura has been born out how misguided and misjudged it really is.","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune should have been more fun; more enjoyable and smarter than it actually was. Additionally, it might have been easier to follow but for the annoyingly consistent voice-over work which features the constant use of words and terms, spoken in hushed and annoying whispered tones, that only those invariably well informed with Frank Herbert's 'Dune' will even begin to understand. What the film ends up being is a cocktail of science-fiction, horror, revenge and self-discovery played out amidst a sea of stars, planets and gross-out visuals that force me to label Dune one of the films with some of the most misguided material I've ever seen. A case of fluffy but nonsense voice-overs one minute, harmless space travel the next and then a disgusting scene about 'heart plugs'. To think, we go through all this before having the film boil down to a drab knife fight between good and evil.Yes, Dune's a mess but it's one that puts us through a blender of varied emotions; even if I'm not sure I wanted to experience the majority of them. The film is, predominantly, a story about one man being established as someone rather important before a tragedy befalls him and he is whisked away to another lifestyle, having to re-establish as an individual, both to himself and those new around him, in the process. Eventually, that character we follow will become the leader of a small band of people he'll lead to supposed victory; he is the holy leader ancient texts predicted and a glorious warrior at times of need. To some, this'll sound quite daft but to others it works very effectively as the classic escapist fantasy focusing on a lowly, but capable of extraordinary things, ranked in terms of word-of-mouth male being whisked out of his 'normal' life and plunged into a mission of great importance. Two examples of varying quality produced since Dune might be 1994's Stargate and 2006's Children of Men, both of which feature relatively hapless and unsuccessful males of varying degrees burdened with missions linked to saving an entire population under an umbrella of a world thats float in and out of both science-fiction and horror.It's a shame Dune wasn't as good as it could've been. You can most definitely see why some may like it; its appeal of a broad and escapist world in which stars, planets, adventure and different sorts of species exist is one that was booming at the time of Dune's release given the success of Star Wars plus-sequels. But Dune feels laboured compared to those films and it feels inconsistent in its tone enough to turn off its audience. The lead of the film is Paul Atreides (MacLachlan), a young man and son to a very important Duke named Leto Atreides (Prochnow), residing on the planet of Caladan. Very early on, and in clear cut contribution to Dune's wavered feel, Paul is put through a series of tests to do with pain, commitment and some sort of reaction to possible imminent death. Some of the scenes, particularly when he must place his hands in a mysterious box and take whatever's in there, are quite torturous in their execution. For all his supposed importance in the hierarchy, they certainly make life hard for him.But it's a test, and following this, a plot involving several clans from neighbouring planets arises to do with destroying the Atreides family from which the idea to kill Paul is born. All this and the increasing tension between everyone linked to the planet of Arakis, a lonely desert planet on which an element known as 'The Spice' is found; a vital ingredient for life and space travel &#x96; without it, most things are useless. The film, in a sense, reminded me of Ridley Scott's 2000 effort 'Gladiator', if only in structure. The idea that a relatively important individual must begin again after a family bereavement, gain the trust of a group of people and lead them to glorious victory while vanquishing his own enemies.But there is no battle weary Russell Crowe having his family killed before becoming a slave, a gladiator and then an avenger happening here, although that it what Dune essentially is but for its more bizarre inclusions. With this, we get a lot of fancy images and a bizarre emphasis on the visual as Paul dreams what he is supposedly destined to be. This is put across through droplets hitting water in slow motion and bizarre green moons eclipsing as Paul drifts in and out of consciousness. Around all this is the film's antagonist named Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (McMillan); a fat, flying, oozing, spitting, bumbling character with a severe case of acne &#x96; it may be many-a millennium into the future but facial cleansing, it would appear, still manages to elude certain people. The good Baron dresses in dark, rubber outfits and gazes at Feyd Rautha who is, bizarrely enough, played by musician Sting.I read that in recent years Lynch himself has dis-owned Dune, something that I guess isn't surprising given his style and legacy that has evolved since 1984. After all, it's not as if David Lynch has become renowned with large scale genre pieces that rely on the visual over all else and contain a large scale battle scene here and there. It's not like he's become the sort who uses the mise-en-scene to assault our senses and force us to turn away rather than engross us and bring us into this dream-like picture he's created. Still, it could've been worse at least Lynch didn't cast himself in the role of the saviour/visionary/leader whom acts as certain sections' 'second coming' and leads everyone to glorious victory. That really would've entrenched the film in the realm of the unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even more than most of David Lynch's deliberately bizarre and idiosyncratic movies, Dune is a love-it-or-hate-it affair. An ambitious, epic, utterly mind-boggling--and, let's admit it, all-out weird--adaptation of Frank Herbert's classic science fiction novel, Dune remains one of the most controversial films in the director's exceedingly provocative career. The story (if Dune can be said to have just one story) is complex and convoluted in the epic tradition; it has Kyle MacLachlan as Paul Usul Muad'Dib Atreides something to do with political intrigue and a planet that is home to a precious spice and gigantic sand worms. Think Shakespeare's Henry IV with a dash of Tremors, and set in another galaxy. But despite plenty of strangely whispered voice-overs that explain the characters' thoughts (and endlessly detailed exposition), storytelling is not really among the film's strong points. There are, however, a lot of memorably fantastic/grotesque images, an extraordinary cast, and a soundtrack featuring Toto. I told you it was weird. Among the stars are Kyle MacLachlan, José Ferrer, Dean Stockwell, Brad Dourif, Sting, Kenneth McMillan, Patrick Sting as Feyd-Rautha Stewart, Sean Young, and Linda Hunt. "}{"Title":"I am not a  'sci-fi-'film fan BUT  I did like this one.","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As per above, I am not a fan of science fiction, I find many of these movies boring. For this reason & the bad reviews this received I did not see this film in 1984.This version is the extended 179 minute version that the director David Lynch had his name taken off of, for the idiotic reason the studio clipped some 20 seconds of an unneeded scene.We are told what happens & we see the result, I for one did not need to see an open heart.If they kept that in, the film would have gotten a PG 13 rating & not the PG proper rating.Sorry Mr.Lynch the reasoning was wrong. I found the movie to be interesting, exciting, likable & above all superbly made,I cannot find any fault with the production, Sets, costumes, music, editing make-up, etc were all award worthy, The special effects were first class & not over done like in some other films.I never read the original book, so I cannot comment on how close the screenplay was. The story is quite involved, with the clever narration all is explained very clearly & you can follow all.The story here is no different than many other space adventures.The Star War series has many of the same plot points.In this type film I would not expect superb award winning acting, Some performances here were better than others, BUT all fit the roles being presented.I was never bored, I liked nearly all the characters,even a few you were not supposed to like.Ratings ***1/2 (out of 4) 91 points (out of 100) IMDb 8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Strange And Compelling Story","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit up front that I have never read Dune so I was looking at this film from a purely movie goers perspective. Having recently re-watched Dune after many years I have to say that I was very impressed. This film has a strange and other-world feel about it that really draws you into the world of Dune. The story is obviously very complex, perhaps to complex to tell in a 2 hour movie but the director does his best and on the whole makes a very good film adaption.The cast is outstanding and watching the manifestation of Paul from wet behind the ears Duke's son to the leader of a vast and destructive army is very compelling. Also when you consider this film was made back in the 80's the special effects are very good with only the fighting shields looking dated. On the whole I felt this was an excellent film, now I all I need to do is go back and read the book to see how close to the spirit it came to the original work, pretty close I feel. Dune is definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"OK -10 is a bit excessive but...","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK -10 is a bit excessive but... it balances the many who under-appreciate this movie w/o having seen it or understand the nuances that Dune readers would have privy to. Most viewers only see versions that have been cleansed for TV. The movie could have been longer But to he honestI don't like Kyle's hair and the ending was weak. But that's about it. It sure looked great from the days of no computer FX. All other DUNES will be measured against it. THe SCI -FI channel version was an Honest attempt to follow the books but the cost savings of filming it in East Europe with 1/2 the actors/actresses who cannot pronounce THE killed it. the is pronounced as duh by Eastern Europeans. They could have fixed that with a bit of training.The new version I hope will be longer or 2 movies (it won't be either case). "},{"Title":"Decent translation of a masterpiece","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is one of those movies that you both love and hate.Many people, including myself, feel the novel is a masterpiece. Any attempt to squeeze this complex story into two hours is going to have its faults. The movie does a decent job of compressing the story. It focuses on the main character and gives time to many of the subplots. It does a superior job of showing both the inquisitive and cunning nature of Paul. The miniseries makes Paul look like a whiny Luke Skywalker.I am especially impressed with several of the scenes that seem to be almost word for word from the book, including the inner dialog.Unfortunately, its Lynch grotesqueness distracts from the plot. I first saw this movie before reading the book and the disgusting Harkonnen scenes really made me think the book must suck. It was only later I was to discover this was the invention of Lynch.Another fault is that both the miniseries and the movie paint the Harkonnens as a stupid arch enemies. Nothing could be further from the truth. The intelligence and scheming of the Baron is what makes this novel brilliant. (In future movie attempts, I'd prefer a skinny smart Baron to a Fat Oaf.) Overall, this is a good adaptation. I love the by-the-book scenes and hate the Lynch bits. If you ignore the Lynch parts, it is quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"strange but compelling...very!","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has always intrigued me and i find it a very strange yet re-freshing sci-fi! I have never read the book or seen the TV series - to me this was a very strange film about the second coming (of sorts) and grandee battle scenes.One of the most attractive things in this movie is the colourful characters and fantastic main theme tune - very epic indeed. Also, we get to see great character actors (Stewart and McGill) on top form and some truly bizarre characters.this is certainly an cult film and will never be to everyones taste but the film as a whole is totally entertaining and a little more complex than the one dimensional trash out these days!! "},{"Title":"A movie for the Ages","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A truly understated work, it was this movie the reason that i took the mission of reading every book in the series. I agree that if you read the book first, and then see the movie spoils your appreciation of the later. It's weird it does not happen the other way around. After seeing the movie, you will have a more satisfying experience reading the whole series of books. Every passage, every chapter and character was envisioned in the mystic atmosphere provided by Lynch. And, of course, there are the worms. Every time the book talked about the worms, on the back of my mind i had the vision of the worms in Dune. Love it, or hate it, one of those movies that you have to see at least once. For me, I can't stop seeing it. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction Treasure","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I came to watch this film with a unique perspective, after playing the Commodore Amiga classic Dune II. I must mention that I have never read the novel or seen the TV series.The computer game was fascinating to me, a real time strategy war game that came to define a genre. I believe the C&C series were spawned from it. Apart from its revolutionary engine, the game had a mysterious and intriguing plot. One felt part of a huge conflict & the game evoked a real sense of the barren and hostile terrain of Dune. It remains one of my favourite titles of all time.The film had quite a lot to live up to. Could such a film be as revolutionary and enjoyable as the computer game? My answer would be a resounding YES! It became clear that the mystery and atmosphere of the game had been purged straight from the movie. The visual imagery is key to the success of this film; costume, set and six combine to great effect. The large budget is clear for all to see! The story is played out on an epic scale, with the use of train of thought narrative and colourful characterisation from the main cast. In fact, often the dialogue was reminiscent of a melodramatic Shakespearean play. There are too many strong performances to choose from in this film, although Jurgen Prochnow deserves particular praise for his role as the Duke.Admittedly, Dune is one of those films you have to watch more than once to truly understand. The plot shifts at alternate paces and lasts well over two hours. However, this shouldn't be seen as a problem. I found it refreshing to watch a challenging and complex story, after all this genre more than any works best when it's not dumbed down. Dune remains the most sumptuous Science Fiction epic ever conceived, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Classic.","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start out by saying this is the only David Lynch film that makes sense. All other David Lynch films are pure nonsense. For some reason however he was meant to direct this Sci-Fi epic.The movie has an almost Gothic feel to it. Not GOTH don't get the two confused, just because you dress like a vampire, dye your hair black and are depressed doesn't mean you'll like this film. Dune can lend its Gothic nature to the set design and costumes. There's an almost Victorian feel to the architecture and clothing in the film and if you are one who pays close attention to this type of thing, you'll appreciate this.I found for it's time Dune had a fairly substantial array of special effects. They did the job just fine for this film, especially considering it was made in the mid 80's.Of course there are enough David Lynch elements in the direction and dialogue in this film to give it a slightly surreal slant but in this case that is a good thing. The surreal nature of Dune makes it almost feel like Science Fiction meets fever dream. This formula works and lends to the bizarre nature of the film. Also another aspect I grew to like over time about Dune is many of the character's thoughts are often narrated by their own voices. This at first can put you off but after a while grows on you and adds to the dreamy nature of Dune. There are enough memorable characters, epic scenes and decent special effects to immerse you properly into the film's atmosphere. The story is good although in many ways deviates from the book generously. I'm sure die-hard fans of Frank Herbert fans scowl at this. However to the film's credit, I read the novel Dune and I think the movie is much better.It would be safe to say you should probably be a fan of the Sci-Fi genre to truly appreciate this film but if you are and for some reason haven't seen this yet, I recommend it. Dune is a film you can watch more than once. In fact it may take you a few views with full attention to get every nuance of the film and piece together the plot properly, but it's worth it. Good Sci-Fi classic. "},{"Title":"The 1984 Theatrical Version is the definitive Dune","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this feature was released it was panned by nearly every critic in the country. They did not understand the concept and Dune was not your standard science fiction film. Well...they were wrong. Author Frank Herbert himself was very pleased with this translation of his book to film, a masterful job by David Lynch and a wonderful cast. It is a pity that Lynch was turned away from his own film by the longer cut that was ordered for TV release. It ate away at the very best parts of the film, without adding anything. In order to do the longer version on the cheap they even changed the narrator from princess Irulan (Virgina Madsen) to an unknown male because her contract for the film was finished. As the narration of the book is from Irulan's viewpoint this was a major fault with the extended version. The later mini-series version of Dune (2002) was also very good in some ways, and not nearly as good in others. Joining Kyle Maclachlan as the ideal Paul, was Jurgen Prochnow as Duke Leto, Francesca Annis of Krull fame as Lady Jessica, Patrick Stewart as Gurney Halleck, and Dean Stockwell in one of his rare film appearances as doctor Wellington Yueh. Many other excellent and well known actors appear as well. I will state again, with apologies to David Lynch that this theatrical cut is the definitive Dune. "},{"Title":"I must not fear. Fear is the mind killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's Dune is an incredibly moving film with flaws that help make it more entertaining to watch. The extended version, although poorly edited, is more epic and provides some of the most memorable scenes ever captured on film (just look at the baby worm, making of the spice scene). However, despite the theatrical version's magnificent editing under the hands of the Maestro, David Lynch, the film just does not delve into the lives of the Fremen as well as the extended cut. Some of Lynch's best character scenes were cut out of the theatrical version, leaving a beautiful, but flawed theatrical cut.With Star Wars borrowing so many elements from the Book, Dune, David Lynch should be hailed as a genius for providing such a distinctly different kind of science fiction film. If Star Wars could be called Saturday Matinée fare, then Dune should be considered a very mature, profound film.Unfortunately, Dune is usually hated by art-house crowds, as well as by casual movie watchers. Many people cannot handle some of David Lynch's unique narrative style. Others do not like the film's mystical portrayals of humanity set in the distant future. However, I have yet to see a more down to earth science fiction film when it comes to its characters (especially the extended cut of Dune). "}{"Title":"Flawed, but pleasantly surrealistic adaptation.","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the 60's I tried reading Frank Herbert's Dune. I got as far as the part where Paul puts his hand in the pain box and then got bored and put it away ( I think the paperback is still somewhere in my attic ). Frankly, the novel seem to me like a cross between Lawrence of Arabia and Stranger in a Strange Land. Too plodding, too religious, too political - not Science Fiction material at all. Give me The Lensman series by E.E. Doc Smith or Asimov's Foundation trilogy for world-shaking epic story-telling. Dune did not cut it with me.However, when I saw David Lynch's vision of the novel I was quite intrigued - not with the story, messianic story lines don't intrigue me, my opinion of the novel is unchanged - but the quirky visualization really seemed to project the correct atmosphere for a future human civilization. Something that's usually missing from Hollywood space operas. If you could somehow splice the visual richness of Lynch's Dune with the characters and storyline of Goddard's Alphaville I think you would have one helluva good movie. I'm sure Eddie Constantine could handle a weirding module with the best of them. "},{"Title":"Beautiful vision of an archaic feudal world in the distant future","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" That film is a superb adaptation of Frank Herbert's first novel of his Dune series. We could of course harp a lot about the symbolism of names, the Fremen being free men, and the Harkonnen having a Germanic name, and the Atreides having a Greek sounding name, and the Emperor having an Arab name, and we could also add that the witches, the Bene Gesserit have a Latin sounding name, etc. We could also said that the name of the hero, Muad'dib also sounds Arabic, or is it Hindi, though the frequent aspirated 'h' of this latter language is absent from this writing and pronouncing. But that is superficial and the worst name and being is not present in this film and book, the real Arabs, the Sligs, the hybrid of a giant slug and a pig, who are the direct reflection and mirror image of the caricature of the sly Arab living by the sharia so common in the West. What is interesting in this volume and film is the political intrigues along with the prophetic dimension of the plot. The political intrigues revolves around the Greek sounding Atreides, the honest ones from a planet of oceans and rain; the Germanic sounding Harkonnen, the rotten (actually rotting) polluting industrial ones who are violent, vicious and sadistic, slightly vampiristic too; the Persian sounding Emperor Shaddam, bringing together the Shah of Iran and all the Saddams of the Arab world; the Spacing Guild that controls the universe by controlling travelling in that universe; and finally the Fremen, an underground free species of human beings who believe in a prediction of a Messiah and are mostly invisible on the planet Dune. The Bene Gesserit is also present with their plan to produce the perfect new Messiah, God, Savior through genetic manipulations by guiding the reproductive schemes among the powerful from whom the Messiah can only come. He will nevertheless come for sure, but by accident and thanks to the alliance of Paul Atreides, the last representative of the Atreides House, his Bene-Gesserit-trained mother and the Fremen. Some will see in it the caricature of the world in the Cold War. Of course we have to know one thing that is not immediately clear the fact that this world is the heir of the Butlerian Jihad that destroyed all thinking machines and then banned the construction of such machines, forcing human beings to develop their skills at calculating and thinking to keep the control over things. But this vision is slightly short. It goes beyond and it reaches the level of a reflection on what politics are a fight among a very few superior leaders who are essential born as such and vaguely accepted by some managing more than governing council. Democracy is the value that is totally absent from this story. Even the Fremen are not democratic since they believe in a supreme leader, a messiah, and their actions are mostly mass-reactions, extremely collective methods of governing and controlling their own people. That future world then will not be different from the old feudal world of six or seven centuries ago. The people, the mass of people necessary for those constant wars and feuds, are nothing but pawns that die on the screen and in the sand of Dune without any kind of concern for their lives or even simply life. They are non-entities, including on the winning side of the Fremen. That world is dehumanized and does not defend any kind of ideal or principle. The film is perfect though with its special effects and its immense cosmic and desertic scenery. The film is very dense and thus the suspense is quite effective. The film then is nothing but an action film with good situations and interesting characters, be they heroes or be they monsters. This vision of the world remains rather primitive though and maybe even lower than what could be normal expectations. It satisfies though the desire for survival and victory over danger that lurks in the circumvolutions of the human brain. That's probably why this film, and the books behind, still have a positive life in our culture. Messianic characters and situations contrasted to apocalyptic treachery will always be a favorite of the human mind.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"Entrancing Sci Fi Fantasy","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I, who thought I might never see another science fiction film I could like, was for a couple of hours, anyway, pleasantly caught up in the elaborate Dune universe. The movie had a dreamlike quality that resonated with me. Although I missed the first minute of the film, I was able to follow the characters and plot without too much trouble. The version I watched was about two hours long and it was apparent that large amounts of film were cut for reasons of time. I would be willing to watch the three-hour version that seems to be available. Particularly remarkable was the production design (costumes, sets, certain special effects) which I found highly original in conception and execution. Casting was excellent. On a minor note, at last I got to see the scene with the infamous I will kill you! line, spoken by Sting that has been parodied so many times on Mystery Science Theater. "},{"Title":"Fans of the book will approve of this film","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, there are two great dynasties. One, the Atreides, are noble, kind, and good human beings. The other, the Harkonnen, are evil through and through, but hold great power and sway with the ruling emperor of the galaxies. The Harkonnen, led by the wicked and degenerate Baron, are out to get the Atreides, naturally. With an elaborate plot, they arrange for Duke Leto and Jessica Atreides, with their young adult son Paul, to become rulers of Arrakis, a desert planet. However, it is a trap and the Harkonnen have a traitor in the midst who will help, Baron hopes, to wipe out the Atreides line. What the H do not count on, however, is that Paul may be a long awaited miracle man capable of leading the inhabitants of Arrakis to destroy the Harkonnen and the emperor's misguided plans. Who will reign at the end, the good or the bad? The book, by Frank Herbert, is easily one of the best books of all time. It is complex and, therefore, probably difficult to bring to the screen. Nevertheless, this version is truly an acceptable homage to the book. It has good visuals and tries successfully to bring out the intricate details of the book, such as Paul as the messiah of the universe, the witch-nuns who try to influence history, and the excesses of the evil Baron. The cast is superb, with Maclachlan giving Paul a wonderfully gallant presence. Do give Dune a try. It is science fiction at its best and the film makes a valiant effort to make the story accessible to all. "},{"Title":"I've got a soft spot for this movie","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a terrible movie, yet I love it so. If nothing else, it got me to read the book. But the amazing thing about the movie is that the plot is so muddled that you could see it before reading the book and not have to book spoiled for you. I don't know who thought that David Lynch was the right person to write and direct this story. Dune isn't a surreal story. It's a pretty straightforward, albeit elaborate space opera.The acting was terrible. It's like watching elementary school kids doing Shakespeare. Poorly. Not a single player in the movie turns in a good performance. But then how could they, what with the screenplay being such a mess? Having said that, there are a few areas in which Dune succeeds. Namely, the costumes and the sets. They got the look of this universe down. If only the rest of it were half as good as the sets and the costumes then we might have something approaching a decent movie.File Dune under so bad it's kinda good. I'm not laughing with the movie, I'm laughing at the movie. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" IMO, in order to fully and truly appreciate this film, you must have seen it in theaters when it was released in the 80s. I was fortunate enough to have done so and its left an everlasting impression. Although there are certainly lots of criticisms over the last 22 years about this film, it doesn't change the fact that the story is timeless and that the interpretation is excellent. The costumes, acting, even effects are right on the money to describe what's happening and the world therein. People can linch this movie all they want, it'll remain in my top 5 for ever as one of the epics to be above all epics of science fiction. "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film doesn't get enough credit. Sure they left things out, but that's expected in a two-hour adaptation. They did an excellent job of portraying the medieval aspect of the civilization created by Herbert, including the feeling of antiquity, the feudal political atmosphere, and the dependency on mysticism. This was accomplished through art and architecture (eg. the Gothic appearance of the guild ships; the castle-like palace on Caladan, etc.), costumes, music, and lighting (very dark). Some viewers take issue with the quantity of mental monologue in the film, but my reading of the novel is that it was an extremely psychological, introspective book and that was portrayed well in the movie. I don't judge a film by its special effects and while these are a little outdated and may have even been less than cutting-edge at the time the film was made, they are adequate and sufficiently believable to prevent me from losing my belief in the story. Overall a very persuasive adaptation. "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been a fan of Herbert since my parents introduced me to this movie in the late eighties. While it is not a perfect representation of the book, it is a fascinating attempt to capture something that is as encompassing as the universe.It is my favorite Sci-Fi movie of all time and will continue to be so for years to come.The acting in it is superb, the soundtrack is phenomenal and the visual pictures they paint of the planets and people involved are phenomenal to say the least.Lynch hit it on the head with this piece of art and I would recommend this movie to every Science Fiction fan out there. A must see to say the least. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest scifi movies of all time.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a great movie that is very underrated, i love the plot and the acting is absolutely great.This movie deserves to go down as one of the best scifi movies ever made, it has everything i want in a movie.I think people underrate this movie and really can not open there eyes to a true classic.I have read the book to dune, and i think the movie is pretty good with staying up with the book.And the 190 min version is just such a awesome movie to watch, i highly suggest this movie for fans and i hope one day it Will be respected better.It also has a good amount of special affects and Kyle MacLachlan, does a great job at playing Paul in this movie.I think he looks perfect for the part, he also looks very cool in this movie and has something interesting about him.I absolutely love this movie, and if you want to see a good scifi film, then watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A muddled epic","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the type of film which has epic proportions and nearly succeeds - hence a muddled epic. It has great acting, especially by Patrick Stewart (one of my favorite actors), great production design, and a wonderful score by Toto. However, the film should have been much longer (like the miniseries in 2000 of the same name) and the fact it was the length it turned out to be makes character development nearly impossible and the storyline very confusing. It could have been that much better. That said, it still is a muddled epic and I do recommend it to anyone who is interested in the Dune series (the best in the Dune series to date is the TV movie Children of Dune). "}{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just plain loved it. It's one of those movies I never tire of... if it ever comes on TV i have to sit and watch it.I'm shocked and amazed that there are negative reviews of this film. So I'd like to point out some similarities and differences between it and the 2001  A Space Odyssey reviews (which seem to be always favorable). I loved that one, too, by the way.Similarities Striking visuals, lots of symbolism, lots of enigmas/lots unexplained.Differences limited dialogue in 2001, pristine atmosphere in 2001 (aka clean and ultra simple, sometimes boring, visuals), covertly political and satirical, 2001 was also very simple in terms of technology and sci-fi. Dune was more obvious with the political dealings and had more magic.So why does everybody like 2001 and only some like Dune? The same reason everybody likes Lord of the Rings as opposed to some other good fantasy movies. The Lord of the Rings was mythical, but had calmer and very played down magic. This means the closed half of the human race that can't handle the magic side of things didn't put up a wall.Open up your wall when you watch a movie like Dune. If you don't want to enjoy something, go to work instead. "},{"Title":"Cult classic gets re-released on DVD","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many have bashed this film and others have made it a cult classic. Personally, I was a fan when I first saw it and still remain to this day. The remarkable thing about Dune is how the filmmakers were able to take a complicated book like this one and distill it into something you can wrap your head around. On the other hand I'm happy I saw the 137 minute version before seeing the epic 4 hour version. The longer version was, in my opinion a disaster, but showed if nothing else that in the mass of footage originally shot there was a real gem that could be extracted from it. Comparing the two it's amazing to think they were ever able to edit it down to the final, more streamlined version of the shorter one. the only scene I'd like to actually see put back in was when the Fremen extract the spice from a baby worm. I thought that was interesting and worth elaborating on.The effects being outdated, still seem to somehow hold up, in the same way the effects from the Jason and the Argonauts, or Blade Runner manage to retain their plausibility. Effects aren't everything however, as proved by the release of the Dune mini-series. In comparing the two, I personally never liked the Dune mini-series for it's horrible costume design and perhaps just my own bias for the original.I'm excited to see Lynch take one last stab at Dune since he's had years to get over his own dislikes for it, and perhaps gain a fresh perspective. As long as he doesn't completely forego his original vision as the filmmakers did with Star Wars I think seeing the added scenes will give old fans a fresh experience. Like with any art form, the artist may have something new to say in their medium, and as the technology for film continues to develop perhaps there's room for filmmakers to express their vision without the burden and pressures of the almighty dollar. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this movie i don't just sit and watch a movie and try to analyze every minute of it. lighten up enjoy the picture, anyway the music was wonderful, and i love that narration. get the wide screen directors cut. and don't listen to those jerks that say the film is a failure, well in money yes. but in my eyes and ears i loved it!!!!!!Its one of those movies that come along once in a life time.And the art direction dreamy and seductive. anyone that does not like this film,is the same one ones that think Barber shop is a good film witch its not! Dune is at the top of my list along with my Stankey Kubrick collection. Dune as i watch takes me along for the ride, its like I'm there in the movie. "},{"Title":"The 2nd Greatest Sci-Fi story ever = the best Sci-fi movie ever made.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I consider Asmov's Foundation Trilogy to be the firstest & bestest sci-fi novel ever penned. But certainly Herbert's Dune series rates very, very closely. I've never understood all the fuss over Lynch's adaptation of this novel. I first saw it on opening day way back in 1984, and have watched it a zillion times since then, never understanding the critics points of view. I do understand that trying to fit this novel into 2hrs or less is a very daunting & I'd say most likely an impossible task for anyone. Lynch does a terrific job portraying the events accurately, vividly and artistically. He captures the complete essence of Herbet's Dune., The fremen are exactly as I imagined them when I first read the book way back in 10th grade, Duke Leto & Paul were precisely how I envisioned them, the Baron Harkonen .... just as I imagined, we didn't get to see a lot of Duncan Idaho in Lynch's version .... he was always a favorite of mine from the book,; but, what we did see of him, was, again ... right on the money. The intrigue of the Emperor & the Harkonens filled the screen and the mind's eye, I have never seen the extended version but am waiting on pins & needles for my copy to arrive. The only problem I have ever had with Lynch's Dune, is the apparent desire to keep the movie within the allotted 2hr time frame. "},{"Title":"Lynch's Dune is unique and beautiful","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this version of Dune is amazing. The sets, costumes and actors are all great. The look of the Harkonnen planet is superb and the Baron is both grotesque and terrifying.I truly love the little Guild guys in the black leather coats with the tubes coming out their heads and into their nose. The translator they used to speak to the Emperor was genius.I love the scene where Rabban rips a piece off the cow and chews it while the Baron instructs him to squeeze the life out of the Fremen and how Raban knocks down one of the little guys who is slaughtering the cow. And also the look of glee on the face of Jack Nance as he is controlling the device that allows the Baron to circle the 'steam patio' and screaming and gloating about defeating the Atredies.I've never seen a sci-fi film that had such an amazing look to it. The Reverend Mother Gaius is such a wickedly evil villain.Granted, some of the effects were crude and look very dated now but I'd rather watch Dune 10 times rather than have to sit thru Episode One or any other popular sci-fi film.David Lynch is a true artist and this film is an example how he can create something visually stunning when faced with so many obstacles.Also, Lynch's version of Dune make the sci-fi channel's mini-series look like a high school production. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's DuneFairly  faithful to the book","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Today is the movie Dune's 20th anniversary. I'd like to think I'm not the only one who cares. Okay,so Lynch was a little hung up on Geidi Prime and making the Harkonnens as gross as possible. So?? They are supposed to be the epitome of aristocratic cruelty and decadence. Considering how the dynasty started,(if you've read the Dune Legends books),it's sad to think how far they fell. The casting is very well done. This is where I first noticed Patrick Stewart. Francesca Annis as Jessica is Superb! Kyle McLaclyan makes a heck of a debut as Paul! The sets are truly other worldly and strange. This movie prompted people to read the books!!! (Never a bad thing,surely.) It deserves another look. "},{"Title":"The Eraserhead of Sci - Fi movies!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie must be the most underrated movie of all time.While it is confusing if you have not read the book and the acting is nothing special (although it is not necessarily bad), this film has one of the most unique production designs in Sci-Fi. It has variable special effects which can range from dated and clumsy (some of the flying vehicles) to fantastic (The awesome Sandworms).It also has possibly (in the style of David Lynch) one of the most repulsive villains ever, the Baron Harkonnen.The best way to treat this film would be like Eraserhead. Eraserhead can't be viewed or judged in the same mindset as most other films. The same should apply for Dune, it should not be compared to films like Star Wars. Probably more like 2001.One more thing - Frank Herbert, the author of Dune, actually said he liked David Lynch's version. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say that I have truly enjoyed this particular version, however the short version sucks. I have tried very hard to find the extended version on DVD so that I can enjoy DUNE the way it should be. The only problem I have with this film is that it is far too short for the amount of story that needs to be told. The characters are well played, especially the Baron. I also would have liked to have seen more of the story focused on the Fremen. True, this movie can be kind of slow but, when the story is moving, it really moves. With the exception of a rant about the weird Fremen chick and the voice modulators/guns I would highly recommend this movie for a lazy Sunday. "},{"Title":"I like this film... that is not bad... it is good. (In joke)","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a wonderful and truly legendary film that for me is the beginning of Science Fiction cinema as we know it today. It is one that is not afraid to include the element of shock but does not - as I personally happen to think that far too many of today's sci-fi films do - go overboard on that particular subject. This version of the film of course, does not really concentrate much on the development of the various characters as the original book does. This is only to be expected - one cannot paraphrase such a detailed book in this respect into a film of that length. Therefore, if one is to see the film alone, rather than to watch the tv-series version, then it really is essential to read the book to understand fully the implication of many of the comments made by the characters. However, the film is still highly intriguing without having ready the book and having personally seen the film before the book I can say that I still found it very enjoyable, if a little perplexing at times. Having now read the book of course, that confusion is now gone and I can truly appreciate the film for what it is - a masterpiece of it's time with some beautiful subtleties in both script of camera-work. "},{"Title":"Not faithful to the book, but good nonetheless","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is a good movie on its own but is not faithful to the excellent book. First of all, Paul is a teenager but Kyle MacLachlan looks like he's about 25. Jose Ferrer is terrible. He's supposed to be the Emperor od the Known Universe but acts more like a petty Banana Republic dictator. Francesca Annis is beautiful as Lady Jessica. Sean Young is good as Chani. I don't know why everyone thinks Sting is so bad. Feyd is a small role but I think Sting does a good job portraying the pretty boy-toy. The Baron and the Beast Rabban are both acted well. The minor roles of Leto, Gurney, Duncan, Doctor Yuey, Stilgar, Kynes, the Bene Jesserit Mother, are all done well too. The costumes, sets and music are all superb. The Prophecy theme is unforgettable. The special effects are very good. The Space Guild Navigator and his henchmen are most impresive. There is a lot of plot condensed into the time restraints of a feature film so I do agree that it is ruched a bit. The one thing that bothers me the most is at the end when it starts raining. As one who has read all the Dune series of books, I know that it will take centuries to change the ecology of Arrakis enough to have rainfall. Overall, I enjoyed this movie on its own merits and recommend it to anyone. "}{"Title":"The ultimate science fiction movie by which all others should be judged.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not having previously read the excellent Frank Herbert book, I saw the movie in December 1984 with no preconceived expectations.  I was not only delighted, I was enthralled.  A Dune love affair began that has not faltered to this day.  My feet didn't touch the ground as I left the theater!!Popular reviewers at the time said the movie was hard to understand and follow, that someone who had read the book couldn't even follow it.  Not true!!  The movie was excellently done, its only fault being that it was not long enough or as detailed as I would have liked.  This was later remedied by the expanded video version.  I had no trouble following the movie.  The characters are well developed and complex, especially Paul and his mother, Jessica.The messianic storyline is incredible and believable.  The interaction of ecology, politics, sociology, psychology, economics, and history make this a movie worth further study.  The actors and actresses so resemble the characters in Frank Herbert's book, you'd have thought he had them in mind when writing it in the early 1960's.The mini-series of Dune and Children of Dune are more faithful to the book, but the 1984 Dune movie can never be topped.  Raffaella De Laurentiis and David Lynch have created the ultimate science fiction movie by which all others should be judged.  "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Made for a very interesting movie that captured much of the complexity of the book.  David Lynch's use of voice over to capture the thoughts of the characters is unique, and, frankly, adds much to the characters that were so complex in Frank Herbert's original work.   Much darker and deeper than the appalling sci-fi channel version that left too much out of the story. Highly recommended, 9 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"The sleeper has awakened.","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't really like science fiction. However, Dune is one of my favorite books ever. It has a depth to it that eludes most sci-fi. You notice in most stories of this genre there is very little spiritualism. David Lynch in his usual style goes after the more surreal elements of the book. This has got to be the only sci-fi story that has the characters taking hallucinogenic drugs to gain enlightenment. The film has a really cool psychedelic element to it. When Paul takes the spice melange and the sandworms look down upon him. Yeah man, pass me the bong!There are so many cool scenes in this film. When Paul has to put his hand in the 'Gom Jabbar.' I can't remember whether that is the correct way to spell it. When he ingests the spice melange. The final battle between the freeman army and the Emperors sadukar troops. Any scene with space navigators. His 'fear is the mind killer' mantra repeated as he rides his first worm. All of this is exciting and very cool. Lynch takes us into a completely alien world.The set designs are wicked. The whole film looks great. The space navigator guild looks like a bunch of s&m freaks. The bene gesserit look is also cool. I love how the space navigator creatures are worm/lobsters that live giant fish tanks.This film fascinated me as a little kid. I remember seeing it and much of it was lost on my little mind. My father being an avid fan encouraged me to read the book. I found my answers there. What makes me wonder is why don't people do the same? Nothing has to be handed to you on a platter. You do the math. Besides there is no way you can cover Dunes depth in the running time of the original film.Basically reading interviews with Lynch he states that he lost virtually all control of the project. That the studio began to make decisions for him on the picture. Lynch stated that the whole shoot was a nightmare and the film was just cut to pieces. He also had to keep the film reasonably mainstream. So basically you have a watered down Lynch version of Dune. But you also have an audience friendly version that is not friendly enough. So nobody ends up happy. The new extended version does not help things either. It adds a bunch of unnecessary footage and throws in a lame intro. Can you imagine if cult director, Alexander Jodorowsky of El Topo fame was hired to make this film? He was the original choice to direct. The film would have been amazing! What a shame!This film has some very visible flaws and is far from perfect. The Baron is overacted, although I did not really mind this. After all, he is the mean and maniacal villain. However, the actor I did mind was Sting. Besides from being a caricature he looks like a demented circus clown. He was obviously miscast. Patrick Stewart is another actor who is miscast. He does not play Gurney well and yells his lines Also Richard Jordon as Duncan Idaho was bad. I have always thought that this guy is a bad tv actor and I am glad we only see enough of him to be killed.However all the rest of the cast are dead on. From Dean Stockwell as the traitorous doctor to Duke Leto as the proud but doomed martyr figure. Kyle Maclachlan is also an excellent choice for Paul. He gives off a quiet, confident and regal air.Yes, some of the special effects are not very good. But this film was made in 1984 and is not going to look like the Matrix. The story is actually much, much deeper than the Matrix. Dune is also pretty slow by todays standards.But the film is tense and sometimes exciting. This is unlike the tv mini-series, which contains much more detail but manged to put me instantly to sleep. It was sooo boring. Not only that all of the acting sucked! Alec Newman can't act to save his life and has absolutely no charisma.Lastly the music is very dated now. Brian Eno is a talented guy who deals in electronica but electronic music does date easily. Some of the guitar driven stuff like when Paul first rides the sandworm reduces the film to a kind of Flash Gordon camp.Overall Dune is a very mixed bag, it has many flaws but is still enjoyable. Not as hard to follow as some of the reviewers here would make out.  I think if you are a first time watcher this is the best choice. The mini-series is strictly for fans because the plot is sooo detailed that the casual observer will just lose interest. Plus this version has better acting, effects and is just much more fun. It has a deep and intangible mystery. An enigmatic air, which the mini-series sadly lacks.  But like anything if you want to understand the plot in its full entirety then read the book. Problem solved. I'll give it a 8 out of 10 because I am a fan that is not afraid of ambiguity.  "},{"Title":"American science fiction by Italian director","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie failed at the box office because it required a level of mental reflection not avaialable in 1984 or now.The acting ability of McLaughlin as the hero contributed nothing to the overall impact of the movie. Other actors including the father (CaptainDas Boot) succeeded in pushing the story along. The magnificent sets and customes were straight from Russian pre-revolution palaces. Anyone studying movies  needs to see this movie to see some of the techniques employed. The Italian Director De Laurentis died during the filming which may explain the underlying sombre atmosphere of the film. The story is strong and logical but low on gratuitous special effects (except for the flying worms) unlike that humourless monochrome MATRIX kids stuff. Pity that this movie like ANDROID has never been given a chance. Hollywood never subscribes to European artistic creativity, as in Once upon a time in the West Probably the most entertaining western ever made. Excuse the digression.  "},{"Title":"Good, yet....","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the original DUNE book and read it at least once every 2 years.  It is my favorite of all Herbert's work.  I even like the COD series and the pre-quels his son, Brian, has put together.  You just can't take a book this great and make a movie without loosing something wonderful.  This film, unlike the more recent TV version, does a good job, but lacks the ingenuity I'd like to see in a Herbert movie.I had always hoped that Stanley Kubrick would've undertaken one of Herbert's books; but alas he never did.  Perhaps Peter Jackson will some day; I've been impressed with his TLOR transformation from book to film.  You always loose something, yet PJ did the book justice (at least so far).All in all I give the 84 version a 7/10.  Not stunning, but not too shabby either. "},{"Title":"A world beyond your imagination, a disaster beyond your worst nightmare","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just a quick comment on the Alan Smithee version which is available on dvd at the moment.  The producers were left with the sole rights for this recut tv version.  3 hours long and no better for it, with a horrid mono soundtrack and fades left in from commercial breaks.  Do not sully the wounderful endeavour of the original by watching this.  Anything would be better. "},{"Title":"Tell them they're making the real Dune","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The above quote was from Frank Herbert in 1983 after he visited the Dune set. I can only imagine what he saw that would move him to make such a proclamation. My own personal take on this filmed version of Herbert's sci-fi masterpiece is that it in many ways it was a valiant effort, but there is too much left unexplained to the novice part of the audience which would probably account for more than seventy percent. I say that because the movie's trailer markets Dune as a quasi-Star Wars escapist flick. While there are certain elements of that in the book, Dune is not supposed to be all action. The suspense thrills come more internally from the characters rather than externally, which makes it very difficult for any director to project into a visual medium. Lynch gives it his best shot, but I don't think he should have been the choice for this one. He is a stylist filmmaker, and seemed to pay too much attention on the Harkkonens and not enough on other areas like the Spacing Guild and the Bene Gesserit. So why should anybody see this? I see the movie as having two redeeming features the cast and the soundtrack. The music is unearthly enough to give the impression of an alien world (bravo Brian Eco and Toto!), and Jurgen Prochnow is exactly how I imagine the Red Duke. I do think that Patrick Stewart and Freddie Jones would have done better to have switched roles, and Everert McGil is a little too stiff for Stilgar. But Kyle Maclachlen does just fine as Paul, Sian Phillips is also good as the Reverend Mother Ramallo, and even Sting shows the right blend of aloofness and barbarity for Feyd-Rautha. Failed masterpiece is how I would sum up this effort, and even so it does a better job in 2 1/2 hours than John Harrison could do in six. Give it a try, but NOT until you've read the book!  "},{"Title":"Excelent, but it's David Lynch's Vision, not Frank Herbert's","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a very deep and abiding respect for David Lynch and his creative visions. However, his vision is often very outre, which is fine in and of itself, unfortunately it often is a barrier between the viewer and the movie. Between 1969 and 1984 I read the whole of Dune at least five times, parts of it more than that. Though I never had any fixed ideas as to what any of the characters looked and sounded like, I continually find that Lynch's vision offends and obscures mine. Additionally, Lynch has made some radical alterations to plot and appearance which bother me. Those who have not read the novel will not have this problem these conflicts will not exist for you, though you may find aspects of the film visually offensive. Lynch's vision seems to amplify the outre and disgusting and make the commonplace bland.All this said, aside from being difficult for the uninitiated to follow (not uncommon in a Lynch film), this is a WONDERFUL film and I rate it 8 out of 10. It is a wonderful adventure/action film touching many important social and philosophical issues. I return to this film over and over despite my misgivings, mostly because I am so emotionally attached to Paul, Chani, Arakeen, and other actors in this epic, also because it is just plain fun. Lynch does give a good look at grandness of Arakeen and its inhabitants, even if he violates our vision and muddies the plot.TV viewers should note that Lynch made three different cuts of this film of various lengths. The two hour version (90 min running time) is too cut up to follow. The universe of Dune is huge and complex. Lynch went to great lengths provide this context and set the stage. However this material is easily 30 to 40 minutes of the full film. I find the 135 minute versions (three hours on commercial TV) to be adequate and reasonably easy to follow.I first encountered Dune in the early 1969 while reading back issues. Readers of the book, may know that it was originally published serialized in Analog Magazine of Science Fiction and Fantasy with Book One appearing in 1954 (the year of my birth) and Book Two and Book Three as a whole in 1956. For almost 20 years this was the Dune Trilogy. Now it is book one of the Dune Tetrology. While I immediately realized this book to be amazing in its writing, scope, awareness, and propositions,it was not until later, until I became aware of all the factions operating in the Middle East. In 1954 Herbert called the group that surrounded Paul, fedayeen. The world at large learned this name and what it meant only 20+ years later when the PLO faction known as Fedayeen came to world notice. "},{"Title":"Long live the Fighters!!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A masterpiece that has enthralled audiences for generations, the novel Dune is in my opinion one of the greatest novels ever written.  It will immerse you in a universe based on humanity, yet so far distant from our present and so detailed in culture and language, that you would believe Frank Herbert to be from the worlds of Dune himself.  In working with David Lynch, he has brought his imagination to the screen.  I had to watch the movie 7 times before I understood everything.  A movie like this captures the imagination of even those who do not like science fiction and pulls them to a place of beauty, horror, prophecy, religious zeal, political intrigue, power, and destiny.  I highly recommend this novel to anyone. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of the best SCI-FI novel of all times","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frank Herbert's cycle of sci-fi novels is far better then the Star Wars series, Asimov's Foundation saga or Star Trek. He (Herbert) created planets, empires with new culture, religion in full details. His work is rather literature then pulp. Indeed a masterpiece.And David Lynch adapted it for a movie pretty well. Although some episodes have been left out, the movie is almost as good as the original novel. Excellent actors, such as the Oscar winner Jose Ferrer, the remarkable Jurgen Prochnow and Max von Sydow, the beautiful Sean Young, the fine Patrick Stewart and nevertheless the outstanding performance from Kyle MacLachlan, who happened to be the best choice for this role.Best science-fiction movie of all times, and one of the best movies ever. "}{"Title":"A for effort, however .....","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of heart went into this film.  The cast is top notch, and the acting is also first (with perhaps the notable exception of the little girl, though it's not her fault).  But it's almost as if too much effort went into this film.When I first saw it in the theatre all those years ago I didn't think too much of it, but I didn't entirely pan it at the same.  I had a notion that much of what I saw was OK, if not fairly good in terms of execution, but I always got the sense that I was missing out on a lot of story.  I saw Dune with a couple of Frank Herbert fans who also scratched their heads after seeing it.What I gathered from them was that there was a great deal of character buildup and backstory that had been dropped.  Regrettably when dealing with novel translations some stuff is going to get dropped for time consideration.  And for a book like Dune the ambition of creating the project (and dollar signs) outweighed the practicalities of bringing Dune to life.Other than the story the art direction seemed to be doing the sci-fi version of the retro thing.  The spaceships, sets, and props were almost too styleized.  I got the sense that I was watching decadent yet antiquated Empire.  And if that was the intent, then the art director achieved his goal.  BUT, when you see people holding oversized 1930-ish microphones, soldiers toating shoulder mounted rifles (an impractical design), an Emperor and his admirals/generals personally partaking in combat on what looks like a merry-go-round, a sci-fi fan can't help but wonder what the director was thinking.My one real gripe is with the little girl.  She's supposed to be something special in the movie, but I had absoloutely NO IDEA what it was.  The frosting on the cake that killed this film was her infamous dagger scene/shot, where she's wearing this kind of open faced burka, pointing to something on the ground and holding the dagger, as if she's either killed something or is makeing somekind of symbolic gesture.  What it could be I have no idea, but it's the one shot that really serves no purpose in this movie.  It's as if it was put in there as filler.The worm effects are good in some shots, but abysmal in others.  The battle scenes aren't worth a whole lot, and the perpetual V.O.s of the characters throughout the film is a real distraction and irritant.  I suppose the voice overs were needed for this version of the film, but I would've preferred another method of delving into the characters' thoughts.The final nail in the coffin (other than the fact that it's a Dino d'Laurentis production; Mister B-Movie himself) is that it's over two hours long.  Understandable, but even an epic film can't possibly do justice to a big novel like Dune.Final analysis; DUNE is worth a glance, but only if you're a sci-fi fan. And even then don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Greatness","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've read the book and it's good and the film is the best thing that has ever come out of it, the mini-series based on the book was quite frankly rubbish it had completely the wrong atmosphere the film however really made you feel as though you were in the deep desserts of Arrakis. A better set of actors could not have been chosen it is quite simply a masterpiece, unlike the later books of the Dune series. "},{"Title":"One for the fans.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If memory serves, this big budget turkey was part and parcel of poor marketing by the Studio. The epic novel by Frank Herbert is a science fiction classic and huge proportions. Many attempts had been made to get it made as a film before Dino DeLaurentis just went for it. He got what he thought was the best story, and the best director in the world, David Lynch (straight after the elephant man) and just went to town.The Lynch movie is beautifully shot and the acting and characterisations are first class. Lynch also stamps his trademark on the film with his own brand of visual mystique and use of dialogue. The film's major fall down is the movie watcher is at a loss as to what is going on. The original story is quite complex, a multifaceted tale of immense scale. The potted two hour story just leaves the unfamiliar wondering.As as fan of the books, I see DUNE the movie as getting to be an eye witness at key events of the story. It's like a companion to the book. I would recommend this film to anyone who has read and enjoyed DUNE. These people would enjoy this beautifully crafted film a lot more.  "},{"Title":"Sandworm","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune, both the movie and the book are intended for intelligent people, for people who are willing to look deeper into the diverse meanings of a story - some people think it is easy to portray a written masterpiece in a visual form - it isn't!David Lynch is an exceptional film-maker and I truly appreciate his work but perhaps he wasn't the right man for the job/budget. He's used to work on a lesser scale and with more space for creative interaction.Dune deals directly with ecological, social, economical and political issues (I could also throw in some family vendettas, drug addictions, technical advancements and extreme survival adaptations)Dune is complex and it has its own terminology (books have been written just to deal with the glossary of terms) for this same reason I think that just three-four hours of film do not allow for a complete unraveling of DUNE and its grandeur.There is more to be known about the Sandworm and I think that a trilogy of films based on all his six dune books(seven really, but that's another story) would be more suitable for us the masses.Just imagine the Godfather or the Lord of the Rings trilogy squeezed into three hours of film.Dune was an expensive flop but there are still people out-there willing to give it another try - Lord of the Rings is just an example (flopped first time around too)Forget the mini-series they are just for the Sci-Fi channel audience. "},{"Title":"Too much spice?","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Did David Lynch smoke too much spice while interpreting the story?The outcome of this fantastic SF novel is certainly very different from what James Cameron or Ridley Scott would have created. Their focus would have been more focused on the grandeur of the sets, the mechanical devices, the action sequences etc. which would have matched and satisfied the SF audience a bit more.At least that's my opinion but maybe Lynch reach an audience that would have missed the story had it not been for his directing?Read the Book (it's highly recommendable), watch the movie afterwards and judge for yourself.Kasper "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Anthropological Study - Embrace its potential!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning - some aspects might be perceived as spoilers!This comments on various different versions of the movie.As John Sheridan said in Babylon 5 We need to _understand_ our way out of this...There are only a few cinematographic and bibliographic universes, that you think and ponder on for years, finding new aspects and ideas each time. The Dune universe is one of these. It is an endless vault of anthropological, sociological and ontological richness that spans over the complete spectrum of human life.More than anything, it is a study of Humanity, how humans would function in a technologically depraved universe. Indeed, the characters of this universe are humans, descendants of our planet Earth, not unspecified humanoids as in Star Wars, for example.Today, we rely much on computers and instantaneous communications. In Dune computers are deemed illegal by religion, thou shalt not make a machine in likeness of the human mind. Direct communications between planets are not possible, so messages have to be sent by couriers, and couriers can be bribed, or killed. The involved time lag makes centralized government impossible and the only working political system is a feudal system, with feudal barons and dukes.Any single motion picture or book can only give a limited viewpoint on a universe this large and complex. David Lynch has been able to capture the look and feel of the universe and its characters in a uniquely intriguing, immersive way. An astounding casting and unorthodox, majestic soundtrack by Toto contributes much to this.The main shortcoming of the original Lynch version is that the plot is really quite impossible to understand, due to shortening to make the movie fit in 2 hours. The Sci-Fi channel miniseries was set out to correct this and can be a real eye-opener for those who have not read the books. Unfortunately the miniseries comes short in precisely the same aspects in which the Lynch movie shines. There is no sensation of being in other worlds and the actors are... well, actors.The latest region 2 DVD release, which was disowned by Lynch because of the admittedly horrible intro sequence and the immediately following post-dubbed overexplanation of things was, to me, a pleasant surprise. Indeed, the first half an hour is horrible, but the last 2.5 hours more than make up for it. Suddenly, with a lot of previously cut-off scenes reinserted into the original version, the plot doesn't seem that unintelligible at all. It's not perfect, but it's the best so far.In summa summarum, none of these films stand on their own feet without shaking, but together they make motion picture history. They will give you something to think about for years. If that is what you look for in a movie, you have found your pick. "},{"Title":"Flawed, all too brief","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never felt a desire to write a review before... but I recently rented the Sci-Fi channel version of this story, and the novel is by far my favorite novel of all time. I've read it over a dozen times. But what inspired this entry is the fact that in watching the Sci-Fi Channel version, I was struck by the strengths of this overall, thoroughly awful film. We will address these in a moment. First, a discussion of its weaknesses. To start. it is grossly unfaithful to the original storyline, inventing these bizarre weirding modules as the inspiration for the Emperor and Baron Harkonnen's desire to eliminate the Atreides, because David Lynch felt he would be unable to properly address the concept from the book, that the Duke was simply too popular among the nobility and potentially could create a super-army out of the Fremen. Frankly, I think these stem from the fact that the movie closely followed Star Wars into theaters (by far my favorite movie series of all time), and David Lynch probably felt he couldn't have an science-fiction action movie without rayguns. Characters are robbed of motivations, reduced to faces without context, and overall the storyline has been pared down to something no one who doesn't already know something about the plot can fully grasp. Of course, if you've ever seen any of David Lynch's other movies, the horrendous Lost Highway or the intriguing Mulholland Drive, for instance, you may note that he tends to like his audience perplexed. This does not work in a mainstream movie that, at the time, was one of the most expensive ever made, and must consequently be sold to a large audience. Beyond the gross inconsistencies is the fact that, despite what you may read here, this movie's special effects are not at all spectacular, and some are in fact downright primitive. Any scene involving a spaceship in this movie looks as if it was filmed circa 1966, instead of following a trilogy of movies that revolutionized the practice. Perhaps this movie was too ambitious-- the technology to do this properly was not available. Any shot that involves blue-screening shows distinct black outlines; not at all good for filming in light-colored environments like the deserts in Dune. If you're ever curious (I doubt you are, but whatever), this type of problem is discussed in The Making of Star Wars Special Edition, when they discuss the enchancements to the Battle of Hoth in The Empire Strikes Back. The integration of the sandworms is also weak, and the blue effect used on the Fremen's eyes is lacking. There are not many other faults, besides technological limitations and a butchered storyline; other parts of the movie are simply fantastic. For one, the music is awesome. Epic, sweeping, and vastly different from the heraldic, operatic music of the Star Wars trilogy. The costumes and sets are fantastic. But the one thing, the thing that struck me when I watched the Sci-Fi Channel version of this movie is that, where the producers of 1984's Dune went wrong in so many ways, they had a magnificent, brilliant cast. The only character whose casting is flawed is Paul, but this is only in the fact that he is too old. Otherwise, to a person, the acting is superb, and every actor embodies the character he plays. Particularly good are the portrayls of Jessica, Duke Leto, Feyd-Rautha (played by Sting), Chani and Thufir Hawat. As I watched the Sci-Fi Channel version, I wished that I could watch the actors from David Lynch's Dune portraying the parts instead of the people that were in it. So, in conclusion, Dune is really two flawed works, a movie that has great casting, brilliant acting and excellent costuming, but makes no sense and is therefore unwatchable; and a poorly casted, poorly acted, poorly costumed miniseries that actually does justice to most of the elements of the book, but is also poor for the fact that it has none of the virtues of the first. And it's a shame, because the Dune story is one of the truly great (and few) pieces of literature to ever to come from the science fiction genre. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's usual quality level of STYLE!!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read the books and loved the mythic world Frank Herbert creates there and its blatent reflection of the periods drug culture. Lynch seemed to be the perfect choice to get the most out of this classic of SF.I will fogive him his deviations from the story and his own little creations (which were brilliant I must add) because they didn't interfer with the essence of the novels. The process of making this film was not helped by the dumb ass studio's butchering the final cut and ruining the continuity.My god what I would give to see that original cut by David Lynch, it must have been magnificant, even if it was 3 1/2 hrs long! I just wish the accountants would leave the artist to do his thing!!! "},{"Title":"David Lynch's usual quality level of STYLE!!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read the books and loved the mythic world Frank Herbert creates there and its blatant reflection of the periods drug culture. Lynch seemed to be the perfect choice to get the most out of this classic of SF.I will forgive him his deviations from the story and his own little creations (which were brilliant I must add) because they didn't interfere with the essence of the novels. The process of making this film was not helped by the dumb ass studio's butchering the final cut and ruining the continuity.My god what I would give to see that original cut by David Lynch, it must have been magnificent, even if it was 3 1/2 hrs long! I just wish the accountants would leave the artist to do his thing!!! "},{"Title":"Read the book first","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As one who doesn't usually write reviews, I have a piece of advice for those who wish to understand Dune.  Frank Herbert created a novel with great depth.  This depth would be hard to convey in a reasonable amount of time. The script tossed around many terms from the book (like Kwisatz Haderach) as if the viewer should have previously been acquainted with their meaning.Dune is a very engaging book, and to anyone who shows interest in seeing the movie, you'll enjoy the book.  If you see the movie first, it could ruin some things.  If you see the movie without reading the book, it could turn you off from the book.  The movie is just as deep as the book (although some important things have been removed, like in any adaption) in the eyes of someone who has read the book.Read the book first "}{"Title":"Long Live ..... DUNE","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  oKAY, aDMITTEDLY, this is not As true to the book as it could be, and the script tends to be confusng if one hasn't read the books, However, i apparantly am the only one who thinks that Lnchcaptured the essence of the dune universe in his stories.  the feel of it it is right, dead on accurate. The acting and casting are perfect, the art direction..well, its fabulous. As a film, it could have been better, it has so many perfect things, but in the en, it still has flaws.  mind you, the extended version adds a bit more,m and fixes it up a bit.   I disagree withthose that don'tlike TOTO's score, i think its on e of the most emotuional film scores i have evr heard, it really captures the Majesty of the great houses, and the ferocity and cunning of the Fremen.  The special effects are perfect, any one who has see the remake will (or should) note that the scene where paul rides the sandworm is not at all as exciting as it is in the original. everything looked real, it was a beutiful film.  I would have to say that my largest complaint was the wierding modules, And the character developement could have been better, oh well,it is an underratted film, beutiful in my mind. "},{"Title":"Abomination!!!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those who are familiar with the novels depicting the world of Dune know how central abomination is to the story.  This film is a perfect characterization of the word.  It is OK for a film to merely skim or even alter the book version.  It is almost impossible to adequately represent the depth of a novel on film.  However, if a director chooses to betray the source of the film he should at least make it entertaining.  This film is largely a borefest, and I would imagine is unintelligible to anyone who hasn't read the book.  This film is campy, unimaginative, and full of characters that have nothing important to add to the story.Skip this movie and read the book if you really want to be entertained.  After you read the book, watch the more recent TV miniseries version which is far superior to this piece of garbage.  I have enjoyed much of Lynch's work, especially Blue Velvet.  This is not one of his better outputs.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Read the Book, then watch the movie!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just finished reading the book Dune and it is one of the greatest books that I have ever read.  But if you wish to watch this movie and you have not read the book, I advise extreme caution.  Don't get me wrong, there were certain parts of the movie Dune that I really enjoyed.  However, a person who has not read the book will be thoroughly confused by the plot, I can assure you of that.  But, If all you're looking for is a nice Science Fiction Flick to watch, then I highly recommend it.  But, if you're looking for Oscar type material, then you're going to be very disappointed.I give the MOVIE Dune 6/10  "},{"Title":"Alright, but just a little too long.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Star Wars series has no reason to fear for this Sci-fi epic may be good, but it's not fantastic.Paul Atriedes is moving to the planet Arrakis also known as Dune, for the Harkonnens have moved away from Arrakis and so the Atriedes now have control over the planet which is home to the most precious substance in the Universe, the spice melange. But before the departure to Arrakis, a Bene Gesserit Witch visits Paul and tests him with a box.The film has enjoyable, yet very serious parts for the first forty minutes. The film comes to an end and you may be wondering what just happened. Another problem is that the end has a very corny and pretty bad script.The special effects aren't bad but confusing and the film needs to be watched at least three times so that it can be understood. But for those who are looking for a very long sci-fi drama movie that can be tiring as you may give up on the plot at some point, then look no further. But if you want a sci-fi movie that is enjoyable and epic, stick to Star Wars. *** "},{"Title":"They don't make movies like this anymore...","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is a great film, and a vast undertaking. Probably inspired by the lavish blockbusters of the day, such as the Star Wars series, Dune has some of the best and most beautiful sets you will see in any film. With the great scope of actors, it is a wonder this movie has the reputation it has.This movie is not tied up in a nice package, nor is it presented in one.The techniques used for visual effects are some of the most unique you will ever see. Every scene is potentially realized differently visually than the one before it, and this is part of what makes it so exciting. There are so many scenes you will never forget, so I am not sure how you could say this movie was badly realized. Watch some of the scenes of people against the bright desert, and you'll see that this is a very fun movie that also takes itself seriously. This is one of the few movies that puts you in another world, with a whole set of believable politics. The otherworldliness yet realism is one thing the movie translates from Frank Herbert's novel perfectly. One of the things this movie excels at is that its characters always believe they are in the world they inhabit, and the situations are very serious. You won't find much shrugging off of emotion in this movie. Many of the actors are over the top yet subtle and unforgettable. The movie has a very interesting narrative style, with the use of dreams, flashbacks of dialogue, monologues, composites of characters faces, and a sweeping score that hints at the fate of what is going on. What more could you want? "},{"Title":"Another David Lynch great!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, David Lynch is of course one of the best of a large group of bests. Dune to me is like the icing on the cake of his career. I love Dune, the cinematical aspects of this movie are great for this time, the music is very powerful, and the casting is superb!  It does help to read the book first (fills in some of those missing details) but if you are feeling particularly adventurous there is a longer version (about 4 hours) but Lynch took his name off this... and you your self can figure out why.All in all Dune is definitely a worth while movie and a must see!  "},{"Title":"Wears well...","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's Dune has held up extremely well over the years, far better than I ever would have expected.Part of the reason, I think, is the choice of directors.  Frank Herbert's Dune is one of those unfilmable novels (in fact, it makes Lord of the Rings look like child's play), and David Lynch manages to capture at least the bare essentials of the novel -- the sense of pessimism, dark urgency, and atmospherics.  The latter is a sorely-missed quality, and Dune the Movie holds up very well compared to the post-movie theatrical wasteland of the early 21st century, and such films as Planet of the Apes, Star Wars Episode 1 and The Time Machine.Viewers would be well-advised to try and read the book first -- again, like LOTR, some background is almost a necessity before attempting the film.  The story is just too complex to translate well to the big screen, so if you haven't read the book then you might find yourself simply relaxing and soaking up the (very well done) atmosphere and the visuals.I'm very thankful that this film wasn't made sometime in the past five years.  It would be painful to see Frank Herbert's genius placed on the chopping block of some money-grubbing producer and made into (yet another) CGI-based carnival freakshow.  Enjoy this film for what it is, a true re-imagining of the novel Dune as seen by David Lynch's somewhat twisted imagination.Revised review, 8/10 "},{"Title":"A milestone in science fiction film making","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fact; Dune is an excellent book, Frank Herbert won the coveted Science Fiction Hugo and Nebula awards to prove it. Fact; Dune is a superb film, David Lynch has a pedigree for innovative and visually impressive films with Dune being a good example of this.Having read the book I fully expected Dune to be a big disappointment, I couldn't be more wrong, from start to finish I was completely enthralled.  The book is complicated and part narrates sections using the characters' thoughts, both of which would be very difficult to re-create in a film version, I feel that David Lynch made a great job of tackling both of these aspects.I can't recall a single actor in this film who did not fit their role perfectly, Kyle MacLachlan plays the main character, Paul Atreides, and portrays Paul's slow realisation of his destiny very well.  There are many other notable performances not least being Everett McGill, with an almost surreal Stilgar, the Fremen chief.The story progresses like a slow moving river, compelling and inevitable, it is perfectly paced and climaxes into a thrilling ending.  The only drawback may be that there are some details which may be difficult to understand if you have not read the book, but do not let this deter you from watching a milestone in science fiction film making.In the debate of whether books can be successfully transferred to the screen, I think Dune stands as a good example of a film which works very well in authentically representing a complex piece of work, while adding an outstanding visual spin to the whole venture.  "},{"Title":"Lisan Al Gaib","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt that the sets and costumes for this film adaption were great. David Lynch's strangeness give just the right feel for the plot within plot material that Frank Herbert produced. The soundtrack also contributed a great deal to the internal monologue that the actors had to give. All in all this was a great job done in only 2 hours and 17 minutes when 10 hours were really needed, i feel that the sci-fi version pales in comparasion( I know, I known I am a heretic). My recomendation is to go out and read the books by Frank Herbert ( 5 in all and two more by his son) and then watch the movie. Then pressure the big studios to get David Lynch to do another Dune movie. "},{"Title":"A mile stone!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***spoilers***   ***spoilers*** I consider myself to be a sci-fi freak and I must say, This is one of my all-time favorite Sci-Fi movies! Imagine a great book(s) and then imagine one of the most outstanding and well made Sci-Fi movies ever based on that book, Then you get Dune! 8.000 years into the future a spice called Melange is the most valuable resource in the universe, However it only exists on one planet. Arrakis (Also known as Dune), A desert planet where giant worm-like creature´s lurk the giant sands. House Atreides and House Harkonnnen fight for the control of Dune, And when Atreides takes control of it the Emperor of the known universe, in secret, help the Harkonnen to once again take control of the planet. The Atreides are almost annihilated but the ruler of Atreides (Duke Leto) son escapes out into the desert. There he lives among the original inhabitants of Dune, The Fremen (Yes they are human). Soon he finds out that he is the long foretold Quizard´s Hadarach (Or something like that) which shall lead the Fremen to complete control of Dune! Not that many Sci-Fi effects but the atmosphere is outstanding, The acting is superb and the movie itself is well worth a shining 10! Next time you see this in stores dont just ignore it! Buy or rent it! I can almost promise you that you will not be dissapointed! "}{"Title":"My favourite sf film","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The cast is super and the sets fantastic and after seeing the 2000 mini series Dune I can recommend this as the best version. For all its shortcomings this is still a hell of a tale and each character is portrayed by a great actor giving a fine performance.A true SF epic. "},{"Title":"A classic with a few flaws","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is without doubt one of the greatest sci-fi efforts ever. It's only flaw is that unless you have a good understanding of the book you'll get lost so fast your head will spin. In staying true to Frank Herbert's vision the first person thoughts that make the book so good are hard to follow on screen unless you already know what's going on. Still it works amazingly well and I highly recommend it to anyone into sci-fi. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie even if it does not follow the book","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved reading the books (I actually started rereading them) so when I first heard of the movie I was looking forward to seeing it. It was somewhat disappointing to see that it didn't follow the book, with some strange things in there like the rain at the end, but I don't know if it is at all possible to put the full book to film.Still I liked the movie with great acting of Kyle MacLachlan and Francesca Annis. I saw it several times, appreciating it more and more. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lynchs Dune is one of my alltime favourites in movies. Lynch composed a movie with a great mystical atmosphear and most of the actors has done a great job in this film. Especially Sting as Feyd-Rautha and Kenneth McMillian as Baron Vladimir Harkonnen. Another point for this movie is the soundtrack from Toto and Brian Eno wich supports the pictures in the best way you could expect. For me this movie stands far above the new 2000-TV-series. This one might be closer to the book, but imo it's stretched to long and so the serie gets boring after a while. Btw I found only two important differences between Lynchs movie and the TV-series. 1. The weapons of Muadib and the fremens (sound-modules in Lynchs Dune) 2. It starts to rain in the final scene in Lynchs Dune. I think Lynch has done these modifications because of the dramarturgy of the movie and in my eyes this is nothing bad. You couldn't make a movie of such an extensive story without modifications. "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi Movie With All the Right Elements","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is simply a great Sci-Fi movie.  It's not a perfect adaptation of the book, but what 2 hour movie is?  It is a great movie *based* on the book and has all the elements of a great Sci-Fi movie -- love, action, humor, otherworldly happenings, etc.I have a unique perspective on Dune because I saw this 1984 movie first, then I saw the 2000 mini-series second (see my separate comments on that one), and then I read the book -- last.  If I had read the book, I would have been a little disappointed by this 1984 movie, but seen and rated on its merits ALONE, it is a great movie.Even by today's standards, the effects in this movie are very, very good.  By comparison, the mini-series looks like a video game -- good for a video game, but very poor for a movie.  The performances in this movie are top-notch and these things combined with plenty of excitement make this a movie that can easily be watched over and over again.I gave it a 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Hypnotised by the music and the scale of the sets","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw DUNE in 1988 on video.  The first thing that struck me about it was the sheer scale of the film - everything about it looked HUGE!  Then the music hit me.  The Prophecy theme by Brian Eno and Daniel Lanois; the music by Toto which accompanied the battle sequences, so much better than anything they ever did in the charts!Then I became hypnotised by the movie itself the sense that there was much more to the DUNE universe than we were seeing on the screen; the sense of honour and duty which permeated House Atredies; the sheer OTT awfulness of House Harkonnen; the Victorian Techno look of the Imperial Chambers on Kaitain...I could go on.  Admittedly, the script and SOME of the acting leaves much to be desired, but in this film I believe this simply adds to the intrigue. DUNE sits up there in my top-10, alongside the Blues Brothers, Blade Runner, and the Star Wars trilogy. "},{"Title":"The original far exceeds the TV version!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The original 1984 release of this film is actually pretty interesting. unlike people, I actually read the book before I saw this movie. The film does do a really good job of certain scenes in the book. As for the people that recommend you see the uncut full 190-minute version, it's not worth it. The new footage includes loads of repeated sequences(particularly during both the battles) and does not add much to the film(unless you consider Feyd stuffing an insignia into the Doctor's mouth adding to the plot). The introduction at the beginning is long and includes stuff thats barely mentioned in the book. The 190-minute version also edits out scenes from the original that were too graphic. So if you have a choice between original and uncut, don't waste your time on the uncut(you'll probably gain an extra hour of sleep). "},{"Title":"The 190 minute special edition is the best","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Truly a classic of SF literature, the movie attempts to capture the grandeur and mystery of this epic tour de force. The long version is necessary for those unfamiliar to the book to absorb the plot development. Those who liked the book will love the longer version better than the initial release, even if Lynch didn't want to be associated with it. It has a wonderful cast of actors who despite short screen time convey powerful personalities. The enigmatic prophecy theme is captivating and the music for it is truly inspired. Sit back and get immersed in this wonderful experience (then read the book again). Unlike some other comments, I feel that the plot and vision stayed very close to that in the book "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest science fiction film ever","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw Dune I knew I was seeing something special. It is the only science fiction film that creates such a unique and different world that you could actually believe it existing someday. I rank Dune up there with sci-fi greats such as 2001 A Space Odyssey, Star Wars, Metropolis, and Blade Runner.I know that when Dune was released it received mixed reviews, and failed at the US box office. Yet this film is much better than the usual sci-fi fluff, and it's originality can be pointed to the great David Lynch. I've read that had the film not failed he was going to direct two sequels. But it was considered a failure then, and now he refuses to talk about. Hopefully someday Universal will allow him to re-cut Dune to his liking, but I believe that the theatrical cut most likely was his cut.If you pay attention to Dune you'll see one of the most thought provoking and inspiring films ever made. Beautifully shot and wonderfully acted with special effects that enhance the film, and don't take it over like the recent mini-series. And yes I have read the book, and I liked it just as much. (10/10)  "},{"Title":"Surreal and mind-blowing.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The 80s' answer to Star Wars and largely based on the memorable Frank Herbert novel that follows the path taken by Paul (Kyle MacLachlyn) who along with the aid of the Fremen, retake the planet known as Dune from the Harkonnens.  Director David Lynch (The Straight Story) makes the most of the novel here, creates an excellent and beautiful film and is well-cast with the example of Sting as one of the villains and wonderfully acted.  The photography by Freddie Francis is near perfect, especially those shots of the desert and oh, yes, the up close shots of the worms, too.   Alicia Witt makes her feature film debut as Paul's little sister.  "}{"Title":"Love this movie, but get your facts straight.","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me just say, first and foremost, that the 190 minute cut of Dune is NOT David LYNCH'S DIRECTOR'S CUT! As is mentioned elsewhere on this site, that cut is credited to Alan Smithee, a pseudonym used when a director no longer wants to be associated with the film in question. In this case, MCA went ahead and created its own longer version in order to sell it into TV syndication as a miniseries. Lynch had nothing to do with it. He had, on various occasions, expressed a desire to recut the film into a 3 1/2 hour cut, but was never given the chance. It would be nice if Universal would be considerate enough to give him that opportunity, but at this point, I seriously doubt he would jump at the chance. 'Nuff said.Having said this, I love this version of Dune. Being unable to penetrate Herbert's lugubrious prose at the time of the film's release (I was only 13), I was in awe of Lynch's sumptuous visual sense (ably aided by the brilliant Freddie Francis) and the calibre of acting involved. Kyle MacLachlan, in his film debut, creates a strong screen presence as Paul, and is surrounded by some of the world's finest actors of stage and screen. This is a movie to completely lose yourself in, and succeeds in creating an alternate universe where others are limited by lame storytelling and cheesy special effects. And, as another user said, the music ROCKS! Brian Eno's Prophecy theme is brilliant, and hold up a lot better than, say, Vangelis' music for Chariots of Fire. However, if you need to have things blow up in your face every 2 minutes, do the rest of us a favour; quit your whining about this visual masterpiece and go rent some piece of populist fodder like Armageddon instead. "},{"Title":"An epic masterpiece...","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The vision of this film is enormous.  It's an epic beyond our times that sets standards for all science fiction films.  Dune can be a bit complex the first time you see it because you don't see important details of what takes place before the film, and you don't see how things are resolved after. With a storyline so deep, it would have been impossible to include any more information into already 3 hour movie.  The only negative thing I can say it that it really left me wanting to know more about the character's pasts, but at the same time just enough information is presented to keep you interested and wondering...  Dune would have made an excellent trilogy, with this film being the second of the three, but it has been so well written and directed that it obviously stands perfectly on its own.  If this movie has received some low ratings it's only because it can be very difficult to take in all it has to offer with only one viewing.  I recommend watching the expanded version because it offers a nice 15 minute or so introduction that makes it easier to appreciate all the complex elements of Dune.  I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie in its self is very entertaining if you understand the plot and the only true way to do that is to read the book.  I think Lynch did the best he could in the time limit that is allowed for the movie theatre formats (ex. 3 hours is about the max), but if this movie were to be allowed to have 6 hours the movie, the plot, everything would have turned out just fine.  I still sat its one of the best Science Fiction movies of all time. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Weird of Dune","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw previews of this film when I was 14, worms?, strange suits?, yes, yes, I had no idea that I would learn to appreciate the Herbert/Lynch realm. I then saw it a few years later and was totally blown away at what a wonderful and strange universe Lynch had created. I had never seen anything like it before and I was raised on a very sterile Star Wars. The mythology explored was fantastic. Each character had an individual notion and was strange, exotic and weird.  This is a film I will remember forever. Great sets, great costumes, and the dialogue is sufficient to keep you interested. I liked the Mentats, the evil Harkoneens, the Sarkadaur were awesome! The space scenes were bizarre, the guild navigators from another universe! It goes on and on, in a believable world not of our own. No, you won't understand everything about it, but that is the good part, that your quest will take you to new levels. I read the book and all the sequels after this. Thank you Mr Lynch! "},{"Title":"The classic is the best, powerful, evocative, moving and deep","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 11, it changed my outlook on life.  Some people have problems with this movie. I saw the movie before falling in love with the books.  To me the movie was flawless even after reading the book and noting the differences. I recently had the misfortune of watching the new mini-series, despite the special effects it was still horrible. stick with the classic. I never thought I would hear my self say that -) "},{"Title":"really disappointed","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now here is a film that could be greatly improved by the addition of Jar-Jar Binks. No, that's really a cheap shot. I loved the books, and the first is a true classic, not just of sci-fi. In my opinion the story is unfilmable, and Lynch should have known it. I think the story was turned into a cartoon, the villains were portrayed as one dimensional buffoons, Paul was too old, and 'weirding modules' as an invention of the writers, make the plot more incomprehensible than it was already. I don't want to trash the people who thought well of the movie. It might be possible to enjoy if you haven't read the book, and to judge from some of the other comments, even if you have. Personal tastes vary, every- one is entitled to his or her opinion, but I agree with a previous reviewer who stated that the only thing this movie would have been good for was MST3K. "},{"Title":"How did I not hear about this movie?","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this movie truly enthralling.  I believe it is superior to Star Wars cinematographically and its equal in plot.  For all Sci-Fi/Fantasy fans, this movie is a must-see.  I do not know how I have not heard about it before.  The only bad thing is that--as far as I know--there is no sequel. I hear the books are great as well. "},{"Title":"Visually beautiful nonsense","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From the look of the comments here I seem to be relatively unique in having watched the movie without having read the books first!First off, this movie is visually beautiful, with stunning sets, costumes and even effects. The problems seem to set in with the plot. I can't help but get the feeling that there is a plot of biblical complexity that has been hacked to fit into two hours. Large bits of plot seem to have been explained away with voice over and very short scenes. Some characters seem fairly redundant, (e.g. Duncan, Thufir) and you get the impression that their stories just had to be cut to fit.The film starts as a trade dispute, wanders into tribal war and finishes with a Messianic emergence - it's all too much! Because there is so much in it it can be hard to follow (assuming you don't know the story and characters already). I'm not saying the film should be longer, rather that the scriptwriters should have just acknowledged that to squeeze it into two hours was just too ambitious to be done.Although pretty, with some excellent performances, this flick is demanding and unrewarding to watch. Ultimately hard to recommend. "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is great. It is a very good adaptation of the book with wonderful acting and superb special effects, especially for 1984. The Dune books, especially the first, are my all time favorite books. Order this movie! I promise you that you will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Dune(1984) TV version is better as the movie","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is still not true to the original Frank Herbert tale, but it is a definite improvement to the story line of the David Lynch movie.It explains a lot more of the original storyline to the viewer and makes it more accessible to the general viewer.  Even the Dune fan will find this an improvement over the original movie - even though there are some minor negative points.  It adds some 50 minutes to the movie and takes away some 5 minutes. After seeing it, I think it is a definite improvement.Good points - Prologue explains a little bit of the background - Some of the more distastefull scenes have disappeared (fi. the vampire like scene with baron Harkonnen) - The plot within plot is much more visible and the visionary details are more explained - We hear Gurney play! - The water ritual of the fremen is much more explainedNegative points - Prologue is a definite aftertought - Good, but not in style with the movie - timeline within the movie is still wrong - Sound and music are not as good as the movie version - I prefer princess Irulan as the voice over - especially since she is the historian in the later books. - The ending is still not true to the bookAll in all - this is a very difficult book to film, I think this TV version of David Lynch's film is a reasonable effort.I admit I am hoping the new TV series will be more true to the book, but it will be a challenge to be better.  "}{"Title":"This never could have lived up to expectations","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I confess I liked Dune. Part of the reason why is that I saw it by myself one snowy, mid-week night in college, with nothing else to do, and was in the perfect frame of mind for a movie with this kind of complex backstory. I also liked it because of its majesty, though that majesty frequently borders on awe and tends to make the viewer feel as if he/she is being told to worship the screen instead of enjoy a movie.If you haven't read Dune (and its sequels), you are in for a treat. But you'll learn while reading it so many things that the movie only hints at, and many other things that the movie ignores completely (i.e. in the Book Baron Harkonnen is a wily political adversary with a mean streak, not simply a gross man only semi-sane) ... (by the way, if you want to know how the Baron morphed from a perfect phsysique to the gross one, read the relatively new House Atreides book by Brian Herbert). Ultimately, Dune the movie had so much material to sort through from Dune the book, it had very little chance to succeed. That said, the movie's practice of having the thoughts of various characters abruptly whispered out loud as you look at their still faces was needless and in vain. The whispered comments rarely said more than a good glance would, and quickly became annoying.Still, there is *something* about Dune that is arresting. It might be the scale of Arrakis, the worms, and the political feuding between Houses. It might be the oddly 19th-century look of the Great Houses. It might be the sometimes stirring musical score. Or maybe my mind just fills in the blanks with knowledge I learned in the book.In any case, if you can get by the whispered thoughts and the often stilted dialogue (which comes from taking lines *directly* from the book and inserting them into the movie, never a good practice), you might find Dune interesting. I wonder what the movie might have been if it had continued the vision obvious in the sets into the dialogue and plot, instead of being a half-homage to the book. I guess we won't know ... unless the mini-series coming up on The Sci-Fi Channel in December delivers. I rated Dune a 7.  "},{"Title":"This is what happens when you let David Lynch turn a great book into a movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The books of Dune are great, they get a little involved after the first two or three, but they are still good.  So it was a good idea to have the movie focus mainly on only the first book, entitled, aptly enough Dune.  But then they decided to let David Lynch direct it.  When I heard that, I knew it would be a waste of film that had little to do with the books, except to use something almost resembling the storyline from the book to ensure that the folks who read the book would come and see the movie.  In reality, all they did was cash in on the name.  Much like Stanley Kubrick, David Lynch is a very egotistical director who does not mind cashing in on a book to ensure big box office figures, but then changes the story as much as possible to make it his own.  Dune the movie is not even the shell of Dune the book.  Just read it again and picture  it in your head.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Quasi-historical and profound","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Imagine what the universe would be like if it were governed by a regime akin to the Holy Roman Empire, maleficent nuns who specialize in eugenics, drug addicts with powers of teleport who monopolized interplanetary travel, force shields render lasers obsolete and man returns to the sword...a religious movement has banned advanced technology, and the nobility of the universe is addicted to a drug found only on a planet where is never rains and people recycle their urine.This is the universe of Dune.Add to it the noblest of heroes and the basest of villains, a christological messiah-awaiting by a people in captivity, and giant worms that attack all rhythmic vibrations, and you have the positively most fascinating science-fiction work of Earth history.Parallels are endless - the federated empire is like the Holy Roman empire of the middle ages, the dependence on the drug is like the western world's dependence on middle-east oil, the machinations of wooing women are made manifest, and we learn a little bit about how Jesus must have felt. "},{"Title":"Best sci fi film in existence.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is a classic battle between good and evil.  This film does not shove the science or technojargon in your face (i.e. Star Trek).  It integrates the technology into the background and brings the story forward which is rich in details.  The story itself was thought out well to give it a life of its own.  The thoughts of the characters can be heard as well to bring out the full effect of the story, and the characters.  This film makes you think, and it is for this reason I think the critics seem to hate it.  It would seem a lot of people don't like to think about their entertainment, and at first viewing you come away not fully understanding what you saw.  But each time you see it, you begin to appreciate the full scope of the Dune universe. "},{"Title":"Watch the longer version","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just recently saw the long version of Dune. It is much better than the shorter theater release. Dune, however, is just too big of a story to make one movie out of. Two or three 2 hour movies might have made more sense. The best thing to do is read the book. No amount of narration, which is sometimes annoying, is going to do much for those who never read the book. "},{"Title":"Nothing compared to the book","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the book at least twice before I saw the movie, and I've got to say that the images I had in my mind from reading the book were completely (and very disappointingly) destroyed after viewing the movie.The Fremen wear stillsuits and nothing else.  Where are the flowing robes desert nomads wear?  More importantly, where are the head coverings.  Still suits should cover the whole head otherwise vast amounts of moisture would be lost.The stupid voice weirding weapons were incredibly ridiculous.  I've never seen such a stupid weapon.  They should have stuck with the weapons they used to begin with -- blades and blasters -- there's nothing wrong with that.There was no call for it to start raining at the end.  -- Nothing environmental had even occurred.This movie should be done in an animated serial  they'd be able to cover everything in the book properly.  "},{"Title":"I just love this movie!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of reviewers says it dont do justice to the novel. I can't really tell if it does or not because I've only seen the movie. But as for one that has never read the book, I can truly say that this is one of the few movies I watch over and over and enjoying every moment of it!Some people slaughter this movie because of the lo end fx, and some I talked to said the way Paul Atreides and the other characters displays their thoughts throughout the movie totally ruins it.Well...some people gives Armageddon and Dantes peak top ratings.....  "},{"Title":"Great film, not as good as the book, but still great!!!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is the most brilliant book ever written, so when I heard was half price, and I actually liked the movie. there was a movie I searched everywhere to find a copy. And I think it was defineately worth buying, for several reasons itIt isn't a brilliant movie, but it is good. Some of the effects of the worms were great (but nothing like what can be done today) and others completely sucked (the Guild Navigator, when he was folding space, was the worst) But specialfx don't make a movie, even though most people my age, that I know, hate old movies cause of the effects (This movie was made the year I was born.)Most of the parts were well cast, and I thought Brad Dourif was perfect as Piter De Vries, although having watched Patrick Stewart as Picard for seven years, I couldn't see him as Guerney Halleck.The sets were amazing, as were the desert shots, and the music is the best soundtrack I have ever heard for a movie.(Seriously, you should watch it just for the music)So all in all a good movie, but there are a few bad points. Dune can never be seen properly in two hours, there is so much that is lost, and so many characters that are underdeveloped. The two biggest casualties being Duncan Idaho and Liet-Kynes, and the ecology of the planet (which has an appendix to itself in the book), is barely mentioned.It would be much better as a mini-series, which appears to be happening.(Although I gave this movie a ten, because most of it worked really well.)One final point - for those who have read the book and seen the film, won't the rain kill all those worms?  "},{"Title":"DUNE Rules all of Time","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am very sorry that nobody really appriciates the complexity and hope of the movie version of DUNE. It is my all time favorite movie, above Schindler's List and The Breakfast Club. I saw the movie before I read the book when I was about 8 and I love it more with every passing year. It is a companion to the book but it still stands as a wonderful piece of cinema on it's own. Also, a tip to help you better enjoy DUNE. Watch the widescreen edition, ALWAYS. And in Dolby Digital Surroundsound if possible. And be sure to see the David Lynch 2h 17min version of Dune and not any other version. The other versions contain stock footage and are not edited very well.Thanks "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, just different","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is real Sci-fi, either the book or novel create very complex worlds and people. Of course, it was very difficult to put all the Dune books together in one film, maybe this is the reason why Dune is so severely underrated, the longer version can help a bit to understand better what is happening. I must admit that the last half hour of the 135m version is so rushed that you cannot focus your attention, and it gives the impression that the editors of the film were in a hurry to finish. And the FX are not as great as you could hope.Nevertheless, Dune is not a bad movie, it is a different approach to the sci-fi genre. If you love Star Wars, Star Trek, the Alien saga and other action packed space movies, it may be that you won't like Dune. If you like alternative film making and dare to watch the 190m version (it is better) then you should give it a try. "}{"Title":"A hard-to-judge movie","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably, DUNE is one of the most controversed movie I know. Some people like it, others don't... As a Frank Herbert's fan, I guess it wasn't so bad for its time, compared to the difficult task of bringing this novel on widescreen.If you haven't read the novel yet, I'd suggest you see the movie, as a good introduction to Herbert's world, and only then after to read the books. And if you've already read them, maybe you'll think the movie lacks a lot of things as the story runs to fast... and you'll be disappointed... "},{"Title":"A good movie if you forget the the book.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you remember the basics (if there can be) of the book Dune, then you will like this movie. It is a good movie in it's own right screwed up by editing. Also David Lynch should have never tried to fit the 1st book in to one movie, there is just too much there for that. But despite all against it the acting is good, the visuals stunning. The casting is great; everyone fit his or her roles perfectly. My bottom line is this, read the book, see the movie and enjoy. Though you might be slightly disappointed with story in the movie you will still enjoy it.On a side note, the movie that could have been sounds really interesting. If you are a dune Fan read about it)  "},{"Title":"Pretty good if you read the book","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I saw this movie when i was kind of young and I didnt understand anything about it, I just thought it was some weird movie that a few people said were good.  A few years later when I could understand movies better I saw it again and got most of the story line but it still wasnt that great to me, the story kind of jumped around and left out parts from the book (I didn't read the book at the time).  Well, as time went on my friend kept wanting me to read the book so he could have someone to talk about it since we live in a small town where most of the people here are more interested in sports, the opposite sex, and various other things that I'd rather not do. So I read the book and thats when it hooked me, the book was so awesome I just had to watch the movie again.  When I saw it again (after i read the book) I thought it was the best movie I have ever seen ( I watch the movie almost twice a day on weekdays). The reason I like it so much is because when I saw the movie, it didnt make any sense to me, but when I read the book, it tied everything together and made sense of the whole thing.  Even though they left some parts out from the book, I still liked very much. "},{"Title":"One good movie.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune was indeed a good movie, which needed a lot of work. Lynch was a good writer, good director, bad editor. It cut too swiftly between scenes, and moved too fast. In the novel, it took them about 60 pages to get to Arakkis, in the movie it took about 60 seconds. I would recomend the Alan Smithee version to avid Dune fans rather than the the theatrical cut.  "},{"Title":"See the long version, or read the book first.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the 135 minute version of this movie in the theaters when I was 13 and left the movie wondering what the h*** I had just seen. The plot was convoluted and poorly explained. I thought it stunk. About 5 years later I caught it on cable and saw the uncut version that ran for 190 minutes(4 hours with commercials). The long version made a LOT more sense, the scenes that were restored made the movie make sense and gave me new interest. I recommend this film *if* you can find the long version. If you can't, then read the book instead.  "},{"Title":"More imaginative and complex than the Star Wars saga, but less marketable.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie because someone had suggested that, since I enjoyed the computer game, I would love it. This confused me, since I had read some pretty negative reviews of it. I had to see for myself. I found a copy in an underground video store suggesting that it was the most uncut version available. It seemed like an illegal copy the tapes inside were crudely labeled and there were Cantonese subtitles. I found the film enjoyable, despite the fact that if you miss one word you get lost and confused, like those foreign language films with speedy subtitles. I enjoyed seeing the ties between the latest strategy game with the movie, as with the first chapter I had read when I was in third grade. The acting is good, the script was good (when followed carefully), but some of the special effects were crude and should have been avoided. I have little to complain with the script, as I can see others do. The three-hour version I saw is much clearer, since many essential scenes I viewed were cut when originally released. So don't complain about the film being unclear--read the book.  "},{"Title":"way ahead of his time","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If David Lynch had made this same movie, with the same cast and crew in 1998, it would be heralded as a visual masterpiece, which in fact it is.The production company would still have made cuts, that is their prerogative as the money people, but I just wonder how much more consultation would have taken place with the creative team.. a tad more me thinks!!It is such a tragedy that Lynch will never again touch one of the most brilliant stories ever written.Lynch's obtuse, avante-garde sense of style was tailor-made for Frank's masterpiece of sf.    "},{"Title":"I refuse to rate this with stars or anything else.","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For me, it is first movie watched on videotape. In 1987. In the Ceaușescu Romania. In gray years of a sick regime. So, it was a special experience. For spectacular images. For nice story. For crumbs of nudity and charming couple. For romantic slices and tale of grow - up in a kind of Paradise. Today it is only one of old films for a Friday evening, after a week of work. Not a madlene, not a idyllic territory. Only a childish toy in skin of questions like what age has Lyle Mccanagdal today and what was real nature of David Lynch and his relationship. I don't know if it is a bad movie. Or nice. Or interesting or legendary. It is a piece of my past. And it is enough. Half-boring today. But spectacular in 80's. Like an old picture, I hope don't lost it. "},{"Title":"Dune","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director David Lynch (The Elephant Man, Blue Velvet) has made a number of films that don't make much if not any sense, and this is no exception. Basically it is the year 10,191, on the desert planet Arrakis is the only source of a vital spice called 'Melange' used by the Guild Navigators for space travel to other star systems. Two rival families, the Atreides and the Harkonnens, are fighting for control of the mining operations for Melange on Arrakis. Paul Atreides (introducing Kyle MacLachlan) and his mother Lady Jessica (Francesca Annis) flee deep into the desert, after the death of Paul's father Duke Leto Atreides (Jürgen Prochnow), and there they befriend the Fremen, natives of Arrakis. On the planet, after taking some 'Melange', Paul learns he has special powers and can see into the future, and then he unites the Fremen and forms an army of warriors. Paul is leading them into battle with the man who killed his father, Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (Kenneth McMillan), with Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV (José Ferrer), vowing to avenge his father's death, settle peace and fulfil his destiny. Also starring Leonardo Cimino as The Baron's Doctor, Brad Dourif as Piter De Vries, Linda Hunt as Shadout Mapes, Freddie Jones as Thufir Hawat, Richard Jordan as Duncan Idaho, Virginia Madsen as Princess Irulan, Silvana Mangano as Reverend Mother Ramallo, Everett McGill as Stilgar, Jack Nance as Nefud, Siân Phillips as Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam, Paul L. Smith as The Beast Rabban, Patrick Stewart as Gurney Halleck, Sting as Feyd Rautha, Dean Stockwell as Doctor Wellington Yueh, Max Von Sydow as Doctor Kynes, Alicia Roanne Witt as Alia and Sean Young as Chani. The all star cast is alright, the special effects are a little less impressive than Star Wars before it, and the story isn't one to follow, but it is a sort of likable science fiction drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"It's Like No Other Movie You'll Ever See.","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune (1984), directed by David Lynch, who made the art-house classic Eraserhead (1977), is probably the strangest mainstream science-fiction film ever made. The movie went through a well documented production hell, at various points the film was offered to directors like David Lean, Alejandro Jodorowsky and Ridley Scott. It was finally rescued from this and eventually Lynch was offered it, who took up the chance to make a screen adaptation of Frank Herbert's hugely respected 1965 novel.The films plot is deceptively simple In the far future, a duke and his family are sent by the Emperor to the sand world Dune from which comes a spice that is essential for interstellar travel. But there encounter problems with Paul Atreides, who may or may not be a Messiah the natives have been waiting for. Of course it gets much, much more complicated than this and at times it's almost impossible to follow and reading the book beforehand, I'm reliably informed, is a good idea.The music, photography and set design all very impressive, and the special effects are still good (notably the sand worms and the ships that travel through space), if a little dated in some aspects. The acting is variable to say the least. Sting should never have been included and his performance undoubtedly still haunts him, but Kyle MacLachlan as Paul Atreides brings just the right note of ambiguity to his character and his performance is the stand-out one in the whole picture. But I am beating around the bush here David Lynch's direction lends the whole film a real other-worldly feel that is missing in most science-fiction movies. You really do feel like this is the far, far future. He also gives the film moments of true surrealism that are astonishing for a movie that cost $50 million that the backers obviously wanted back (something which never happened on its original release, Dune failed badly) and was intended for a mainstream audience. Unfortunately, despite and perhaps because of, David Lych's visual panache, the movie is nevertheless incoherent towards the last half hour and even at the end, when I had finally got the plot straight in my head, others I wouldn't be surprised to see scratching there heads.This isn't a film classic, it may not even be a minor masterpiece, but it is one of the few movies to convey the feeling of the future so purely, and because of this, good or not, it's a movie you must see at least once in your life. Whatever it is, it's like no other movie you've ever seen. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen.","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was privileged to be able to see this movie when it first came out in theaters back in the 1980's. And I have to tell you that it blew me away. The music, the acting, the special effects .... all out of this world.One thing I thought was kind of silly was the voice over they gave the little girl towards the end of the movie. It wasn't silly enough to change my rating from a 10 though. LOL As for those that read the book, that is their problem. I didn't, and now probably never will due their rantings. If anything someone should write the book based totally on this movie. It is awesome just the way it is. And for those that say they couldn't understand what was going on without reading the book, well maybe you need to re-watch this movie over and over until you do. I have picked up different nuances every time I watch it, and that must have been at least 40 times by now.And finally, watch this in Blu-Ray on a high-def TV or monitor, with 5.1 sound. It is well worth it. "},{"Title":"Lively imagery, bad storytelling","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've just seen the 3 hour long Extended cut. It's still boring, but a stretch better than the incomprehensible theatrical version. It leaves much to be desired &#151; above all, getting rid of the superfluous thought monologue voice-overs. Dune &#151; a three hour opus told in whispers? Isn't film supposed to be a visual medium? They're particularly unnerving during the action-intensive second half. The music is mostly good and sometimes great, but fails to create suspense &#151; lack of which is a feature of the whole. The special effects are still impressive, especially in the Giant sand worm scenes with lots of dust, but overall they could use digital retouching &#151; the spice-blue eyes were obviously painted on, the blue-screen shots look mostly crappy, Paul's visions (which I imagine totally different, more like information overload)... Salvageable, but not yet there.It's a shame, really. On the up side the sets, the aliens... the costumes are mostly fitting for the characters and hard to imagine any better (this goes for everything but flying machines, training devices and Atreides uniforms). I can only imagine what a more story- and action-oriented director would have achieved with this high quality of production design. The movie suffers from too many static scenes. They create a certain atmosphere, but also slow things down. The portrayal of Paul falls (un)dramatically short of the triumphant ending, which isn't entirely actor Kyle McLachlan's fault &#151; he isn't the Luke Skywalker type, but never truly gets a chance to reveal himself. His visions are what defines him and makes him a demi god, but on film they're boring. The movie tries to make up for its slow pacing by cramming more unimportant details in than necessary, but doesn't reflect the hero's journey in an engaging way. Compared to colorful people like the Harkonnens, Gaius Helen Mohiam, Alia or even Jessica, Paul looks plain, dull and stiff. One could argue that the film's simple good-versus-evil or How-I-built-an-Empire story doesn't really do Frank Herbert's novel justice &#151; like Lord of the Rings without Gollum &#151; but I could live with the ending if the rest was more engaging. It has its moments, but they're countered by things that make me cringe &#151; the Fremen, when they're not fighting, look more like a bunch of string puppets than a fierce army. The book also creates certain expectations for them to look oriental (I haven't noticed one prominent no-Caucasian in the entire cast). Stilgar is a sissy. Gurney and Duncan should have been merged into one character. Baron Harkonnen would have needed more brains to make a truly great villain and set him apart from his minions Feyd and Rabban. The climactic scene where Paul learns of the death of his father is totally mediocre. One keeps waiting for McLachlan's great performance that never comes. Everything... is... simply... too... slow.I much prefer the book in terms of entertainment value (seriously), but I would have missed something had I never seen this film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I guess I'm not the best one to comment on the movie as I find it brilliant and that doesn't sound really objective. However, its also not objective to give a low rate to the movie just because it's a 1984 movie and the special effects weren't as evolved as they are now. I mean when you watch a movie that old, it's pointless to take into regard the special effects at all.Every level of this movie for me is excellent. From the acting to the script itself, the outstanding photography to the great soundtrack. And to reply to the guy with the latest comment, there was actually a reproduction for a TV series that was completed in three parts to cover most of the book but for me it was a total failure. It may had better special effects, as it was produced nearly ten years after this one, but it was the only that it got. The casting was poor and it had nothing of the atmosphere of this movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Direction ruined by a Poor Story","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I did think that David Lynch's visualization of the story was very beautifully done (especially when compared to the later, made for TV version). He manages to bring the viewer into any story directly through the senses, as though guiding you through a dream (albeit, a rather strange and bizarre one).The story, however, is really just awful. Now, I haven't read the book, so it's possible that Dune, the novel, is much more thought provoking than the movie was. But it seems to me that the only ascertainable morals that can be drawn from the story are that leaders can justify their violent actions by calling themselves messiahs and the universe can be divided between the good and the evil; the good are young and handsome and the evil are often ugly and wear a lot of black. That sort of moralizing, which serves as the structure of the story, I just find intolerable. And if that structure seems rotten to me already, than little anything else that stems from it can impress me very much.David Lynch's direction gives this movie a lot of spice, but nothing can bring life to this barren wasteland. "},{"Title":"One of the best Sci-Fi films in the last 25 years","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll echo what other people have said, some people hate it, some love it, me, I love it. For a 'look' I can't think of a better Sci-Fi film (except, perhaps 'Alien') the costumes are just fantastic, as are the sets. OK some of the special effects don't stand up to today's CGI epics, but, and this is a big but, CGI DID NOT EXIST 25 YEARS AGO, so all you moaners can just be quiet about that, yup? I would say it was possibly the best that could have been done with the available technology, people should consider this before slating a film with no regard to it's release date. The film tries very hard to stick to the book, and yes it really should have been at least two or three films in total, but it wasn't, so just over two hours is what you get. The soundtrack is awesome, the acting and casting for the most part pretty darn good for a Sci-fi film and it tackles the interpretation of a classic novel head on, adding a few interpretations of it's own.Watch it, then watch it again, you'll be surprised what you missed, then if you have the time, read the books, and watch it again. 9 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Why I Enjoy this Odd Orphan of a Film...","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A coherent, intelligible story, it seems, is essential for most people to consider a movie good. Perhaps they're right, but I don't always watch movies for the story. Often, I watch for the spectacle. The unique, grand, outrageous, sublime visions of an inspired artist can be reason enough for me to devote 2 or 3 hours of precious personal time. As long as care and skill are evident in the creation of original, imaginative, provocative and wondrous vistas, then I'm on board. In fact, too often the story distracts from the pleasure of experiencing genuinely thrilling images. Alfred Hitchcock had a word for the story. He called it the MacGuffin. The MacGuffin, he explained, is just a device, an excuse to explore character. Of course, he managed to tell excellent, worthwhile stories, too.Dune is visually spectacular. It's memorable. It's grandly outrageous sets, landscapes, costumes and get-ups are vividly etched in my mind. David Lynch has completely infused every aspect of the film's identity with his distinctive oddness. Every surface oozes his now familiar strangeness; every scene is a grand bizarre tableau. It's not quite as grandly heroic a vision as Star Wars, but Dune's appearance is absolutely mesmerizing, disturbingly so. In fact, I found the true wonder and mystery of Herbert's book to be found abstractly in Dune's visual statements, and much less so than in any of its curiously arcane dialog and narration. The book's sprawling and quixotic plot defies translation to the screen, but the essence of the novel is its intense mood and atmosphere. These are absolutely, exquisitely captured by Lynch's stunning visuals.It's almost as though the tortuous story was intentionally made confusing to enhance the visual weirdness. How else could such an incomprehensible, jumbled, hectic, tedious script have gotten the green light? Lynch himself is mystified at its being OK'd by the studio. But that's a topic for another comment. I suppose it doesn't help to convince anyone of this film's worth by suggesting that you just turn down the sound - maybe play a U2 or Beck CD, but certainly not Toto! - and just marvel at the sights. That would just be TOO weird, huh? I had read the book about two years prior to seeing the film and therefor didn't need the plot clearly explained. It seems it was very nearly enough that I was served a visual feast. Dune certainly is a lavishly exotic alien banquet, a bizarre cinematic smörgåsbord of transcendent sights. Most people and critics didn't recognize what was on this alien menu, had no appetite for its peculiar cuisine. Though they were anticipating magical flavors, the world just couldn't stomach Dune's intense blend of rare visual spice, but I did. I ate it up. "},{"Title":"Twenty years after, see it again!","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" DUNE is a sci-fi movie, directed by David Lynch in 1984, based on the novel by Frank Herbert, published in 1965. The novel is considered as one of the greatest works of science fiction of all times. The story happens on a distant future, in a feudal intergalactic empire, where the planetary feuds are controlled by noble houses who owe obedience to the Emperor. The hero of the film is the young Paul Atreides, heir of the Ducado Atreides, responsible for the exploitation of the spice melange, in the planet Arrakis. In a story that explores the complex interactions between politics, religion, ecology and technology, the fate of Paul, its family, of Arrakis and its native inhabitants, as well as the fate of Emperor Padishah, of the powerful Space Corporation and of the mysterious female order of the Bene Gesserit, all finish linked in a confrontation that will change the course of the humanity. Frank Herbert made a great innovation in DUNE, upon using psychological, religious, philosophical and ecological elements, that were up to that time rarely used in science fiction. One of the most interesting characteristics of DUNE is the feudal atmosphere. The noble houses rule the stellar systems, its feuds. There are no robots or computers. All technology is analogical or biological. It has thus a valuation of the human figure and of the political and social intrigues. The film includes Kyle MacLachlan as Paul Atreides and a series of well known European and American actors in the supporting roles, like Francesca Annis, Sting, Jose Ferrer, Virginia Madsen, Pretty Hunt, Patrick Stewart, Max von Sydow and Jürgen Prochnow. David Lynch was chosen by producer Raffaella di Laurentiis, after she had seen The Elephant Man. At that time, Lynch was receiving several invitations, including oner for directing The Return of the Jedi. The filmings began in 1983 with a budget of more than 40 millions dollars. The first version had more than 4 hours and the final version approved by Lynch lasted around 3 hours. But Universal Pictures wanted a cut only two hours long, that could be more apellative to the public. Thus, the producers Dino di Laurentiis and Raffaella di Laurentiis and the director David Lynch had to remove several scenes and simplify sequences. The film premiered in the 3rd of December of 1984 and the expectations were great. In the first place, it was the adaptation for cinema of one of the most popular novels of science fiction. On the other hand, the director David Lynch, had several successes, as Eraserhead or The Elephant Man. The movie was was not well received by the critic and by the public, generating an income well below what was expected. Even David Lynch, in a certain way, denied the film, saying that the final cut was not of his responsibility and that the producers restrained him from having the artistic control of the production. He said I began selling me with DUNE. Looking backwards, I should admit that the fault was mine. Probably, I never should have done this film, but I saw so much possibilities. I could create an entire world. But I received immense indications from Raffaella and Dino di Laurentiis about what kind of film they expected and I could not make the final cut. The movie only obtained 27 millions of dollars in the box office. Given the total costs of 42 millions, it was considered as a finantial flop. As a result of the commercial failure and of the bad reviews, the foreseen sequels were cancelled. The critic was very hard with the film. For example, Roger Ebert wrote This movie is a real mess, an incomprehensible, ugly, unstructured, pointless excursion into the murkier realms of one of the most confusing screenplays of all time. And added that it was the worst film of the year However, with the elapse of the time, the film has been looked in another way, becoming a cult film and being praised by many new critics. Perhaps the noir and baroque approach by David Lynch is more to the current taste. "},{"Title":"A treasure!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Am I insane giving this film 10 out of 10? Perhaps, but then, what can I do about it. I don't know what could have been better. Perfect design and perfect music - perfect, perfect music - a film experience like taking a hallucinogenic drug!I did get the story, but that's not to the point! The film is hypnotic, dwelling, for instance, upon the relevance of embodiment. It is the old Man might be weak by nature compared with animals, but he can produce tools. Tools no good! Be not have! Be not have! it echoes all way through. At some point it gets you. Should you use medicine or breeding schemes?Who knows? Who can tell? Like a wild gorilla joggling its cage Dune shines forth with ideas desperately striving to escape public conventions. Bureaucracy as the rule of heart plug installers!Indeed, Thomas Edward Lawrence, command and I follow! You, finest of all creatures who ever have set foot on earth! You want a mediaeval future? I give you the Landsraad, great houses, noble borns, even if a Duke didn't marry the mother of the - super being! You find yourself betrayed by Diplomats and exploited by unturkish elements of the Osman empire? And who was the actor, who dared to play that role in your biography? Nothing is forgotten! Let everyone be seen as he really is, in all his sadistic lust, born of his inferiority's envy! 'cause, no one compares, no one compares to you!That had to be said too, didn't it? The sword means two things death and cleanliness. Hi, ho... We will kill until no Harkonnen breathes Arrakean air! But there's one thing that eluded Herbert's attention. Of the Wahibis Lawrence wrote that they'd be a moslem heresy. So, perhaps the cleaning of Arrakis of foreigners to that extend might not have been exactly in Lawrence' sense, though we all know that today it is the political agenda of some.You see? It is a treasure! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A truly hard thing to do is a take a concept of a book and make it your own in the form of a movie.I believe that this movie did this very well.If you watch this movie with the mindset of it being like the book, you will be disappointed.....but the fact is.......Going into the movie with the mindset that it is a different experience than the book, you will find that this is an amazing movie, the most amazing thing is perhaps that it was made in 1984...and some of the effects in this movie for that time are unheard...i honestly believe that this movie nearly puts the star wars series to shame..having seen both the frank Herbert version of the movie from 2000 and seeing the mini series...i believe both of those were highly disappointing.....Dune is a classic in science fiction, and a truly ground breaking film of its era....... "},{"Title":"Freaks and monsters.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frank Herbert's Dune works as a potent tale of political intrigue to gain control of an essential natural resource, only found on the desert plant Arrakis (nicknamed Dune). Imperial families (the noble Attreides - metaphor for the Americans - and the evil Harkonnens - metaphor for the soviets/Nazis?) vie for control of the planet, until the son of the former family joins the local nomadic freedom fighters.Enter producer Dino De Luaurentiis, intent on adapting the epic novel to the screen, with the help of director Ridley Scott. Scott again brilliantly enlisted H.R. Giger to design the creatures and environments. Of this version of Dune, only a few paintings and memories remain. Exeunt Scott and Giger, enter David Lynch.David Lynch's film is a mixed bag, with almost equal strokes of genius and ineptness. The acting is quite poor in places and it remains a mystery how, in a post Star Wars environment, FX in a major motion picture could be such a let-down. The genius lies in Lynch's crazed portrayal of the Harkonnen family, whose physique, wardrobe and even planet rank with the finest and most deranged of Lynch's visual creations. The use of voice-overs is a poor compromise to make up for 30 minutes of lacking screen time that could have fleshed-out and bettered the whole thing (this stuff was neither written nor shot).Dune is fascinating and, if only for its design, deserves its cult following. Unfortunately, there is just no denying how all this could have been better. Perhaps in time, the Scott-Giger version will yet be made...Numerous flaws notwithstanding, Dune deserves to be seen, if only for the delicious parade of freaks on display. This is something no other director could have contributed and makes David Lynch's Dune unique and well worth a look. "}{"Title":"Quite Possibly the Purest Sci-Fi Movie Ever","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seldom in the annals of Moviedom does a film like this get made. For all its faults, and they are multitude, this is pure sci-fi; unabashed, unapologetic, and as harsh as the deserts it depicts. Lynch has taken Herbert's vision and crafted a visually seamless and stunning portrayal of life in the year 10191. from the nearly credit-less opening to the windswept ending, the pageantry runs non-stop, unmarred by artifacts that would cause a breakage of that most fragile of movie-goer mindsets the suspension of disbelief. Never once does one feel they are watching a movie of impossibilities, but rather a paean of future history. Are there possible improvements? certainly, but there are few movies that are perfect of both vision and execution, and Dune comes damn close. "},{"Title":"Realistic and compelling","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Acting, sound effects, music and special effects were all very well done for it's time just like first 2 star wars movies.Read the book, then watch the movie. You'll understand it much more as many parts of the movie were hard to follow if you weren't paying close attention. The intricate plot and characters are very enjoyable. I enjoyed the mini-series release in 200X but the caliber of actors was better in this original adaptation of the book.I would recommend to watch it alone on a quite evening. It's very realistic, as in believable sci-fi, as in believable characters and situations. If you haven't seen it yet, again I recommend read Frank Herbert's Dune and then after awhile watch the movie to get the most out of it. There is also a computer game that is from the producer of this movie. The most recent update is called Emperor, Battle for Dune. If you enjoyed this movie, try the game too. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really love Dune. The reason I watched this film for the first time years ago was the fact that I had played Dune 2 The Building of a Dynasty. I had never read the book or even heard of it until I saw the film (and no, I still haven't read the book and probably never will, I don't like reading). Years after watching the film for the first time I also played the original Dune game, which was great, as well.Dune has a perfect set of actors; to mention some of my favorites Kyle MacLachlan, Everett McGill (funny, they both were cast in another David Lynch masterpiece, Twin Peaks) and Jürgen Prochnow (I prefer him without a mustache & beard though, lol!). I can't help mentioning Sting as well, even though I prefer him as an artist.Another thing I loved about this film was the stunningly beautiful music. Especially I liked the piece that was played during the end credits.The movie itself had a good plot (I must remind you I haven't read the book so I don't know whether the movie was anything even close to the book??). It was fun to watch, there were no boring moments. I was a bit confused in the beginning of the film though, the Emperor had a strange guest, I can't remember what the thing was called or what its purpose was... if you've seen it, you know what I'm talking about (the pink creature...??).Anyway, I REALLY recommend this film to everyone, it's really a pleasure to watch! "},{"Title":"beautiful imagery, gruesome story-telling","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never read the book. The Dune-bug bit me with the 2000 mini series. First I didn't get it. But then I watched it on DVD, the whole 4 hours in one go. I got sucked into this amazing world. I love the story. I find the mini series colorful and expressive, human, passionate, with interesting characters, exquisite costumes, beautiful interiors, but cheap-looking special effects.Lynch's Dune is exactly the opposite. I love the special effects, given the technology available in 1984. The worm cannot be done any better.My biggest issue is the complete lack of humor. Like many other science fiction movies, it takes itself to serious but the characters not serious enough. Think Flash Gordon. The characters talk about emotions, but they don't act them, because the script doesn't let them. So many great actors, so little fun. The whole movie feels static and rigid. This continues with the production design. The retro-look combines 20000 leagues with 19th century Austrian Empire. Some darker elements remind of Brazil, but without its sense of self-irony and caricature.Then the casting of Paul. I find it difficult to take Kyle MacLachlan seriously in this role. On his hero's voyage from nobody to reluctant hero to acceptance of his destiny nothing happens in his face. Same look, same posture, no matter what. Compare it with Alec Newman in the mini series.However, there's a lot to like about this movie. The visually rich production design, stunning special effects, and great actors.The movie does a great job at visualizing a fantasy universe. It just fails to tell a compelling story. I think of it as a picture book. It's fun to watch in pieces of 30 seconds. Oh, how was the hand-in-a-box test again? Ah, there it is.By the way, if you're into the depiction of sexually degrading power-plays, you'll find a few scenes. This is a David Lynch movie after all. Just don't expect a cohesive and interesting story that keeps you on the edge of your seat for two hours. -) "},{"Title":"the most confusing movie ever made","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" dune has become one of my all time guilty pleasures, right up there with 1941, tommy and casino royale (yes, I've got strange tastes. I saw Dune on opening weekend, and it was the most confusing film I'd ever seen-a title it still holds. SPOILERS-near the beginning, for example, the reverend mother tests paul with the gom jabbar (it makes sense if you've read the book). I didn't understand who these people were, what they were doing, or why they were doing it. This continued for the next 90 minutes; in the last 45, I finally started to figure out who was who, despite the fact that Lynch basically turned it into the cliff notes version of the book. And yet, seeing this on the big screen, with the big sound, I was absolutely blown away. If you're one of the people who fell in love with DUNE on TV, you haven't really seen it. The movie got me to read the book ( a masterpiece), all the sequels, four of the prequels, the dune encyclopedia, and frank herbert's biography by his son. I'm glad that the film has a cult, because I've been in that cult since December 15, 1984. The TV commercials and trailer (it ran with ALL OF ME) had me chomping at the bit to see it. "},{"Title":"&#145;I Foresee A Lack Of Understanding' &#150; Usal Muad'dib.","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is without doubt a more than ordinary science &#150; fiction movie. The defining factors here are the complexity of the story and of the characters. Indeed as the Guild Navigator mind read the Emperor &#145;I see plans within plans'. On first viewing, one may be &#145;Lost In Translation'. There are a lot of reasons for this. The first, as previously indicated, is that the story is an involved one. The second is that in trying to adapt a story from an immense novel, editing may leave out aspects that will clarify certain points in the story. The last one belongs to the Director &#150; David Lynch. One of the best he may be, but also one who likes to tease audiences with bizarre images. &#145;Dune' gave him ample opportunity to indulge. The fantasy aspect of the story meant that the character list was a tongue &#150; twisting affair. We have among others, Reverend Mother Ramallo; Usal Muad'dib; Gurney Halleck; Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV and Feyd &#150; Rauta. Try saying that all in one go. But these complicating factors are also its endearing qualities, especially the mind &#150; boggling story. Indeed it promotes its longevity. Although not a movie for everyone, fans will find themselves drawn into the web of deceit and the beautiful, cruel world of &#145;Dune'.There are a number of others aspects underlying the movies appeal other than its story. The grand sets, solid performances and special effects contribute greatly to the spellbinding affect. It is this combination of factors that, for me, make it stand out amongst the remake. I thought it superior to the mini &#150; series in almost all departments. Even when taking into account the natural preference one may have for seeing &#145;Dune' before the series, I still stand steadfast by my opinion.As mentioned, the storyline is the factor that makes it the most unique sci &#150; fi movie that I have seen. The hero's journey is a perilous one wrought with obstacles the likes of which have never been seen before. We have a psychic fraternity of women; a cruel and repulsive opposing family; a tangled web of deceit and, of course, the worms. Let's not forget the terrain that the worms inhabit. Not a drop of rain has fell on Arrakis. There are so many movies revolving around the unlikely hero who rises to become the one, the messiah. But as in &#145;The Matrix', this is not noticeable. The originality of the world that the characters inhabit and the events that pull them together in the quest for the power to control the universe, entices you in beyond the predictability giving you a thrilling journey.The sets are at times breathtaking. Not only do they appear realistic, even by today's standards, they also accentuate the nature of the characters. The opening scenes with the Guild Navigator and the Emperor show a set which displays an aura of power and wealth. A palace thus befitting a ruling monarch. The Guild Navigators craft and the holding tank for the 4th stage Navigator is indicative of the ominous and twisted beings that they are. The spice Melange has done them no favors' as far as appearance goes. House Harkonnen resides in a dark and foreboding place created to indulge their disgusting way of life (please note the drain). The craft they possess is of an imposing nature. Robust and crass thus mirroring their character. The set for the House Atreides creates a sense of opulence and taste. It is indicative of a noble family in the 18th century. The contrasting sets for the enemies distinguishes them into distinctly good and evil. A lot of hard work was put into the sets which paid off tremendously as the world of &#145;Dune' was bought to life for the big screen.The ensemble cast was superb and it was obvious that everyone was taking the movie seriously. Kyle Maclachlan was solid as Paul Atreides. Jurgen Prochnow as always plays the leader with his own cool quality. There is also a notable appearance by Sting who seemed to relish the opportunity at playing a bad guy. The star performance must undoubtedly go to Kenneth Macmillan who played the Baron giving us a reminder of a character we first encountered at school &#150; Richard III. The audience can also sense the fun he has with the role which does not detract from the evil nature of the character. The audience would have believed that the Baron was a twisted man who wanted to destroy all that is beautiful since he was afflicted with a disgusting ailment. This portrayal was not achieved in the TV series which gave us a more unbalanced character on the side of comic relief. The movie gave us a Harkonnen which was a far darker breed thus posing a far greater obstacle to our heroes. Although we see more of the characters in the series, the image of the maimed and disgusting Harkonnen of the movie is the one that lingers.The special effects were noticeable by their weaknesses in a few scenes, but this is through the eyes of someone attuned to the special effects of today's movies. At times the characters seem to be copied and pasted onto scenes. The shields certainly looked fake. But on the whole they were still better than the series, especially the Worms who exuded a far greater power which was accentuated by the natural elements in the form of lightning. Indeed a memorable touch. The TV series was more elaborate but only succeeded in magnifying the fakeness.Another interesting point involves the use of voice &#150; over as a method to give the audience a deeper sense of the story when we learn of characters inner thoughts. This adds to the surreal effect of the movie which may or may not have been intended. The initial intention was probably to try to tap into the multi - layered story that &#145;Dune' is and bring this translation to the big screen. I believe that it assisted the fantasy aspect of the story more than the insight that was intended.  I have to agree with other users here that the ending does not do just to the slow, methodical build &#150; up of the movie. It needs about 15 &#150; 20 minutes extra to heighten the climatic scene and to not feel that we are being briskly guided to the exit door. However, there was a problem of choice since the movie would have been deemed to be too long. But the end choice did leave a gap creating a desire for another production which evolved into the TV series. Sci &#150; fi has a mass appeal which rivals that of the action genre. We have a deep desire to explore the unknown and the advancement of technology does not satiate this, it exasperates it. Therefore the space travel and aliens has a certain resonance for us as the world becomes smaller and our natural boundaries are less inhibiting. It is so easy to learn about ourselves and the world around us, that we neglect this as we look further. The sci &#150; fi movies address these fantasies and &#145;Dune' succeeds sublimely. It may not be the most popular, it may not be one of the best, but it is certainly one of the most sophisticated. If you are looking for a sci &#150; fi movie outside the norm, &#145;Dune' should pose to be no disappointment.                    "},{"Title":"One of the worst sci-fi films I have ever seen","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There can't be alot to write about this lumbering, cumbersome film. In my considered opinion, book adaptions should never be atempted in the film world (with a few exceptions such as American Psycho)and Dune served only to reinforce my views. At times, Lynch is a master film maker with incredible vision and imagination. At others he is awful. The script is terrible, the characters never develop and who really wants to see Sting 'act'? Sorry Dave, bad call. "},{"Title":"Confusing","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Dune stands out as a good movie that was made bad by confusing editing.  The movie is very hard to follow for someone like me - who has not read the book.   Maybe reading the book first would help, but still, it seems that David Lynch tried to put too much into the movie.   The special effects are good and the movie has many memorable moments, but the movie lacks cohesion and tends to drag on.  I rated it a 4. "},{"Title":"Stick to the book","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is a unfortunate example of what happens when a large novel is not adapted when it is made into a 2 hour movie. It is just a bunch scenes stolen from the book, thrown together to advance the plot at record speed, which are cut drastically short so they lose all the the subtle meaning which makes the book great. Oh, and don't forget the David Lynch weirdness thrown in for no reason. I was ashamed, confused, and angry at this film and I am sorry that I ever watched it. On the positive side, MOST of the special effects were quite good for '84 and Sting was surprisingly fun to watch. But that was about all the film has going for it, and now that it is not 1984 anymore, the only reason to watch it is to see Sting doing his best Billy Idol impersonation.  "},{"Title":"A master's disaster","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is a great example of what can happen when studio executives interfere in the work of great film makers. Every time I see it, I have to remind myself that it is not a work of David Lynch alone. Still it hurts to see what a mess they made of the combined talents of David Lynch and Frank Herbert. The best thing about the film is that Lynch introduces us to his star to be Kyle MacLachlan as Paul Atrides. If you are a Lynch fanatic it is a must. If you are a Herbert fanatic it is painful. And you just enjoy a good film every now and then, it is a waste of time. Go for Blue Velvet or 2001 A Space Odyssey depending on the reason for considering this film.  "}{"Title":"rewatching it shows few bright spots","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, when I first saw this, I was in agony.  Now 15 years later, I can see a few things that are impressive. But essentially you have a movie that could only make sense and majesty from a masterpiece of fiction by being a minimum of 4-5 hours.  The sets and costumes are well done, but the ship and weapon design was pathetic...the bread and butter for selling a scifi movie.  This isn't a period piece, but it plays like a silly 19th century Doug McClure Journey to the Center of the Mohave Desert with special guest appearances by Capt Picard and Billy Babbitt.  Winner of the movie that made Sean Young look as un-hot as possible.  "},{"Title":"a psychadelic, surrealistic experience...","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the tradition of Luis Bunuel's Un Chien Andalou, DavidLynch's Dune is a great surrealists' film.  Lynch is one ofour last modern-day surrealist directors.  All his films containboth dreamlike and nightmarish fantasies that seem to come froma world beyond our own.  Although Dune is one of his mostHollywoodized films, it is also one of his most surreal.  Hisvision of a distant, medieval universe complete with monsterousaliens is very inspiring.  Many people unfamiliar with FrankHerbert's novel don't like this film because they do notunderstand it.  Comprehension is irrelevant in looking atLynch's work, as one might notice from Twin Peaks  Fire WalkWith Me.  Dune is the kind of film that made me realize thatI wanted to  "},{"Title":"My butt fell asleep","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune was a wonderfully complex novel.  David Lynch is a wonderfully complex director.  Dune is a wonderfully complex mess.  And a freshman in directing school knows not to talk to the camera! "},{"Title":"rubbish.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An over-rated mess of a film.  This is not a classic as some (but not many) would have you believe.  It is boring, confusing,  too abstract and way too long.  The plot meanders along, never really bothering to explain just what the hell is happening or why,  the effects are laughable, and the acting is wooden. If someone tells you it is a 'cult-classic', just spit on them until they leave. "},{"Title":"So bad, so bad...","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this in '84 when it first arrived in theaters - and I thought it sucked then. Jump ahead almost 30 years and I thought I'd give it the benefit of the doubt and watch it again. It didn't age well, but at least the suckage is consistent. David Lynch was a weird choice for director. Period. Most of his films since this have proved that he, like Tarantino, thinks he's a total genius when in reality he's merely a self-indulgent well financed poseur who has manged to fool some of the people all of the time. And whoever made the decision to have constant damned voice overs so that we, the obviously too stupid viewers can be spoon-fed every attempt at subtext, should have been tossed over the edge of the nearest convenient cliff. Of course, it was probably Lynch. I hear there's a re-boot in pre-production as I (figuratively) speak whoever's behind it has my heartfelt best wishes. Nothing could be as bad as this POS. "},{"Title":"This is a difficult one","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You try to make a movie that is being 10 years in production, which had people like Salvador Dali, Alejandro Jodorowsky, Orson Wells, Ridley Scott and H.R Geiger attached to it. You turn down George Lucas, an if your name is not David Lynch you can only deliver a train wreck. If you are Lynch you can truly make something different, but you don't because your work has been tampered with.Frank Herbert's Dune is one of the most complex Sci-fi novels ever written. It's almost impossible to make in to a miniseries (they tried). To try making it into a 2 hour movie could just mean a disaster. The main problem of the movie is it just doesn't tell the story well. And it can't. Not in 2 hours! But it tries, and that is the main problem, and that is why I won't even go into the plot. I read most of the Dune books, and that movie just doesn't make sense of it. If you see it before you read the book you will know nothing, if you see it after your read the book you just can't like it. I personally love Lynch's films Eraserhead, Blue Velvet, even The Straight story, but to make such movie as Dune in the 80 is like trying to blend together Godzilla and Roland Emmerich a decade later, it just doesn't work. But there is no doubt we should appreciate the effort (in both cases). The cast was exceptional, but all these stars had limited screen time. Sean Young, Patrick Stewart, Jurgen Prochnow, Virginia Madsen, Kenneth McMillan, Linda Hunt, the beautiful Francesca Annis, even Sting and Max von Sydow. With these people around the then young Kyle MacLachlan, who shined late in Twin Peaks, just couldn't make Paul Atreides interesting. The other problem is the inner monologue, it is just too distracting. Third the special effect, after Alien and Star Wars were laughable. The redeeming quality are the sets, they make the movie sticks with you. It's a movie that you remember even if you try to forget it. For movie lovers it's a movie like Blade Runner, a movie of the edge, but it didn't age as well as Scott's masterpiece did. I saw the theatrical version of Dune on DVD, beautifully restored, but I would love to see the rumored Lynch's 4 hour cut. For general audiences it's just too bizarre and complicated. For film buffs it's not rewarding enough. It's no high cinema, it's no trash, it's no product of the 80-s like Red Sonya or They Live it's a movie that I fear will never find a place because it was not taken to the end. Should you see it? Yes. Will you like it? Probably not. There might be a formula to see it, at least for the people who read the book, try to forget that it is Dune, you might appreciate it more. "},{"Title":"Blashemous. Disgusting. Ugly.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know language foul enough to express my feelings regarding this movie. It butchers a book that is considered to be the best sci-fi epic and my personal favourite. After buying it and watching it I felt absolutely cheated. How is it possible that David Lynch has so little sense of beauty? How could he make THAT book, which is full of colour into such disgusting greyness?I am not even going to start to talk about the GAPING, SCREAMING Plot holes. David, WATER KILLS SANDWORMS! WHAT WAS WITH THAT RAIN SCENE?!The movie also suffered from a costume-designer and make-up artist with a severe lack of good taste - the Sardaucars' uniforms and Baron Harkonnen's face being their biggest screw up.David, if there's Hell, I hope you rot in it for what you did with Frank Herbert masterpiece.For those who want an accurate movie based on Frank Herbert's Dune, look for the mini series Dune from 2000 with Alec Newman.I give David's Dune -***** (that would be minus) out of *****This movie shoudl be avoided like the plague from the fans of the book.  "},{"Title":"Flash Gordon without the sense of humour","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OMG, WTF?! I cant believe people rave about this movie! It's RUBBISH. I thought it was a 'B' movie! The acting is wooden, the script is frankly so bad it's hilarious - and I believe it's a source material for The Mighty Boosh (remember Rudy?) - thats how bizarre & stupid it is. The part where they give Paul Atreides his new name had me in stitches, but I don't think it was meant to be funny. And considering this film was made in 1984 (post blade runner, return of the jedi) why do the SFX look like rejects from the original series of battlestar galactica? to me they look a bit like the cartoons from Monty Python. It's a shame Ridley Scott didn't get to make his vision of Dune - he'd never have stood for that garbage, although I can't help thinking Scott dodged a bullet here. I hated this film, don't buy it unless you're into the 'so-good-it's-bad' thing, or if you want a really crap spoof. I'm not sure what this film could be a spoof of though, I haven't read the book yet, perhaps it's a spoof of that? "},{"Title":"sci-fi fiasco","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the beginning we are subjected to a travelogue of different planets, feudal politics, lineages, different species, guilds, prophecies, strange retro-future technology, various characters with various powers and agendas, and awkward sounding multiple names for most everything -- without any reason to care about any of it, let alone comprehend it.The details are plucked from the novel without a clear purpose, and force fed through voice-over exposition and whispered monologues, instead of through dramatic acting and dialog.So what do we have ... a bunch of witches with ESP. They're kinda mean. A drug, produced by giant worms, which allows users to 'fold time' and those who control the refinement and trade of the drug to Rule The Universe. They're ruthless. The big worms have no personality one way or another. A boring prince is revealed to be the 'chosen one', easily learns the mystic weirding yodel and other ill defined super powers, and after the death of his boring parents, fairly easily wrests control of the drug from the villains -- notably the flying fatman, whose grossness is the only element in the movie given much focus from the director.Almost sounds like it could be fun, but it's totally witless and inept. "},{"Title":"Sacrilege or bad film-making?","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That things are left out is expected. But why does the film have to seem so hurried? Characters get no time to step into, well... character. Instead, they have a quick thinking monologue to the camera and that's it. The movie uses the basic story from Frank Herberts masterpiece, but not only fails to tell it right, it changes it to fit the basic movie plot. Instead of showing Paul as a would-be saint/hero/messiah, he IS the messiah with god-like powers and all. Which is just about as wrong as you can go. The only point of Herberts that this film is making, is that if you put a lot of people in a sort of committee to make decisions, they will muddle up things and do a worse job than one man could have done alone. Lynch was not allowed to do the film as he wanted, but was controlled from the producers side. And look at the result!!  "}{"Title":"dated and muddled","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" They gave this away free with a Sunday newspaper recently. Thank goodness I didn't buy it. After the hype I was disappointed in the plot(an unclear and feeble fairy story type), the acting(Sian Phillips OK, rest dire - couldn't they get Brian Blessed for the flying baddie?), the sets and costumes(compare the brilliant & much earlier Star Wars with this lot).Lynch's directing surprised me(very little tension in the scenes and flat camera shots with no impact(e.g. when the worm first crunches the desert digger- it's a nothing)as I enjoyed The Elephant Man and Mullholland Drive a lot. Even the sound track is dull.Sorry not for me. Maybe the book is better. "},{"Title":"Only for Lynch/Herbert completionists","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From what I understand about Frank Herbert's classic science-fiction novel, Dune was almost certainly unfilmable to begin with--not only because of its considerable length, but largely in part to its extremely dense, complex structure. There is a fair chance that the whole enterprise was doomed to begin with, although the filmmakers deserve credit for having the guts to undertake such a mammoth project. Sad to say, the results is a long, boring, and confusing turkey. It has since gone down in history as one of the all-time box-office flops. Director David Lynch himself says he wasn't too happy with the film, traditionally regarded as his worst movie. Perhaps it would be clearer had I been more familiar with the source material. For fans of the novel, it might adequately serve as a companion piece to the Herbert original, but as a stand-alone film, it's an unqualified failure.From the start I knew that it was going to be a bad film. The opening scenes are absolutely incomprehensible (confusing would be too generous a word), setting up the story with warring factions fighting over production of Spice, supposedly the most important substance in the universe. The details are hard to keep track of, foreshadowing the convoluted plot of the film as a whole. I was never entirely clear on who was against who. After a while, I just stopped caring and waited for the end credits. I felt bad for Lynch, who spent long months on this massive project, with such disappointing results. This could have been a potential career suicide, but thankfully, he recovered in no time at all, giving us the brilliant Blue Velvet. But from among his oeuvre, Dune still sticks out like a sore thumb.It might have helped somewhat had the film had the sense of awe and wonder that marks the best of the genre; The Empire Strikes Back, Blade Runner, Dark City, and so forth. But that was not to be. He seems to have made a conscious effort to drain any sense of joy; as a result the whole thing is actively hostile to the viewer. Just about everything is ugly and drab. The somber, sober tone, combined with the convoluted plot, makes this a tiring, unrewarding experience. Many of the special effects are embarrassingly cheesy and fake-looking. Whether this was intentional, or due to a rushed postproduction schedule, I cannot say. I will give it this; the sets are fairly well-done, and the cast is interesting, especially a pre-Next Generation Patrick Stewart in a minor supporting role.Directorially, there is little that can be done with such mediocre material. No doubt David Lynch tried, but the maddening circumstances he was burdened with has doomed his efforts to failure. Every director has his off day. Stanley Kubrick had Spartacus. Oliver Stone had Any Given Sunday. Ridley Scott had 1492. Martin Scorsese had Boxcar Bertha. James Cameron began his own career with Piranha 2 The Spawning. And Lynch had Dune.*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures "},{"Title":"I expected a lot more from Lynch.","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is total sh*t ! Instead of watching it I recommend to read the book.The plot is in such a mess, that I doubt it if someone could understand something close to the book.Usually Lynch's movies are pure art.Intelegently written plots, incredible photography, detailed scenes ...But this .. this ...I expected nothing close to what I saw.I am disgusted! Two hours wasted time.Another Hollywood sh*t, from a good book. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't for the life of me understand the outrageous number of positive reviews for this horrible movie. I've never been a subscriber to the the book was better cliché, but if you've read Frank Herbert's Dune, and enjoyed it... stay as far away from this movie as you possibly can.It's one thing to take some creative license in a book-turned-movie, but when you remove vital elements of the plot and randomly throw in new ones to cover it up (weirding modules??? what the hell?), you're just ruining the story. The Bene-Gesserit breeding plan is mentioned once at the beginning of the movie, and then completely done away with in the story. Baron Harkonnen is just some evil, insane fat man (not the despicable but cunning grandfather of Paul as in the novel). The fight between Paul and his cousin Feyd-Rautha at the end is just pointless filler with no relation to the plot. The entire portion of the story in which Paul befriends, earns the trust of, and becomes the leader of the Freman becomes he's the one from the prophecy OK let's follow him lol. Hell half of the movie doesn't even make sense unless you've read the novel, and then it's just butchered anyway.Add to the mix HORRIBLE ACTING (I don't know what you people who complimented it were thinking) and terrible special effects (standard for the 80's I suppose) and you get one steaming pile of refuse.I suppose I can't comment for those who saw the movie before the book, but even then, this is not an enjoyable movie. Maybe if you're really intoxicated. Maybe. "},{"Title":"send this movie into a Black Hole !!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  talk about your confusing movies.. this one had me lost from start to finish.. BORRINGGG is all i can say... i saw this stinker cause i like Sting and Kyle .. but why did they do this one for ??????  Sting is a good actor.. but he sure made a mistake doing this crapperoo of a picture....in all this time ive never figured out this one.. good thing the ticket prices werent too high back when this came out.. cause NO way would i put out $12.50 for this garbage.. i'd advise anyone NOT to rent this movie.. save your money for something better.. and who'd need novacaine when all they'd have to do is just watch this junk and they'd be right out of it !! i kinda wished i had been too when i first saw it!!!!!!!!!1 "},{"Title":"Lynch Wasn't the Man for Dune","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune (1984) * (out of 4) Frank Herbert's landmark novel was finally brought to the screen by David Lynch after several failed productions. In the film Kyle MacLachlan plays Paul Atreides a man who leads his people against an evil ruler who wants to rule the world with spice.I'm not going to go into a great detail of the plot. After all, why should I bother doing that when it seems clear that Lynch didn't bother making a film with any sort of plot. I haven't read the novel that the film was based on so I can't say how great or awful the movie did in its adaptation but as someone who hasn't read the novel I can say that Lynch did a terrible job at making me understand the story. DUNE was bashed by critics and fans when it was originally released and it's easy to see why.There are so many problems with this film starting with the actual story. I've read other reviews where people explain what they're seeing on the screen but for the life of me I saw nothing. Instead of any actual story we're just given a bunch of long scenes that really drag on to no end and are full of some nice images but they all add up to nothing. If a film could be called all style and no substance then DUNE would be a good example but with that said I'd question some of the actual style as well.Look, Lynch is without question one of the most visually interesting directors of the past few decades but it's easy to see that he wasn't right for this movie. I mean, what did the producers see in ERASERHEAD and THE ELEPHANT MAN that made them think he could deliver a mainstream science-fiction movie? The storytelling is quite awful but I can't speak if the extended version is any better. The movie has a lot of gory scenes that some have complained about but I honestly thought this was some of the best stuff in the picture.There are some wonderful actors to be found under the tons of make-up and costumes but none of them really stand out as being great. It would be hard for any actor to get out from under the style and lack of story. DUNE is a film that some praise but I'm certainly not going to be one of them. It's an overly long and brutally boring picture that is a mess from the opening minutes to the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time in about twenty years. I have not read the books but I only have one observation. When I first saw the movie I thought it was a mess and found it hard to watch.However what I saw on my second viewing recently an attempt, I don't know if David Lynch thought this because he never speaks about it,as what we see quite commonly now as comic book movies created from their own comic book creations.Everything is done on such a grand scale right down to the quality of the cast but you could look at it as a series of well framed shots. Very similar to the first Michael Keaton Batman venture.Several frames looking great as a still. Even the thought dialogue would have fit nicely into bubbles. All sounds basic but think about it. I think it may have been the first picture book movie as an adaptation from a novel.I know its not a major thought but I now find the movie more interesting and innovative. "},{"Title":"Weird, beautiful, thought-provoking, exciting but feels unfinished","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very weird movie that feels incomplete in many ways. Part of that is because it's based on an epic novel that would be difficult to put on screen in a single film even in 2015. So it was an extremely ambitious task to try to make it in 1984. But the result has some of the most gorgeous and interesting sets and costumes I've ever seen in a movie. I was blown away by a lot of the imagery.Some of the special effects are really cool and impressive and some are fairly weak (but not terrible). The force-field thing was pretty awesome and unique and the worms were also quite convincing and majestic. The acting is very solid overall with many famous people making appearances. Kyle MacLachlan (from Twin Peaks) is really cool in particular, plus there are several strikingly beautiful actresses that I would totally never develop a crush on ever. The cast of characters is quite colourful, providing lots of variety of personalities and points of view.I read Dune a few years ago and thought it was awesome although I still haven't read many books let alone sci-fi ones so I don't have a lot to compare it with. I liked the richness of detail, all the different kinds of people and cultures, the cool names, the weapons, the philosophy. It makes you believe in its world and want to learn more. I've always had a thing for fantasy and sci-fi, that it fulfills some deeper urge or purpose for humans. We're not meant to just be sitting around in offices or watching TV, we are meant to have grander lives, incredible journeys.This movie seems to be fairly true to the book, Frank Herbert was apparently impressed and generally satisfied with what it was able to achieve. It's main flaw is that it's far from polished. The script has too many gaps. The movie doesn't flow very well. I roughly knew the story so I could get what was happening and was overjoyed to revisit the story for the first time since I read the book. I think it has the makings of a great movie. They just needed to spend more time on the script or give more creative control to the director. Something like that.Apparently David Lynch considers this his only failure. It's funny because I'm pretty sure it's also one of his highest grossing films (and I think it's actually very good for a worst film). The issue, of course, is that it cost a fair bit to make and bombed relative to that amount. But the box office can depend a lot on marketing and timing (and luck) as much as quality. Many films have become far more popular as videos than in their original cinematic release.It was very interesting and exciting to see a totally different kind of Lynch movie as well, more of a Hollywood spectacle than a creepy dream-like thriller. I think he's very brilliant when it comes to imagery and style in general. I wish Hollywood would take more chances with auteur directors, giving them large budgets and solid franchises to work on (like Christopher Nolan with Batman for example).I have to say I liked the music a lot. It grew on me over time and seemed to fit the tone and mood of the subject matter very well. There is a lot of mystery but also inevitability, that something profound is due to happen soon. Together with the visuals and some of the philosophical quotes, it can give you shivers down the spine. I sometimes find movies are like a way to add to my dreams. They give you more emotional states to play with. I can close my eyes and be Paul Muad'dib and hear the music and recite one of his mantras and feel enlivened. It can give you strength and calmness. It's all about escapism isn't it? And yet, perhaps, delving inwards and finding new things or finding closure. "},{"Title":"If Star Wars is Champagne & speed, this is morphine & Cognac.","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It never launched a toy industry (although it should of) & it was criticised at the time of release & still is. Nevertheless, Dune is a masterpiece.The aesthetic & storytelling weaves you into an almost lovingly claustrophobic & intimate relationship with the film. However this doesn't suffocate you or make you feel uneasy, rather it lulls you. The film caresses your senses & cradles you through. If Star Wars is Champagne & speed, this is morphine & cognac.The acting is excellent. The aesthetic stands the test of time. If you're a popcorn shoveler, you might not agree with the previous sentence.This film is the closest thing I have ever seen to an actual dream. It's simply beautiful. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sci-Fi","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is not a bad older science fiction film - it's quite good really. I have never read the book but heard the film is almost just like the book - not a lot of changes.I am like most of other people - the best part of the film is with the sandworms. This part of the film seems reminiscent of Return of the Jedi's sarlacc. (Also read 'Star Wars Missions 5 The Hunt for Han Solo' where Dune Worms (which may contain spice) are found in the Dune Sea on Skywalker's home planet Tatooine.) I also love the battle between the awesome but evil Feyd Rautha (Sting) and the dashing hero Paul Atreides (MacLachlan). It's a pretty cool scene in the film.Anyway, if you like 'Star Wars', 'The Last Starfighter' Krull' or 'Enemy Mine' then you might like the movie Dune.8/10 "}{"Title":"Remake?","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There needs to be a new theatrical version of this film. With updated FX, CGI, and the new talented makeup artists it has the potential be an epic production. Maybe they could be a little more true to the book, because some of the story was left out.I really enjoyed the original but there have been so many remakes lately why not this classic. There will always be a special place in my heart for the original movie but I think the time has come for some new blood to take over and move this awesome movie into the future. I am sure there are a few directors who would like to take on the task. As long as they don't do like what they did total recall and completely change around so it's not even the same movie. "},{"Title":"Like sand in your eye","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Much has been made of the unintelligible plot of David Lynch's adaptation of 'Dune' but does anyone notice how dull and joyless the whole thing is? The story In the year 10,091 two warring factions battle over a spice that is the key to interstellar travel. But it can only be found on a faraway sandy planet. The journey getting there (for us) is about as painful as what happens to Paul's hand inside that box There is never in this long, labored exercise a sense of magic or mystery. The characters all speak in a monotone in a language that sounds like English but whose words mean nothing (reader of the book were provided with a glossery, the moviegoer isn't so lucky). The script seems to begin somewhere in the middle of the second act. Television viewers were given a homemade opening monologue complete with storyboards but it was no more help.The sets are nice looking and some of the cinematography is beautiful. But really, there isn't anything on screen in Dune that is worth sitting through. Devotees of Frank Herbert's work seem to regard this as some kind of masterpiece, but what about the rest of us? "},{"Title":"A film with great actors only could be an excellent work.","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A production with Kyle MacLahlan (in his first appearance), Brad Dourif, Dean Stockwell, Patrick Stewart (!), Max Von Sydow (!!), Sting, Jack Nance and Everett McGill (those who will invited for the cast of Twin Peaks, like Kyle), Jose Ferrer, Silvana Mangano and all the actors of this film, direct by the maestro David Lynch has the destiny to be a masterpiece of the Cinema of all times. And it was what have happened in general terms. It should a little better if the novel and the screenplay would only a bit more realistic But it is a very good entertainment for people that like science fiction and history at all. "},{"Title":"An Okay Adaptation","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There was once a time when I would have said that Dune was better than any of the Star Wars movies. It's not, though. When I first watched it, I thought it was amazing. I mean, I loved the sandworms and stuff. But this is really not a very good adaptation. It did get me to read the book, though, so that's a good thing. Honestly, I don't think David Lynch is completely at fault here. The book is good but not excellent. Frank Herbert's writing isn't the best. He should have cut down on the inner thoughts of characters. Still, I think the movie is pretty entertaining but I have mixed feelings on everything. The special effects are really dated. The climax is the worst part. It looks unfinished. But the worms are great. The sets are great. Just look at the tiles in the Grand Palace of Arrakeen. They look worn, as if they've been there for generations. The interior of the castles on Caladan look great. I hate the spaceship designs. And I think the sonic weapons are really dumb. Sting was actually okay. I liked his enthusiasm (I WILL kill him.) even if he was kind of silly at times. Kyle MacLachlan looks exactly like how Paul is described in the book. Francesca Annis is very beautiful as Lady Jessica but she kind of overacts, even more than Sting.At least the stillsuits actually look like stillsuits, though. You just have to watch the miniseries to truly appreciate the stillsuits here. Actually, everything here is far better than in the miniseries. Seriously, don't even watch the miniseries. I don't care if it's more accurate. (It's really not that much more accurate than the movie). The budget for the miniseries was just too low and it shows. David Lynch at least got the feel of the book right, for the most part. It's just that special effects weren't advanced enough. Not nearly advanced enough. This is one movie that could really use a remake. "},{"Title":"Duned...","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With California suffering from its worst drought in 500 years, the time seems right to revisit DUNE. In CHINATOWN (which, by stretching our imaginations, we can kinda sorta view as a prequel to DUNE), we saw the kind of underhanded, backstabbing methods people used to gain control of this planet's most precious commodity- Water. Flash forward to Today, with the aforementioned drought (and other, more disastrous droughts worldwide), and it's kinda easy to project a future in which the planet Earth has been renamed Dune, the Desert planet. Of particular interest to me was the homeworld of the villainous Harkonnens, an oily, polluted industrial planet where people ate sqood (small animals in squeezable packets with tubes inserted so that the user could crush said critter and suck out its bodily fluids) and required implants just to be able to breathe the unbreathable air. It just rings TRUE, you know? (Not long ago, despite waiting lists a mile long and donors in understandably short supply, former Vice President Dick Cheney was actually able to get a heart transplant. If ever a politician brought to mind the likes of the Baron Harkonnen, it was Cheney. The Military Industrial Government marches on and on, into the far future, by virtue of brain and organ transplants...) Not Lynch's best, maybe, but not the bomb most people seem to think it is, either. "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but very underwhelming","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There'e a lot of things that could have been great about David Lynch's science fiction cult classic, but for me it seemed to miss the mark. This film is an adaptation from Frank Herbert's novel set in the far distant future where the universe is controlled by he who controls the spice. The spice is necessary for interstellar travel and is only available for harvest on one planet. Various factions in the universe battle for control of this planet. One planet is Atreides. Atreides currently controls Arrakis, the spice planet. That is until the Harkonenns take them over. Paul Atreides, son of the ruler of Atreides, barely escapes the Harkonnen takeover and while he hides out he eventually discovers himself to be a prophet and god like figure who will save the universe from oppression. My synopsis really doesn't do this film justice, but hopefully you get the idea.Dune is arguably David Lynch's most technically ambitious project ever. This is indeed an epic scale sci-fi picture, and Lynch's visuals provide for some of the most gorgeous and grandiose scenery imaginable. It was this that would lead the film to its eventual downfall when it only grossed 27 million dollars from its 45 million dollar budget. Since then it has risen to cult status, as have most of Lynch's films. The man himself is something of a cult icon. But anyways, as a viewer who isn't concerned with box office grosses of a film from the 80's, I really enjoyed the visuals. In fact they were probably the best thing about the movie for me. However, their impressive quality does sort of slope downwards as the movie goes along, simply because I began to lose interest in the film altogether. But there's no denying that Lynch's twisted visual eye is rife throughout this film. Dune even has a surreal quality to it at times, making it almost a Blue Velvet in space.Dune should have been incredible. It should have been utterly mindblowing. But sadly it falls short and ends up being a little lackluster. The film has a great exposition. The first act of the film sets the stage for a marvelous sci-fi epic that covers realms of political corruption, urbanization, new world order, and other kinds of social critiques. But as the film goes on I just started feeling less and less amazed by the film. It kept getting less and less interesting and more just... meh. I don't want to say I started strongly disliking the film, I just stopped enjoying it as much. There isn't really a more appropriate word for the film other than lackluster. There's nothing in this film that irritated me, I was simply just not impressed. And by the end, which felt a little abrupt and hurried, I was very underwhelmed. I don't feel like I will remember this film in a week or two because there just isn't a lot to say about it.I've read that this film deserves second chances if you are as underwhelmed as I was the first time. As with most Lynch films there's a lot more underneath the film's surface. I didn't pick up on any of this and all I got out of the film was a pretty lame science fiction story that definitely had the visuals to impress and amaze, but couldn't keep my interest up. Dune had potential, but it fell short for me. As seems to be the case with every Lynch film I watch, I expect repeated viewings in my future, and perhaps my opinion will shift when those viewings come. But for now Dune does nothing too special for me. "},{"Title":"Herbert, Lynch, all the same...","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why people overeacts so much at Dune. First of all, it's a Lynch movie, (and I'd even say it's his only movie involving some actual sense), what were you expecting? Nice and easy screwball comedy? Or maybe a lineal, comfortable plot? Second, anybody who has read Herbert's book might know that the book itself also lacks of logic at some points and exceeds of solemnity.  So what? This is science fiction. I like how Lynch deals in an innovating (even if boring, sometimes) way with those complications, and he succeeds in giving us a completly different set of the usual sci-fi. I also do think that it is quite a good adaptation of the original book, except maybe for the ecology of the planet, which you'll find at the epilogue of the book and that was so amazing...yes, there is a lack of depth sometimes, I'd like to see the fremen's plans about the planet on the screen.But I can do no objection to Lynch's way of doing things. The special effects are weird, the voices are weird, the dialogues are weird (although taken from the book) and, to finish, everything is weird, but absolutely amazing. And plus you've got all those wonderful actors popping here and there, Sean Young, Von Sydow and, hello Sting. A 10/10 for Lynch and sci-fi lovers, and, if you are not in one of those groups, then save yourself from what will be a sure disappointment. "},{"Title":"Dune 2 (the game) was better!","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say I didn't like this movie very much. It didnt get off to a good start with the cheap looking crayon introduction.It didn't seem like the future. It's supposed to be the year 10000 or something yet all the head honchos are all called Dukes, Barons or Emporers. Even in 1984 those terms had lost importance. It seemed more like some Bible epic at times especially given the strange music score.Many commented upon how they loved the design. I found it ugly and wierd (why is everything gold/orange?). The effects were ugly and wierd too.Overall it just seems really, really dated. I suspect it looked very dated the moment it came out.Not recommended.5/10 "},{"Title":"Bad acting but innovative design and good story.","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Dune' was David Lynch's first real feature film though his first reached unusually heights at the box office for a newcomer. He had success at the box office with 'The Elephant Man' (1980) and Dune got a very high budget so Lynch had something to work with. Critics claim that Lynch failed turning Herbert's novel into a feature film. But the film tells the story of the planet Dune in quite the same way as the book. The protagonist Paul Atreides (played by Kyle Maclachlan) is supposed to be agitative, like a Messiah. There is no over-acting as some critics would put it. But other roles in the films are less successful due to the fact that many of the supportive roles was secondary actors that Lynch used for some reason. And the effects are acceptable - the contemporary possibilities taken into account.The whole of the film works great though details are not abundant. Lynch tried to make the film reflect the style of the book as much as possible, but many would state that he didn't succeed. The persons surrounding Paul Atreides are all subordinate characters whose main purpose it is to support Paul's role in the film. Therefore they may seem hollow but their missing profundity is what makes Paul strong and that is exactly the purpose of the film. He is doubtful than he may be The One but his ignorance is carried out by the way the characters are implemented in the film.The story in the film is not as awkward as people perceive it. Paul is the Messiah, the savior, much like Frodo is Lord of the Rings and Luke in Star Wars (just to relate to a common denominator) and he carries out that role well. And the film contains several both unique and funny characters (i.e. the Baron) and they all make this film worth seeing even if you haven't read the book. Though the effects are not 21st century technology they still work. And the story is good compared to many other scifi-films.8/10. "},{"Title":"Masterwork","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's Dune is a masterpiece. Beautiful production design, great acting and Brian Eno's theme music complement Lynch's directorial vision. Even the twenty year old visual effects are still quite acceptable. Lynch's weird and dark images are well suited to the conspiratorial future society depicted in Herbert's novel.Despite the incredibly complexity of the world of Dune, Lynch manages to pull off a reasonably coherent story. However, this is not a brainless popcorn film for viewers who want a Hollywood scifi blockbuster. There are no cute kids or robots and no Jar Jar Binks characters.  The world of Dune doesn't neatly fit into the traditional scifi categories. Even Herbert's Dune novels were considered inaccessible for many due to their complexity,  so the commercial failure of this film comes as no surprise.Seeing this film led me to read all of Herberts books, and gave me even more appreciation for Lynch's talent.  As for the recent Sci Fi channel remake of the film, it's a pale low budget imitation - but still obviously heavily  influenced by Lynch's vision in this film.9/10  "}{"Title":"A great movie, with very special feel to it","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I registered here on IMDb only to be able to comment on this movie, I hope that shows how much I appreciated this film. The first time I watched this film I was 13 years old or so, and it made a permanent impression. The whole atmosphere surrounding the intricate storyline, the awesome effects (the worms look real!.. almost!), and the signature of David Lynch, which shows themselves as periodic surrealism, especially with all the dreaming, and the subtle shots with no more than tasteful amounts of gore.Some might find the plot too confusing at times, but it's easy to follow if you try a little bit, without demanding entertainment in the return of no effort.A great movie by a great director! "},{"Title":"not enough spice","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmmm, what can I say? this is in some aspects a great movie and in others total dross. On a positive note, it has a great feel and conveyed the gothicness i felt whilst reading the book (s) The main problem with the film is it's not being able to make up it's mind what it is and who it's aimed at. On one level it try's to compete with 'star wars' and appeal to kid's, I remember when the film was first released, seeing 'Dune' colouring books in Woolworth's!!!! On the other hand it tries to appeal to the sci-fi fan (most who would have read the book). Unfortunately it ends up being unsatisfactory for both groups. (If you try to please everyone, you end up pleasing no-one). The biggest failure is the representation of the 'Fremen'. The hardest most ruthless troops in the known (Dune) universe are the Emperor's 'sardauka' (sp)? warriors, and the Fremen are even harder than these!! What we are given is a group of wimpy looking hippy's that would have a job kicking ANYONE'S ass. I've read certain posts that complain about the antiquated technology even though set in the far future. I read the same sort of thing in posts about 'Brazil' If these people just don't get it, I'm not going to waste time xplaining it to em. "},{"Title":"One of the most under-rated Sci-Fi movies of all time.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still do not understand the hate-on people have for this film. Oh well i guess it pays not to read the book first. The special effects are quite well done, the story line is quite exciting and original. I don't think I can be persuaded otherwise. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being based of the book it has to be taken into consideration. The movie follows the book well, however leaves out a few critical points. Other parts makes it easier for the viewer to understand situations in the book better. Compared to other renditions of DUNE, this movie excellently explain why certain things are, and leaves events in order through the use of though dialogue. With a comfortable length, exciting action sequences, well developed acting, very good special effects (for the time, and fit the movie well), and a design which seems to fit the general feeling, this is a movie that should be seen by all. If you're planning to read the book and see the movie, read the book first. However, on it's own, the movie stands by itself, is well supported, and generally a very good entertainer.  "},{"Title":"well...","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seeing this movie, when having already read the books by Frank Herbert is not something I should have done. Although the makers obviously attempted to do the book credit, in my opinion they actually RAPED it! At no time in the movie did I get that special feeling I had while reading Dune, it only made me angry to think that someone could so very effectively screw up a book that is so good. Very disapointing and fans of the book will, hopefully, agree with me "},{"Title":"Big shot a bit wide of the mark","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ******Spoiler Warning*******I can give David Lynch credit that he tried to make something, just it didn't come out very well.  This was years before his Twin Peaks ego trip, but it says a lot the best parts of the movie owe more to Frank Herbert than him.The special effects have the oh-so-80's look to them, but the the real killer is the wildly uneven set design.  The Harkonnen were thoroughly grotesque (yes, I know they were supposed to be that way but this was overkill) and the whole movie has a sort of Flash Gordon meets funky Italian style.  (The Sardaukar in particular were awful, looking more like extreme firemen with welders helmets than soldiers.)Lynch has to rely on lotsa lotsa voice overs to further the story along, and all these moments of Look here, significant! that are lost on people who haven't read the book.The Guild Navigators were *different* although at least were original, but I've always wondered about the mechanics of Dune that didn't make sense.  How the Fremen could manufacture still-suits and thumpers when they seemingly have no tools or industry, and what the sandworms ate; something that big needs a lotta food and I doubt it just eats sand. That aside, Dune is marginally enjoyable, if not a very good movie. "},{"Title":"I know why I love this movie","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading the chronicles I just had to go and find this movie, once i did it became my very favorite movie ever. What an artist does with the instrument of his time makes it a work of art. The screenplay just fits the way the book was written, like the way thoughts were depicted both in the book and the movie. Moments of tension or excitement were stressed just the way it should have been done, the mythical value of the story remained as intense as it was when it was conceived in words.So ok, the graphics are nothing like today's but beautifully composed to illustrate the atmosphere the movie just had to have.I just wished someone would continue the filming of the chronicles, like the children of dune 2003. thank you Greg Yaitanes, still I would have loved to see David Lynch do his version of book two and three. "},{"Title":"Waste of my time","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having just read Dune (possibly my favorite book of all time), I sat down to enjoy this film.  The opening explanation and the scene with the guild navigator were cool, but from there it was all down hill.  I'd like to blame the fact that it didn't make a whole lot of sense to me was due to my watching it at 3 A.M., but overall it was just plain bad (the effects, the acting, Duncan Idaho barely in it; read other negative reviews for more specific reasons why).And its not like this is one of those things where dorks who read it are disappointed because it wasn't exactly like the book and just want to act like they are awesome because they know every minute detail(similar to nerds who derided The Two Towers); it's about a film that had every chance to be good if it had even had a shred of the brilliance in it, but ignored it.In defense, it had a lot of ground to cover and 2 hours isn't even close to enough time to try to cover all the topics (The Bene Gesserit breeding programs, the fact that the Fremen were superior fighters because they grew up on Dune (instead of the fact that they used lasers) and so on.)Overall though, I wish I hadn't watched this; maybe the sci-fi version (which I haven't seen) is better, but without the budget of a major motion picture, I don't know how (I rated Dune 1984 a 2). "},{"Title":"Oh my God","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To any who laud this so-called film, shame on you and try watching it while not under the influence of any intoxicants/mind-altering substances. Lynch's 'Dune' is, hands down, one of the WORST big-budget sci-fi projects of all time.  Rarely do I feel compelled to state my opinion as fact, but in this case I will hold nothing back.1) The most obvious problem is that the plot is utterly incomprehensible. Lynch horribly butchered the ideas and as a result nobody who hasn't read the book can understand what the hell is going on.  My friend watched it several times and he still couldn't decipher it until I explained several key elements.  Add in Lynch's bizarre penchant for pointless sadism/mutilation (what's with all the people on Geidi Prime?) and the average viewer is left unsatisfied and confused.3) The characters were badly cast.  Kyle made a bland, underdeveloped Paul and was far too old for the role.  I can understand making him a bit older than he was in the book (15), but not a decade older!  Patrick Stewart is terribly out of place as Gurney, since they are essentially opposites; Gurney is supposed to be ugly, a bit uncouth, and darkly humorous. Stewart, on the other hand, is handsome (sort of), refined and distinguished. Brad Dourif, who is normally a good character actor, does some of the worst acting I've ever seen on the big screen.  The excessive and needless hand gestures, combined with an annoying, silly voice, make for sheer comedy. And Sting as Feyd . . . well, I shouldn't need to say anything.2) The effects/costuming/set design are awful.  Some of you insist that, You have to remember the time it was made.  Um, it was 1984!  I believe several lower-budget films (Star Wars & Empire Strikes Back, anyone?) proved that one could do PHENOMENALLY better than what Lynch achieved.  The Navigator (who never appeared in the book, by the way) looked like a giant rubber sperm puppet.  And the mighty sandworms were sock puppets that didn't even move forward, just side-to-side.  And the shields, oh God, the shields! They are supposed to be INVISIBLE, so the filmmakers need not have bothered with those horrendously blocky graphics (and I use the term loosely). Every set looks like a poorly-constructed, ill-lit basement decked out to resemble a Medieval dungeon.  If this was for mood, I shudder to think what mood Lynch had in mind.  Would anyone care to explain why we only see projectiles/laserbeams coming out of the guns half the time?  Or why there is apparently enormous recoil on light-based weapons?  Or (this is so hilarious) why they have to shout every time they fire the guns? Finally, the costuming/character design was atrocious.  There is nothing in the book about a bunch of bald women in Elizabethan dresses!  Although the society in the 'Dune' universe is supposed to be pseudo-feudal, that does not mean everyone should be dressed as if they are actors at Medieval Times Restaurant!Lynch may be a good director when it comes to doing his own strange material, but 'Dune' proves he should never be allowed to adapt someone else's work EVER AGAIN!  I just thank God he took this project instead of going with 'Return of the Jedi,' which was offered to him.  Imagine what ROTJ would have been like if Lucas had let Davey take over! "},{"Title":"directors cut version is the best","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie the first time I ever saw it I was in awe. Then by chance I happened to see the directors cut version and was totally blown away. Every detail that seemed lacking in the 137 min. release was tied to together beautifully in the full version.example Paul begins training the warriors he has all of the guys plus a couple of kids.The full version explains the signifigance of the kids plus adds huge amounts of back story so all of the plot points flow at a good pace instead of seeming hurried together. "}{"Title":"This is an example of what you should NOT do to a great novel...","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  O.K., I'll make it short the movie... er... sucks. Why? Various reasons- The devastating altering to the book's true events (and ending). Turning a book to film is -I suppose- really difficult. A book this long must have been torture to its screenplay adapters.- The plain, unispiring and often boring character depiction.- The tiresome inner dialogue.- The cheesy special effects (seriously... Star Wars sequels were being made at the time; they could have done it better).- The never quite-well-linked dialogues between character's (you often feel like two characters in the same room aren't talking to each other, or, change the subject too quickly). I have never been a David Lynch fan. Some of his movies are really senseless to me. But I really tried to give him a little bit of credit on this one.   Here, I thought he had a chance to do an epic story. He had all at his disposition, and yet he poured it down the drain and maid this movie so complex, so monotonous, so unnecessary plot-twisted that it confused the people who were excited to view this novel as a film, and disappointed those who discovered that there already was a movie made out of this book.  And to think George Lucas even considered handing Lynch one of his Star Wars episodes.  Frank Herbert must still be moving inside his coffin. ;-)   "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would like to start by saying that I love the book.  The problem with this is that the dirtecting was slow and ,well to be truthful, tremedously bad. The movie has some good performances mixed with mediocre and the filming looks like the lights were always half off.  Narration happens every time a charcter thinks and makes very little dialogue worth anything.  This movie is soooooooooo unlike the book that it's barely about the book.  I would not recommend this movie one bit. "},{"Title":"Discussing anthropology,ecology, tho I have not yet read the book","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Slight warning  No big spoliers, but discussion of basic elements, characters... The 1984 'Dune' may not follow the novel (Frank Herbert) exactly, but still the anthropological and ecological themes are what strike me.  After watching, talk with a friend about the weaving of culture, environment and religion.  Note the sense of desert culture, the lore, the survivalism (still suits, cunning, the knowledge of how to survive in the desert - some of the this is better represented in the Mini series.  Yes, some of the acting is a little stiff or cheesy - the dream unfolding, Paul's monologues, but I like the sets of David Lynch's '84 film and I love the actors for all the Harkonnen characters.  'That floating fat man' as the Emperor calls him.  I liked the foreign actor Jürgen P. for Leto rather than William Hurt, as well as a somewhat foreign José Ferrer for the Emperor. I have also seen the Mini-Series 'Dune' aired on the Sci Fi Network and it holds its own merit.  One custom left out of the 1984 version which the Mini includes is the throwing of water for Fremen maids - water is so precious that the nobles use it's value to degrade the maids, who mop it from the floor, squeeze their rags into buckets, and save the water.  Also, note the arabic/semitic tones  a messiah will come.  What Leto says to his son Paul  <<<there is something that sleeps in us when we do not travel.  The sleeper must awaken.>>>  "},{"Title":"Cheesy, overlong and boring...","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...but, man, I love those sandworms ! All hail the sandworms ! They rule !!! ) They almost make this bomb worth watching, but just almost. So, if someday you'll feel the desire to watch some cool images involving huge, @$$kicking sandworms with absolutely no plot attached to them, check this out... "},{"Title":"Strangest thing I've ever seen","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Umm, I don't even know where to begin. . . First off, maybe you have to have read the book first, I didn't. But,though I realize there are only a few distinct cultures dealt with here, none are explained nearly enough to make them plausible, and with a movie that long, you'd think they could work it in somewhere.And the political messages just p***ed me off. Serious glorification of terrorism. One man will be born into the position of ruling the entire galaxy. No real corruption evident in the existing government, yet it is overthrown. No real reason to stop the spice flow, it doesn't seem to be hurting anyone or fueling evil empires or anything, but the hero destroys the industry to get attention. They are just rebels without nobility or purpose or ideology or even any leadership, they just wanted to be the biggest bullys on the playground, ripping down the swingsets and jungle gyms cause they can. And the acting!! High school kids doing Shakespeare couldn't be more pretentious. Every word was spoken like they were pronouncing the fate of the universe. And the bad guys, the red-heads, I forget their names, were repulsive without being intimidating. They had to resort to skin diseases and homosexuality to be repugnant to the audience, otherwise they bungled every bad thing they tried to do, no real evil to be feared or fought there. All in all, I really hope the book was better than the movie, or this story is hopeless. "},{"Title":"Not great, am i missing something","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all i've not read the book, it may be fantastic and worthy of its cult sci-fi status but this is the film...... I got the DVD for £4.99 in a sale so it was going very cheap. The setting could be Mad Max but somehow it doesn't feel as real. Plot-wise it could be the Matrix but it lacks the special effects,humour,action and pace. Oh and the soundtrack is by Toto. Very poor! Sting is in it and he really isn't too bad. He isn't too involved thankfully, but he is a bit distracting. Difficult not to think it's Sting rather than the character he is trying to portray. Patrick Stewart is in it too, he looks and sounds exactly like Jean-Luc Picard although there isn't a lot he can do about that i suppose! One of the problems with this film is that there are 4 planets and 4 sets of people on those planets and there isn't enough time developing their distinctive backgrounds to make you really that interested in any of them. It is 2 hours long and you really feel it. I dread to think what the extended TV edit is like to watch. I get the feeling that i would enjoy the film more the second time round but i won't be in any rush to see it again. Still it did only cost me a fiver, RRP was £19.99! "},{"Title":"Much better than the TV version","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly, I think that the last review posted by Chunkblower is as flawed as it claimed Dune is... the reason being that David Lynch's Dune is a wonderfully creative bit of filmmaking, and though it's the closest Mr. Lynch will get to a Hollywood compatible flick in my opinion (it doesn't contain the usual insanely confusing/artistic story/sequence content that you would find in an original Lynch script) but it still maintains his great style, etc.  Kyle Maclaghlan is a damn fine actor and this version beats the hell out of the recent Sci-Fi channel remake, whose script I liken to the quality of writing in X-Men.  So please, God, appreciate this film like I do.  I mean, for serious... Patrick Stewart is in it!  He and Kyle fight with knives in beautiful campy computer animated protective shield bubble shapes!  This is a classic.  Such originality.  Such style.  I am a Lynchofile. "},{"Title":"Better than Star Wars!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most people hate(d) Dune. I - and at least some others - loved it. To me, Dune is Spartacus in Space with a dash of David Lynch weirdness to produce a film that blew me away the first time I saw it and is still massively enjoyable now.Star Wars was great when I was 7 - and hey I'm still excited about episodes 2 & 3 - and as for the Matrix... well, it's allright (I own it on DVD) but Dune is what the Matrix wants to be when it's grown up! "},{"Title":"The Weirding Way","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How bad can a movie be. This was great fun. The completely pointless characters who kept cropping up and then dying just for the hell of it, the storyline that skips from one scene to another without explaining what just happened and as for the voiceovers..... Other viewers may claim that it takes some intelligence to view this 'masterpiece' but they just say these things because it seems cool to do so. Regardless of the book this is supposed to be a movie and as such it should not require inside knowledge before viewing. This film is truly WIERDING. "},{"Title":"the best movie of all times","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is the movie that i wached the most times in my life, i gues over 100 times, also the book dune is my favorite book of all!!! I'm sorry that Dino De Laurentis lost almost all of his money with this movie. What i think is the best in this movie is the atmopshfere that he managed to translate from the book into the movie, al that introspective thinking and inner dialogs of the protagonist's. Also the music by toto made it into such a spectakle, and the maner of David Linch is a golden stamp to the movie! I thing that the casting is perfect, and that all that Giger did, too. So I give a 10 to this movie, as to my favorite movie... I am a student of The Faculty of Dramar Arts,  in the siech Belgrade, Serbia, my course is tv and movie editing. Long live Frank Herbert and all of his work. praise shai hulud "}{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi movies ever","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've read the book, and I've seen the movie.  The shortened version of the movie honestly leaves out too much information that the viewer needs to completely understand what's going on.  However, the director's cut does the book more justice by including pretty much everything you need to know to walk away from the movie saying, wow. I thought that the casting, acting, scenery, filming, etc were all done beautifully.  I can see these people as the characters in the book, which I would say means that they did a good job adapting the book for film.This movies has to be one of my favorite sci-fi movies ever.  The plot and characters just keep you wondering what's going to happen next.  I also liked hearing what a character was thinking.  I thought it was quite a unique thing to include, and it really added to the character development and keeping the viewer interested in the motivations of the specific characters. "},{"Title":"Better the first time","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is probably one of the better books I've read in the last several years. I watched the movie before I read the book and liked it.  It had trademark Lynch stuff (like the heartplugs that are not in the book) and I thought the casting was really well done.  The story is confusing, but for a viewer who likes a challenge and not coma inducing bland entertainment, it makes enough sense to be satisfying.  It was nice to see Alicia Witt in her only good role until Cecil B. Demented.  The costumes and visual representations of the navigators and the environment were awesome too.Then I read the book.The film, although visually breathtaking and with some cool ideas, doesn't get across the basic themes of the film.  Emphasis is placed on the wrong things and no attention is given to important characters and ideas.  I was more confused by the film after I read the book because it just didn't use the same ideas.  It's a cool movie by itself but compared to the book, it just doesn't work out that well.  It needed to be two hours longer to include the badly needed character development and certain key scenes that explain the philosophy of the book.  "},{"Title":"Succeeds at some things, fails at others","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has gotten some of the most wildly mixed reviews of all time since it's release in 1984.  It's actually the second attempt to bring Frank Herbert's science fiction classic to the big screen.  In the early 1970's, Federico De Laurentis began a Dune project but it didn't get past some early concept design, and about all I've ever seen of it is a calendar with some fabulous illustrations.  The David Lynch film DUNE substantially captures the sheer weirdness of the Frank Herbert Universe, and for fans of the novels it brings some aspects to life in stunning fashion.  Where Dune the movie fails is that the film medium within a reasonable time span is incapable of indoctrinating the viewer into it's complex system.  But that in itself is not a condemnation.  Understanding the elements of the Herbert Universe present in the very first book takes a reading of all six original books, a supplementary encyclopedia, and Brian Herbert and Kevin Anderson's new prequel as well.I liken the Dune novels in some ways to an ultra complex video game.  It's many different races, planets, sects, religeons, economic entities, and agendas are completely meaningless to the unindoctrinated.  Because of this, if it were up to me, Dune would never have been made into a movie.  No audience is going to sit still for the reams of explanation required to even understand the bizzare opening scene of the Lynch Dune.  But this movie is a noble attempt - borrowing the Herbert style of showing us the thought baloons of the characters as they interact.  This is a giant shortcut to get around consuming a lot more screen time in explanations, but it comes across as distracting and intrusive.  The special effects are fairly decent for the time, but there are only so many ways you can show the mouth of a 300-meter worm opening up... I spotted the repeat/replays the first time I ever saw the film in the theater.Then there is the whole story editing line, absolutely necessary to fit the movie into a reasonable time span.  But so much of the story is missing that it makes even less sense than what is able to be conveyed.  Some of you might consider these comments spoilers, but they are in reference to things that are NOT in the movie... such as who Liet is, who Jessica really is. The directors cut added some 30 minutes to the film which fills none of the holes.  If I had not read the book, I would have been clueless at watching this film, and probably frustrated.  As it was, I was merely dissapointed.Dune afficianados have to take this film as a condensed form of the book, or selected scenes and view them as such.  Some of the visuals are stunning.  The elaborate opening scene in the imperial palace,with the guild navigator, spice-gas tank and all.  It sets the architectural tone for the whole picture - rather than the clean, functional, sterile world of Star Trek, or the military, battle-beaten look of Star Wars, it has a bizzare, gothic and ornate look to it.  Not unlike what one might imagine of a society that has banned thinking machines.  The Guild heighliner is equally gothic.  The foldspace scene is beautifully done and the scene of the ship just simply fading into existance at Arrakis is one of my favorites.The casting I have mixed feelings about.  Two Lynch regulars, Kyle MacLachlan and Dean Stockwell have major roles.  I have never thought much of MacLachlan but he seems somehow suited to this role, as the aristocratic and ultimately godlike son of royalty.  Francesca Annis as Jessica is lovely, but almost all of her lines sound like they are spoken with a gun to her head.  Sting as Feyd-Rautha is a good example of finding a perfect *look* for the part, with someone who can't act a lick.  Paul Smith also looks the part of The Beast Rabban, but his dialog consists mainly of grinning howling screams... his character would be more at home in a WWF arena.  Kenneth McMillan almost works as the Baron Harkonnen, but is just a little too over the top.  He's certainly evil, vile, and disgusting enough, but I can't picture him planning or defeating anyone or anything.  The Harkonnens' homosexuality was probably more shocking in the 1950's when the book was originally written, but Lynch just plays the whole thing for the horror factor.  And David Lynch himself is a two-edged sword... he has the vision to depict the weirdness of Dune and its trappings, but goes overboard in adding things like heart plugs, apparently little pop-tops that the Harkonnens can use to kill each other at will.  Take away the more lurid aspects, and the Harkonnens act remarkably like 1960's TV Batman villians, cackling and howling because they forgot their lines... or the screenplay forgot them.Of all the characters lack of development, I found the superficial treatment of Duncan Idaho to be the most dissapointing.  Richard Jordan just doesn't even look the part, and he's almost just there so Lynch couldn't be accused of omitting him altogether.  Omitting Duncan Idaho from a Dune story is equivalent to omitting C-3PO from a Star Wars story, and Dune afficianados will know what I mean by this!I would only cautiously recommend the casual viewer to this film.  Those familiar with the Dune novels will want to check it out, and may find something of interest as I did, or just hate it all the more.  The total novice will probably find it confusing, boring, and trashy.  But maybe not. "},{"Title":"Fantastic production","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is unequivocally one of the most profoundly affecting pieces of work that I have experienced.  The set was fabulous, and the sound effects were engrossing.  I don't bother to comment on the story because that would be redundant since everyone knows about that and even if you don't the information is widely available.The film has many detractors, though, and actually has been rather divisive in the Dune-following sub-culture.  Fundamentally the Dune story is too big for the screen (I remember when I went to see it when it came out in 1984 we were given a chit with definitions of terms such as 'Bene Gesserit', etc. What was this, a pop quiz?!)Fortunately for me, when I saw it I had not read the book yet and still had a supple mind with which to absorb the details.  If you read the book first I can understand being upset about the omissions that were necessary to make it into a film production.  See the 'short version'!  Ha!  I wish that was fully produced (and available, though the soundtrack is terrible).At any rate however, uf there are any questions in your mind as to whether this is a worthwhile piece, consider the volume of activity on this comment board now, 17 years later. "},{"Title":"May the Christ be with you...","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Lynch has done a marvelous job recreating the atmosphere of Dune; a world caught in-between feodal political organization and sci-fi technology (space travel, laser guns, protective magnetic shields...); but he fails with the plot.This review is a BIG SPOILER, so if you haven't seen this film, go away.Where do these weirding modules come from? That was the question I asked myself when I had to make a comparison between the book and the movie in an english course (I'm french, as you can see from my poor english).In the book, Paul knows pretty well he's going to launch the Jihad, millions of crazy warriors willing to destroy the known universe, get their payback for their centuries of wandering in the galaxy as the Zensunni. But he decides to do so, to get his own revenge from the Harkonnens; he deliberately chooses to be their messiah, using the missionaria protective, fooling them (a very important scene is the one where Paul meets Gurney Halleck again; he kills one man with his knife, and he imagines the legends that will be held that he had killed 40 or so with bare hands). Herbert gives us a user's guide on How to become a messiah.What? But messias are not built, they are born half god, half human; it just can't pass through on the screen in a mainstream american movie. So after all, Paul does not fool them, he's the messiah; the fremens are not blood-thirsty warriors, killing with knives and whatever they can grab, using their children as shields, they kill with clean sound weapons; Harkonnens are more evil than ever, and stupid too (which is not the case in the book; they're cruel, brutal, but not stupid). And after having killed Feyd-Rautha, with his fur coat, Paul is just like a Christ who saved the galaxy from tyranny. This is a dramatic shortening of Herbert's views and ideas. Only remains Lynch visual talent, Toto's score and Sting's very good (though short) performance as Feyd-Rautha. "},{"Title":"visual depiction, not cinematic storytelling","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There seem to actually be at least three camps--those who have read and were properly awed by DUNE, those who never read it, and those who read it, meaning those who never actually read it or only tried reading it and gave up. The people who say this movie isn't faithful to the book only read it. Only those who have read and loved the book can really appreciate this movie and what an amazing effort this was.I read Dune, as well as the sequels, and I am now reading House Atreides, which is fantastic BTW.I did not like this movie at first, mainly because I wanted to be blown away like the book. However, after successive reviewings, it is clear this movie is too faithful to the book to have had any mass appeal.Little throwins like the Guild navigator scene, or the Baron's anti-gravity balls, Hawat's red lips, etc. are all easter eggs. They are unexplained, visual representations of things explained and described in detail in the book. For example, I am grateful for a visual depiction of a Guild navigator in its folding environment, and I can appreciate how immense an undertaking that is, especially since it is not necessary to the story. However, knowing what navigators are and do, the scene is positively atmospheric.This movie is not really a movie version of the book. It is a visual representation of the fantastic creations and concepts of DUNE. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not only the best Sci-fi movie, but the best movie at all! Three things gathered in this movie, that made it so special. First, an excellent story (Dune by Frank Herbert), transformed in even better scenario (by David Lynch). Second, great actors, like Kyle MacLachan, Max Von Sydow, Juergen Prochnow, Sting, and others. Third, but most important, a superb director, David Lynch, who made the film even better than the book (and that`s very rare case). When I first saw this movie, I could only said This is a masterpiece of movie art.  "},{"Title":"Best one out there","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Regardless of its mass appeal (or lack thereof), this is the best adaptation of Dune out there. Beats the mini, and the mini had an extra 2 hours to work with!!!Worth a watch if you're a Dune fan! "},{"Title":"Not re-makable","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superb epic story, (excellent book of course - I've read it), thrilling special effects, especially for that time. Never understood why David Lynch resented the movie later on. Maybe because he never got the full power over the movie. As expected the movie should have been longer, but, as always, producers and movie companies have other ideas.Nevertheless, the movie in its whole is not re-makable. The cast speaks for itself, and those actors reappear in many Lynch movies. "},{"Title":"The most breathtaking, mindshattering movie ever made...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw this movie I was only 5 and it amazed me then as it still does now. The special effects are more amazing coming out of the early 80's than the current version made by the SciFi channel. There's also ton's of top level stars in this show that makes this movie one of the most epic show's around..... "}{"Title":"Not a bad adaptation.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune, the book, is I think far too complex to make into a film that would please everybody.  This adaptation, though, got horrible reviews that I believe are undeserved.  I found myself cheering for the Atreides and sneering at the Harkonnen at every turn.  Patrick Stewart was a SUPERB choice of actor as the loyal Gurney Halleck.  Hard core fans of the book may find some points rather annoying, such as the weirding modules (in the book, the Fremen were simply incredible hand-to-hand combatants) and the Guild Navigators, but overall, I found Dune to be quite a good movie.  If nothing more, it has acheived cult status and will be cherished by many. "},{"Title":"1984 vs. 2000 vs. the book","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First let me note that I (shame on me) have never actually read Dune, the book, which is surprising since I read quite a bit.  This will be remedied in the near future, so don't shoot me yet.  I have seen the 1984 Dune movie probably about 6 times.  The first time, I was pretty much lost, confused, and not too thrilled with the narration.Some few years later I happened to see it again, and things kind of fell into place for me, and I've been a fan of that movie since, even growing to tolerate and even (dare I say it?) like the narrative.  I feel the acting was superb, the casting incredible, and remember, this was in 1984, the special effects stunning (for the time period).  I like a bit of weirdness and inscrutability in a movie, and when one leaves much to the imagination as this one did, I found myself hooked.When Sci-Fi released the 2000 version, naturally I was excited to see it. I never actually made it through the first episode, and have never managed to force myself to watch any episode since in it's entirety.  The graphics are good, but obviously CG.  I felt Maud'Dib's character to be shallow and petty, as well as uninteresting.  I never felt like the character interaction had the cohesiveness one would expect from an epic saga such as this is.Bottom line, I give the original movie an 8 out of 10, and the new movie only a 5.  Obviously these are my own opinions, and I understand that one or both movies may depart from the book significantly.  However, I like the 1984 version, and don't like the 2000 version.  Period. "},{"Title":"my symphathies to lynch","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I enjoyed very much seeing MacLachlan, Stockwell, and Nance (of Eraserhead fame), I cannot help but express my deepest symphathies towards Lynch, for whom this project must stand as a great disappointment.  Having shot close to eight hours of film, Lynch's origional cut was just shy of six hours.  A further two hours were cut (later to be released on laser disc). The final cut removed about an hour and a half of additional footage, leaving Lynch's project at aproximately one third its origional glory.  The timeline is now in shambles (in particular note how insignificant a role Duncan Idaho plays in this feature).  For fans of Herbert's masterpiece, this comes as a terrible shock and disappointment.  However, the blame should not be placed on Lynch's shoulders.  He went through the same sort of studio butchering that Gilliam's Brazil would later face in its TV edit. Dune had the potential to be an excellent film.  Instead, it stands only as a reminder of just how much control (and megalomania) a studio can exercise over the artistic vision of a truly talented director. "},{"Title":"a failed attempt to adapt a classic sci-fi novel","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The problem with DUNE, is that it is impossible to adapt a novel that covers 3-5 years in a two hour movie and do it justice. The film was originally longer, but was cut by the studio DEG. DAVID LYNCH passed on RETURN OF THE JEDI to do this one.....I don't know if that was such a wise idea. DUNE also has a lot of homoerotic sequences that don't fit and weren't in the book...that didn't wash for me. The novel is one of the few novels of the genre which all others are judged by. In the sci-fi realm this novel along with THE FOUNDATION SERIES, and about any Heinlien novel ever written are considered classics! DUNE (the novel) took Herbert 10 years to write. Frank Herbert did a lot of technical research to make the technology as plausible as possible.....this film does not reflect that work. I mean I love DAVID LYNCH...however, this film wasn't one of his crowning moments. The film producers of the upcoming BRIDGE PUBLICATIONS property BATTLEFIELD EARTH, should take notice on what happens when you try to do a two hour treatment to a book that's broad in scope! "},{"Title":"Pile of glop best left to Herbert fans","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe it's just me, but someone has to put a stop to people who adapt long novels into movies. More often than not the adaptation leaves out entire chapters, whole characters, all in the name of brevity and coherence. I give you as evidence most of the Stephen King oeuvre - the nuances of characterizations are lost in most cases. The movie adaptation of Frank Herbert's Dune is a little different, though. It's plenty long enough for those nuances to show up, but its underlying problem is that it's just plain incomprehensible. Maybe the book's better, maybe not, but I had problems figuring out the story at all. I know the thing's set about 8,000 years into the future, (which, if I were suddenly transported there, would be very confusing to me anyway) but even at the very begining, while the story's being set up, one gets the feeling one stepped into the middle of a long tale. And if you're confused right off the bat, folks, chances are pretty good things won't be cleared up for you later on. Really, though, I was watching this movie and it was so confusing it was as if they were speaking a different language. Sure, I know it's David Lynch, and he's made a career out of strange movies, but dull and leaden pacing isn't strange, it's boring. So imagine sitting in your doctor's waiting room, waiting to be called for your appointment. You're reading magazine after magazine, bored out of your mind. That's what watching Dune is like. "},{"Title":"good idea, should have been animated though","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The problem with this film, as with most films-from-books is that in books characters are developed by thoughts whereas in films characters are developed by actions and dialogue. The only way to show in a movie what a character is feeling of thinking is with voice overs and flashbacks and both of those tend to come of really cheesy....except in animations. for some reason voiceovers seem fine in anime movies.the other big reason this would have made a good anime movie as opposed to film is the fact that in an anime movie the effects are limited by nothing! The effects in this movie are cheesy and dated  and dont do the technology described in the book justice (exception being the stillsuits which are just as i imagined them)also many animes are serialized which is how this movie needs  to be made because you cant squeeze the entire book into 2hrs....everyone must read  the book though, its excellent!! "},{"Title":"Good, too far of the book","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excuse me for my english, I'm just a french student. I want to say Dune is a good film for his age(de son temps en français si je ne parle pas correctement Anglais). But I love the story made by Frank HERBERT(all books) and I think the movie takes too much liberty on his story.  "},{"Title":"I have not read the BOOK","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i for the first time saw Dune, i was alone, in a dark room. I`ve heard nothing but bad reviews. I cant explain what that movie did to me, but i was astonished!.Dune is a brilliant film, with good actors, a lovely story and fantastic music(maybe one of the best filmscore ever!). This movie is like a dream!, when it`s over, you wake up.Many people hate this movie, but i know, that somewhere , far far away, in a distant galaxy ,someone like this movie. "},{"Title":"Should only be used as a companion to the novel.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's Dune is a mixed bag--at times it is a breathtaking film, and at others it is a frustrating one.The best thing this movie has going for it is, by far, its visual style.  Contrary to what many believe, I think David Lynch was an excellent choice to adapt Dune, even though he goes a little overboard with his portrayal of the Harkonnens (what's with the heart plugs?).  The visuals are richly textured and match the feel of Herbert's novel, although they make the movie noticeably darker in tone than the book.It must be said that David Lynch's film should not be viewed by anyone who has not read Frank Herbert's novel.  These individuals will be completely lost as to the direction of the story and the meaning of many scenes, and will most likely end up frustrated at what a mess this film is.  Watching Dune, one gets the feeling that it would have been more suited to a long television mini-series than for a feature length film.  Far too much of the last half was cut out, and it seems to rush along without bothering to stop and explain anything to anyone.However, for those who have read the novel, the film version of Dune is an excellent companion piece.  For these people, the gaping holes in the plot can be filled in by the details from the novel.  Although the casting is universally bad, some of Lynch's personal touches are awful (the blob-like creature from the Guild), and it had too much to say in too little time, the effort and visual genius is too great to be ignored.  David Lynch's film succeeds from this Dune reader's point of view. "},{"Title":"The best science-fiction film ever made!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is simply the best science-fiction film ever made.  This is the film that nearly all modern sci-fi films are modeled after.  For those who have read the book, keep in mind that it takes far more than 137 minutes to read. Thus, much had to be dismissed from the book for this film.  Not even the 190 minute version could cover the entire book.  David Lynch did not so much convert the book to a movie, as he did create a beautiful and chilling masterpiece. "}{"Title":"The worst adaptation ever","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Compared to the rich book, of Herbert;This movie is going only into the depth of clichés, not to mention the universe of author - totally squeezed at the cost of a cheap movie.We can also mention the performance of Sting, as atreides, which is again far from an enlightened person.The whole universe of the book, is sacrificied for a cheap version which is close to this bad vs good. Everything is sacrificied at the cost of a simple story..Probably the worst sci-fi movie ever, some said the worst of this author. Which is right, compared to the book. "},{"Title":"Simply dreadful","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Listen internet, I know you like to use your mysterious powers to rewrite cultural history to suit the geeks... but DUNE is beyond salvation.This film makes no sense whatsoever. In fact it may be only film I've seen where the addition of voiceovers, audible thoughts and flashbacks/visions actually makes the film harder to follow.No doubt there is an amazing story behind the production of this film - a story I only know a tiny part of. But judging by some of the dreadful footage that was shot and used in the final edit, I doubt that there was a masterpiece lost on the cutting room floor.The production design is the only positive aspect of the film - I like the costumes and the interior set designs. Most of the exteriors look cheap though, and don't get me started on the vaginal imagery, clumsy religion and shouting weapons...Fair play to the cast for keeping a straight face. David Lynch was wise to disown it! "},{"Title":"Dune might have been too big for the big screen.","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune may have had an awesome premise, but the execution is awful. Dune just wasn't meant to be made into a movie. As book Dune certainly is may have been amazing, but as movie it was drawn out and confusing for the viewer. My biggest problem with it was the pacing. Times it felt slow as snail, and times it felt too fast. It had a timeskip, lots of expositional monologue with whom the movie wouldn't been understandable, but it made it even more dreadful as it was. Visuals did look somewhat kinky in some places, but they did have a certain charm and where detailed enough to captivate the eye (they certainly where dated and don't stand up to 2001 A Space Odyssay or the original Star Wars franchise). It seemed that some characters didn't have enough screen time even though they seemed crucial to the story (for example Chani and Feyd- Rautha). All in all I hated Dune with it's manual style execution of it's story. Also it lacked David Lynch's usual charm, though it was stylish enough. "},{"Title":"2 Decades Later","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 2 Decades later I am watching this film again. Firstly out of interest to see if my memory of Sting providing the worst acting ever.Its a lot worse than I remember the cliché's in this are truly outstanding without even being near funny. That is really hard to do.I think my next port of call is to read Dune and see if it is really as misogynistic as the film.I hope not as my memory of the film is much better than my revisit and the only thing that has struck me, is that somebody really needs to remake Dune.Its the story line and mysterious link between space, spice and its all so very quantum that it was such a shame it has the De Laurentiis porn product and incomprehensible Lynch style making a three hour long poo.Please somebody make a Dune remake and please hopefully not Dune3D "},{"Title":"The greatest treasure in all the universe, waiting for a new director","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll start my short review of this movie by saying that I'm something of a dune super-fan. I've read ALL the books by both father & son. Watching the first 1984 Lynch rendition has allot of nostalgia for me because I watched it allot at a much younger age. The 1984 Dune much like the book is extremely top-heavy, what do I mean by that? I mean that the movie sets itself up like few movies do, it creates a convincing plot & set of characters who are poised to put themselves in the most precarious position imaginable; Then, the plot switches focus from an omniscient narrator showing us an expansive universe of possibilities, to Paul & the Fremen pretty exclusively until the ending. Despite its top heavy nature I will still watch this movie's first hour & a half over & over. It should be noted this was one of Lynch's first big movies & suffered for it pretty badly, but despite this adversity I think he did his best & im thankful for the 84 version if only because it represents a version for future directors to draw inspiration & wonder from. Favorite Scene from the movie is when Paul trains with his teachers & they Activate a fighter the room, the props in that room & that ambiance of Caladan was intriguing.I suspect that after the new star wars craze passes yet again that someone will dig through the dune's to find this gem of a book waiting for a remake. After all, it is the mother of Science Fiction Films, if anything its so big its intimidating to directors, I say don't be scared, FEAR IS THE MIND KILLER! Remake Dune! "},{"Title":"You must not fear - fear is the mind killer","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is a shame that the DVD that I ended up buying of this film ended up being the extended TV version as opposed to the original theatrical version. Okay, the TV version is longer, by from what I remember of the theatrical version there is little that has been added to the extended version that actually makes it any better. In fact, I am more disappointed by what they took out of the theatrical version (namely the scene where Baron Harkonan opens the heart plug of a prisoner at the beginning of the film) than what they added to the extended TV version (though I suspect that some of the cuts probably had more to do with censorship than anything else).As you are probably aware this film is based on the book of the same name, and I have ended up reading the book, though it was quite some time after initially seeing the film (and the book doesn't have the heart plugs in it). I can't remember much of the book though, probably because my head has since been dominated by the film (and also it is incredibly thick, meaning that there are lots of other books, thick or otherwise, that I would probably rather read). However from what I understand the book and the film are actually quite faithful towards each other, The story is set centuries in the future, and one of the good things about the extended TV version is some of the background that it explains. Basically humanity had developed robotics and computing to a point where robots did everything for them, which made them incredibly lazy, and this opened them up to exploitation. However, humanity revolted against their overlords and destroyed all of the robots, so that now, in the far distant future, there are no computers - everything is done by mental power alone, with the telepathic Bene Geserit and the super logical and mathematical Mentats.The story itself is about a political struggle between two major houses of what is known as the Landsrat, and it is for control over the planet Arakis, otherwise known as Dune. Arakis is famous as it is the only place where spice milange is produced, and the spice allows humanity to travel the stars, as well as giving the Bene Geserit their powers. Basically whoever controls Arakis controls the universe, and at this time the Harkonans control the spice production. However the Harkonan's rival house, house Artredes, is gaining in popularity, and that threatens the position of the Emperor, so he comes up with a plan to get rid of the Duke.In a way this story reflects the struggles that are reminiscent of our times, and have existed throughout time. We have the struggle between the Spacer Guild (representing technology) and the Bene Geserit (representing religion, but more specifically organised religion) as well as the struggle between the Harkonans, which represents tyranny and Artedes, which represents liberty. This is not necessarily correct, but when you notice that the Harkonan home world of Gedi Prime is an industrial behemoth and that all of the Harkonan's have red hair (and Russian names) you get an idea of what this house represents (where on the other hand, Caladan, the Artedes homeworld is a rocky world swept by storms). Notice also that the world in which the struggle occurs is a desert world, and it is from this desert world that the source of the ability to travel, and thus the ability to rule the universe comes, which in a way reflects the struggle, which existed even at the time that the book was originally written, for control of the Middle East, a desert land which is the major producer of oil, the key to our society and our wealth.Think also of the Fremen struggling against the empire, and the Fremen is being led by one of the Artedes, who used to be apart of the empire, but has now been cast out of the empire through treachery. It is also interesting that it is through one who had been conditioned to be loyal that is the traitor, but the reasoning is not to betray the one who he serves, but to seek revenge against one who has caused him harm.Yet we note that this is a story that deals with the great and the powerful. The Siddaks Hazorack (sp?), or the Messiah, is one who has been specifically bred by the Bene Geserits, and is the son of high born nobles. While he may have been cast out of his position through treachery, he is still the son of a noble, a prince. This is thus a story of great people doing great things, not of ordinary people doing great things. This is a story of a man who, though a specific breading program, was created to be the messiah, not a messiah that was born to a normal person. However, as is the case with messiahs, this messiah was intended to be controlled by the Bene Geserit, but they were not able to control him, and in then end he brought about their destruction. "},{"Title":"Oh dear!","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bought the DVD the other day from a well known auction site, watched this for the first time yesterday. After about twenty minutes, I paused the DVD machine just to double check I was watching Dune (1984).The special effects would have struggled for any credit even in the 1960s. I am staggered at the wooden acting bearing in mind the high credibility of some of the cast. The story line jumpy and unclear, a mishmash of to-ing and fro-ing. The lighting and cinematography were dreadful in more than half of it. The script sounded so contrived that it could so easily be mistaken for a spoof.One has to be a seriously devoted and forgiving fan of this title to appreciate it in any form at all. I took my new DVD today down the road to the charity shop. "},{"Title":"Poorly Overplayed","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When watching this movie you can appreciate the affect that they were trying to produce, of a historic sweeping dark drama, but some of the contrivances used to create the feeling failed, giving an overall amateurish effect. The story of royal families struggling for dominance in a science fiction setting, where robots have been abolished allowing primitive and futuristic elements of society to co-exist is interesting and does make for a compelling story. However it is overplayed and lacks subtlety obstructing the telling of the story with some artistic but inconsequential scenes and leaving out many other elements that would have more effectively told the story encompassed in the novel upon which the movie is based. It is a shame that some movies can not be redone, as with a some work in particular areas of the movie like the opening scene that introduces the background of the story, it could become a very good movie. To be honest one can sense the use of narcotic substances in the creation of this title, all a bit fuddled, overplayed and disconnected. "},{"Title":"An excellent adaptation of Frank Herbert's literary epic.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a film that largely divides fans when regarding its level of quality. Regardless of one's personal views on David Lynch's adaptation, most will agree that the director managed to capture the atmosphere that Frank Herbert created. Is the film perfect? No, of course not. Is it a good example of SF as presented through cinema? Definitely.Story The story tells of a feud between two noble families, Atreides and Harkonnen. But this description only scratches the surface. Betrayal, prophecy, love, and spiritual calling also run prevalent.David Lynch penned the screenplay and should be commended for his fidelity to the source material. Dune is one of the few films (especially at the time of its release) to be a faithful adaptation of its literary counterpart.That's not to say that there aren't minor alterations made here and there. But most of these changes shouldn't offend the hard-core fans, as some of them (particularly the ending) improve the narrative direction of the film.Acting Dune boasts an excellent ensemble cast. Kyle MacLachlan stars as Paul Atreides, the boy fated to be a messiah of the planet Arrakis. He does a good job in showing a growth in maturity as he grows closer to fulfilling his destiny. His sullen expressions truly capture the character's burden of an unknown future.Kenneth McMillan portrays the vile Baron Harkonnen and plays the role up very well. McMillan also shows the audience the power of minimalistic acting, as evidenced by some of the character's subtle homosexual tendencies.Other notable actors that stand out in the film are Patrick Stewart, Sean Young, and Jürgen Prochnow. To say that these are the only ones worth noting, however, would be a crime. Dune features one of the greatest casts I've ever seen.Visual/Special Effects As previously stated, most fans will admit that the visuals are very true to Frank Herbert's vision. From the set design to the spice-drugged eyes to the sand worms, the production costs really reflect the ambition this film carried.David Lynch, known for his independent film Eraserhead, continues to impress us with the bizarre imagery that runs prevalent in his films. Dune is no exception. Paul Atreides' spice-induced dreams definitely have psychedelic overtones.Carlo Rambaldi, who designed the creature effects, did a reasonable job on the sand worms. But, like many films of this genre, they have become dated. Nevertheless, they were impressive for 1984 and should be appreciated for what they were.Musical Score I found this aspect of the film to be rather disappointing. The Prophecy theme, while powerful and mysterious, is used one too many times. Toto's score also has moments featuring an electric guitar, which totally destroys the illusion of being in another time and place. A film score must compliment the film, not detract from it. Thankfully, these moments are few.Conclusion Dune is a fine example of science fiction cinema. While David Lynch didn't have the amount of creative control he desired, the final product is nothing to complain about. The fact that Frank Herbert was pleased with this production is a testament to its quality.On a more informal note when viewing this for the first time, always be sure to watch the theatrical version. The extended cut is a convoluted mess that should only be seen for the knowledge of how horribly studio executives can tamper with a film. "},{"Title":"Still the best adaptation of the Frank Herbert classic....","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very possibly the best thing to be produced by the de Laurentiis dynasty, this movie is, admittedly, a bit over the top all the way through - possibly why David Lynch listed his directorial duties under the pseudonym Alan Smithee - NOT the mark of quality, people who are ashamed of the film they helped make generally have themselves listed as Alan Smithee on the credits - Gore Vidal did it for Caligula for excellent reasons. (Seeing a later edition of this version of Dune on a satellite channel, I notice that Lynch's name has since gone back on the credits and the cartoon storyboard intro has been replaced by a more aesthetic reading of the background by Virginia Madsen - as Princess Irulan reading from the Manual of Muad'Dib, in the spirit of the novel - a much better approach).However, some stories demand a bit of over-the-topness, and this is one of them. Certainly, this adaptation beats Sci-Fi channel's understated and more than slightly soporific version all to Hell. Pseudo-sotto voce self-talk on the part of the main characters and everything, this version of Dune is very faithful to the tone of the novel. This may be why this movie's not everyone's favorite flavor, because the book isn't, either. Without going into either a plot synopsis or spoiling anything, it seems as though serious artistic trade-offs were considered and made throughout the film. I like it very much - if anything, it exceeded the expectations Herbert's novel raised when I read it back in the 1970s.Brian Eno's score was definitely above and beyond expectations - in line with the melodramatic tone of the movie and adding to the frissons and feeling of awe generated by the sweeping vistas and masterful directing. While there is a little unintentional comedy created by the Padishah Emperor and his staff using what look like video game consoles to direct the defense of the Harkonnen redoubt from the fedayeen, viewing the film over twenty years later we realize that modern war has a certain amount of video-gameness to it - and as gritty as war in the streets still is, it is inexorably moving toward what we see in those late scenes in Dune. The only way to remove that one bit of unintentionally comic tone would have been to contradict the directorial decision to go for visual and auditory grandeur all the way through the film - have the defense scene be low-key and consciously patterned after what happens in real combat and mission control rooms. The director elected to stay with the overarching theme and it probably works much better for other viewers than it did for me. I respect the decision.I can unreservedly recommend this film - it complements the original novel and is superior to the remake I have seen. Herbert wrote a SF novel that morphs into a mystical epic, and the movie matches him almost move for move - not a literal reproduction of the novel but a masterful and ringing interpretation of it in cinematic language. Big win for the de Laurentiis family.I've noticed that there is pre-production work for a new remake of Dune slated for 2010. The newbies will have a big job ahead of them making a better Dune than the one de Laurentiis made in 1984, because this is an imposing work. "}{"Title":"We got swindled","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently read one of this site's trivia postings for this movie, saying that in the extended version, screenwriter Judas Booth's name is not real, but a combination of Judas Iscariot and John Wilkes Booth because David Lynch (in my opinion, one of *the* worst directors in the world) thought they had betrayed him and killed the movie. Lynch, step off of it! You betrayed Frank Herbert and killed the book! For what it was, the movie sucked (for everything it was not, it wasn't bad), and the extended TV version is so much better. Is that because it doesn't have Lynch's name on it? Why couldn't all of those things from the extended version make the theatrical cut? That could have salvaged this movie from Hollywood hell-- also known as obscurity and poor box office returns. "},{"Title":"The band Toto did the soundtrack for Dune","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune the movie is not as good as the book. The film is still worth seeing though. MacLachlan as the Young Atreides is all right. Look for the part played by Sting. Baron Harkonen looks ghastly. You feel sorry when the House Atreides is over run. The sand worms look crude compared to computer graphic animation today. The fremen all look well fed which is unusual for a desert planet with little food. If you have ever tried to push a sandbucket into the sand the wrong way then you will know that there is no way sand worms could move through sand like that in real life. There is an over 18 year old woman who started writing to famous people using the codename steal coup rumoured to be a Forbes from Walkerton On that gives you tealc from Stargate. I refuse to take orders from her as the American Shadow Vice President. My orders come from American Shadow President Jack Kennedy, Jack Oni sounds like General Jack ONeal. I also take orders from Qe2 in between being hunted for some reason. If I represent Jackson in Stargate how can steal coup be trusted for trying to take out her superior? Check out Stings other films as well. "},{"Title":"Like being eaten by a sand worm","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start by saying that I absolutely loved the book by Frank Herbert. The book is simply amazing in almost every aspect. It created a fascinating world, full of complex characters with hidden agendas, political scheming and much more. This movie does absolutely none of those things. Instead, it screws up in almost every possible way.First of all, everything in this movie looks and sounds totally wrong. I always imagined the world of Dune as a somewhat medieval world, albeit with space travel and some modern weapons. In David Lynch's adaptation, everything looks like it's been copied from some crappy eighties music video (and given the presence of Sting, that might actually be true). Just about everything, from the costume design to the music, looks horribly fake, cheesy, or both. The weird psychedelic atmosphere created by Lynch doesn't work at all. I know not everything was possible back in 1984, but I do know that the first three Star Wars movies (which all precede this production) looked a lot more convincing and appealing.Secondly, this movie is horribly shallow. The complex storyline and characters from the book are nowhere to be found. The plot is more a series of very loosely connected highlights from the book than an actual story. If you haven't read the book, you'll likely have no idea of what this incoherent mess is about. Also, character development is almost non-existent, and hardly any of the characters are convincing. The acting is almost universally bad, with the actor that plays Paul sticking out as especially awful. How are we ever supposed to believe this guy is the messiah? Is there anything positive to say about Dune then? Well, a couple of things are done decently. I was surprised to see that Sting actually does a fairly good acting job, and the sand worms are pretty cool as well. The knife fight between Paul en Feyt-Rautha is decent as well (as opposed to all of the other action sequences, which consist simply of shots of people shooting alternated with shots of things being blown up. Yawn).But that's about it. For the most part, it's just a huge misinterpretation of a great book, with a hugely simplified storyline, a totally unconvincing lead actor, poor acting, horribly costume and set design, and just about everything else that could be done wrong.Still, I give it ** out *****. It's based on great source material, and that should account for something. "},{"Title":"Fantastic looking big budget film with a coherent but incomprehensible story makes one indifferent. **1/2 out of 5","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a great film to look at. For the most part, the special effects are terrific and the score is absolutely beautiful.David Lynch really knows how to make a movie but I wonder if he knows how to tell a story though...You see the problem here is that Lynch tells stories in very unconventional ways, they make almost no sense and rely more on atmosphere and mood. Here the special effects filled story of Dune is told in a conventional way, but it stills doesn't make a lick of sense. When you are telling a story this way, I feel that the audience should understand somewhat what's going on.It makes me wonder if Lynch knows how to make a story comprehensible at all. Is this a handicap or is it just his preferred method to confuse people? I don't know, and because of this I can't justify giving it much more than two and a half stars. I really did like the movie, but I felt that all of the random things the characters would say were irrelevant to the story and were just being weird for weird's sake.The addition of Brad Dourif made it a better film for me although his trademark tears were no where to be found. I did feel like he was on the edge of tears a couple of moments.... he probably did shed some tears but those scenes were most likely cut out.If you're heavy into science fiction it really isn't to be missed. It's entirely watchable and there really aren't any slow boring moments. It feels a little like Eraserhead at times what with the closeup shots going into either worms mouths or the vast nothingness of space. It's definitely Lynch at work here. "},{"Title":"God help you if you use voice-overs in your work, my friends!","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   God help you. That's flaccid, sloppy writing. Any idiot can write a voice-over narration to explain the thoughts of a character.                                                                                           -Robert McKee     I'm told that to really appreciate 'Dune', you have to have read to book first.  I don't doubt it, because having seen the movie without reading the book, I came away utterly lost.  The dialogue and action were stilted and confusing, perhaps because of an almost pathological need to follow the book precisely.  And the constant use of voice-overs bordered on amateurish.  Maybe it was impossible to portray everything they needed without them, but if that's the case, maybe the story wasn't movie material.      And even with the constant, blatant attempts to explain to the viewer what was happening, it's almost impossible to follow the story.  I usually enjoy complex plotlines, but this came away feeling like they were trying to cram a six hour trilogy into a two hour movie.  Most of the characters were briefly introduced, and then quickly died or whatever, and we're supposed to have any kind of emotional response?  It's like sprinting through an art gallery and expecting to enjoy the paintings.      As I said, I haven't read the book, and maybe the movie only works for those who are already fans, and just want images to go along with the story.  For those of us who haven't read it, it definitely doesn't stand on it's own. "},{"Title":"Unbearable","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just awful.  I'm a big fan of the books, but the badness of this movie transcends any infidelity to the written word.  Possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.  Toto's music is just unforgiveable.  Toto?  And the weirding modules are just strange.  There's nothing like that in the books, and they prevent more cool sword-fights.  And if they're so valuable, why do you keep all of them in one cabinet?  The acting didn't attract any attention as being awful, and seeing Sting was amusing.  You have to see this movie if you're a fan of the books, but don't expect to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"An atmosphere","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How to catch a book atmosphere ? Lynch was sensitive to Herberts ability to render the effect of plotting, plans within plans, among different politic actors. Rules of power upon an economic target spice.I just add that the french translation uses some sort of language ways proper to the royal courts (some old european fashion wordings) which greatly fits to empirial atmospher of Herbert's book  "},{"Title":"What was Lynch thinking?","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  * Terrible * * Below Par * * * Not Bad * * * * Good * * * * * Brilliant WARNING *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*  The year is  10191 and the known universe is reliant on the precious spice melange.It is this spice that makes it possible for the most powerful rulers and their people to fold space.That is to travel to any part of the galaxy in an instant.The spice however only exists on one planet in the cosmos.The desert planet of Arrakis which is other wise known as 'Dune'.The natives of the planet called the Fremen have long held a prophecy that one day a man from the outer world, a messiah will come to Arrakis and rid them of the rulers of the planet,the insidious inhabitants of House Harkonnen.For a long period of time a feud has raged between the head of house Harkonnen,the Baron Vladamier Harkonnen(Kenneth McMillan) and the head of House Atredies on the planet Caladan.The head of House Atredies is none other than Duke Leto(Jurgen Prochnow). The baron and his family are ordered by the emperor of the universe,Shaddam IV(Jose Ferrer) to leave Arrakis so that the Atredies may rule over the desert world and take control of spice production.Leto and his partner, the former Bene Gesserit witch Lady Jessica(Francesca Annis and they're teenage son Paul(Kyle Maclachlan) move to Arrakis,little knowing that the emperor's order is part of a vile plot between the emperor and the Harkonnen to wipe out the Atredies.For too long the feud between the Atredies and the Harkonnen a family's have held up spice production.When the Atredies are wiped out it will put an end to the feud and production may continue unhindered.Little do the emperor or the Harkonnen know is that Leto's son Paul is the messiah of the Fremen prophecy and that he will spell doom for the Harkonnen.Not only that but after his father's death he will vow revenge on the emperor and take his throne to become ruler of the universe. What was David Lynch thinking?That is quite clearly the first sentence that springs in to my head when I think of how much of an expensive,costly disaster his adaptation of Frank Herbert's epic novel was.With amazing sets and brilliantly designed planetary backgrounds to bring the story to life,Lynch to his merit had a an astonishing grip on how the universe from Frank Herbert's imagination should look.Not only that but the costumes adorned by the huge cast are a credit to the costume designers who created them and a testament to Lynch's visual genius.Other than the fact that most of the cast is of a high calibre this is an other wise embarassing attempt to bring the classic science fiction novel to the big screen. In trying to take Herbert's gargantuan epic story and condense it in to a movie with a running time of just over two hours,Lynch missed much of what was important in the movies plot.Great amounts of important issues that are raised in the book are erased from the movie completely and as such what we get is an unintelligible,confusing mess of a movie that makes little sense.We never fully under stand the politics of Arrakis and why the emperor takes the side of the brutal Harkonnen rather than the noble Atredies.Why in the end,Paul never has the emperor killed when he takes over Arrakis and the universe and how the likes of Paul's former tutor in the ways of combat Gurney Halleck(Patrick Stewart)survives the Harkonnen and Sardukaar onslaught of the Atredies.    The performances as well like I have stated above are mostly good but there are exceptions.Most notably of course being Sting who is hopelessly miscast as Baron Harkonnens nephew Feyd-Rautha.He looks far too old in the role as he is supposed to be closer to Paul's age in the novel.As for his performance.The less said about that the better.I could commend the actors and go in to more depth at how they coped admirably with what is a terrible script.But what would be the point. In the end 'Dune' while visually impressive and admittedly decent enough direction from Lynch is possibly the worst movie of his career.It was a movie that should never have been attempted to be made.I hear there is a director's cut of the movie which is three hours in length.While longer I'm sure it will offer little in the way of coherence.Personally I would recommend that you read the book.That or watch the Sci-fi channels five hour mini-series version.Although not great it is certainly superior to this incoherent garbage.Robs Rating *    "},{"Title":"Long live the Fighters!!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A masterpiece that has enthralled audiences for generations, the novel Dune is in my opinion one of the greatest novels ever written.  It will immerse you in a universe based on humanity, yet so far distant from our present and so detailed in culture and language, that you would believe Frank Herbert to be from the worlds of Dune himself.  In working with David Lynch, he has brought his imagination to the screen.  I had to watch the movie 7 times before I understood everything.  A movie like this captures the imagination of even those who do not like science fiction and pulls them to a place of beauty, horror, prophecy, religious zeal, political intrigue, power, and destiny.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Just plain awful","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading the book I was eager to see if they made a movie about it, so I searched on IMDB, and wonder-o-wonder, they did. I bought it a few days later and watched it. Everything would be fine, I thought well known actors, David Lynch, good story and plenty of money. After just 15 minutes I knew it would not be fine, that it was just plain awful. How one can screw up a fine book like this, I don't know, but they certainly did. The acting was awful, the characters were over caricaturized, the plot was (if you haven't read the book) confusing, and if you did read the book, this movie is a desecration of the original story. "}{"Title":"Caught in an Endless Sand-Trap.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A $47 million mess that transcends cinematic disasters. A total waste of time, talent, film and an interesting concept is Dune. Director David Lynch goes away from what he knows (relatively low-budget, quirky films driven by interesting characters and situations) and replaces it with a film that tries to be eye-candy. Dune attempts to dazzle with exotic locales, wild special effects that look hopelessly dated and expensive set designs. Nothing seems to work here. The novel, which was a gigantic success, just makes no sense on the big-screen. Distracting narration and irritating voice-overs just add to the ridiculousness of this gigantic bust. A sad disappointment. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).     "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie because I heard it was an epic story of blah blah and whatnot. I put in the tape. The first thing I watch is the theatrical trailer. That was tedious enough. They kept showing D U N E in the ad. D U N E, blah blah D U N E, blah blah D U N E. I know what the movie is already!What was with that spice stuff? That's not the right word. Instead of spice they should call it chemical. This chemical lets you see all, hear all and know all.Why did the movie insult me by explaining everything? This is the same person I've seen in my dreams. This is the same event that I saw in my dreams. I KNOW, I SAW YOU DREAM IT AN HOUR AGO. I UNDERSTAND. GET ON WITH THE STORY ALREADY!!!It was so tedious. I kept nodding off. I didn't even get to see the ending. I remember right after we see the large water reserves and craft blowing up stuff that I fell asleep. Borrrrriiing.I've never seen a movie that put me to sleep. Ever. Battlefield Earth dried my eyes out and I ended up blinking a contact out. But I never fell asleep.It all was so confusing. I've never been so dumbfounded about a movie before.Who made a 5-hour version of this? Who? I want to know. Of course, I will never see that version. But why waste time on making it longer?I should have rented Dawn of the Dead. "},{"Title":"Sooo Disappointing","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I ever got the chance to remake any one movie...it would be Dune, because i felt that the film was such a pathetic waste of the rights to Frank Herbert's classic book. That book was perhaps the greatest piece of writing this century, and a wonderful example of subtle political commentary, interwoven with an epic, yet minutely detailed plot. It was beautiful. David Lynch's hairy film, on the other hand, was a childish misinterpretation of the whole POINT of the book (in that the hero is made, not herbert's man playing God, but some kind of miracle-worker). It displayed all the hallmarks of a de laurentiis production miscast actors (who are all in themselves good)directed in such a way as to appear terribly wooden, made to speak awful lines, against a background of terrible effects, purely so that the location filming can be done in some impressive landscape. (anyone remember Conan The Barbarian?). If only they had chosen something less intelligent to make this movie about, it would be fairly fun, in a cheap & cheerful way. Unfortunately, it will always be to me, a terrible waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie that stretches the imagination..","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I give my review I would like to backtrack a bit. Now I hadn't seen DUNE since it first came out in 84' when I was like six years old. But just recently I was reminded of it by another movie I saw. I went to see The THIN RED LINE and although I didn't like the movie all that much I did recognize a key element from DUNE; the philosophical voice-overs. So I had to rent it right away, and I picked up the widescreen, remastered version from blockbuster.Boy was I impressed, it was just like I had remembered it, and to be honest with you even better. Some people like to compare this movie to STAR WARS, but I don't. They are 2 very different movies and should be kept separate when evaluating. DUNE is like a cross between STAR WARS and PINK FLOYD'S THE WALL. It is an incredible movie that stretches the imagination to another level. Fans of George Lucas hate this movie, but fans of Lynch love it, go figure.Basically if you want a mystical tale with an unbelievable production and special effects, then please rent this movie. By the way, Sting and Kyle MacLaclin are excellent. Also you can find out where the movies, TREMORS & THE THIN RED LINE stole their ideas from. "},{"Title":"Problematic, but worthy","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I heard a lot about Dune before I rented it on DVD. Even though, I was surprised. David Lynch succeeded in making his movie even under Universal roof. And it is quite an achievement. It's a shame, that eventually, he agreed to massacre it so terribly. I mean, you practically see the editor's scissors cutting the movie while watching it. Dune suffers from the same old problems as other potencial masterpieces killed by the commercial needs Ridley Scott's Legend, Wim Wenders' Until The End Of The World and many others. It's our loss. My Grade *** 1/2 (out of *****) "},{"Title":"2001 it ain't; but I'd watch it over Star Wars any day.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I imagine I'll get bitten for that.Suggesting that Lynch's debated cult classic is better than the world love, world renowned media point that IS Star Wars?How dare I.However, I have simple reasoning; Dune is a movie that I put in a league  closer to 2001; not the same, but closer than Star Wars. I love to sit down and be entertained by a movie, however, not as much as I love to sit down and get into a movie like Dune or 2001.  These films make you think more, and too me, are more inspirational.So while perhaps the special effects are not on par (say 2 for Dune and 4 out of five for Star Wars) the acting (4 for Dune, what can I say, but Jurgen Prochnow is one of my favorite actors!) and a 3 for Star Wars).  Plot, a 2 for Star Wars (even though I loved the plot, and the expansions its taken), and a 4 for Dune.So, if you're a cult movie fan like me, go rent this film.  Understand its a melodramatic, operatic film, but it's a good one, and definitely worth a look.  However, if you're a Star Wars fan, I don't advise it. "},{"Title":"A good candidate for MST3K","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is enjoyable if you detach your mind and just let your eyes soak up the impressive sets.  The voice overs and the whole inner monologue of various characters tend to get a little irritating.  The acting is stiff.  Even Patrick Stewart seems just to be reading lines, rather than playing them. It's too bad that the MST3K budget is rather small.  They could make this film so much more enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tremendous production values directed around a contrived plot point, the sonic-voice guns.  An odd gimmick considering Herbert's original twist--a Duke becomes a threat to his own emperor by training personal troops to an edge nearly matching the emperor's own forces, the Saudaukar.  Now there's a premise! Who needs dumb gimmicks?   "},{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is an exceptional film. Great cast, soundtrack, costumes and set. However, I agree with many other fans that this movie is not for everyone. After watching the movie over one hundred times and eventually reading the series of books by Frank Herbert, I can fully understand the story and plot. If you want to enjoy this movie watch it more than just once or twice, maybe even read the book.  One of my all time favorites for sure.  "},{"Title":"A fascinating, if seriously flawed film","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune bombed at the box-office, but has had a cult following through the years, and watching it I understand the latter. While the novel covers much more territory and explores the characters much better, Dune has a weirdness to it (thanks to David Lynch) that I like. Despite some weak acting and leaving out a lot that's in the book (this is mostly Universal's fault. They forced Lynch to cut out around 2 hours of footage), the film has a great international cast, excellent music, and great sets and costumes. check it out. "}{"Title":"A Romantic Fantasy that requires some imagination.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is not a movie for everyone, but apparently enough people like the film since the rating is over 7.  This film is A Romantic Fantasy that requires some imagination in order to enjoy it. The literal minded may not appreciate the allegorical nature of this film.  "},{"Title":"the good bit...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Absolute tripe as an adaptation of the novel, but it does have one rather nice scene involving Sting in a futuristic jockstrap that I'll usually sit through at least part of the film to see. ;) "},{"Title":"Very good movie (IF you've read the books)","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you've read the Herbert books this movie is a must see. If you haven't read the books then you will probably be lost from the get-go. The movie has great special effects and sticks to the books pretty well. A little quirky, but what do you expect from Lynch. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is an absolute masterpiece which follows the book very closely.  The effects are excellent for the time (One must consider that CGI was not accessable back then).  It is well acted by all especially Kyle who is perfect as Paul Atreides.  To all who bag this film David Lynch is laughing all the way to the bank. "},{"Title":"David Lynch's best work","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune, quite possibly the most classic Scifi films made in the mid eighties. Frank Herberts cult classic novels was a major hit to the public, which gave way for the film later on. To see Kyle Mclaughlin play Paul Maudib, a young man who is the birthed messiah called the Ques'aks Hadderach or the super being was magnificent. I love every bit of this film, the scenery, the special effects, and above all the battle between good and evil. Kenneth Macmillan (Baron Vladimir Harkonnen). One of the most disgusting individuals to grace the screen with his diseases and scabs to gross the public. Who would want to marry into that?? However to be fair to Kenneth, he did a great convincing job at being this vile creature with no moral aspects. I found it intriguing to see such a film and the dated year 10191 AE where Earthers go into space long after colonization took place. For eons and ages past they turn to new ways of life which led them all to this point in their evolution. Forgetting they ever had anything to do with earth in ancient past. The music was top notch, the vast and irreplaceable cast was sheer genius, and the famed worms for which this movie will best be remembered for. Frank gave us a vision, a vision of true horror in space, the wonders as well as the miracles. Highly recommended to those over fourteen years of age. incredible film which later on went to develop a mini series in the mid nineties. Check it out, great cast and great fun. "},{"Title":"I didn't read the book, and still don't like the film","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is a very strange film. I like star wars and science fiction in general, but I don't see anything to like about Dune.Is confusing, but i don't even mind to not know some things that was going on because the story doesn't attract me too much. I still watch it completely, thought.Watching it was in some parts awkward and even unnecessarily disgusting.I like the band Toto, but on this movie wasn't good, with a few exceptions in some parts that was just OK.I suppose the novel is still very good, so stay on the novel and skip the film.Overall, some people might like the film. But for me, too strange and disgusting. "},{"Title":"Terrible attempt at book adaptation","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or proof that David Lynch has no talent, there are two things wrong with this movie, the screenplay and the direction.The screenplay is just terrible, there is no way the universe of Dune could have been explained in a 2 hour movie, but the attempt was none the less made by having the whole first half of the film attempt to introduce us to the way the universe stands in the year 10,000 and something. After we're introduced to it, the entire rest of the story is crammed into the other half of them film, it doesn't fit and only a few loose ends and tails fit into that half, so we see bits here and pieces there and it doesn't make sense. It makes so little sense in fact that when it finally ends, you have no idea what the actual meaning of the last scene is from the perspective of the story the way Frank Herbert meant it. And this also is a showcase of why we don't usually get to hear what characters think Whispered thoughts, monologues and dreams are cheesy and in this case reinforce the feeling that the characters are legally retarded.And that brings me to the direction. You could be tempted to blame the casting people for choosing people that suck or the actors for having no talent, but when you get to see acting powerhouses like Patrick Stewart or Jurgen Prochnow reading crap lines and delivering terrible performances along with everyone else, you get the feeling that it's not their fault. You rarely get to see what a terrible director is like, but this is one of those cases. The fake fist pounding we see over and over conveys no frustration, the lines and acting are either dripping with cheese or lacking any emotion. You can almost hear the director yelling cut and telling the actors that it has to be worse, not better.I could go on and on but best to lay this all at Mr Lynch's feet because it's his fault this thing got released anyway. It's sloppy, it's hurried and it's a right mess.Watch this if you're in for a laugh, but if you take it seriously you'll hate it. There are good things about this movie but I won't bother to tell you about them because it just isn't worth watching for cinematography or storytelling. "},{"Title":"What a gloriously beautiful mess.","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two films interwoven here, one is an uncompromising masterpiece and the other is a complete turkey.The first half of the movie is extraordinary. I was *floored* by the opening scenes, floored UTTERLY. They indicated an intricate, sober reality, stuffed with dreadful mysteries and frighteningly intelligent monsters. I love the secret Guild report. The low humming, the cold echoing, flat voice, the treatment of the Empire as a system to be manipulated, oooh, I thought, What's THIS? The approach of the Navigator, gliding in in his great, monstrous black box and his bizarre, stilted conversation with the Emperor resonated with me deeply, it spoke volumes about the nature of the world I was seeing, its age, its sophistication, its dangers and its habits of thought. It had the gorgeous alien-ness and magically imaginative richness of a high fantasy flick blended seamlessly with a solid, cold and ruthless universal paradigm. The emperor's palace was festooned with riches, but he had no choice but to receive the Navigator. He was not some mere despot or a benevolent father figure, but a politician. The Navigator was obviously phenomenally dangerous, but this wasn't communicated through meaningless threats but by how the reverend mother and the Emperor reacted to him and his towering, chillingly dark, hissing black box.I respect film-making of this quality, where alien worlds are brought to life with mere moments of dialogue and strokes of the visual designers brush. It's all about the mis-en-scene, guys. A picture truly is worth a thousand words. Star Wars did this also, brilliantly, in its opening scenes, but not as well as Dune, I think. I thought Golly. I'm watching a grown up science fiction movie. Oh my GOD. I'm watching a GROWN UP science fiction MOVIE. They really did it. And then it carried on like that for a bit. Geidi Prime was awesome, a hideous offense to nature, like a cross between an old hospital and an oil refinery. I'd never seen anything so ugly yet still underpinned by human tropes. Again, it spoke volumes about the inhabitants of the planet. And the baron himself was just so disgusting, so extremely evil that I was mesmerised by him and his relatives. The Beast Rabban was a bit rubbish, but I could believe in Sting's character, I think he pulled it off.Brad Dourif and his little litany still fascinates me. All the little litanies throughout the movie, these were lovely touches. I had no knowledge of the Dune Universe and these, again, brought the world to life, indicating a profoundly obsessive human society, guided by bizarre motives expressed in intensely focused, ritualised behaviours. It was freaky but *plausible* and in some ways terrifyingly familiar.There was one more moment of brilliance, the spacing guild taking the Atreides to Arrakis. The heighliner sequence was amazing in terms of visual design (although the effects were low quality even for the 80s), I was looking at an ANCIENT ship, utterly VAST and secretive and silent, like a gargantuan wreck at the bottom of the sea, a vessel that could easily be 4000 years old and could only come from an enormous intragalactial spacefaring empire, as I had been told of in the prologue. The docking port was half a kilometer high, framed with what looks solid gold and resembles the entrance to a leviathan's cathedral. Not been done again, that image. And instead of a space battle, we got a religious ceremony, potent and serious and filled with unclear but deeply felt meanings and stunning music. It was amazing. I'd never seen anything like it. I still love it. I'm one of those British people that Beecham said don't know much about music but love the sound it makes, and I'm the same with movies. I don't mind if a movie scene doesn't make sense if I like the sound it makes. It's probably silly to be so affected by images that are, in essence, so simple, but what is imagination for, then, hm?But... the Atreides.The Atreides turned up and the whole movie started to sag.Their dialogue was ponderous and dim-witted. They were slow and unconvincing, all of them. Jessica was totally silly, Kyle McLaughlan was appallingly miscast and the rest of Duke Leto's entourage were reminded me of nothing more than the Three Stooges. The only good bits were the fight between Gurney and Paul and between Paul and the robot and that's only because they had a cool idea about how to do forcefields and an interesting sound weapon. It was kind of cool to have a big, old-looking castle with lots of wood panelling many thousands of years in the future, in the 80s this idea was still new and fresh, but it wasn't enough to carry the Atreides as a narrative force just to have nice interior design.And don't get me started on the Fremen. They just didn't work. I will take the boy-man. UH! For pete's sake...It just descends into farce after they get to Arrakis. The film slowly but surely gets sillier and sillier until we reach the stupid climaxes of Paul riding the sandworm which had me covering my eyes and peering through my fingers at the appallingly bad acting and painfully bad dialogue. Long live the fighters. Long LIVE them. YEAH! GO FREMEN! WE'RE NUMBER ONE! Bro, I am so STOKED about this! It's AWFUL.Oh, and Alia. Nooooooooo, nononononononoNO. That was just wrong in every possible way, the way she talked was just sad. Alia's meant to be a kid that behaves like an adult, she's supposed to exhibit an unselfconscious absence of childishness that freaks people out and that kid playing Alia didn't do this.Oh dear, I thought. They screwed this up very badly. But it wasn't a total failure. I went and read the Dune series afterwards. So in the end the movie did serve *some* purpose.... "},{"Title":"dune comments","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the DUNE series of books ..... and I loved the book. and though I liked the movie...it was not all that great ...as compared to taking lordofrings and making it a movie...DUNE should be totally redone with modern effects and be true to the books as much as realistic..and even go saga like multiple movies or whatever.I am kinda of expecting it to get redone anyway, especially when somebeody realizes that the market is there..... A properly done DUNE movie(s) would be big $$. Would cost big $$ but would make big $$ too.Especially when you realize that the 'Foundation Trilogy' which is simple by comparison (in reading) but would be complicated in movie form. "},{"Title":"One of Sci-Fi's Best Epics","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reviewing this is, for me, like reviewing the original Star Wars. Where does one begin? A compilation of ingeniously created worlds, endearing characters, superb creativity, and a most intriguing story, Dune is the epitome of classic sci-fi. The darkling twists, the intrigue, the plots and sub-plots, all come together to deliver a rousing saga of treachery, nobility, and redemption.This is probably one of the best science fiction works out there, and as far as I'm concerned, is one of the very best. The Director's Cut (or Extended Edition, whatever) contains all the pre-story material a Dune fan could dream of.This is a classic, and is a definite must see by any budding sci-fi fan, although it lacks lightyears from the Herbert source materials.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was one of the best novel adaptations of the sci-fi genre. If you grew up with classics like Blade Runner and Alien, this is a movie you should consider making a part of your collection. I ended up reading the book after I saw the movie which is often the case for me, but it also piqued my interest in other David Lynch films.Since I picked up the DVD this year with the theatrical and television release, I can see why David Lynch was repulsed by the television version (continuity/editing and picture quality were poor). If you haven't seen it yet, go rent it. Other than that, I am surprised there were so few comments on this film. "},{"Title":"Astounding Visual World, Twisted and Dark As Was the Book","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just never got the folks who hated this movie. Plot concessions (compared to the book) were made, but all of the basic plot lines and characters were included. The amazing part was how Lynch was able to imagine and bring to life the Sci Fi/Fantasy elements in a way which pushed the story line forward. The actors were very well directed (mostly) and a more handsome cast men and women are not to be found. However, the duologue is very stylized--just as it is in the book. Actually, without reading the book, it may be difficult to get the reason for much in the movie. But then you have to let go of your expectation that everything in the book will be in the movie--it would need to be about 20 hours long. (The book is long as well, and this just covers the first of a bunch of em.) It is SciFi Fantasy on a very grand scale, and the book is the best of em all.---The Baron is appropriately disgusting and fat and scary. Really disgusting. Paul is mysterious but played a bit cold (compared to the book), perhaps necessary to emphasize his transformation. The Witches are just phenomenally cast and played. Sting (the musician) plays a major part (Feyd) surprisingly well and in 1984 had an amazing body which he shows off. The main conceptual elements driving the books complex plot are all present Eugenics taken to extreme, Science/Technology Limitations and the result, Feudalism, a nominal relationship to Islam, a messianic story, Ecological Balance - - - all wrapped up in a brilliant visual piece. But this is an adult piece. No Star Wars concessions to marketing toys and fart jokes for six year olds. There is very adult sexuality which really would be disturbing for a child or young adolescent. 10/10 for being a true must-see if you are a Sci Fi fan. "},{"Title":"The books deserved better","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have read the first two novels about Dune from Frank Herbert, and i must say i liked them quite a lot. The whole savior-theme is not one that i'm usually very interested in, but in Dune it was done with a fresh touch. When i read the book i felt it would be very suited for a screen adaption. Which makes it even more sad that this movie fails so miserably.What most disturbed me about this movie is not the fact that it looks incredibly cheap and uninspired, or that the special effects are horrible. No rather the fact that the whole story is so rushed. I never got a feeling for the story in the movie, rather it all just felt like it was moving at double speed. And important plot points were just passed with a small mention from one of the characters.And i can't find the words to express just how much i loathe movies and TV-series where a voice say what the characters are thinking. This is something i thought was limited to afternoon garbage TV, but apparently director David Lynch thought that there was some point to using it here. Because here voices are constantly saying out loud what everyone thinks. A flaw in the acting i would assume. The actors are simply not good enough to convey the characters feelings, so instead we hear this voice.In general i felt there were very few redeeming qualities to this movie. The general lack of quality when it comes to special effects, script, direction and story just ruins the experience for me. Also the general psychedelic 1970's style of the movie doesn't really appeal to me, and Toto's music further increases that feeling. I rate this 2/10, the books deserved better. "},{"Title":"All I see is an Atreides that I want to kill!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I originally saw this movie in the theater, without having first read the book.  In fact, the movie inspired me to read the book.  I went to see it on the strength of the trailer, which was quite intriguing.  The designs in the movie were spectacular, and what little of the story that was conveyed sounded interesting.  That said, the movie was a mixed bag for me.The effects weren't the best, but were generally good and used to service the story.  The set designs, costumes, and various props and vehicles were fantastic.  I liked the Ruritanian look of many of the costumes, invoking an Austro-Hungarian Empire feel to the royal houses.  The still suits looked plausible.  I liked the old world feel of the more advanced technology.  At times this world seemed ancient, yet so far ahead.  The biggest problems were twofold the story and the performances.The story was complex, but far more decipherable than most critics claimed.  The opening narration gave a succinct background to the conflict and the importance of the spice.  However, there is so much detail and so many layers to the story, it can never be done justice in a single movie.  Setting aside the changes from the book, we have the feuding houses, the Emperor's machinations, the Guild's fears, the Bene-Gesserit breeding program, the Fremen community, the relationship between the worms and the spice, etc....  This material begs for closer examination than the script allows.  Even the extended version can't do justice to the material.The other problem is the acting.  Some of the actors chew so much scenery you wonder if they needed craft services.  There are some good performances Sian Phillps, Jose Ferrer (in what little screen time he has), Max Von Sydow, Patrick Stewart (again, in his little screen time) Francesca Annis.  There are some that are uneven, but have their moments Jurgen Prochnow, Dean Stockwell, Kyle MaLachlan.  Others are just plain bad Sean Young, Sting, Everitt McGill, the actor playing the Baron, Fredde Jones, Lynch himself, in his cameo.  The only Lynch film I have seen that I completely like is The Elephant Man.  Lynch seems to cast his actors for their quirks, rather than their talent.  The result is a very mixed bag.  The quirks distract from the better performances.I never wholely understood the critical venom spewn on this film.  It's no masterpiece, but was hardly the worst film of the year, as Roger Ebert called it (or maybe it was Siskel, or both).  It has an interesting visual style and some good moments, but does not sustain interest.  I look upon it as an interesting failure.The extended version, shown often on cable and disowned by David Lynch, adds a new prologue with more detail into the history of the conflict, set to what appear to be production art.  Included are additional scenes with Dr Kynes and Gurney, the Fremen, and some different takes; and the deletion of material due to tv censorship.  It is not much of an improvement.The mini-series version from the Sci-Fi Channel does greater justice to the source material, but suffers in some scenes due to the stage filming and budget.   "},{"Title":"a stylish, visual, unique failure","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible spoilers I approached this movie with trepidation, I had heard that it was bad, confusing and did not explain itself very well. All true.  I thought that the casting was done well, I personally liked Sting, although I didn't like Kyle MacLachlan as Paul, I felt that he did not play the 'godlike' Paul very well.  I also liked the look of the stillsuits in this movie, they were exactly as I had viewed them whilst reading the book. Thats about all for the good points, I'm sure that the sets and effects might have looked good at the time, but now the effects are dated (although not too badly) and the sets, at least the indoor sets, look rather blocky to me, and very fake. To people who have not read the book, I would advise them to stay away from this movie, unless you are a big David Lynch fan, this movie holds nothing of any interest to you. To people who have read Dune, this movie would be best viewed as an illustration, putting into pictures individual scenes from the book.  This is because the movie flows so badly, it does not lead on from itself, and the constant voice overs confuse things further. Compared to the Sci-fi channel version, this movie is truer to the story, more visionary and original, but it does not work.  It simply doesn't. I didn't like the Sci-Fi channel version either, I don't think that this book can be turned into a half-way decent movie, but the Sci-Fi version was easier to follow, and I loved Julie Cox as Princess Irulan, I thought the development of that character was an inspired idea, although as we 'know' her better than we know Chani, it seems to us that Paul should choose Princess Irulan, rather than Chani. In summary, just a bad movie. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end for sci-fi movies","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have two things to say about this movie, first about Lynch's adaptation of the book and about the film itself.I am among those who read the book entirely. Dune, by F. Herbert, is a very original sci-fi novel, though not the masterpiece some people claim it is, because it's too obviously a masterpiece. It is good fantasy, with some sort of new-age message. Its main asset is that it emphasizes on ethnological and character study. In the book, THE STORY HAS NO REAL IMPORTANCE. F. Herbert wrote action scenes only when he couldn't avoid to.The film is diametrically the opposite. When a character appears, the viewer has five seconds to guess his feelings, motivations, strengths and weaknesses. Then he disappears and re-appears one hour later. Did D. Lynch and I read the same book? I seriously wonder. If we did, why does the movie disowns so abruptly the spirit of the novel? If Lynch wanted to shoot his own sci-fi action movie (why not?), why did he choose to adapt Dune? There are hundreds of sci-fi novels which would make fine sci-fi movies.The movie in itself is kitsch and has no point. It fails in recreating the virtuosity and positivity of Star wars (which is one of its ambitions yet) and the humanist dimension of Blade Runner. It is an overlong MTV video-clip which foreshadows 1990s' sci-fi movies. The age of dummies started with Dune, which is a shame considering who directed it.A good movie to watch with a beer and a burger. A bad movie otherwise.  "},{"Title":"Frank Herbert's 'Dune' might be good (i've never read it), but David Lynch's film version isn't!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS WITHIN REVIEW!I've never read the book, and I have not seen the new tele-movies of the book. So I am basing my opinion on the sole viewing of David Lynch's 1984 version of the film 'Dune', and my little understanding of the world from the video game!Now, after reading some comments on this film, I am amazed that people are describing it as a science-fiction milestone! I come to a conclusion, that these people either are fans the book, or are fans of David Lynch! Now, the book could be a science-fiction masterpiece, I'm not going to debate that! And yes, David Lynch is a very good film maker- but this film sucked! 'Dune' was confusing as well as completely and utterly boring! This is not a masterpiece- but rather a prolonged nightmare with cardboard characters, which are not developed on the film itself. I believe that a film adaptation of a book should be able to convey the book's essence for an audience who may have not read the book! In other words, I should not have to read the book in order to understand the film! Not only that, I shouldn't have to read the book in order to like the characters!The good; the art direction, the costumes and the Baron! These were the only good things in this movie.The bad; The editing was haphazard and confusing during the battle scenes so the viewer had no idea what on earth was going on. The special effects sucked and were ugly bar the worm's head. I'm sorry, they did! I can't believe people are saying that special effects were groundbreaking or excellent for its time! It was made in 1984 people! Have these same people seen films 'Star Wars' or 'Blade Runner' or even 'The Terminator'. Compare the special effects from those movies to 'Dune's' special/visual effects. 'Dune' had inferior special/visual effects compared to other science-fiction films, even for 'that' time! Seriously, the spaceships looked like paintings in some scenes, and those shields were just ugly!Another thing, people rave about Sting's performance in the film. When did he actually enter the film? His character was barely even developed and that last fight scene between him and Paul Atriedes (sp?)was lame and poorly choreographed. Lastly, I was confused as to what was occurring in the film and far as time! For instance, Paul's mother is with him in one scene and then disappears until later. Also the relationship between Paul and Sean Young's character seemed rushed and lacked development. The majority of the characters were lacking in development, and came in and out of the story for no apparent reason- I never seen a hero as bland as Paul Atriedes ever in a science fiction film.Overall, 'Dune' is a dismally boring film to watch and I struggled through the entire film. This is not because of the complexity of the story, as some of you would like to believe! It's simply because the direction and construction of the film failed to convey the actual world of 'Dune', and tell an interesting story 'visually'! Maybe the book was too complex for a two-hour film? Maybe David Lynch should stick to directing 'weird' equally confusing films? I believe it's a mixture of both, I think the book could have been too ambitious for a two-hour film, or David Lynch was too indulgent and stylistic to convey a science-fiction story to an audience. Either way, it's not because of the complexities of the storyline that made me hate the film! It is because of how the storyline was told visually; the confusing editing and time compression within the film, and because of the potentially interesting characters from the book became uninteresting ones onscreen. Regardless, 'Dune' the 1984 film alone is potentially the most confusing, dull and boring science-fiction films I've seen!* out of *****! "},{"Title":"Dune-buggy....","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read the book.  The book is great.I have seen the movie.  It isn't.First of all, MacLachlan is far too old to be the main character Paul, the Guild is hardly even referred to when it should be in the foreground, the Emperor (Ferrer) is treated like a buffoon, all the Mentats are seen as drug addicts, Baron Harkonnen (McMillan) is overplayed WAY too badly to be seen as a threat, Sting just doesn't work out at all, the sets are too bland, the effects are a joke, the script doesn't just edit out parts of the book - it takes a machete to it and cuts out whole chunks that leave the rest unintelligible and Lynch's direction tries to ape Kubrick but comes up sadly short.This is such a missed opportunity that it makes me sick to think about it.  How can any fan of Herbert or the Dune saga seriously think this is worth anything more than skeet-shooting fodder?  I'd rather drink a pitcher full of the Water of Life than sit through this mess again.No stars.  It isn't worth discussing anymore.  Just feed all existing prints of Dune to a sand worm, someone - ANYONE. "},{"Title":"Don't knock this movie..... much.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a tough one to handle. It all depends on if the viewer has read the books before they see the movie. I hadst, so I loved the movie instantly. Okay so it can be a little tough to follow (i.e the dream and vision sequences) and some of the special effects are not in the slightest bit convincing, but it is still a very good story, and provides a different and interesting view of the far future. However, then I went ahead and read the book, and the flaws become apparent. The novel is simply too big in concept to squeeze into a 120 minute film, and as a result the movie starts looking rather second rate, a sort of Dune-Lite if you get my drift. Add to that an ending which simply does not occur in the book, and a rather naff addition of a fighting style for the freman ( also this does not appear in the book)and I think you can see where this is going. It's a real shame. I want so much to say this movie is wonderful, that I love it as much as Star Wars. but I cant. That is not too say that there is nothing to enjoy in this film. Far from it, it is still worth seeing and picking up on video, and you will still say to yourself  I really fancy sitting and watching Dune tonight. You will still enjoy the battle sequences, feel awed when the giant sandworms appear and feel at the end that you have sat through a darn good Science fiction film.Hoever, I do feel this is one for the Science fiction fans only, as it does not have the universal appeal of Star wars. "},{"Title":"One of the worst SF-movies I've seen!!!!!!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The videogames were excellent and the music used in the film was the best I've heard in a long time. Besides these things, the movie totally sucks in every way!!!!!! It's really a shame they haven't tried to make a decent watchable movie. "}{"Title":"A real disappointment for Dune Fans","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember going to see this movie as it was released in 1984 considering the difficulties of adapting to the screen a massive saga such as Dune, I should have known that my expectations were going to be disappointed.The story line is confused, I was with a friend who never read the book and I had to continually explain to him what the action was about.None of the characters are really well developed, believable or endearing. Most of the acting is fairly poor.Many liberties were taken with the original story lines that, quite honestly, make the story muddier and less interesting.All and all a good example of what a poor adaptation looks like.I would advise anyone who read the books to instead watch the 2000 miniseries by John Harrisson which was much closer to the spirit of the original story. "},{"Title":"Disgusting waste of time.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Do not waste your time. If you don't want to read the books, well, too bad, but this movie does not even stick to the story, the technology, the dialogue, or most of the descriptions. It is like the writers/directors took the names and places, got drunk, then started writing. As for special effects, my two year old cousin did better with his crayons, except for the sandworms, but they didn't stick to the books, so it didn't matter that they looked good. The Dune books, (especially the first one) had detailed and compelling swordplay. There were no swords in the entire movie. There were two, possibly three crysknives, and three or four daggers. Once again, do NOT bother. Enjoy your mental images of the books. "},{"Title":"Crap?","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've read the Frank Herbert's Dune this summer and I became a great fan of his work.. And - what must happened - I've seen Dune by Lynch.. And what can I say? I dont like Lynch, and after watchin Dune and I hate him ) This movie is really made by man who hadnt read the book, or didnt like it...I gave this movie 2/10... "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome...","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...at being horrible! This movie is the worst strip of film I've ever seen. If you like Dune, go kill yourself. You shouldn't be living. All the movie made me want to do was gouge my eyes out with toothpicks. 2 hours and 17 fricken minutes of total donkey raping crap. Lower than crap. It's a horrible movie, seriously. After I saw it, I could not sleep. I lied awake, angry that I just wasted over two hours of my life. I was watching it with someone else, that's why I didn't stop it 2 minutes into the movie. I was sitting there watching Dune, fantasizing about not watching Dune. Seriously. Go rent The Rocky Horror Picture Show instead. "},{"Title":"The greatest sci-fi movie that never was.....","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently saw the 1984 film version of Dune, and I have to say that I was absolutely appalled. Except for the performances by Sting and Patrick Stewart, this movie had nothing decent about it. I will admit that it was a daunting task to even try to film this sci-fi epic, especially since they had to make the movie not seem like a rip off of Star Wars, which was in turn a rip off of the book Dune, but this wonderful story was just mutilated beyond recognition. The book Dune is one of the greatest science fiction masterpieces ever written, creating a very believable and fascinating world which just grabs ahold of your imagination. I got none of that from this movie. I will admit that this movie does develope a fairly decent, and almost believable world, but the story just disappeared. If I hadn't read the book I would have had no idea what the hell was going on. I think the real problem for this movie was that the future it painted was just a bit too bizarre. Like most sci-fi movies, this one tried to be so inventive and futuristic that it ended up taking all the basic humanity out of the story. The book was a story about people, while this movie focused way too much on just being weird. If you think about it, all the best sci-fi movies show a strange future, but one that is not beyond our grasp. Bladerunner, Starship Troopers, The Matrix, Metropolis, and even Star Wars were all movies about a very human future that took humanity as we know it today and just placed it in a slightly different future, and because of this they were all pretty good movies. Dune is just plain bad. Take my advice, waste a few more hours of your life and just read the book. "},{"Title":"Aaaaah! I hate it!","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" And I will tell you why. First of all, I have read the book and it is one of my favorite books. So when I heard about that movie I decided I have to see it. Then I was 14 years old. I didn't see it then.I saw it 2 years later. And when I saw the name of the director, I thought Great!!! The critics say he is one of the greatest directors ever or something like that. And here I am watching a movie directed by Lynch and based on my favorite book. And then I saw Paul Muad'Dib. He was Kyle MacLachlan! I wonder who decided that he could play ten years younger boy. He didn't look like he should. He looked terrible. When I saw him I decided I have to kill him. Him and Lynch and anybody who thinks that MacLachlan is good choice for his character. But he was not the most terrible thing in the movie. Some of the most important moments in the book were not in the movie and that is terrible.I have heard that Lynch made Dune because he wanted to make some sci-fi. He did not respect the book Dune and Herbert. That's bad. "},{"Title":"David's Unbelievably Naff Epic","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A beginning is a very delicate time. Know then that it is the year 10191. The Known Universe is ruled by the Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV, my father. In this time, the most precious substance in the universe is the spice Melange. The spice extends life, the spice expands consciousness, the spice is vital to space travel.... intones a pretty lady against a starry backdrop at the start of this movie. Right so we've that out of the way, let's get down to the actual movie. Ooooops back she comes  Oh yes, I forgot to tell you, the spice exists on only one planet in the entire universe, a desolate, dry planet with vast deserts. Hidden away within the rocks of these deserts are a people known as the Fremen, who have long held a prophecy, .. that a man would come, a messiah, who would lead them to true freedom. The planet is Arrakis,... also known as .. Dune. Are you still reading this??? Think what it must have been like for the poor souls in the cinemas back in 1984-5. Frank Herbert's Dune was an immense literary success back in 1965 with its visions of a galactic imperium that had moved beyond technology as our culture recognizes it and begun manipulating biology and space travel. Thousands of years before, something called the Butlerian Jihad had seen humanity revolt against controlling machines and establish an almost neo-feudal power structure wherein hereditary bodies such as the Bene Gesserit and Spacing Guild play off competing planetary dynasties against each other. Herbert's novel alluded to the Middle Eastern Oil crisis, the ecological movement, hallucinogenic drugs and was shrewd enough to predict the revival of Holy War as a political force. When he agreed to collaborate with David Lynch in the early 1980s to film all this a problem arose would the big screen adaptation be true to the novel's esoteric intellectualism or would it simply be Star Wars with a knife-wielding Sting? In the end, they opted for a action-love story with space opera elements, but kept in enough 'weird stuff' to placate any sci-fi long-hairs who had read the novel in '65. And, surprise surprise, they ended up alienating the kids and the hippies. A number of problems doom Dune to damnation. Firstly, the woefully inept casting. Kyle McLachlan is a fine actor for sure, but as a messiah to the Fremen and a love interest to Chani (Sean Young) he just doesn't cut it. To be fair, he is given an appallingly dire script which at one point has him seeking 'closure' for his Dad's brutal murder by riding on a giant worm and bellowing into the desert night Father...the sleeper has AWOKEN!!!!!!!! That's to say nothing of the annoying voice overs that riddle the movie (I will bend like a reed in the wind while duelling with Sting or Fear is the mind killer! while having his hand toasted in a box). Also, a slew of fine actors and actresses are given walk-ons that allow them to do little more than scowl and deliver turgid dialog. Jose Ferer looks like he about to burst out laughing while addresses a massive tadpole in a tank during a visit by the Spacing Guild. That said, there are some highly ridiculous performances too. On no account watch any part where the badly dubbed cute kid Alia speaks with food or drink in your mouth because you'll risk choking. Then there are the shoddy special effects that bely the fact that Dune had a then unprecedented $50 million budget. The part when the floating baron, screaming in agony is sent hurtling through a wall to be eaten by a giant phallic worm is truly hilarious. Speaking of which, the one half-effective sequence in the movie is set on the Harkonnen home world of Giedi Prime. Recalling Lynch's Eraserhead, it is all hissing pipes and mutation. Even here, the silly dialog is ubiquitous, as the Baron's mentat intones It is by will alone I set my mind in motion. It is by the juice of Sapho that thoughts acquire speed, the lips acquire stains, stains become a warning. It is by will alone I set my mind in motion. Huh??? Possibly no movie in history has capped Dune for silly names..Thufir Hawat, Irulan Corrino, Paul Usul Maud Dib, Feyd Rautha Harkonnen, Shadout Mapes, Gurney Halleck, Gom Jabbar, Kwitzatz Haderach.... When you see this dire effort, you will be yelling 'Chuk....saaaa!' at your DVD player in the hope that you too, like Paul Maud Dib, can make it explode. "},{"Title":"This should have been so much better","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would like to point out before I start writing this review that I have read the book and the version of the DVD I managed to find was a version with both the theatrical cut and the extended cut and being that I enjoyed the book, I have seen both and I will review both. Basically, there were some huge problems with this movie, especially the theatrical cut.Virtually, nothing is explained clearly in the theatrical cut. I mean take a term used in the story like Kwisatz Haderach... The movie kind of expects you to fill in the blanks when it can easily be described Messiah to the natives of Arrakis (the planet). The longer cut I admit does make up for it but it also kind of doesn't in the sense that a couple of times in they explain things TWICE. We already have one explanation, I think 2 might suffice.Well aside from that rather big hole in enjoying this movie the other complaint I'll raise against it is that some of the scenes in this movie are undeniably cheesy. A big part of that would have to be the inclusion of electric guitar solos (...In DUNE!). It doesn't support the story it just makes moments like Paul and Stilgar riding the sand-worm very very cheesy.You know what one of the craziest parts is, it actually has some really good elements. I'm not kidding, while Kyle McLachlan as Paul was not the best casting decision. I say this because when I picture Paul Atreides, I picture a 15 year old dropped into doing something bigger then himself and trying to live up to the prophecy of him being a messiah. I don't get that with McLachlan. Patrick Stewart was good, Jurgen Prochnow was good, Sean Young... If you're a fan you will be extremely disappointed with this movie. I also liked the scale of this movie and the idea of making an adaptation of Frank Herbert's novel seems like an idea I would like to see in full action.Basically, if you have to have a choice, go for the version that runs for three hours, the 2 and a half hour version... Okahy, if I have read the book and there were even things I wanted an explanation for only for it to NEVER give it to me, I can't even begin to tell you how much that as an adaptation has failed. The three hour version is better if you're just starting out Dune and some of the elements are actually better, despite the Alan Smithee credit. So while the three hour version is by NO means a perfect adaptation (I was thinking maybe split up the plot into more then just one movie) It does have a couple of the smaller scenes from the book that I liked and it would explain things to the people just starting out. But I am still waiting for a good adaptation because while some of the scenes in both versions are goofy the whole way through, I would like a better adaptation. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Worst Movie Ever Made!","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is something truly extraordinary. While some movies are plain bad, so that one cannot be attracted to them, this one attains a level of quality that is so low that it reaches greatness. I found that I enjoyed watching it very much!Every line of dialogue, every scene, the whole convoluted and complex plot, everything about this film is truly awful. The film begins with a 10 minute long introduction, with more cheese in it than all Helloween's albums put together and finishes with an ending that makes the Kingdom of Crystal Skull ending look like a masterpiece. This is by far the worst film I have ever had the privilege of witnessing.I previously considered Oliver Stone, Alexander, to be the worst film ever. This one surpasses it It is even worse and bombed even harder in the box office.Interestingly, the best and the worst films ever made were released in the same year. Both films featured desert planets and massive destructive creatures. One is a masterpiece of cinema, features a character that is noble as Jesus, her name is Nausicaa, the other film is the worst ever, this one! "},{"Title":"Contrived Yet Shallow, Busy Yet Boring","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on a cult science fiction novel and directed by cult director David Lynch, Dune is one of those films that appeals to a very narrow group of people. Those outside the closely knit circle of fans i.e. those who haven't read the Frank Herbert novel are simply not on its wavelength. Cults after all are exclusive.I haven't read Dune so naturally I didn't like the movie adaptation. My understanding of the novel is that it's so complex and descriptive that David Lynch's original cut was four hours long. After being a pretty sizable box-office bomb, so many different versions of Dune were released on home video that according to some fans watching each is like watching completely different movies. I'm not sure which cut I got, all I know is it was a muddled misshapen mess. Something about a prophecy, political maneuvering between feudal dukes and the possession of a spice that can allow trans-navigation throughout the universe. Not to baffle intergalactic parlance but if it can make you jump through time and space (not to mention see Captain Jean-Luc Picard) its not a spice its a drug.Evidently the makers of this Lawrence of Arabia meets Avatar sci-fi epic were tripping major balls because even if all the awkward story arcs were smoothed over, you'd be left with a very frightening looking movie. Disturbing images include a sadistic, pustule-ridden flying man, a graphic birthing scene, gigantic desert worms being ridden by desert dwelling nomads, and a half-naked Sting. It was like walking into a H.R. Giger painting during a bad acid trip. In addition, everyone, and I mean everyone's inner monologue chimed in with unnecessary commentary and lugubrious exposition. My guess is the actors' voices were plugged in during post-production in a half-baked attempt to make the movie more comprehensible. contrived yet shallow, busy yet boring, Dune is too big of a mess for me.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Worm Spice","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a movie about a power struggle between the races of four planets; all because of a drug known as spice whoever controls the spice--controls the universe. The movie screenplay was written and directed by David Lynch. The movie made in 1984. It is an adaptation of the Dune novel by Frank Herbert. The stars of the film are Paul Atreides (Kyle Maclachlan), the son of Duke Leto Atreides (Jurgen prochow) and Lady Jessica (Francesca Annis). When the duke is killed, Paul swears revenge against the people who plotted this crime. The Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV (Jose Ferrer) and a Worm like creature with a big head and tiny arms and legs are the ones who plotted the downfall of the house of Atreides and assassination of Paul Atreides. They try to kill the duke's son with a hunter seeker, a medium sized hovering dart which tracks by sound.The problem with this movie is that it was written in a way that makes it hard to differentiate what story is being told at what time; the reason is that multiple stories are being told at once. This makes it hard to understand the plot, so you must give constant watch if you are to ascertain anything that's going on. The color in this movie is crude and unrefined. It is kind of like the movie Flash Gordon. The technology is awesome kind of like Star Wars reborn. Lynch is a theatrical genus, giving power to words in an exceptional story. The mind is the greatest weapon given to people if they can use it. The Desert people prove this when they use a device to create word sounds that allow them to kill their enemies. Which is technology given to them by Paul Atreides when he joins their clans to affirm his destiny. "},{"Title":"some kind of  star wars from David lynch","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly I have to say that if you don't know anything about the novel, generally story and characters; you'll feel yourself as a stranger when watching the movie but it will pass away after one hour. I recommend to people who wants to watch this; go make a little research on net about the main aspects of the novel and etc.This was a good science fiction movie. For it's time; visual effects was really good also costumes were well-designed. There were lot of famous actors and actresses in the movie. These are all plus. Because of adapted from a good novel, of course the story was very very good.Finally if you like David lynch movies (dreams, creatures, mystery) and science fiction you will also like this movie. As a result you can also think like this; how could it be if David lynch directs the star wars? "},{"Title":"failed but interesting attempt","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In retrospect, 'Dune' is not a satisfactory adaptation of the famous sci-fi novel by Frank Herbert; neither is it the total disaster some critics claimed it to be upon release. Its problem is a common one, one that filmmakers have wrestled with ever since they started making movies from books. How do you take a sprawling epic of several hundred pages, with dozens of major characters and condense it to a two-hour feature? In that sense, 'Dune' is neither better nor worse than many such attempts. And yet Gene Siskel was moved to write, I hated watching this film. His partner, Roger Ebert, called it the worst movie of the year. Such vitriol seems unnecessarily harsh. Director David Lynch makes a brave stab at faithfully transferring the story to film, and his ubiquitous leading man, Kyle MacLachlan, is actually quite good in the starring role of Paul Atreides. At times, Lynch succeeds in capturing the genuine weirdness of Herbert's novel, but at others, the film seems like a too-literal translation of the work. The special effects range from impressive to pedestrian. The key failure to me is one I became aware of about two-thirds of the way through in the novel, the near-total lack of water on Arrakis/Dune is described in stunning detail and at great length, and as more than one reader pointed out, reading 'Dune' actually made you thirsty. This major element is never conveyed believably in the movie, and it is crucial. Other cast members' performances are generally adequate, with a few standouts. Kenneth McMillan makes an appropriately disgusting Baron Harkonnen, and Francesca Annis is a beautiful and stoic Lady Jessica. One bit of casting that caused quite a stir at the time was rock star Sting as Harkonnen's nephew, Fayd-Rautha. As it turns out, it hardly warranted the big fuss; Sting has virtually nothing to do in the film. He struts on camera smirking a few times, has barely any dialogue, and his one 'big' scene (a fight with Paul Atreides) is pretty brief. 'Dune' disappointments, but is not without its moments of interest. And reading the book first is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Cool Film? Try Dune 2 as a follow on  ... Children of Dune 2003","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Liked Dune?.. good.. so did I. Tried reading the books?... yeah.. me too. I like my Sci Fi, I'm guessing you do too if your reading this. Sometimes though, well, lets be honest.. Sci Fi's are hit and miss... want a good one? Okay Children of Dune. Children of Dune (2003). Look for it, find it and .. well .. enjoy it.A special thanks to all that made Children of Dune 2003 possible.. good sci fi is hard to find ... now check it out. ;¬P P.S If you read this 'review' and you liked it too then send me a email of sci fi's that are actually worth watching (though i do think i've seen the best out there at the moment) ... at my email conthesleepy1@o2.co.uk... or add to this comment ... whichever.. nice one..Anyway, enjoy.... It gets the Stephen C**** seal of approval. "},{"Title":"Collective Unconscious","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Lynch is at his best when working with someone else's source material. Projects entirely his own are too muddled by the mess in his mind to translate coherently to the viewer.In this one I think he found a perfect complement a strange, slanted world to which he could apply his dark palette, his slanted notion of reality.I haven't read the book which I think puts me at an advantage in commenting on the film. The elided plot doesn't bother me because I don't see it as central to the film's message -- the important thing is the creation of a world. And what a remarkable world! The stylistic mergers of epochs, the odd pathologies, savant-like talents, the strange expressions of motion -- most importantly though the creation of a single underlying consciousness. Almost every character who has lines of dialogue also has internal monologue. This is annoying at first, but turns out to be brilliant. First, it's the best way to convey Herbert's Jungian influence, which was significant; it reinforces the telepathic theme; and it effectively conveys an enclosed cosmology, a world that belongs not to us but to the characters on the screen.Gone are the days when studios grant license to mavericks like Lynch. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really love the book Dune (though none of its numerous sequels) and read it many times. So, according to my general policy of not watching movies based on books I like, I've never seen this movie, till they had a month of David Lynch at our Cinmateque earlier this year (including an appearance of Lynch himself, who talked only about transcendental meditation, of course). The task Lynch has taken upon himself here was very difficult, and to an extent he failed. I don't see how he could have really relay all that is in that book into the screen in such a short film (and they say they even made him make it shorter than he planned) and how can people really get the atmosphere and background of the story from the movie if they haven't read the book. Indeed, my wife who came with me and didn't read the book, didn't _really_ understand what was it all about. Maybe if it was a long TV series it would have worked well. That said, this movie has an amazing and powerful atmosphere and really manages, with its distinct visual language, to suck you into another world. I enjoyed it a lot in that aspect, and if Lynch could have stayed away a little from his usual love for the disgusting, I would have enjoyed it much better. For people who appreciate good and different cinema this is a good experience. Lynch followers should see it as well. It is a good complementary to spice up the book too. But most of all, it left me with a feeling of a missed opportunity. I would have loved to be able to watch a TV series by lynch based on the book (or a 3 full length movies). "},{"Title":"Family Line, Guild, Caste, Law & Order","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When MENTATS RULE The Universal Population all must divide into their own Family Line and then subdivide by Guild to go into a Caste System under a separate Law & Order for each Geno Type and their production group...For The Psychic & Rich it becomes a Game Of Survival on how not to die or commit suicide exercising one's own Compulsions & Obsessions...When Idle Minds become bored The Whole Universe is Gamed and The Insane Underclasses dump their Work Contracts to be enslaved by their own Gambling Whims...As The Game Masters practice their own Inquisition Of Abuse, The Masses starve and The Quick & The Dead compete for survival...Science & Love RULES where Fashion & Recorded Garbage FAILS...One must own one's self to execute The Win... "},{"Title":"Dune","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its a nice entertainer and thriller. Lots of scenes are filled with interesting visual detailing. Story is gripping and complex. I have no clue about the book and games. This film is my only knowledge about 'Dune'. I found the film incomplete. I really thought that the film will talk about the people who are waiting for the messiah but film just talked about the 'Mujadeeb' aka Messiah. I don't know how it is in the book. Why messiah should come is more important than messiah himself. Minor detail maybe. Also it was weird that future messiah would say father I will seek revenge. That's not a messiah. It has to be a Hollywood hero.Special effects are dated but very good. Its good to have OK visuals with good story than having just sleek visuals. The biggest problem of the film is Kyle MacLachlan. He slept through it. Rest of the cast is good. Last twenty minutes are very slow and meaningless but rest is pretty good. 7/10. "},{"Title":"entertaining but financially irresponsible","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the success of the Stars Wars trilogy and the first Star Trek movies considerable support arose for a movie version of Dune. It was, after all, a bonified classic of the sci fi genre. It had a built in audience. At the time, it really seemed as though Dune was set for its moment in the sun (so to say). I even remember the small but full of hope Dune fan clubs that arose with the announcement that the movie was officially a go.The result that premiered winter of 84 was pretty much a let down for all concerned. Much of the Dune story line wasn't there. It felt discontinuous. And the special effects weren't always up to par, even for the time. But really, there was another big reason pretty much eclipsing the before mentioned. Dune 84 was just too freakin weird for popular tastes. And gross. How did David Lynch get his hands on this project? He made the Harkonnens into nauseating freaks. Really, when the Baron spit right in Jessica Atreides eye you knew it-- this movies gonna tank.Historically speaking, Dune 84 was mishandled. It was extremely stupid and irresponsible to take so prestigious a project and get so artsy weird with it. It ruined the hopes of a lot of sci fi fans at the time. (Thankfully, rumor mongers in the last weeks before it came out had it that the movie would be a dud, so it wasn't a complete surprise.) That said, Dune is still entertaining. Just not what you'd expect in a big sci fi movie. David Lynch knows his craft. A Directors cut has finally come out which shows he even had a better handle on the story material than first suspected. "},{"Title":"Should have been great (SPOILERS)","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll say this up front I never finished watching Dune. Maybe it gets a heck of a lot better later on. But if it can't hold my interest...I don't understand how it came out as bad as it did. It had the finest source material to draw on, and there was certainly a reverence to that source evident in portions of the script taken word for word from the text. But it all falls apart rather quickly.I have no beef with what changes were made from the book. The problem is with the script. How any professional screenwriter can write something so filled with useless Exposition Dump is beyond me. No one could utter 'Kwisatz Haderach' without taking on the explanation that they are referring to a super-being, despite the fact that the explanation comes naturally from Paul's conversation with the Reverend Mother. Similarly, the first scene with the Guild Navigator talking with the Emperor could have been eliminated out of hand, and it would only have added to the script.But the point that made me switch off my DVD player was the first scene with Baron Harkonnen, ridiculously over-the-top, with comically stereotypical villain mannerisms and needlessly gruesome imagery.How'd they get hold of Patrick Stewart with such a poorly written script? "}{"Title":"New 2006 US Ext. DVD Won't Play Properly","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoy the movie. The new Extended US edition looks and sounds great. Color and sound are good for a 20 year old movie. But the new 2006 US extended edition is manufactured or coded poorly and does not play well, if at all. The Theatrical release side plays fine. The Extended release side pauses often on chapter or scene changes. My first disc paused for 10-20 seconds at a time, then continued to play, picking up where it left off. I traded one in copy for another one with similar problems. It plays but stutters to a lesser amount. I have a hard time ripping it to computer to try to re-burn it to make it watchable. The layer split point may be the problem, right where Paul gets onto a worn, the ripped copy, playing off my hard drive, stops. The disc is a dual layer dual sided version, and a 2-disc single sided release would probably have been better. You may or may not have problems playing it, but be forewarned! "},{"Title":"Just saw the movie","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well i just saw the movie on DVD, that i bought. OK it's a movie from year 1984, great special effects at this time, but i didn't enjoy watching the movie, because lack of professional acting. By the way i read the book first, and i liked book better. Many important facts from the book, where unnoticed. I still wait for movie what completely understands the book. I played years ago computer game Dune, and there i felt like in book.I apologise for my bad English, because it's not my first language, and thats why i can't express myself the way i want. So i could continue my review in estonian, but i don't think that many people could understand it. "},{"Title":"i cannot honestly rate this movie","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" first off let me say that of any science fiction universe ever created in books or movies DUNE outshines anything that has ever appeared in the genre(very, very easily eclipsing star wars). in fact the Dune saga contains the genesis of many science fiction premises from both film and literature created since its first publishing. the original story in the saga is not a tale that can stand alone as a single vision, even though its structure and climax give a satisfying conclusion to the initial story germ. in fact, as Aurthur c. Clark has said the dune saga is truly only matched in scope and vision by THE LORD OF THE RINGS, a saga in its own right that is similar in story arc tradition to DUNE.in that all of the separate books tell one continuous story. reading the first book of Dune is exactly like reading THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and trying to understand the story from that one single perspective. even though the format of Tolkiens masterwork is easier to pick up on in subsequent books since the story arc is an absolute continuation of the previous book/ Herberts DUNE is a saga that began as a concept of the state of man politically, socially, spiritually, and morally-and the effect that these traits will have on our evolution if our species survives as a whole long enough. for a long time i have struggled with the idea of how this film could have been better than it eventually was, even after seeing the sci-fi miniseries i still felt the same way, and after reading the complaints written by reviewers on IMDb i have finally come to the conclusion that Dune itself is a story that should never be even bothered with making a film of it, it doesn't matter how long the film is or how accurate to the book it is, it will never be made into a decent movie because it is only the footnote in a story so complex(it spans thousands of years) that a single movie can do justice to it. my opinion of this movie is that it only serves one true purpose(however unintentional) and that is to get people interested in reading the books, once you read these books and understand them you will completely forget how good you thought this movie was(that is if you liked it) and will probably never be interested in watching any type of movies made that is based upon the books. so i would say that the movie is not terrible, but compared to the books it is not that great either. "},{"Title":"Good movie but did not do Hubert justice","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this movie I had not yet read his book, when I id I was appalled on how much was left out of this movies, how many of the characters were changed or modified for political correctness. I have to say while I loved this movies it should not have been done as one movie, it should have been done as it was latter on by SCI-FI channel as a series of movies so that more of the original feel of the book could be felt, as a big screen feature it could have been more graphic, and exact, as even the SF channel feature still left much to be desired in the film. versus the book but it is a sill a good film to see.. But I will say to get the full story and the real effect from the story go to the local book store and pick up a caopy and read the book. This may be a hard thing to do in this day and age but reading is still sometimes a good thing to do and a few hours away from a computer, ot screen will not kill any one I swear. "},{"Title":"Confusion","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would be nice if I could purchase (DVD) the special edition. But how does one accomplish that task. I enjoyed the film, however was confused on some issues. This was cleared up when I saw the special edition on TV about a year ago. It brought together the issues of the Benejesuit sect (what). It also cleared up several issues of the Fremen. Cause of the vendetta between Harkonen and Atredies, how the Space Guild was developed. Would anyone please respond to this? If you reply please put Dune in the Subject line! Also include information as to whether or not the special edition is available (at all) and on DVD. This rule of 10 lines of text is very frustrating! "},{"Title":"Disappointing - SPOILERS HERE","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune begins rather promisingly freaky aliens, cut-throat space politics and a truly revolting villain. Don't you just love that old hand-in-the-box scene? 'Flesh burning...flesh falling off...' He he! And later on, down on the creepy planet, we have that excellent bit with the flying needle thingy. I remembered it from yonks ago, when I watched the film last. Stuff like that sticks on the brain.I realized that the film was plummeting towards a low when Paul harnessed the giant sand worm and started riding it about the place. This, combined with a dopey girlfriend ('You're my whole life...bla bla bla'), the suspect return of Patrick Stewart from what I thought was certain death, and lots of weird visions of water drops and hands drifting around the place, makes for a rotten conclusion. Rarely have I seen such a good start squandered! The last word was when Sting, who'd already been given a lot of time on screen moping about the place giving his uncle something to look at, challenged Paul to a knife fight. It wasn't good. There was no excitement in the scene because by now we all know that our hero's going to survive and rule the universe. No fun at all.Six out of ten. That's misleading, however. The first half is eight and a half whilst the second half is more like three. Ko, Izzy. "},{"Title":"Not the best adaptation","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is hard to adapt such an intricate story to the big screen.  Done right, Dune would be a 10 hour movie.  This version skips all the subtleties that make the novel so powerful. The Sci-Fi channel mini-series is definitely the better version.  The casting was good except for Kyle MacLachlan - much as I liked him in other Lynch productions, he just wasn't right for this part. "},{"Title":"Triumph or Trainwreck?","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just seen this movie for the first time. I guess I had pretty high expectations and so found myself disappointed by the film, however I'm still not sure if I liked it or not. I have read other user's comments and I agree with alot of them. The film is almost impossible to understand. I have not read the book, so maybe after reading the book I will watch it again with a fresh perspective, however it is not good that the film is so damn hard to follow. It is like nothing I have ever seen before and it was simply annoying in places. I was glad to get to the end of it. However having said this, I did WANT to sit through it. I felt quite contented to give it a go, and so perhaps it is not all bad, because if a movie doesn't hook me fairly quickly, I don't usually sit through the lot. So....yeah. Triumph? Or Trainwreck? Not sure really. I will read the book and watch it again. "},{"Title":"Now I know what killed Frank Herbert","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read the Dune series (the original 6) and seeing the movie was a huge let-down. I didn't have great expectations for the movie as I had heard it wasn't that good. I was still surprised at how bad it was. Its very tough to translate the superb quality of the books into a movie, but still it seemed to have been hastily done on a low budget. Too much was packed into too little time, important parts were skimmed over in minutes. If I hadn't read the book I would have had no idea what was going on. There was little characterization, acting was either dull or over-the-top. Basically it just seemed to be done to get it done. But I can't say there weren't good aspects. Sandworms were well done... Actually I'd probably have to watch it again to find other good aspects of it, which I will not subject myself to.If you've read the books, watch it. Its only 2 hours and 17 minutes of your life, and who knows? You might enjoy parts of it. If you haven't read the books I don't recommend it because A) you'll have no idea whats going on... And B) It may ruin future Dune book reading experiences for you. "},{"Title":"Interesting Lynch Folly","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On the heals of his Elephant Man masterpiece, Lynch was handed a task that was at the time as big a deal as Peter Jackson being handed the The Lord of the Rings Trilogy was in these recent years. Unfortunately for Lynch, things didn't end up as well with Dune.  Still, there's some true Lynchian strangeness here amidst the sci-fi run amok, and the special effects hold up pretty well on the DVD transfer.  All in all, it's not nearly as bad as people proclaim, and I assume these are either Dune purists (and I can see why they would be angry with this film translation) or people who like all their sci-fi to be safe and silly like Star Wars.  This should be of great interest for people who like strange sci-fi or Lynch fanatics who want to know how Lynch would handle a big-budget handed down from a meddling studio (spectacularly disastrously). "}{"Title":"The Spice does NOT flow in this one....","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh man, where to begin?Doesn't matter which version you're talking about (Smithee, Lynch, Japanese expanded version, I don't care), they all sucked.I don't care how much money this movie made, it should be written off as a total loss. Here's how David Lynch put this movie together. He took the novel, ripped out every 10th page, threw those pages in a blender, and rearranged the words anyway he saw fit. Never has a movie been less faithful to the book from which it was based.Important stuff left out, unimportant stuff emphasized, and things that CAME OUT OF NOWHERE were thrown in and made relevant (there are no Weirding Modules in the books). The acting was over the top, the dialogue made one cringe through the whole movie (who the heck talks like that anyway??), the special effects were atrocious, even for 1984 (see Return of the Jedi, which came out a year earlier), and one had to have read the book beforehand just to follow this story. If you want Dune, forget this. Watch the Sci-Fi Channel miniseries. Unless you find badly made movies funny, you're going to come away from this one with little more than mental indigestion.  "},{"Title":"Nothing to like...","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched the DVD of Dune and found it to be an utter dog.  Ihave never read the book, nor do I intend to.There is nothing right with this film.  The dialouge is unnatural andstilted, the acting suffers very much from it - as no one producesan interesting character at all.  The special effects are cheesy,even for 1984.  And most of the characters look like Dr. Suess onacid.  Big eyebrows, silly costumes, poor interior decoration.  Thefilm had a look similar to Flash Gordon but that film meant to becamp.  On top of it all, the plot is more or less incoherent.  I had abasic idea of what was going on, but couldn't figure out why... None of the characters seemed to have sufficient motivation.  Andthe sounds effects, and silly dialouge...Cha-a-a-a-aksa! God bless you.  "},{"Title":"A dated movie which some say was good and I say it was so so","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Upon viewing a DVD I like to view the trailers that most DVDs have. Doing this give me a small understanding of a movie and kind of puts me in the mood to watch the movie. They did just that they set my up to watch the movie. When the credits rolled up I was left feeling empty like I did when I watch a movie that doesn't really have an ending. (Starship Troopers ect..) I felt that the characters didn't develop enough. Also that even the though the movie was long 137mins it moved to fast in the aspect of story telling, and to slow is cuts to each new scene. (plan flys for five min while the talking scene last about 2mins)4/10  "},{"Title":"What happens when you try to please everybody","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that anyone who has read this magnificent book would agree that it is neither possible nor practical to translate it in its entirety to the big screen. So compromises have to be made, that hopefully will not upset fans of the book too much while ensuring that people new to the story will still enjoy it.While watching the movie, I tried to keep in mind how a newcomer to the story might react, although it was a little difficult. Mainly because I didn't find the movie confusing at all, although apparently many did. There are, however, some problems with the movie that will present themselves whether you've read the book or not.The main problem is characterisation. The movie attempts to introduce as many characters as possible from the book, and as a result there is no time to flesh these characters out at all. This makes some of the scenes merely distractions, and possibly adds to the confusion of those struggling to keep track of the story.There are some awful special effects - I'm mainly thinking of the shields here. They look so fake that it's hard to take the scenes in which they appear seriously. Some of the acting is pretty wooden as well (although I loved the Baron; for some he was over the top, but I thought he was one of the highlights of the film, just as grotesque and insane as I hoped he would be).Some of the inner dialogue was repetitive and a little annoying. It seems as though (switching to my read-the-book hat here) he has included some of them verbatim from the book to please its fans, and in some cases it was necessary and worked well, but in others, I thought that he could have used more cinematic techniques to convey the same information (facial expressions or maybe even spoken dialogue). Some of the spoken quotes from the book seemed out of place as well (for example, 'A million deaths are not enough for Yueh' just came across very woodenly, I think because it was just out of nowhere).If the newcomer will find the movie a little flat, and confusing, partially because of the movie's adherence to the book, fans of the book will also be disappointed, partially due to where it doesn't stick to the storyline ('weirding modules', and the ending, to name a couple), partially because it doesn't give the excitement of the book, and given that the complexity and sinuous nature of the book had to be given up as well, this is pretty disappointing. I have a feeling, though, that the main reason fans were let down is because they regarded the book as a masterpiece and expected the same greatness from the movie, greatness that was not forthcoming. Having said that, they were probably destined for disappointment.Overall, it's really not the huge disaster that some people claim (I think their expectations might have been set a little too high), but ultimately it fails to truly engage the viewer. Partially because of the characterisation problems, and partially because, since the political scheming and subplots ('plots within plots') of the book are missing, the film needed another element - better acting, perhaps, or a willingness to really concentrate on one particular element of the story in order to give the movie focus - some element, that sadly appeared to be missing. "},{"Title":"Frank Herbert Approved of This?","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it had all the earmarks of a De Laurentiis film -- color, scope, and awe inspiring sfx, it lacked truth. It depended on gore and grue to portray the Harkonnens, rather than acting and subtlety. It depended on the art and beauty of the sets and sfx rather than on quality storytelling. I felt sad for the wonderful, quality actors in this piece. They had so much to give, and were so poorly utilized. Misrepresenting the weirding way as a technological thing rather than an internal discipline of combat was ridiculous, as was having it RAIN at the end of the film.Herbert was on-set for some of the shooting of this horribly mangled version of his exquisite book. It is said he approved all the changes to the story. If so, it is sad to see such a brilliant man in his dotage, mind and creativity gone.  "},{"Title":"What can you expect?","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have read Dune I can't count how many times and to be frank it is a long book- a very long book and it took, for me, a great deal of willpower to continue past the first 100 pages the first time, because it simply didn't flow easily enough. It is however a necessity to read it, in most cases, to be able to understand the movie and what it attempts to present to the viewer.I admit that I watched the movie before I ever read the book. Since I have read it many times now, my opinion of the movie has not changed as drastically as one might think. Granted, on the whole the movie can not be deemed anything other than disappointing when compared to its origin, but objectively it was somewhat of a success.The book in it's entirety is on the same scale, perhaps, as, for example, The Lord of The Rings when it comes to it's complexity. The corporations, political families and hierarchies, cultural backgrounds, religions and discriminations alone would have made this a difficult production, so it is no surprise that it is barely comparable to the novel. But aside from these things there is the embedded plotline following the young ducal heir, Paul, on his (for want of a better word) adventure, which is often immensely confusing.His destiny is one so profound and if you'd read the novel, you would understand exactly how difficult it would be to convey its complexity and to represent his gifts properly. That is undoubtedly why this element of the story is not explored nearly enough in the movie. The movie concentrates, instead, more on the conflict with the harkonnens, and that is why I believe the ending is not nearly as powerful as it should be. It is not as important to the movie's particular story as it is to the book, and so doesn't fit the way it should.The characters, who I believe were perfectly cast, were the embodiment of professional, great acting. Though in the confines of the script, the characters personalities and relationships were not explored in nearly enough depth when compared to the novel, they were still superb and beautiful and no one else could have portrayed them better, from the sly and repulsive Baron, the devious and playful feyd to the stunning yet guarded jessica and the mysteriously cunning reverend mother.The sets were exquisite, and very close to what would have been expected. While in the tv series the atreides home was impersonal and unlived, in the movie the homes were beautifully ancient and symbolic of both the advanced technologies of the time, and of the old fashioned culture, almost Medieval in some respects.The special effects may have been greatly lacking, but then the movie centred more on the conflict in the story and so placed more importance on the visual effects used.On the whole I enjoy the movie a great deal, it is a great fantasy story and quite intriguing and interesting, truly a cult classic, but if you are looking for a wider story, or just wish to explore the characters or the many parts that were not included in the movie, read the novel, and indeed the others of the series. "},{"Title":"I JUST WANNA DIE","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just want to die now,this movie is horrible!!!!!!!!It is a torture,Im writing this wile I still watch it,but this seems like it has no end!My eyes hurt!I want my mom!the special effects are horrible,the plot is horrible,the actors are horrible(since when Sting can act?)David Lynch is really a strange guy,I wouldnt want to encounter him on a dark alley.Anyway he has done better films,way better films,in fact,many people have,anyways I JUST WANT IT TO END SOON!!!!!!PLEASE JUST END SOON!!!!!!!!avoid this torture!and thank me for saving your life! "},{"Title":"Stunning visualisation...but still fails as a whole","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The biggest praise I can give this film is that it redefined the way I saw Herbert's Dune milieu - the baroque/hi-tech/arabic visualisation has changed the picture I see when I re-read one of the Dune series. Most of the actors are pretty spot on and again have changed the way I see the characters from the books.And yet this was a failure as a film - do I blame Lynch - no, I think that's unfair - you got to admire the guy's balls (or naivety) for taking on this project. I really do believe these books are 'unfilmable' - whoa....but wasn't Lord of the Rings supposed to unfilmable? Yes, Dune and LOTR have some similarities - epic sweep, loads of characters, a deep and broad underlying mythos. But Dune is much less straightforward a story - many of the ideas, the role of spice in opening awareness, the racial consciousness hardwired into our genes, the difference between the sexes, the feudal system of Major & Minor Houses, CHOAM and the various guilds, Zensunni roots, the Butlerian Jihad, the origins of the Orange Catholic Bible, the origin of the Sardaukar - it is simply too difficult to put on screen. Yet these are some of the most important pillars of the books.Let's be totally honest - the first time most people read Dune the book, they love it but they are left somewhat confused. How the heck can a film audience avoid this fate. "},{"Title":"Sorry, just not epic enough","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This just wasn't very good.Anyone who has read Dune will know the satisfaction that can be gained by reading the book.  Frank Herbert's writing conjures up wonderful images in the reader's mind of Arrakis/Dune, of the Fremen, of the whole Dune universe.  One of the most striking features of the novel is that the reader is never sure which way the story will twist next, what character developments will follow, or just how far the writer's imagination stretches.  All the things that make the novel great are lost in the film.This may not be entirely David Lynch's fault.  What makes the novel great is exactly what makes the film bad.  The twists and turns of the novel translate into confusion and detachment in the film.  The dark, chilling world of the Harkonnen becomes hammer-style camp horror, and the sheer barren wilderness that is the Arrakeen landscape becomes drab and dull.Fitting a 700-page novel into a two hour film can never be easy, but maybe that's why it should never have been done in the first place.  This film loses on two fronts - it will never be good enough for anyone who has read the novel, nd is not well enough made to attract other audiences.My advice to anyone thinking about watching this - read the book first, then don't watch the film anyway, it's awful. "},{"Title":"A-holes are like opinions everyone has to have one","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After reading the bulk of the comments regarding Lynch's adaptation of Dune I realised there was a trend developing. There are fans of the book that loved the movie. There are fans of the book that hated the movie. There are fans of sci-fi that loved the movie. There were also unwelcome remarks from kids who probably think Streetfighter II is the best movie ever.If you are a serious fan you have to keep certain facts in mind when developing your conclusion of the film. For a movie made in 1984 I believe it to be a huge achievement on the part of the film-makers. While it is true that it is initially a hard feature to follow given the cuts Lynch was forced to make, especially to the 'No-I-haven't-read-the-book' people, a second, third, -nth viewing will seduce many people who own a open-mind and vivid imagination.The whole point of an adaptation is how one particular person interprets a given piece of work. In my view it would be very boring if that person simply rigidly re-told the original. Thats why I find Lynch's Dune to be a fascinating interpretation of the sci-fi classic it's highly original, way ahead of its time and gives a glimpse of some of what goes on in Lynch's disturbed but genius mind.For all of you who love the book but hate the movie, don't despair, you can always read the book again and again to make you happy. Or, if you're really patient, I heard that a new version completely faithful to the book is coming to a screen near you at some point in the future. I think the year being mentioned is ten-thousand-one-ninety-one. "}{"Title":"Disjointed and confused","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have not read the book you might find this movie to be utterly incomprehensible.  If you have read the book, you will most likely find it quite lacking.  I am shocked at the currently high score this movie is receiving.  I found it to be poorly written, poorly acted, and despite the credentials of the director and cast, a generally poor movie. "},{"Title":"Lynch's vision succeeds, but not without Cliff Notes near by","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The world cleaves into two camps  Those who've read Dune and those who haven't. For the later group, the movie will be a hopeless journey, punctuated with a bunch of huh? and  what? utterances.  For the former, the movie's a frustrating exercise in remonstrations over what David Lynch left out, and what he emphasized.  Dune is much more about social and political tension than pure sci-fi, rivaling anything you'd ever watch on day-time soaps, but played out on a much grander and cosmological scale.  Lynch manages to detrimentally deemphasize these larger issues.  But Lynch likes atmosphere and environmental details, and those elements really shine in the movie.  So much sand, so many worms.  Dune is otherworldly in a Lynchian way.  But overall, it's not a satisfying trade-off.What really frames Dune (1984) in my mind is in comparison to the Dune TV series (2000).  The Dune-2000 folks didn't seem to learn anything from the Lynch film.  Anyone who's gotten their hands on the full-blown Japanese Dune 1984 5-hour version knows it's only barely better in telling the story.  Standard release Dune-1984 is superior to Dune-2000 in every meaningful category and is a lot shorter.  Lynch's vision is looking better all the time.  "},{"Title":"This movie was supposed to be based on the book","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune the movie is an absolutely pale reflection of Herbert's Dune. Dune the novel mixed political intrigue, religious mysticism and fanaticism into a wonderful story. The movie version perverts all of this. Everything from the book gets downplayed in the movie. Few characters from the book received any development. Aside from Paul everyone in the movie is a static character. The feeling that there is a spirituality in Dune is non-existent in the movie, yet it was prevalent in the book. The movie's plot was incomprehensible. Its not that the movie stopped following the book's plot in the middle. This can be forgiven. However, the last hour of the movie goes too quickly for anyone, except possibly those who have read the book, to understand what is happening. Its hard to even decide whether the producers and directors of this movie were trying to follow the plot of the book or not. The middle and end of this movie are hopelessly hackneyed.The movie still does some nice things. The actors portray their roles quite well. Dune's powerful political tension is captured quite well in the movie. Scenery and costumes from the movie perfectly mirror the images instilled from the book. In summation, the movie has a great beginning, but then it starts to careen out of control. If you have read the book do not expect this to be a graphic representation as the makers of the movie have decided to take too many liberties. "},{"Title":"Visually perfect, but too short to understand the plot.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune doesn't work as a two hour film because there so much little detail in the book that has to be told so that the story is given the credits it has deserved. There are still some good points where Lynch has succeeded such as the visual image and some of the characters and also the casting. This story should have been a trilogy like the forthcoming lord of the rings, but I guess the maximum rates of the films made weren't very high in 1984. If Lynch would've had the freedom to do whatever he wished without minding the producers, I think the result would've been something incredible. The film still has lots of good qualities from the book and it still works, but I think Lynch should think about making a director's cut from the movie!!! "},{"Title":"See it for the worms","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worms are the star of this show.  They are huge.  They are menacing. They hold the secret to the plot.  And they fight like crazy.  In my opinion Dune should be renamed Worms.  The special effects wizard that did them should have gotten an special Academy Award for originality. "},{"Title":"Awful waste of talent","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ugh. I remember being excited at the prospect of seeing this film, being a fan of Herbert's work. I also remember it being painful to sit through in the theater. It is impossible to shove a huge, several-hundred-page book into 2 hours. The amount of material cut to make it fit simply negated any sense of complexity or wonder in the original novel, and in some places strained the bounds of logic.Every single character (except Baron Harkonnen, who shrieks loudly) whispers throughout the entirety of the film. It's as though the director had been told that whispering increases dramatic tension, and thought that if a little was good, then a LOT....or, perhaps, they just didn't want to wake the audience.If you're a fan of the books....avoid. It'll just make you irritable. "},{"Title":"Oh ... my God, was this strange!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I think about Dune I get a funny sort of feeling, like the tension in a muscle before it hits charley-horse pain levels. It's more of a terror, really. Because this movie was so great and bad at the same exact time.Let's be clear. For its time, it was pretty groundbreaking, and it has the look and cast of an expensive epic. The sets and details are rich and amazing. It looks like the production on the film alone is worth writing a book about the stages of development. The acting was sincere and strong and wonderful in places. And Lynch really tried to do some justice to the book while making Dune a creation of his own.But it's lacking in many places. And what it does not lack, it more than diminishes itself through the use of poor pacing and bad storytelling devices. What do I mean? Where would one begin?There is, of course, the this is what I'm thinking device used throughout the film. Instead of saying what they are thinking as an aside, the actors give their best facial expressions while their disembodied voice states their thoughts explicitly. Now, I thought this might actually be necessary to tell the entire story. After all, Dune is not a linear tale. There's an entire universe to set up for the audience. But this distracting device is overused and laughable after awhile. Kudos to David Lynch for trying it out. But he only gets an A for effort.The acting is good. It really is. But the characters tend to come across as flat and pretentious. Would you care to meet Leto or Paul Atreides? Or Gurney? Or the Shadout Mapes? Flat out, I can state that I did not care enough about these characters to be affected by their deaths and suffering.Some characters are just ridiculous. Paul's mutant sister, Baron Harkonnen, Feyd, the Shadout Mapes, and Piter DeVries are so over the top that I hear myself spoofing them in my head before the film is over. And these are talented and mostly experienced actors who portray them. (Even Sting --- watch Brimstone and Treacle if you don't believe me.)And of course, there's the attempt of trying to tell a six hour tale in a two hour movie. I've seen the four hour version, and it still does little at correcting the mistakes I noted above. The result is a confusing and beautiful looking mess.You have two ways to see this movie. Either you see it in the serious way in which it was intended, or you laugh A LOT at the screen. I recommend at least giggling. "},{"Title":"Dune The movie that could have been great","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people I know have praised this movie and Lynch for his far-reaching vision. Though Lynch is an amazing filmmaker as Blue Velvet and Wild at Heart prove, this is not a great film. At times it can be beautiful to look at but otherwise it is a hollow shell of a movie with caricatures that are neither fleshed out nor understandable due to the truncation of the novel for the purposes of a movie script.The biggest problem with the movie is that it reduces a highly political and ecologically focused novel into a simplistic military movie about being the better soldier with the better gun. So much of the book is lost that it is very understandable as to why fans of the book hate this movie. This is not to say that it is a bad movie, only that it does not live up to the greatness that the novel represents.Now that we have that out of the way let's examine the movie on its own merit. The opening and first half hour of the movie are thorough and well done. With the exception of the disgusting Baron Harkonnen the set design and costuming are terrific. The movie starts to fall apart after the fall of the Atreides on Arrakis. Lynch's predilection for dream sequences bogs the film down in imagery that doesn't help to keep the film moving. It's as if Lynch was using the film to practice the sequences he would later use in Twin Peaks to such great effect. The other problem at this point is that the politics of what is going on are not significantly explained Why was the emporer involved in the plot? What is the link between the Sardukaur and the Fremen? Why is the ecological change to Dune a threat to these organizations? None of these questions are explained well enough for the layman to understand the plot. The change to the plot, such as the sound weapon, are significant and disturbing for those of us that have read the novel. So what we have is a movie that is inaccessible to the average viewer and so deviated from the original source that fans won't watch it. This is a movie that if it had gone to either extreme might have been a powerful movie with many great themes, some of which are very pertinent today. What we have is a movie that doesn't quite know what to do and instead heads off into dream territory that makes little sense.The Sci Fi Channel is doing a new production of Dune as a Mini-Series that is supposed to be more faithful to the book. Perhaps this will fill in the gaps left by this version. "},{"Title":"What did ya expect people","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Did anybody ever expect anybody to do a better job of translating the great and complex book into a marketable 2 hour movie?  The characters, sets and soundrack were are great.  The book would not be very long if all the background explication was left out and would have no meaning if he tried to convey all his ideas with dialogue and situation.  For this reason the director gave some extra insight into the thoughts of the characters. Despite this the movie was still very hard to grasp for those who did not read the book (woulda been impossible without).  I of course was dissapointed in many of the cuts to the plot and plotlines but understand the need to do that.  I would very much like to have seen the little one on one challenge that Paul had to face soon after being captured by the fremen. Woulda been great on film.  The spirit of the film was intact I think and the characters so memorable that I still put Kyle in the role of Paul when I read the book which is unfortunate because it puts a funny look to the 14 year old Paul that the book portrays.  Love the book and greatly appreciate the job done with the movie. "},{"Title":"frustrating adaptaion","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i'm sitting here watching dune for the 3rd time (on SCI-FI)and once again realize what really bugged me about this film. i mean with an exellent director for the visuallization of the words of frank herbert, a stellar cast of juregon prochnow, kyle mclaughlin, patrick stewart, francesca annis, linda hunt, virginia madsen, dean stockwell, max von sydow, sean young - not ot mention sting in a thong!- how could you go wrong? well, as i sit here frustrated and bemused, i know why. the insecent thought-bubble overdubs were annoying as hell! i mean isn't that what the ACTING is supposed to convey? the director's cut of blade runner took out the voice-over. (it's a film-noir film- it's supposed to have the voice over.)i wish they didn't. in this film i wish they would!  "}{"Title":"I come for you...  I only like the book people !","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sci-fi classic Looking from the prospective of someone who has only seen the film, it may all seem a bit confusing. I'v seen this film many time & believe the more times you watch it the better it is understood.As for those of you who have read the book (like me), but are very disappointed with the film (unlike me), just try to imagine how difficult it must have been to try & cram this story into a '2 hour film', not easy.Anyway the original film was over '4 hours' long so you can see why the film seems a little disjointed, maybe the full version will be made available in the future.  In the mean time we'll all have to watch 'DUNE' the series on the Sci-Fi Channel.Look out for Patrick Stewart 'Jean-Luc Picard' Star Trek TNG & Sting The Police.... "},{"Title":"Exposition, Exposition, Exposition!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a fan of the book, of course. Dune was a great book, top-notch science fiction with a few fantasy elements thrown in for good measure. It's rich, intricate, and involving. Everything a good book should be.This movie, on the other hand, is the epitome of bad cinema. I'm stunned at the amount of praise this movie has received from my fellow reviewers. It's long, dull, and utterly mystifying. An unbelievably large amount of screen time is given to characters thinking explanations of what is going on. Oh god, the whispering voices, expositing on each scene! It's a nightmare, an interminable nightmare. The script is dreadful and lifeless; I cannot think of one single real conversation. Not one! Most scenes involve profound phrases from one character, usually involving a context-less piece of jargon, then the rest of the characters in the scene all stare off into space and think about what was said. There are many times in the movie, where literally 5 or 5 scenes will go by without spoken dialog, all the talking occurring as voice-overs. The actors have no choice, I suppose, but to be wooden and overly dramatic. It's the script I blame. The only reason the Atreides are likeable at all is because the Baron is a pus-oozing, baby-eating monster. In comparison to any real, human character, Kyle MacLachlan's Paul Atreides seems, at best, a melodramatic bore. At worst, a fanatical robot.The way the movie is shot and edited - especially the battle scenes - somehow removes any excitement from them. Battles are mostly disjointed shots of people falling over in sand. The special effects are very primitive; any time there's interaction between actors and some kind of SFX, you can practically see the blue screen, since the actors will be one color and the background a different tone entirely. The spaceships look rather ridiculous. And what the hell is a weirding module? Some costumes are not bad, but many are ridiculous, like the Harkonnen and Sardaukar body-condom suits. Hah! They look like sewer workers, not the galaxy's most feared shock troops.All in all, this movie is only fit for a thorough lashing by the robots of MST3K. We found a way to mitigate the boredom; whisper what the characters are *really* thinking. Only by making Paul think My butt is itchy could we sit through this disaster. "},{"Title":"They said it couldn't be filmed and they were right","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a two virtues that keep it from being a complete disaster the costume design and the perfect set-decoration. They aren't only impressive but also help to create the unique atmosphere that made Frank Herbert's science-fiction saga one of the best ever written. But this film has also two enormous flaws that make it a huge disappointment To those who haven't read the book, it doesn't make any sense and it's impossible to follow the plot. And to those who have read the book, it will occur that the monumental and carefully developed story has been blown up into smitherings. I read the book after I saw this movie, so I know what I'm talking about. I really appreciated the former films of director David Lynch, but his adaption of Dune was obviously the wrong project for his surrealistic and pseudo-esoteric ideas. The book didn't suggest these ideas and that's why the film becomes such a confusing and uneven mess.  "},{"Title":"Could have been so much more...","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The remarkable story of 'Dune' needed at least three movies to do the tale justice. Instead, it was compressed into a rather disappointing and mediocre sci-fi film. The constumes as well as the special effects were good, and I truly enjoyed the sound track. However, annoying thought sequences and the constant story hopping over important details in the Frank Herbert book only damned this movie not to work! If you haven't read the book, I'm sure you'll enjoy this movie. If you have read the book, you can still enjoy this film, but try to leave any high expectations at the door!    "},{"Title":"Could have been so much more...","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The remarkable story of 'Dune' needed at least three movies to do the tale justice. Instead, it was compressed into a rather disappointing and mediocre sci-fi film. The costumes as well as the special effects were good, and I truly enjoyed the sound track. However, annoying thought sequences and the constant story hopping over important details in the Frank Herbert book only damned this movie not to work! If you haven't read the book, I'm sure you'll enjoy this movie. If you have read the book, you can still enjoy this film, but try to leave any high expectations at the door!    "},{"Title":"BOOK IS SOOOO MUCH BETTER!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The book is much much much better than the film, the film jumps around and I was really disappointed at how key characters in the book made small appearances in the film. Also they just kind of pieced together the key elements of the book and pasted the scenes together jumping through the whole book in two hours.. whew! The movie just doesn't do the book justice, but I thought what scenes they did do were pretty ok. Except for the rain scene at the end of the movie, that was not in the book! "},{"Title":"This is NOT Lynch!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  De Laurentiis asked David Lynch if he didn't want to direct this film. Lynch needed the money (I think), so he did it.It is awful !!!David Lynch, perhaps the most emotional director in the world, couldn't do it. Why? Well, David Lynch normally makes films which unfold in the back yard i.e. next door. His films are always about what takes place next door, and inside the human mind.Dune, is a commercial film. It is ripped of all emotions for the art of film. And it does NOT follow the real story by Frank Herbert, which is really sad, because it is actually good.Therefore, if you are going to watch a David Lynch film DON'T WATCH DUNE!!! "},{"Title":"Nice, but only if you read the book first.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the film, and don't agree with the previous comment; however I agree with him, that without reading the book, viewing the movie is useless. (But what did you expect from Lynch? A clear, simple to understand movie?)The good things of the movie is the atmosphere. The movie more or less breathes the atmosphere of the book, which is very well done considering the complexity of the book.  "},{"Title":"sleeper didn't awaken!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen Dune for the first time quite a long time ago. And I don't remember how it was. Just before I borrowed a videotape, I tried to stalk some reminiscences. Nothing. Chaos. Dark scenes, worms, desert...that is all I remembered. So I looked at Dune once again. It was ... well, it wasn't very nice experience.  Science fiction is funny genre. Story must be rigid, it has to have steady growth, it has to describe a world beyond the one we see in reality, and that has to be done in a very persuasive way. It is also a genre of picturing, especially of showing how things are different from what we are use to. It has to be pure fantasy and when seeing it one has to flow within, one has to emerge in that fantasy completely. No interruptions.I would like to say that Dune has any of such qualities. But it hasn't. That's a shame. I have a feeling, that there was no such wish, that Dune should be one of those very compelling sci-fi movies Fifth element or Blade Runner. It is done over a very classical science fiction novel by F. Herbert, yes, but under circumstances of Lynch direction it is practically nothing more than vague. Oh yes, it's trying to be weird, metaphysical, mystical, but it's not. Eventually one has to conclude that Dune is dull. Utterly unsatisfying.   "},{"Title":"Nice Effort, needed more support","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune (the movie) has the unfortunate characteristic of being based on possibly the greatest bit of fiction of the last century.  It cannot possibly re-create the levels of intrigue, political and religious context, or the vast numbers of secondary characters as presented in the novel. That said, the movie gets a B+ for effort.I first saw the movie in high school, after playing the PC game Dune II, and had heard that the movie was controversial.  My friend and I rented it and loved every minute.....  Then I read the book.After having read the book twice, I went back to the movie when the 2 hour version was on Sci-Fi channel... and was enraged in the lack of character development, key scenes that were skipped, and most of all the presentation of the greatest villain of all time. (sorry Darth, the Baron has you on all aspects,... Power, greed, charisma, political muscle, and ambition)  The concept of the Bene Gesserit as an age-old gene mafia, the Baron's goal of imperical assension, Thufir's fierce loyalty and pride, Gurney's lyrical soft side,; all were blown over with the subtlty of the added weirding modules.Last Week I caught a glimpse of the 4 hour version On Sci-fi, and was pleasantly surprised,  the cut scenes brought back character development and sequence linking, while the narration helped to orient the virgin viewer.  If only the damn VCR had worked that night....The book  10/102 hour movie 4/104 hour movie 8/10The book should be required reading for all public high schools,  the 2 hour movie can only be valued by those who havn't read the book,  the 4 hour movie is the atonment for the 2 hour movie. "}{"Title":"Dune - Getting it Right (the next time)","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is a head trip -- which makes it both a difficult and exhilarating read.  Head trips do not generally transition well to the silver screen unless you take some time to explain to the audience just what the story's framework and perspective are all about.This takes time, a precious commodity in movie-land, where producers and directors have to juggle attention-deficit disorder with artistic integrity and, of course, the bottom line.Dune is complicated.  Those unfamilar with the landmark hexology will be totally lost.  They need to understand why thinking machines are banned, where the Guild came from, the spice monopoly, the Major and Minor Houses, the Bene Gesserit, Fremen ideology, and myriad details woven into the tapestry of human civilization some 8000 years into the future.  It can't be done in two hours.  I'm not sure it can be done in four.  And I'm just talking about Volume I -- never mind the successive books (which deteriorate in quality as you go along).Lynch brings some texture to the art direction and does his best in highlighting the key issues.  I liked his casting and like many before me only regret that we get to see so little of the many major and minor characters.  Lynch is clearly hampered by a lack of money and time.  So, the story is choppy, the acting wooden, and the point pointless.Which brings you to a choice.  Either you do the Star Wars thing (big movies, lots of installments) or go to the tube and do a series or mini-series.  I opt for the latter because I don't think the Hollywood bottom line could finance four or five Dune movies and get the kind of return they want.So, I'm looking forward to the Dune TV show.  It will give us the basics. It will take us forward.  It will enable us to understand the characters' actions and motives without dumb internal monologues.Lynch had some great ideas which should be purloined.  He got the worms right.  He got the planet right.  He just scrimped on the soul of the story. And that's not entirely his fault.Let's see what happens... "},{"Title":"Rated Minus 5 On a Scale of 1 to 10","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The spice did not give the guild the ability to fold space  it gave them the ability to choose a safe path for their highliners.The costumes of the guild were not to be believed.  I can't imagine anyone wearing such a getup, let alone trying to fight in it.The society developed from a revolt against the machines.  Machines, such as computers, that replace human functions were forbidden.  The Mentats did not use chemical enhancements.  They were trained from birth to use all of their mental abilities.The army, based on sound, did not exist.  Paul had been trained, almost from birth, in martial arts.  His teachers were seasoned in battles where only the superior few survived.  They passed their training and seasoning on to Paul.  This is what he taught the Fremen.The sisterhood were trained in self control from birth.  The lady Jessica would never have lost control when confronted by the Duke's death or even the worms.The Imperial Troopers as well as the Fremen were another example of individuals, first selected from an environment that permitted only the toughest to survive, given the best possible training, and seasoned in battles where only the very best lived.  They were not nonhuman as implied by the movie.There are simply too many points where the movie ignored, misrepresented, or distorted the book to describe them all.Each chapter, in the book, was preceded by comments.  It is as if whoever wrote the script for the movie read these comments but didn't read the book.In complete fairness, the book Dune could not be adequately covered in a 2 hour movie.  A weekly, 1 hour, series might be able to do.Everything considered, a Minus 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 is probably giving the movie too much credit.  "},{"Title":"Buy the book - AVOID THE MOVIE","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the book, and enjoyed it a great deal, so I rented the movie thinking I would enjoy that as well.BIG MISTAKE.This is the worst movie that I have ever seen.  Even having read the book, it was still next to impossible to figure out what was going on.  People who hadn't read the book were completly lost.  I lost 15 IQ points while watching this movie (several thousand brain cells refused to continue participating in the viewing of this abomination and ceased to function).I recommend you avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible!!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've watched this film just this afternoon because I am supposed to study it at university, but I couldn't simply concentrate on either the plot or the characters development (if there's any!). This film is neither science fiction nor fantasy, there's no evolution or change, the music is simply absurd and out of place, the actors don't make their characters believable and the director simply made my hyperactive niece fall asleep. What's incomprehensible is how this picture survived time.  "},{"Title":"An awful movie sprung from an excellent book","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Face it Dune wasn't the best movie ever made, but it did come from possibly one of the best and least recognized science fiction novels of all time. The movie followed loosely to the original novel, so don't think that reading the novel will spoil the movie.   Although the special effects were dazzling at the time but aren't special now, it was made up for by some strong acting in one certain part-Kyle MacLachlan in the role of Paul.  The acting may not have seemed too great, but if the viewer has read the novel, they will then understand that the role of Paul is a hard role to interpret and to play well. Even though Frank Herbert disowned the movie, I think that it was a good movie to appease Dune fans, but to the casual viewer, it wasn't that great.   With today's movie-making technology, I feel that Dune could be redone into a Star Wars caliber film that would go down in history. "},{"Title":"You really should go read the book...","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dune is a great movie, that probably won't make any sense to people unfamiliar with the series of novels written by the late Frank Herbert. This movie suffers from the typical book-to-movie conversion problems, mainly trying to jam a long, and very cerebral book into a watchable 2 hours.  A lot of the scenes were of course cut out, and many of the plot mechanics were simplified.My opinion is that the movie is excellent, and provides a Dune fan a great way to visualize the setting, characters, and other elements of the novel.The special effects are very lame, I must admit.  Back in 1984 they might have been somewhat passable, but by today's standards they look very unrealistic.  Thankfully the personal shield effects are only shown in one or two short scenes.  However, this film does not particularly rely on special effects, so this fault is forgivable.There is also a bootleg 4-hour version of the movie, often falsely dubbed the Director's Cut.  In reality this cut of the film had nothing to do with the director.  In fact, David Lynch demanded his name be taken off of the credits of the 4-hour cut.  An Anti-Director's Cut if you will.  I think the 4-hour version does a better job explaining the story, both with added scenes and a different as well as longer introduction.  Of course if you hated the 2-hour version, sitting through a 4-hour version probably isn't on the top of your to-do list.Regardless of what opinions you might hear, this film is truly a classic.If for no other reason but because this is an original concept for a film, the likes of which you will not see anywhere else.Overall, I recommend this movie to fans of the novels, and sci-fi fans of all types... but you may love this film or you may hate it.  It's one of those types of movies.  When I first saw this movie, I hadn't even heard of the Dune novels.  I admit I was confused by the film, but I was intrigued by it.  So I went out to the library and checked out Dune, then later purchased the entire set of books.  Once I had read through the first book, I watched the movie again and absolutely loved it.Dune has also inspired a couple of exceptional video games that I would recommend to anyone who enjoyed the books or film.  Namely Dune 2 The Battle for Arrakis; as well as it's recent remake, Dune 2000.  Both are published by Westwood Studios. "},{"Title":"Don't bother.  Read the books instead.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A poorly realised version of what was a good trilogy of books, with poor effects, disappointing acting, and a touch of the bizarre that is more annoying than anything else.  Borrow the books from your local library and save yourself the pain of watching this film. "},{"Title":"Come on!  Where's DUNE 2, 3, 4, 5, 6?","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Terrible special effects, incomprehensible dialogue and textbook wooden acting -and it's still great!In college my wife worked at a Suncoast Movie Co. in Seattle, and she said it was probably the biggest mover of all the pre-1990 films.  This infamous flop has some magical attraction to it that continues to draw viewers, despite dire warnings from stodgy acquaintances.  That attraction is the indelible mark of Lynch, whose mark has never failed him, even in his lesser work - with the exception of the unspeakably bad Twin Peaks movie (and what a let-down that was).Not many people seem to know that after the success of Lynch's The Elephant Man, George Lucas offered him the chance to direct a movie called Revenge of the Jedi, but Lynch didn't take it.  In some other plane, the world is a much different place, with Lynch's name and very subdued mark on Return of the Jedi.  I believe Lynch turned the offer down because he knew he would be on a tight leash, whereas good old Dino and his Mexican stages would leave his hands untied (until the money started running out - those process shots!).*There are so many campy things in this movie, that even for first-timers to Herbert or Lynch, or non-believers in the whole genre of sci-fi, that it's still fun to watch despite its crippled, top-heavy nature (unlike TP Fire Walk with Me).  McLachlan's hair helmet, Sting's one-note performance (I think he has only one line, which he merely emotes a little differently each time I WILL kill him, I will KILL him, etc.), and the poor decision (probably made by Lynch at wit's end) to have many characters spell out the gears of the plot with dubbed thoughts (and it's still hard to follow to those who haven't turned the pages).  I think the opening 15 minutes is by far the best section of the movie, but others swear the entire film RULES. Great sets, great costumes, and look for Lynch himself as a spice harvester... But, sire, THE SPICE!My opinion on the series is that it gets progressively more lame with each book.  I've read the first one twice, and once anxiously dove into the series.  The second book is good.  Then, Herbert seems to have taken a cue from Dickens and written the rest to pay the rent.* Duwayne Dunham, one of Lynch's editors (Blue Velvet, the Twin Peaks pilot), did end up cutting ROTJ.  After the TP gig folded, he went on to do kids movies. (!?) "},{"Title":"People say this is a great movie if you've read the book.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this in San Diego when it first came out and it was the worst film I had ever paid for and sat in a theater to watch at that point. I felt like I was sitting there and going through the water torture (every five seconds a drop of water was falling on the top of my head). By the end of the picture I was almost half nuts. I had no idea what this was about. Then I start hearing all this talk about If you haven't read the book you'll never know what's going on I re-watched it when the Sci-Fi channel started playing it and it was slightly better. I've never read the book so I guess until I do I'll never get it. The thing that does surprise me is that many fine actors are in this movie and it still doesn't seem to help it.  "},{"Title":"From great, to pure crap, to OK.","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I thought of it as the best movie I had ever seen(the peak of my sci-fi era).Then I read the first two books (Dune is based on the first of the six book series by Frank Herbert) and saw DUNE once again (I was really hyped because the books were the best sci-fi novels I have ever read, and still are). For the first time I understood everything. And realized the makers understood nothing (I don't want to lay it all on Lynch, we all know what the people with the money sometimes can do. See Terry Gilliam Brazil.). I then hated the movie.Now I have read all six books. I feel I know every inch of Arrakis. The final verdict for DUNE now is that it's OK. I see their attempt to tell the whole story through the first book. I think if they would have stuck to the book, there never would have been made a film.But it makes it hard to keep up with the film and I believe you have to be a sci-fi fan to like it. "}{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After having read the novel, I was thrilled to learn that Dune had been made into a movie. Too bad the movie was such a bummer. Herbert's fabulous novel is just not right for David Lynch's introverted way of film making. I've found out that before Lynch decided to make his grandiose disaster, Jodorowsky, Moebius and Chris Foss was underway with a beautiful concept of Dune. Unfortunately they didn't make it and we were left with Lynch's mainstream weirdness. Lynch's Dune is not a venture into the future and into another world, as it is a venture into Lynch's ego. Eraserhead, Wild at Heart, Twin Peaks that's Lynch. Dune that really should've been someone else. "},{"Title":"Separate, but not quite equal","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently watched a laserdisc presentation of the paintings in the Louvre. It was a series of pictures, a little bit of narraration, and no dialogue. When I saw the movie of Dune, I was a bit reminded of this in that it seemed to be scene after scene with very little dialogue, and narraration. I had just recently finished the book, and I was intrigued by the presentation of the novel in the movie and the fact that David Lynch did a very good job of painting the picture of the scene, with everything from the sandworms to Paul's home on Caladan. In fact, my only fault with the book is that Herbert gives very little description of the places and the objects there.But what was done well in the book, and what made the book such a wonderful one was the fact that Frank Herbert gave us the sociology and the society that was in place in 10,191. He placed the intrigue well. He made us understand the goal of the Fremen and he made us understand Paul's motives.He also gave us characters. Every character in the book, even incredibly small characters were developed. I can't help but think of the fact that in the book, Liet-Kynes was developed into an incredible leader who moved the Fremen towards their goal of terraforming the planet. In the movie, Chani says that she is the daughter of Liet, but you never learn that Liet has unified the Fremen and that Kynes and Liet are the same man. You do learn that the Fremen are hiding something in the mvie, but if I had only seen the movie, I would have believed that they were only stockpiling water and not trying to change the face of the planet.I would have to recommend the movie on its own, but I would also have to recommend the book over the movie. Try to enjoy them as two independent presentations of the same world with the same plot, but not as one being the book and the other being the movie of the book. "},{"Title":"Characters Perfect  Story Argh.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's screen versions of Herbert's beautifully written characters are terrific, as are the sets.  Who else but Lynch would give us the far-flung future in late 19th century wood and metalwork?  Brilliant.But that *plot*!  Whoo... Admittedly, anyone would be hard pressed to make the entire novel of Dune work in two hours.  Maybe this ought to have been two or three movies.  Come to think of it, the book Dune was broken into three parts -- maybe it *could* have been three movies, a la Star Wars.   "},{"Title":"Sloppy","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie actually had a little bit of potential.  There were some aspects of the story that were somewhat interesting, but all in all this movie is horrible.The movie is rushed, and if you lose your attention for a split second, you're lost for the whole movie.  The characters, although well acted, have an awful script to work with and almost no character development.  Many key scenes make no sense, which hurts the movie greatly.  The narrator helped to understand the story, but each character's inner monologue was extremely annoying to watch.This movie is cheesy, and horribly written and edited.  It's too bad, because it had a little potential.   3/10  "},{"Title":"interesting, yes.  entertaining...maybe.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As so many have so eloquently stated, Dune is a bit of a weird mess.  An intruiging mess, but a mess nonetheless.  I first saw it in the theaters when I wasn't even quite a teenager and thought cool looking but makes absolutely no sense.  After 14 years and finally reading the novel, I think I can finally put the movie into perspective.  I suggest anyone who's intrigued by the movie to give the book a shot, although the book is pretty long and detailed, sometimes slow read.  It fills in the blanks that the movie cut out.The movie drags at times, which is doubly bad because frankly it needed to be longer--much longer--to adequately cover the range and depth of the premise.  The setup is quite nice and interesting as the strange Dune universe is slowly introduced.  However, people come and go (and in many cases, die) before we really get to know them or what role they play in the story.  Once Paul Atreides flees into the desert and becomes a Fremen, the movie starts to lose both its pacing and realism.  The blue screen effects are quite obvious and fake looking when the worms are shown, and is it just me or is Kyle Maclachlan tied up with playground jump-rope when he drinks the Water of Life?  Anyway, the climax seems a bit rushed and doesn't carry a whole lot of dramatic weight.  One example towards the end of the movie, Paul Atreides is reunited with his former mentor Gurney Halleck (Patrick Stewart).  It is a brief but heartfelt reunion, at least I think it's supposed to be.  However, we know Gurney Halleck for a grand total of about 5 minutes before he disappears and then reappears in the movie an hour later.  If this movie were released now, I'd think it was because Lynch wanted Patrick Stewart to get as much screen time as possible because he's a name actor now, but at the time he was a nobody and all I can conclude is that much of the backstory was left on the cutting room floor (confirmed by many sources).  The whole third act is rushed.  I actually don't mind voice-overs that are used to setup or clarify scenes; however, the use of the voice-over to skim over several years of Muad'Dib's Fremen life/Jihad is rather annoying, culminating in the narrator's decleration that as the years passed, Paul and Chani's love *grew* (I suppose it could've been worse, this was the 80's after all.  They could easily have played a Simple Minds or Tears for Fears song over the desert action montage... Everbody Wants to Rule the Worm -)Anyway, the strength of the movie is in (most of) the casting and sets/costumes.  Kyle Machlachlan is perfect as the young, earnest Paul Atreides.  In the book, the character is a mere teenager at the beginning of the story.  I think Machlachlan was around 22 when the movie was filmed, but her certainly emoted the youthfulness needed.  His parents, friends, etc. were all solidly cast as were most of the villains.  I found Sting rather annoying, though.  As Paul's opposite number, Feyd-Rautha is a youthful, cunning snake.  Sting plays him as a juvenile delinquent, contributing to the letdown of the final showdown (it ends up coming off as a replay of the ending of Lethal Weapon).  The entire Harkonnen family is rather disgustingly overblown and hammy, but I think that's Lynch's trademark. Even now I cringe when I come to the scene when the Baron pulls out the slave's heart plug.The film is also interesting when you consider it as an allegory.  Spice as a consciousness-raiser (can we say LSD? although I don't know if Herbert intended for that message, Lynch I'm not so sure...).  Spice as petroleum/oil (this I'm sure was intended).  I suppose that means the Baron is Saddam Hussein (jk).  Some of the later books are intersting for extending the allegory (the second book, Dune Messiah, portrays Paul as a tragic Christ-like figure...although I can't imagine that story ever getting made).  Anyway, to summarize, if you watch this movie, consider it the beginning of a long, winding trip, worthy of further study and re-examination, not simply a two-hour time filler.  Obviously a Lynch re-edit with (much) additional footage restored would be great (wonder if he'd consider a special edition DVD?), but as it is, it's still a trip worth taking. "},{"Title":"A good attempt but sorely Hollywoodised.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lynch tries his hardest but making sense of his twisted landscape isn't easy. In attempting to simplify a wonderfully convoluted novel of treachery and destiny he's had to cut a lot interesting sub-texts and caricature some complex characters. The Harkonnens come across as psychotic Bond-villains rather than evil plotters; the Atreides are little more than goody-two-shoes and characters appear/disappear without warning or explanation (Hawatt and Gurney). Fans of the novel may be disappointed that Herbert's vision is lost under a layer of Lynch's weird-o-rama whilst newcomers just might not get it. That said the sets and designs are fabulous, the music wonderful and the central theme of the book (Paul's destiny) is handled masterfully through MacLachlan's brilliant performance and Lynch's poetic dream sequences. Everyone else is as OTT as the sets (Sting is horrendous) which takes the shine off some aspects but anyone into the surreal will get a major kick. People after a more normal film will get fed up of trying to make sense of it all. If in doubt, read the book. It's much better. "},{"Title":"A Bad Choice For Director","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a very, very, VERY strange film. This was the first movie made by David Lynch that I have seen and that was probably a mistake because this movie is infamous for being one the worst book to movie adaptations ever. But for me, I have never read the book so this mainly on the film by itself. Also, if I ever read the book in the future I might do an Extra Thoughts post to see if anything changed.The first thing I need to point out is that in this movie, for some reason almost half of the dialogue is all inner monologue. Like when a character is speaking through their thoughts. And it isn't just one character, its like all of them, and it kinda feels pointless.Also there are a lot of pointless, or just confusing scenes. Like one scene has a bunch of the antagonists just doing strange and random things, and it has no point to the plot.Some of the special effects are also kinda outdated. Like a lot of them were very obvious green screen effects, but they still have nice designs though. It even has some early CGI in it.There were also a great number of cheesy or just unintentionally hilarious moments. I'm glad I got to see it in a theater for a David Lynch film fest, because the crowd experience made it even better. Some of the lines were so hilarious that I sometimes quote them today.Where have my feelings gone?- Paul Atreides Also the main character was really bland. Though apparently the actor for Paul ( Kyle MacLachlan), this was his first role in any type of movie, so for that I don't think he's that bad. Its just that his character is written horribly. His character is supposed to be like a savior for these people and all he does is kill people and make speeches. Also I laugh really hard when characters would mention all these weird science fiction type names then say &#x85;. and Paul.But anyways, Dune was kind of a mess. This didn't seem like a good idea for David Lynch looking at his other movies. It was also incredibly confusing at times, but it did have interesting effects&#x85;. I guess.Final Score 3/10 "},{"Title":"get some Dune up in here!","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Man have you seen Dune? The Dune. Man I must have watched this movie a hundred times, not sure if I'm proud of that, I don't know, I mean when I was twelve or thirteen I guess I went on a Dune tear, a Dune bender, I Duned-it-up. Now if you ask me, y'know as a grown-up, I'm good for now on Dune, feel like I've enough Dune for the time being that I don't need any more, ah but jeez as a kid I could not get enough of that crap, riding sand worms, drinking poison so as to become some super space weirdo, the Baron and is acne, all the David Lynch-ness of the clunky plot, all those great quotes  the righteous?!  my name has become a killing word- man, if you ever want to alienate people like at a party or something just bust out some Dune quotes  I hold at your throat the gom-jabar, this one kills only animals oh Dune. "},{"Title":"Lynch's worst film.... by far","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never really had any interest of seeing Dune, but I knew I had to. This was my last Lynch film to see. Then I started to think that, hey, I may like it. After all, Fire Walk With me, which was also a critical and commercial failure, is one of his best films and I give it a 10/10. Unfortunately, Dune didn't turn out to be that way.I saw the version that without credits is 177 minutes. Now, I don't know if this version is considered the worst, but I think the shorter the film could have been the better. I really liked the prologue, so it was a good start. However, there is really nothing here. I am NOT a fan of the book because I have not read it, so it was obviously confusing. Characters would talk a lot of exposition and they all looked 'mighty', but for what? I kept asking myself why don't character in films like this ever say 'HOLD UP. Let's just take a little break and drink some coffee and talk about ANYTHING else that doesn't involve the 'fates' of our future'. Of course, its not really possible, but for how big the stakes are for the characters in the film I say 'Why should I care'? I am not a huge fan of films like this, but even when a film is well-made I am able to say so. Here, the cinematography, the editing is so choppy. I liked the music, and Lynch does have moments where his usual atmospheric self wants to come out, but he never quite does. I am still wondering why he actually agreed to direct it, and even worse, to write it. Some of the action scenes are entertaining, but I can't say they were well made. The film stumbles so many times into 'its so corny its funny and entertaining' territory. Mostly that happens in the last hour... too bad it didn't happen before then. Yes, it is true that I kept coming back on here into IMDb to check my posts or anything, but who can blame me. After the first 30 minutes of a film don't intrigue me is when I become restless. And I Don't like to stop a film when I have already started it. The biggest challenge of the film is probably how the actors had to really be serious when spouting their lines ' FATHER!!!'. Kyle Machlachlan thankfully recovers with Lynch by making Blue velvet and FWWM.In the future I don't see myself rewatching it, just MAYBE if I see the shortest version there is of it and to entertain myself by the lines and everything. I know that I have hated quite a bit on it, but in its own way it IS ambitious and to be honest the cast itself isn't bad, its mostly their lines. I have settled on a 4, just because I have seen films WITHOUT ambition and talent involved and have given them 3s, although I rarely give films a low score because I tend to only see films that I am more than likely going to like. This is definitely Lynch's only true failure. "},{"Title":"Loved this film...hated the book!","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, let me state that I really love this film...it is one I never tire of watching. I have both versions, the long one & the short one, & I usually watch them both, one behind the other. Yes, that makes for a very long night, but I'm retired so I have more time than anything else. Secondly, I tried to read the books, but got so bored about 1/3 of the way through the first one that I just gave it up as a bad job. Third, I cannot understand why so many people disliked this movie. It has a superb cast, wonderful music, great costumes (although what was with the designer of the Emporer's daughter's dresses...is that girl really that flat chested???), stunning set designs, and excellent stunt work. Fourth, While the SFX do look sort of cheesy by today's standards, if taken in the context of 1984's technology, they are very well done. You simply cannot judge SFX done almost 30 yrs. ago by what was done in LOTR, or any of the newer, big budget sci-fi films. That's saying an apple is just like an orange...they are not the same. I may be in the minority opinion, but I rank this film very highly on all counts. "}{"Title":"I can well understand why Lynch wants to disown this rubbish","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe that anyone rates this film.I'm a great fan of the novels. I thought that they were original, insightful and scientifically literate. Great sci-fi. The 1984 film on the other hand was a colossal disappointment and was none of the above. It was poorly scripted, directed and acted. In a word RUBBISH. I went to the original screening in London and the audience was sniggering at the portentous, hammy acting - anyone remember this scene?  'I am the Shadout Mapes your houuuusssse keeeppeeeer - oooooooohhhhhhhh' (the last part mine but you get the point).Which clown left that in? They must be idiots. Aren't they paid big bucks for their supposed 'artistic sensibilities'? A three year old would have seen that scene as laughable and unfortunately it was typical of the film.All the subtlety of the novel with its political intrigue was ditched in favour of gormless melodrama and spectacle.I would have given the film a zero but the scoring system only goes down to 1! On a positive note the mini-series with William Hurt was a great improvement, though given the competition........... "},{"Title":"One giant mess","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only redeeming factor of this movie is decent performances by some of the actors, mainly Patrick Stewart. Other than that, the entire movie is one big mess, with a whole lot of jumping around from scene to scene. A lot of the flashbacks don't even make sense, and are extremely repetitive. The whole movie is filled with annoying inner monologue. The special effects are cheap-looking and corny. Not to mention that the whole thing is insanely long. I could not watch this movie in one sitting if I tried. The first time I saw it, it took me a good 5 tries to watch it all the way through.The characters in the film are all boring, and I was not interested in any of them. Paul Atreides, Jessica, etc. are all dull and one-dimensional. This movie is not worth watching.The good points - A decent performance by Patrick Stewart, and a few others - Amusing flashbacks and inner monologue Father!!!! The sleeper has awakened!!... Jessica.... is he the one?.... FATHER!!!!.... not one drop of rain on Arakis... No!!... the sleeper must awaken... Even the good points can't make this movie any good. If you have three hours to kill, watch it. If not, well... you are probably better off. "},{"Title":"A brutal report of this ghastly mess","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched this movie after all this time. I skipped it at the theater and never got around to viewing it- until now that is. The bad reviews kept me away and now I can see why the buzz was so negative. This was without a doubt one of the worst films of all time. Absolutely laughable acting, dialogue and yes- even special effects at times. There were some nice sets and Von Sydow is always good, but apart from that- sickeningly bad actually. I was surprised to see something that would make The Fifth Element look like brilliant, wonderful cinema. I remember liking the book and the characters in it. Why were the characters in the movie so terribly unlikable? Notably Paul, but honorable mention goes to De Vries, The Baron and Dr. Wellington. Since some really good people were cast, I think the blame has to go to Lynch on this one. He has outdone himself which is saying a lot considering the awful and awfully overrated Blue Velvet.  "},{"Title":"Not a very interesting movie","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I should preface my commentary by saying I haven't read the Frank Herbert novel on which this film was based. I would have to say that Dune was an extremely dull movie. It was a struggle to sit through. I just couldn't lose myself in the fantasy that was being presented. The story was supposed to take place in 10091 or so but the technology displayed in the film seemed too primitive to be from that time period. I also thought the dialogue was ridiculously grandiose and pretentious. I suppose the special effects were good for their time but they look awfully dated today, much worse than the Star Wars and Star Trek movies released around this time. I can't recommend this film unless you are a fan of the novel. It was just too boring. 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"A mesmerizing load of rubbish, captained by Sting's ultimate taboo perversions","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I heard that Lynch had his vision for this film butchered by the studio. I just watched this film, which didn't look particularly good in the first case, but hey it's directed by Lynch, so I thought I'd give it a try, but the outcome was just as I expected.  Lynch's work is ... 100% x infinity ... better when he is directing his own original stories, and not slapping studio's and viewers in the face with a $40 Million knock knock joke which doesn't make sense and has the punchline somewhere behind Sting and Patrick Stewart's crouzon.  Dune was a laughable excuse to make a crumby surreal sci-fi bore not fit to use as a door mat of special effects and dark imagery not worthy of a movie of the week on Space the Imagination Station (the Canadian science fiction channel...) not even the Sci-fi channel.  The film tries to pass itself off as an epic with its grand soundtrack and its awful one liners courtesy of Kyle MacLachlan and some ugly white people and although I'm sure there are legions of people who I cannot begin to understand who I'm sure enjoy this sort of film (probably the same people who play dungeons and dragons at age 25+), I think that they should burn the original prints of this ghastly movie so that no further copies can be made, then they should round up the existing copies and burn them at a bon fire while I dance around like 'a wild injun'.  Don't even get me started on Sting, I heard that he didn't even read the script and that they didn't even have to pay him to film the movie (all he requested is that he be granted a scene where he could appear in briefs).  Cough... joke... Yeah, don't watch this movie even if your life depends on it... NO JOKE ... "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE...AWFUL, AWFUL, AWFUL","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say I was rather surprised reading through some of the comments on this movie, saying it is far superior to the mini-series. These must be people who either did not read the novel or didn't understand the novel. This version leaves out key moments, introduces inappropriate characters, and generally does not tell the story well. I do not think that this version was at all inaccessible to people who have not read the book, I think it by far simplifies the story to the point of condescending to the viewer. If you want a true story of intrigue, betrayal, and epic storytelling rent the mini-series. DO NOT TOUCH THIS MOVIE WITH A TEN FOOT POLE. "},{"Title":"Failure Due to Producer De Laurentiis's Misunderstanding Lynch","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Retrospectively, the failure of this strangely slow and meditative widescreen baroque to adapt Frank Herbert's cult sci-fi novel may be a result of adventure/fantasy producer Raffaella De Laurentiis's misunderstanding David Lynch. Apparently, De Laurentiis and company had an ambition to make a super-hip flick back in the 80s, casting rock star Sting, having the most successful rock producer at the time Brian Eno as a composer, and having Lynch, whose The Elephant Man made a smash hit a few years earlier, as a director. While Lynch's recognizable signatures (e.g., grotesque makeup, surrealistic dream sequence, and low frequency noise) may amuse his fans, he turned to be a wrong director to be hired, ruining the film with his unique slow tempo to produce uneasiness. To Lynch, the biggest fruit from working for this production must be the encounter to Kyle MacLachlan, who would be cast in his successful next film, The Blue Velvet. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe anyone would think the Lynch version was better or even close to Herbert's masterpiece. I read the book and then watched the Lynch version the day after finishing the book and was horrified.The only thing that the book stayed true to were the character names and that people wanted spice, for Christs sakes the weirding way got transformed from a martial arts movements to some sort of gun fighting. This is only one instance, I could write a novel with all the discrepancies, OH WAIT there is a novel with all the discrepancies it is titled Dune by Frank Herbert. What about the lavishness of the novel, how in depth the story went and then to get this cut and dry movie that is hard to follow (even after reading the book) which just completely changes the characters moods and motives and AHHHH, just extremely frustrated by this whole movie.Then there is the Sci-Fi Channel's version, in honesty not great acting, sets, or costumes, but this is a cable channels mini-series version, NOT A MAJOR STUDIO PRODUCTION, don't expect to get those great ascetics you seem to complain about. The story is what matters and the mini-series is about as close to the novel as you can expect. Characters stay true to there portrayal in the novel and *I know this is a lot to expect from a movie adapted from a novel* the story is the same in the subtitles and the major plots.But if you have not read the book(s) then this movie will probably be enjoyable, as is evident in the fact anyone who has not read the books does enjoy the Lynch version, and truly the visual effects of this movie were extremely advanced for the time.But to you who have read the book and found a story with a scope far beyond your average novel/story/epic you will be sorely disappointed. *****NOW THIS IS IMPORTANT***** If you have read all books - Dune, Dune Messiah, Children of Dune, God Emporor Dune, Heretics of Dune, Chapter House Dune, House Atreides, House Harkonen, House Corrino, Bulterian Jihad, Machine Crusade, and the most recent Battle of Corrin do not AND I REPEAT DO NOT watch this film, it is heresy and insulting to say the least, and only a true fan can truly realize this. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm pretty easy to please when it comes to movies, but, Dune?  Forget about it.  It's badly done, long, convoluted, confusing, freakish, drags the first half, then rockets through all kinds of major events to the ending.I'll admit I'm biased.  I read the book first.  The book was complex, but understandable--and moreover enjoyable.  But, there's just too much there to squeeze into even a three hour movie.  So, it's no wonder they did such a bad job.  Testament to the fact that there's too much to fit into a movie is the horribly long, confusing, and boring introduction.  Furthermore, the overall look, the sets, the costumes, none of it has a basis in the book--my friends and I don't understand how anyone could have come up with the look of this movie having first read the book.  Then, the movie adds unnecessary elements to the story--making Mentats addicted to some kind of mind expanding substance that stains their lips red is just one of a dozen major changes that weaken the movie.  They made unnecessary and ridiculous changes to characters and made unnecessary and ridiculous changes to the plot--for example, they turn the weirding way into some kind of convoluted weapon technology.But, even without comparing it to the book, it's just a bad movie.  I don't see how anyone who hasn't read the book could understand it or like it, and I don't see how anyone who has read the book could like it.  I'd heard it was a classic movie, so I wanted to see it, but man what a waste of time.  Could someone please explain how it got so many 10's???  "},{"Title":"Required more concentration than a title chess match.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Dune when it came out, on opening night in our community.  I had never read any of the books so I was unprepared for the movie.  Which is the point of this review  you shouldn't have to prepare to see a movie.  The movie should do all the work.I was a little uneasy when, upon entering the theatre,  I was handed a legal size paper with small type, front and back, explaining the terms used in the movie.  Little good this did me in the dark.  When movies use terms that the average viewer wouldn't know, they usually use subtitles.  This is the only exam - I mean  movie -  I've ever attended where I was given a crib sheet.The movie itself had some pageantry, but most of this was lost on not being completely sure what was going on and what was being said. And - Curse the darkness! - I just couldn't find all the secret code words on my sheet. Also, my attention was often diverted by the parade of moviegoers packing in their popcorn and making a quick exit.And even what action I could follow was ruined by the nagging feeling that I was missing something.Friends and family who were fans of the trilogy generally enjoyed the movie. But a movie is its own medium.  It shouldn't take the preparation of three novels to enjoy it.I think Dune stands as an example of how not to make a movie.  Definitely a winner of All-time worst screenplay from another source.  Dune took Based on the book to frighteningly new depths.  Sorry sci-fi fans.  Dune may be a good companion piece to your books, but as a stand-alone movie, it's a dud.  "}{"Title":"Unappreciated masterpiece(big spoilers ahead)","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Prologue In the year 10191(not the Christian calender), the Padishah-Emperor grants House Atreides(the heroes) rulership over Arrakis(Dune), replacing their enemy, House Harkonnen(the bad guys). Arrakis is the only planet in the universe that contains the spice melange, a drug that the entire universe is addicted to due to the vitality it provides people and because the Spacing Guild need it to teleport their ships through space. The Guild, the Emperor and House Harkonnen plot the destruction of the Atreides(hence the Emperor's generosity). The Guild, having precognition due to spice view Duke Leto's son Paul as a threat. The Emperor views House Atreides as a threat due to their new Weirding Modules(sonic guns). The Harkonnens just hate them.Story A Guild Navigator arrives on Kaitain(the Emperor's homeworld) to ask for details of the Conspiracy. Using her telepathic powers, Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam(representative of a group of women who manipulated DNA through generations to create a male superbeing with the power to see the future) finds out that the Guild fear Paul so she goes to Caladan(the Atreides homeworld) to test him(with a pain box). Paul passes the test. Subsequently, House Atreides (which is led by Duke Leto, his concubine Jessica, their son Paul, the Mentat(human computer) Thufir Hawat, the Swordmaster Duncan Idaho, the Suk Doctor Wellington Yueh and the superloyal Gurney Picard Halleck) travels to Arrakis to take over from the Harkonnens. Meanwhile on Giedi Prime, the evil Mentat Piter De Vries(Grima Wormtongue) takes Leto's message to the psycho-Baron Vladimir Harkonnen who is not too happy and finalizes the Conspiracy. He orders Captain Nefud to summon Feyd-Rautha and Rabban(his nephews) and has Piter pound the importance of success in them (if the Landsraad, the union of Houses finds out about the Conspiracy, they're all screwed). The psycho-Baron also informs them that he has a spy in House Atreides. Back on Arrakis, Duke Leto meets with Duncan(who has been negotiating with the Fremen, a group of nomads living in the desert) who informs him that there might be a larger number of Fremen than originally thought. Being a paranoid perfectionist on defence, Thufir's in charge of the safety. When his people find one bomb after another easily, he becomes extremely concerned of how easy it is. Dr. Yueh is inspecting the Harkonnen corpses and finds a secret message in one that he doesn't want to Thufir to know of(the veteran must be blind not to notice Yueh move the X-Ray). Meanwhile, Duke Leto, Paul and Gurney go on a spice production tour with Dr. Kynes, the Imperial Planetologist who has secretly become a Fremen leader. The trip ends in a disaster but the Atreides make a good impression on Kynes. Back at the palace, Dr. Yueh and Jessica check the Fremen servants. Among them is the Shadout Mapes, a spy(for the Fremen, not the bad guys). In his room, Paul has a spice snack and nearly gets assassinated by a floating needle. Mapes informs him that there's a traitor amongst the Atreides. Another Harkonnen corpse is found with a needle controller. Soon, Dr. Yueh(the Harkonnen spy) neutralizes the shield protecting the palace, allowing the Harkonnen ships to attack it and also destroys the Weirding Modules, preventing the Atreides from effectively defending themselves from a combination of strong Harkonnen forces and the Imperial Sardaukar. Only a few escape with their lives. Yueh personally captures Duke Leto and explains that he's doing all this in order to assassinate the Baron(Who killed his wife) via the Duke and plants a tooth containing poison gas in his mouth. Duncan tries to save Paul and Jessica and gets killed in the process. Gurney escapes(with the Duke's dog). House Harkonnen wins. Paul and Jessica are sent to the desert to die but they escape the Harkonnen troops thanks to some help from Yueh's survival kit he planted there to redeem himself. The two of them meet and join the Fremen with the promise that they teach them how to use the Weirding Modules(that Yueh left the plans for). Meanwhile, Leto's assassination fails and he ends up killing Piter instead. Paul falls in love, Jessica becomes a Reverend Mother, Paul becomes a messiah, Gurney joins the Fremen, Kynes is abandoned in the desert by Rabban, Thufir becomes a demented Mentat for the Harkonnens. 2 YEARS LATER Using the tactics taught to him and the Weirding Modules, the Fremen effectively halt spice production. Fearing Paul, the Spacing Guild order the Emperor to return order to Arrakis. He decides to destroy all life there. To counter that, Paul uses the Water of Life(sandworm puke) to finally achieve his full potential(oh and he gets a sister). The Emperor arrives on Arrakis and starts by executing Rabban. The Baron isn't very pleased. Using atomics, Paul breaks into his old palace and conquers the Sardaukar. The Baron is killed by Paul's sister. In the finale, Paul declares himself Emperor(not corruption), takes complete control over the universe and kills Feyd-Rautha(the last Harkonnen). Thufir also commits suicide. AND THEN IT RAINS ON ARRAKIS FOR NO REASON.Personal view This movie is just awesome. But it failed due to the lack of time given to it. The movie mainly focuses on the first half of the novel and then turns the second part into a montage. "},{"Title":"Can Someone Tell Me What the Heck this is About?","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 3 stars, simply because David Lynch attached his name to it. Otherwise, I'd have given it 1 star. I am a pretty intelligent guy. I am well read in both the classics and contemporary literature, although I had not read the Frank Herbert book. I enjoy science fiction. For the life of me, I had no idea what was going on. I couldn't keep the characters straight, who was in league with who, who had a plot against who. It was just a stew of confusion. I turned it off after an hour or so; I simply lost interest, having no bloody idea what everyone was talking about.I know Lynch has the distinction of making films that some people have a hard time getting a handle on. However, this movie doesn't have the visual beauty and evocative mood of Lynch's best work. I mean, not only is the plot indecipherable, in spite of voice overs that seem to go on forever, the costumes and special effects resemble a high school production of Star Wars. I haven't seen a movie I enjoyed less since trying to sit through Jason and the Argonauts. Blech! "},{"Title":"Spacebound costume drama","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite obviously made by Dino De Laurentiis as a film to cash-in on the newfound popularity of the science fiction genre thanks to George Lucas, DUNE is a film with epic intentions (and an epic running time). It's an adaptation of Frank Herbert's '60s sci-fi novel and watching it is a huge undertaking you're drawn into a whole new mythological universe with its well established peoples, planets and nations, along with the divides, loyalties, heroes and villains that well-established fiction brings. It brought to mind seeing LORD OF THE RINGS for the first time in the sense that there's a great deal to take in (much more than in the comic-strip style STAR WARS).Watching this, it soon becomes that DUNE is needlessly complicated and better care needed to be taken in adapting a lengthy novel into a filmed version (even a film this long). There are so many characters vying for screen time that I struggled to make sense or indeed care about what I was seeing, and Kyle Maclachlan's young and upstarting hero is far too one-dimensional to be much interest. A lot of the early scenes are stagey and feel cod-Shakespearian; I'm sure they're integral to the storyline but I just found then dull beyond belief.It's not all bad. The storyline picks up as the film progresses, with the last hour a fairly exciting mix of action and suspense. David Lynch does the best he can with the material and adds some much-needed weirdness to the alien creations (also watch out for some early CGI, extremely crude by today's standards but a benchmark nonetheless). And what a cast! At least two dozen familiar actors from the era are present in myriad roles and it's a shame that none of them get much of a look in aside from Kenneth McMillan's grotesque villain.In the end, DUNE feels like an interesting failure there are elements of intrigue, suspense and plotting that work, but in the end it proved too taxing for the masses and subsequently bombed at the box office. There's a why should we care? feel which marks the death knell of any movie. "},{"Title":"Breaks every rule of engaging science fiction","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never read the Dune books, but I've played a few of the games- my rough interest in the premise and some spare change rattling in my pocket while eying the bargain bin of a local video shop led me to acquire the film.After watching the 2 hours of the apparently 4 that were shot to create this confusing, garbled, attempted transmission of what I don't doubt to be an impressive epic I must admit I'm more confused to the premise than I started out.First rule of science fiction- if a setting element is not critical to the plot then leave it out. If it is critical, make sure it's clearly woven into the narrative before making them important. The mannerisms of the Harkonnen, the Mentats, those strange psychic women, the Sadukar, and innumerable other things the film were supposedly important but the direction and narrative totally failed to explain their significance. Being unable to understand the setting of the universe made it difficult to become engaged.The next huge issue with the film is a lack of motivation. The overarching plot has something to do with a prophecy and Paul's role as some sort of messiah figure to the natives of Arrakis but it seems to come at a cost to his character. His motivations, especially later in the film seem to be in the interest of the Freman, but why? I didn't find their actions to be the least bit sympathetic. Other characters in the film, the emperor, the Harkonnen baron and his various minions have changes in behaviour ranging from confusing to borderline schizophrenic. I'm sure fans of the novel will probably think I've missed the point of it all, and they're right- by the end (which wasn't too bad, all up), I was left with many more questions than answers. But with all the issues it had, I'm sure there's a good story in there somewhere, and I may just take up the book to read it. The epic is clearly too big for the silver screen without massive cuts, but the film tries to have it's cake and eat it too- preserving the irresponsibly large scope of the source material without compromise. It came at the cost of the story. Perhaps a thorough knowledge of the source material makes this film brilliant, as die-hard fans seem to claim. For the rest of us, Dune the film is much like Dune the planet- huge, bland and inhospitable to outsiders. "},{"Title":"Kudos for the attempt, but little else.","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The spice must flow.Dune is a mess. An ambitious mess. A brave mess. But still, a mess. I don't totally blame David Lynch. He really went for it and brought a version of Dune to the screen that tried to be faithful to the novel. But it's incredibly hard to translate something as complex and epic as Dune to film. This is a story that works better when your imagination brings it to life. Your vision of a Guild Navigator, the revolting Baron, or the opulence of the Emperor's court is bound to eclipse the cheesy and low-budget (in appearance, at least) sets, costumes, and special effects of Dune. Some flaws can directly be laid at Lynch's feet, though. The tone  of the movie is often wildly over-the-top and absurd and the casting is questionable, at best. Good try, but this adaptation doesn't work.  "},{"Title":"Somewhere in it all there is a great movie.","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had everything in it required for me to make a great movie out of. It's a science-fiction movie set in the far future, at far off places, it has a good main concept and characters in it but yet it all somehow doesn't work out too great.Guess that some stories just work out better in books. It's obvious when watching this that they had plenty of story material to use. Too much really, fore the movie is filled with a well written plot that however gets told in a far too fast pace to comprehend it all. The story becomes pretty messy to watch after a while when too much information gets provided and more and more characters with ridicules and difficult names get introduced. It becomes hard to keep an hold on all of the characters motivations and intentions and you'll just start to loose interest after a while. The movie is still pretty good for what it is in it's first 2 hours but after that point it all becomes far too messy.I've watched the long version of this movie, which is, I suppose, better than the short, cut for TV, version. Direcor David Lynch also disowned the short, cut version, which is the reason why he is credited as Alan Smithee.For a science-fiction movie from the early '80's it definitely has some good looking effects. The movie is loaded with special effects and fans of the science-fiction genre shall also not be disappointed by it. It's a pretty large scale movie, with large sets and such, that is impressive to look at.The movie is filled with some big name actors in it but yet overall there mostly gets overacted a lot in this movie, which should have to do with the movie its script and especially dialog. Seems that some of them had no clue what they were doing and saying in this movie and what it all was about. It helps to give the movie a bit of a cult status but it also seems like a bit of a waste of the acting talent that got involved with this movie.Deep inside this still is a great genre movie but the end result as a whole simply does not pay off.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Frustrating film, good adaptation","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review is about the 3-hour version only.David Lynch's Dune is an ambitious and problematic film. I love the book series and I think the first 2 hours of the movie are brilliantly adapted. The production is huge, with great set and costume designs, and where Lynch succeeds is in creating the Dune world on screen. Stylistically it feels like it fell right off the page. The special effects are pure cheese and the action scenes laughable, but the story draws you in and plays out almost exactly like the book. There are a few discrepancies that hinder the adaptation, one being the infamous 'weirding modules' that were for some reason written into every action scene. The other comes at the end of the film, when Paul magically makes rain fall from the sky. I'm not sure what they were thinking, but maybe the ending of the book didn't have enough of a 'wow' factor. This change is silly and mars what could have been a perfect adaptation. They missed it by that much.In case you don't know the story, Dune takes place in around the year 10000, where an intergalactic feud between the House of Atreides and Harkonnen comes to a head on the desert planet of Arrakis, the only source of the Spice, the most important resource in the universe. The story is very complicated and Lynch's screenplay is faithful, almost to a fault. A certain level of patience is needed to fully enjoy the film, as is a basic knowledge of the Dune world. The uninitiated may find the film long, silly, and sometimes unintentionally funny. In some ways it is, but it's a good film if you're willing to look past these flaws.The casting is good save for one person Everett McGill as Stilgar. If you know the series Twin Peaks, he played Ed Hurley. They couldn't have found a worse guy to play Stilgar. This guy is supposed to be the hardened leader of the fierce Fremen tribes, but he comes off as completely unthreatening and unremarkable. He can't even mutter Shai Hulud without it sounding unnatural. I like the rest of the cast, and everyone from Jessica to Paul to Leto are well performed and memorable.At the 2 hour mark, we come to a problem They are only 1/3 of the way through the book. The final hour feels rushed and clumsy. I don't think Jessica shows up at all after giving birth to Alia. After patiently developing everything, the movie suddenly shifts into overdrive and blasts through the last 2/3 of the book in about 45 minutes. 3 hours is actually not enough time to fully tell this story. The shorter version is probably more balanced, but I wouldn't have taken anything out of the first two hours. Maybe it should have been 3/12-4 hours even.David Lynch was probably the wrong director for such an unwieldy production, and the film is a failure on a cinematic and editing level, but if you like the book you will probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Epic","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read the original book in the Dune series before I saw the movie, and I must say that David Lynch did a hell of a job and kept the film version fairly close to the book, In short this epic tale of a power struggle on the planet dune has Biblical, Shakespearian, Arthurian and modern political aspirations as its influences. Cast is quite excellent with Mac Laughlin a standout as Paul Atredies. Getting great support from an equally brilliant cast that includes among others Jose Ferrer, Jurgen Prochnow,Paul Stewart, Sting, Sean Young,and Linda Hunt this movie is not for everyone. It is quite literate and not a brain dead space shoot'em up. The spice mining scene where the harvester gets eaten up by the sand worm is magnificent,the spacecraft have a design combining art deco and Egyptian styles, the castles and interiors look medieval, the planet Dune features the gigantic sandworms that are as big as a cruise ship, and the planet Geidi Prime resembles an oil refinery.The desert scenes and battles are on par with Lawrence of Arabia and the film neatly ties up all the events for a satisfying conclusion. The big budget shows on screen and most of the situations seem believable. The only problems with the film is that the main characters inner thoughts are spoken in and over some of the main dialogue and a somewhat out of place rock music soundtrack really does nothing for the events. I kind of pictured a Maurice Jarre score, but I guess that you can't have everything. I can't see why Lynch is ashamed of this film. He has crafted an epic tale and even though it takes place on different planets thousands of years from now, it only shows how human nature and the quest to obtain power are universal themes that have not changed throughout time. The critics? Pay no attention to them. After all, they all loved the saccharine, plastic and ingtelligence insulting ET, right? "},{"Title":"Read the book first Great movie, but objectively a movie with flaws ... major flaws","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dune is a success and failure in one. It fails to translate the book. It succeeds in bringing the world of Dune to life through wonderfully imaginative set designs, costume design and special effects and music (Toto!!!). The makers decided to cut away all background story and focus on the action. This is where all falls down. By cutting away that much, a fast paced action movie is created. Why ? Probably because at that time (the eighties) cinema movies seldomly reached past 120 minutes. In theory, a fast paced movie is a good thing. It won't bore your audience to death.,In case of Frank Herbert's Dune, you lose so much of the background story, you end up with a fast paced story nobody understand.Frank Herbert 's Dune was deemed unfilmable. I disagree. It is unfilmable in 90 to 120 minute film. Like Tolkiens LOTR. I think both books share something in common. Their world is so rich, not only in events but in information that these books have long been seen as unfilmable. I think Peter Jackson proved everybody wrong (though he made some dubious plot changes and decisions in the Two Towers). Books as these are so rich, you need to take as much time as you need to tell the story. Another example is Eragon. By trying to stay within the 100 minute limit, you get the book in fast-forward view!Back to Dune I fell in love with this movie, because loved the acting, sets, costumes, general atmosphere. It is Dune come to life. And I read the book first. By having read the book first, I knew all there is to know. And the movie goes down easily. If you do not possess this knowledge, you end up distracted from the action because you have no clue what is going on and why. You watch 130 minutes of action and at the end a girl points at Paul Muad'Dib Atreides and shouts he is the kwisatz haderach and you go... who? What? What is a kwasawhat?The SE DVD gives you a lot of extra informations and insights to dune universe politics, groups and people. These are accompanied with music and what looks like concept art. But it is vital information for those who have not read the book. I think this adds to the film, making it a richer experience. Similar like the added scenes in LOTR.I found both versions impressive and entertaining. Please note that the SFX are from the 80s and cannot be compared to nowadays CGI, although theses SFX are much better than most TV series CGI. CGI is the magic word nowadays, but CGI is only as good as the budget.For those unfamiliar with Dune, I recommend the SE, if you are prepared to invest 3 hours of your life. I think it's worth it.i "},{"Title":"It felt like a long, drawn out book report","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having read the book and loved it, not to mention being a big Lynch fan, I thought I'd give the movie a try. And I really did try, giving the movie about two hours before giving up on it completely. I even got the extended edition thinking it MUST be better than the normal version. Little did I know what I was getting myself into.The first ten minutes of the movie gives most of the back-story, including information about the people you will meet and the worlds you will be seeing - all at once, and by narrative. There was nothing visually stimulating to back up this narrative, only the occasionally changing static drawings that a high school art student could have done just as well.Then we get to the live action part. Except, its pretty much live narration since its only more of the same. The characters exposit to one another every little detail surrounding every possible thing, even details that should have been common knowledge to anyone who lived in the same relative universe. And everything they don't speak to each other, the audience gets by thought in the form of voice-over. It was also pretty ridiculous how many times the same information had to be repeated, as if the movie KNEW that its audience would take occasional naps and would have to be updated as to what was going on.As the plot unfolded during the two hours I watched, there was seriously a amount of nothing that happens except for what you learn about through people talking. Good visuals might have helped, but even the cinematography was wretched. All the settings were dull and lifeless, largely just people standing around in a blandly decorated room. Mostly it was a fixed camera standing far back from everything so it didn't have to switch angles too often. When the camera did move, it was slow enough to be unrecognizable.The acting left much to be desired as well, but it could just be that the actors really didn't have decent material to work with in the first place.Anybody even remotely interested in this movie should save themselves the ennui. It's like watching cliff notes in movie form, except even duller. Go watch the miniseries instead, or even better - go read the book. "}{"Title":"Very Bad Realization of a Great Story","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is terrible. The latest version has the directors name as Allen Smithee - meaning that the real director disavowed any relation to it (David Lynch).The original problems in the release were largely thought to be the confusing plots and language. However, I never thought that was it. I had recently read the book and then saw the movie (not always a good idea). But I knew the plot, and the language. Much of the story is in the film too - perhaps too much. I remember thinking I wanted to physically harm Dino De Laurentis for producing it. The acting is horrible - at times it seems a parody of old spaghetti westerns. The dialog is even worse - who wrote this drivel? Language that seems fine in the novel just fails on screen. And voiceovers - get rid of them! Do it with visuals. They only work in very select situations.The editing is also horrible. The cuts seem to jump around so randomly that I suspect this is what most confused the original audience. I think the editors tried to keep up a time-line continuity, but it was not necessary - it would have been much better to focus and stay with the small stories throughout the movie (and just leave out many of the non-essential sequences).The only things in the film worthwhile are the photography, and visual effects. Quite advanced for the time. Perhaps the only negative here are the dream/vision sequences - these look like they were added later and quickly. "},{"Title":"as complex as it is conflicted, and full of artistry that doesn't fully work","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a sense, I looked at David Lynch's adaptation of Dune on the outset for a while like Stanley Kubrick's Spartacus. This is the filmmaker, usually in total control of his work, putting himself out there for an elephantine production early in a career. But in this case, after having seen the film, it's perhaps not totally clear whether or not the director was compromised by either the producer or the studio. If one were to ask also of me to say if it is too long or too short I'd also be hesitant to answer. At two hours and fifteen minutes, the story feels like it's nearly three, but it isn't. This is a credit to what is done visually in the film, but there are problems afoot. Perhaps one of them is that I, unlike a good many who've written on this site about the film, have yet to read one iota of the book(s). So my approach is not really through the vein of Frank Herbert's work but through Lynch who is maybe more of the reason to see the film. As it is, I'm not sure when I'll get a chance to read the book, and frankly on a first impression it's not on a short list of one I'll read anytime too soon.Because, at least for me, the story (or perhaps, unfortunately to say a part of the storytelling aspect) has a certain glitch to it that reminded me of the Da Vinci Code adaptation, though on a slightly different plane. Show, don't tell is usually the policy in writing a screenplay. But unlike that example, Lynch, up for the challenge in and of itself of the 45 million dollar production- relatable to the amount of a summer blockbuster of today- tries to add a novelistic approach to the film without necessarily being true to everything in the source. Impressions of this world are paramount for him. Many of the characters are given voice-overs for their thoughts, as they suspect, decree, wonder, and reveal feelings that could perhaps just be on their faces. And as apart of Lynch's way of abstracting in directing his actors, we're given the impression through out of oppression. All of this works, up to a point. On a first viewing maybe it IS all too much to settle into, as the importance of the little things should add up more than they do. The cast- assembled with many knowable faces in a bizarre and curious stretch from Max von Sydow to Sting to Kyle MacLachlan- do what they can, but only a few really give the goods for what they're worth in the framework of their characters.This all being said, Dune's met obvious mixed reactions for many years (which have become even more known to me than the novel itself) and its understandable why. This is in one respect an old-fashioned film, with (again with Spartacus) a Roman-epic aspect, where there are thousands of extras, lots and lots of dramatic action, and a story filled with betrayals, a need for a hero to rise up, and even a religious aspect with MacLauchlan's Paul being a 'Messiah' to the world. There are interesting ideas floating afoot, but unfortunately some of it is lost, and maybe more if one's sort of connection to the film gets severed at some point. So, if the storytelling side of things as Lynch in adapting it attempts for one filled with powerful depictions of the forces of good and evil is likely not a success, the side of the visuals usually, for the most part, is. Even when I ironically had only a vague idea of what was going on (perhaps due to an overload of exposition), I couldn't look away from what he, cinematographer Freddie Francis, 2001 production designer Anthony Masters, and even most of Barry Nolan's special effects were doing for the material. Dated in a couple of parts, this is overall another feast for Lynch fans, as certain creations and work on character (i.e. the Baron) are fantastic, there are dream sequences and other things done to enhance the inherent surrealism of all of this dark fantasy.To put it mildly, Dune is not a very simple film to digest in any denomination. Unlike Star Wars, there aren't any quick starship battles or bits of comic relief. But it does fit into that pantheon of science fiction films that shouldn't be tossed away completely. Here in even one of Lynch's least successful works, maybe his fault in some respects and not in others, there's a lot of brilliant and sensational moments and sights and sounds. There's something striking about how the film is presented, and sometimes how it takes off, that keeps it from not sinking into the otherwise likely situation of an epic running totally off the tracks. And as a general admirer of science fiction the writing that backs up this work from Herbert is not completely lost on me. At least for one thing about the film is certain- this is the only time on celluloid that you'll witness a knife fight between, yes, Sting and Kyle MacLauchlan. In short, DEFINITELY not for everyone. Features also other good actors, by the way, like Brad Douriff, Patrick Stewart and Jose Ferrer. "},{"Title":"It just proves you don't have to know what is going on to enjoy a movie.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie as a kid at the theaters, back then I loved science fiction and it had giant worms.  I watched it and enjoyed it for the most part, but I didn't know wtf was going on.  I have seen the movie a few times since and I get more of it now, but I am still not entirely sure what is going on for the most part.  Reading the book may help, but why?  I enjoy it enough even not knowing what was up with the box, the dude who was already dead, and the weird witches.  At least there are some cool scenes and rather good sci-fi imagery to see in this very long spectacle.  I especially like the neat guns that fire when you say cha.  Rather interesting cast as well, as there aren't too many main stars here, but rather there are a whole lot of bit players or those who are more likely to be in a b movie.  Also, there are a lot of cool desert scenes and shots too.  All in all a rather good film, even if it isn't easy to comprehend (though it may just be me).  There is a version of the movie that has a voice over explaining things, but he just makes it worse and distracts from the film. "},{"Title":"Half triumph-half travesty","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Surreal and expansive, Dune is most certainly not for everyone.  Like any film based on an epic novel, it suffers from way too much cutting.  More basically, Dune bears the burden of being made in the mid-eighties...a time best forgotten. However, as incoherent as it may seem on the first viewing, it deserves credit for realizing a radically different world.  The story, though rushed and a bit muddled by poor acting on the part of secondary characters, is powerful and compelling.  The scope of this uniquely different tale does evoke an epic feeling. Would that Dune could have been made in an era where SF didn't have to be excessively weird for weirdness's sake, and when epic movie music wasn't written by pop-artists...and in that fantasy world (where so many movies should have been made) devoid of scissor-handed, budget-minded editing. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I prefer the cable television version of the film, which has aboutan hour more footage, and it is a must see for any Dune novel fan. The additional scenes are some of the most intriguing from the books, such as the drowning of a worm. I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Dune Buggy","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Largely incomprehensible boring mess of a movie that goes on forever. It's saved from complete failure by some nice imagery and special effects. But the visual spectacle is really wasted on this joyless material. Imagine Star Wars without the fun and excitement. It looks and feels much more like a Dino De Laurentiis film than a David Lynch film, for what that's worth. A great cast but they all seem to melodramatically overact. I'll place that blame on Lynch. Oh and I never read the book and doubt I ever will. So I'm not one of those. I just think its a sucky movie. Contrarians and posers will certainly love it more than the average viewer. "},{"Title":"Impressive sets, interesting idea for a movie but yeah it also sucked.","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never seen this movie until today, the day of this review. But I have learned long ago, never to compare movies from before CGI to CGI movies. So what I have to say about this movie, is based on the movie and would be the same if I saw it in the theater when it came out in the 80's.It was very impressive. The sets, the costumes, and even some of the effects for the 1980's. The idea for this movie was a good idea too. And I suppose if you were totally deaf, it would have been a fantastic movie. But since I can hear, I also heard the script, or lack of it.There were SO SO SO SO SO many holes in the story. I am unsure if it was simply bad editing, or too long, or just a terrible script but I suspect it is all three. If you found yourself saying What? while watching this movie then you know exactly what I mean.Because even the final battle seemed to end in the middle of it and the next scene all the bad guys were captured. Or there was a lady at the beginning with such a beautiful voice but they never tied her really into the story either. Or there was the large amounts of water, that were never explained. Oh man so many things! There were so many holes in the plot and story of this movie that I started getting bored because I didn't know what was going on and I am a movieoholic! Though I know likely only a handful of people will ever read this review, if you have seen this movie then you know what I am talking about. It was a great and amazingly produced movie but the lack of a good story made it looooong and boring. I give this movie 3 out of 10 only because I liked the production value of this movie. Other then that, I likely will never watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Poor, At Best","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I should first of all point out that I saw this film only in October of 2010, so not exactly contemporary with its release. Being only 20 years old and perhaps used to flashy computer graphics I may approach Dune with some degree of bias. However, Metropolis is one of my favourite films so age doesn't have much bearing on me.As a big Frank Herbert (and Dune) fan I was really looking forward to seeing the film adaptation, fully expecting much of the book to be culled...but I spent much of the film confused. I really struggled to understand what was going on much of the time. There was no build up throughout the film, more just a series of events which merge into some gooey mess with lack of an understandable plot. I think Lynch has sort of missed a lot of the point of the book. Herbert makes a number of satirical comments in the novel and pungent points regarding human nature and society, which are completely missed. The Harkonnens irritated me particularly, not portrayed accurately at all.The score is mediocre. It had little substance, the main theme is pretty non-descript and throughout the rest of the film I had problems trying to work out much of a melody. The costumes saved it for me, I thought the costumes were spectacular and I really enjoyed the interpretations, particularly of the Reverend Mother. Bitterly disappointed and a waste of three hours of my life. I didn't worry about pausing the film to make a cup of tea (lots of cups of tea), there wasn't really much to miss. "},{"Title":"Ouch.","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me begin by saying that I haven't read the books and I saw the 2 hour cut of this movie. From that, let me say that I am so very thankful I didn't have to sit through 3 hours of this.The constant background monologue of thoughts prevents any imagination or intuitive reasoning by the audience. The foreshadowing is about as subtle as a brick to the head. Many characters appear to exist only to fill screen time (Thufir Hawat for one). The special effects, although occasionally very well done, are often missed. During the last battle scene, if you look closely you will see that although many in the background are firing, only those in the foreground have any apparent muzzle blast. The worms are essentially a repeat of the space worm in Star Wars (most likely b/c the same creature designers worked on both), and they go from being these destructive monsters capable of destroying mining plants to cuddly little vehicles for Paul and his men. The psychotic little Alia manages to age to at least 6 years old in the space of 2 years, and I have yet to see the connection between the worms and the spice, although that may be from my lack of book knowledge. With few exceptions, the acting is just atrocious. Give me Plan 9 From Outer Space over this execrable mess any day.The only bright light in this dung heap is Jurgen Prochnow's performance as Duke Leto. He appears to be everything that one would want in a leader. Unfortunately, his death spins the minds and acting abilities of his whole family out of control. In fact, thats the best description of this movie a mind out of control. While I realise that without knowledge of the books, I cannot pass judgement on the overall effectiveness of the movie, let me simply say that it spirals rapidly into dismal repetitiveness and overacting immediately after Prochnow and Stewart leave the picture. Its as though the director only researched the first 3rd of the script and just winged the rest of it.All in all a very painfully misguided film that should only be watched by fans of the books with a masochistic desire to see all their wonderfully colourful imaginings of the universe of Dune come crashing down into a steaming pile of worm....spit. "},{"Title":"Oh dear...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Note This review is for the extended Alan Smithee versionTwo things can happen if you try to adapt a book to the screen.  The movie may end up very different from the book.  This isn't always a bad thing in my opinion.No, the worst thing that can happen when you adapt a book into a movie is this you are TOO close to the book.  The director ends up just showing you what he thinks every event in the story looked like.  Dune is a prime example of this.  It's tempting for me to say that this movie is so laughably bad that it's good.  But I think it might have bypassed good and gone right back to being bad again.I have to admit, I'm not a big fan of _Dune_ (the book) to start with.  I tried to read it over the summer and was nearly bored to death.  I did find one thing interestingKids, this story is all about drugs!The buying of drugs, the selling of drugs, the politics of drugs, the addiction to drugs.  Furthermore, the characters who partake of the strongest drugs are granted special powers.So, basically, a reasonably good _Dune_ movie would be a drug movie.  Graft a really clumsy life of Christ parable onto Traffic and you get the idea.  Picture some guy reading the book to you all the way through and you have the reality. "}{"Title":"Cinema has never seen a film as tedious as this one","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's highly lambasted take on Frank Herbert's cult novel 'Dune' kicks off with an intro that makes out as if you're in for an interesting time. When it's finished, however, and you realise that there's a further two and three quarter hours until the final credits role; interest in the movie falls sharply. The introduction to the film is long, and covers the same things more than once. The fact that it uses lots of different family and society names after only briefly explaining what they're about ensures that it's overly complicated, and this ensures that the movie is setting itself up for a turgid ride. Things get worse after that, as when you realise that the introduction doesn't just set the scene, it also sets up the tone of the movie; the next two and three quarter hours seem like a very daunting prospect indeed. The intro goes on and on, covering the same plot elements multiple times and if you think this is boring, just wait until the movie starts properly. The word 'dull' is about to take on a whole new meaning...cinema has never been so tedious.David Lynch is famous for his dark movies, and a foreboding atmosphere is as much a part of the man's cinema as the man himself. The lavish sets compliment his atmosphere; but unlike later feature 'Blue Velvet', for example; we never really get the impression that Lynch cares about the movie, and the darkness of the film only really comes about through the style of the sets and the downbeat performances. The way that the plot plays out is slow; very slow, and it would seem that nobody in the film really cares about the movie. The battle sequences are cold, lifeless and anything but exciting; and every performance in the film in surprisingly one-note. Kyle MacLachlan, the same man that Lynch used for Blue Velvet takes the lead role and really just makes himself look stupid. His looks, mannerisms and screen presence epitomise the situation that the actor has been forced into. Many of the scenes that he has to do are ludicrous and the high budget, but low quality style of the movie always ensure that the film looks and feels exactly like it is - trash. The fact that the film has no heart only increases this lacklustre feel.I really do find it hard to believe that this film was considered a 'big budget' screen adaptation. Quite what it was spent on, I have no idea. Throughout, the film looks low budget and hokey, and not in a good way. The effects are terrible, and don't come close to many earlier Sci-Fi fantasy films such as Star Wars or Alien. In fact, I was shocked to find that the special effects weren't done by some guy in his garage. The centre-point of the film is these giant worms that inhabit the planet of 'Dune'. These are mentioned early on, but Lynch still makes us wait nearly an hour and a half before we're allowed to finally see one; and when we finally do, it's just one giant disappointment. They're neither inventive nor well brought to the screen and despite an impressive sequence that sees one eat a mining facility; the worms are very much wasted. One of the film's saving graces is the score, which is moody and nice to listen to; but even the film's good points aren't put to proper use, and the movie has simply been saturated in this score; rendering it extremely dull after the eight hundredth time of hearing it.The version of the film that I saw was, unfortunately, the three hour long television edit version that Lynch subsequently disowned; leaving the film to be credited to Hollywood's scapegoat director; Alan Smithee. I don't blame Lynch for disowning the movie; I would have done the same thing, but I can't imagine Lynch's cut being any better. The film is too fundamentally flawed to be good no matter how it's edited. The slow and dull way that the dialogue is delivered is a showpiece for the slow and dull way that the plot itself plays out, and the fact that the film obviously takes itself seriously and seems to think that it's special effects sequences are offering a new breakthrough in film technology are laughable at best, and extremely irritating at worst. This sort of thing should have cult value for it's low budget and silly effects; but it doesn't even garner that much respect thanks to it's major flaws. As a fan of cult kitsch cinema, this is the sort of film I usually enjoy but in fact it's turned out to be one of a very select few films that I genuinely wish I'd never laid eyes on. David Lynch missed out on directing the concluding chapter to Star Wars to make this film and that may have been one of the silliest mistakes in the history of dirtectors' silly mistakes. This is not Star Wars, or even Spaceballs - it's just balls. "},{"Title":"Yes--it's an incomprehensible mess but not totally terrible","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This takes place in the year 10,191. There's two families--the evil Harkonnens and the good Atreides--fighting over a planet called Dune where some mystical spice is produced. The Harkonnens are run by the evil Baron Harkonnen (Kenneth McMillan) and the Atreides led by Paul (Kyle McLachlan). There are wars, double-crosses, killings, sandworms, mindreaders and the Fremen (people with blue on blue eyes).I saw this when it came out in 1984. I had never read the book and went with a friend of mine who had. I knew I was in trouble when the opening narration (by the beautiful Virginia Madsen) was completely incomprehensible! (And WHY does her face keep fading in and out?) My friend kept whispering to me during the first hour to explain things to me. No one shushed us (my guess is THEY were lost too and were listening to him to figure it out too)) After an hour he gave up confessing even HE was lost! If you have never read the book this movie makes literally no sense! The first hour or so is orientation to these worlds and their various problems. Characters appear and are (almost) instantly killed at a bewildering pace. Everything is thrown at the audience so quickly you spend most of the time trying to catch up while they throw MORE information at you! After I saw the movie I read the book (which is very long and dry--no pun intended), saw the movie again and THEN understood it...but it's still pretty bad.It was a bad mistake to try to fit every character in the book into the movie (Linda Hunt's character is introduced and killed a few scenes later!). My guess is the studio thought fans of the book would complain if ANYTHING was changed so they had writer/director David Lynch get every character into the script. Also the book was WAY too complex to condense into 137 minutes. Things are either unexplained or go by so quickly you're lost. It's a surprise Lynch did this. I later heard he did this on the provision that he would have complete creative control over his next film--Blue Velvet. This was supposed to be a big hit and Blue... to be a bomb...but the exact opposite happened. Lynch did the best he could with this but it was hopeless. Also the sandworms look REAL stupid! This isn't a total disaster though. The movie LOOKS fantastic. The sets are huge and beautiful. The costumes are (to say the least) eye-catching and the battle sequences are long, loud, BIG and exciting. It has an incredible cast too and no one's really bad. Of particular note though are McLachlan (tall and handsome), McMillan (enjoying himself and REALLY chewing the scenery), Francesca Annis (as Paul's mother), Brad Dourif (enjoying himself as much as McMillan) and (surprisingly) Sting. There's also 8 year old Alicia (Roanne) Witt as Paul's creepy sister Alia. When you see her at the end all dressed in black with only her small face and blue on blue eyes visible--it's downright scary! Great score by Toto also. Is a good movie? No. It won't make a bit of sense if you haven't read the book and it has a VERY dark tone (how this got by with a PG-13 is beyond me) but there's always something to look at and the production design is impressive. Still I can only give it a 2. "},{"Title":"tedious at best","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Never trust a movie when they hand you a glossary of terms before the show starts. Especially if you have only 10 minutes to memorize the terms. I guess if you read the novel before you watched the movie, it would make a lot more sense. That being said, read the book first. My feeling is, the only reason you'd want to watch this movie is that you're already a fan of the novel. The effects and music were the only thing that kept me watching...along with the fat guy with serious skin problems. One of the few movies I've see that I actually fell asleep during the show. If you're looking for sci-fi, there's a lot more movies out there that are much more entertaining (and shorter)than this mess. "},{"Title":"I see why Lynch hates this movie...","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe how blind most people are to this film. It is probably one of the most horrible things I've ever seen in my life. I am a huge sci-fi buff and I love adventure movies, Star Trek, Star Wars.. you name it. So a review about a movie like this coming from me is pretty off the wall.First off, the pacing is so inadequate, you'll get motion sickness. The story starts off so slooow and boring. And then when it picks up, it takes off like a rocket ship. Leaving any motives of anticipation or tension behind in the dust. The first domino falls, and they are all down in a matter of seconds. There's no HUGE twist or anything amazing about this film.Secondly, the state of the art effects are horrible too. My friend got mad and told me, it was great for the time. NO.. NO IT WAS NOT. This movie came out long after Star Wars... the effects don't even come close. They had plenty of time to at least adapt to the effects Starwars was using. In the end everything was so badly butchered at the editing table.. you had a big slop of a movie. If I were Lynch.. I'd hate it too. 1/10. Horrible pile of crap. "},{"Title":"What a sleepingpill ....","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this whole film is.But worst of all Sîan Phillipps as Mother of the Bene Gesserit. Ok, she was wrinkled enough for this role in 1984, when she gave this. Acting wouldn´t be the right word, because, uuh has she ever? - No, she never has, let´s be sincere. In fact, this was the coronation for one of the worst films I know. Even Prochnow wasn´t at his best - especially when he signed the contract for this ghastly trash.You find me hard to please? Well, I am. "},{"Title":"The paint is almost, almost, almost, there we go, dry!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I possible say about Dune that hasn't already been said between naps and loud snoring.  A very boring book produces an even more boring movie, something to be said for consistency I suppose, avoid. "},{"Title":"What a piece of junk","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I only have questionsHow can one cast Sting? How can one put Lynch to make a sci-fi movie? Don't they understand that special effects are meant to be special? Just how awful is this piece of trash, really? "},{"Title":"What the h*ll?","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was easily the most incoherent movie I have ever seen.  How anyone can give it a 10 is beyond me.  You all must be some SERIOUS fans of the book b/c no one in their right minds could give this movie a 10, standing alone. "},{"Title":"SHOCK! HORROR! A genuinely terrible David Lynch film?","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is my favourite director. I've seen and loved all of his films (apart from Lost Highway, which I've yet to see) and even some of his short films. However, Dune is always one I've kind of avoided thanks to its famously troubled production history. Even David Lynch himself is ashamed of it! It wasn't until I realised that I had two films of his left to see, and Dune was one of them. Did I really want Dune to be the last David Lynch film I see? No. So I bought it and went in with an open mind and even a tinge of excitement. After all, it's a David Lynch film! And there's many people who actually praise the film. Unfortunately, I'm not one of them.I may be a little biased because I'm not into this space opera kind of stuff. I watched the first two Stars Wars films recently and was bored by them both. So maybe I'm not the Dune target audience. I tried really hard at the beginning to understand what's going on, but I quickly realised that it was useless, so I just let the whole thing wash over me. I'm still not really sure what it's about. The son of some sort of planet queen going on an adventure to ride a giant sandworm and defeat the evil floating fat man? The screenplay is chock full of gobbledegook which only Trekkies would fully understand. However, I realise that this isn't David's fault. I'm sure his original three and half hour epic would've been much easier to follow.A lot of people say that the special effects are really good. I'd say that 30% of them are good. I actually said oh dear out loud when Kyle McLachlan and Patrick Stewart had that block fight at the beginning. Most of the effects are hideous and the sets are too. They were obviously very expensive, but the sets look very cardboard in a Batman & Robin kind of way. The only thing more cardboard than the sets was the characterisations. I must admit that the giant worms were done very well, and all of the scenes with them were fairly entertaining. Everything else felt rather limp.I could deal with the wooden acting, as it made the ordeal easier to sit through. What I couldn't deal with was the general dullness of it all. Dune bored me and I couldn't wait until it was all over. I didn't care about any of the cardboard characters. Even the usually likable Kyle is flat and rigid, and his love interest was sort of thrown into the mix for the sake of it! The only character I was interested in was the floating fat man, and that was mainly for the comic relief he brought, intentional or not. The directing was also rather plain and conventional. Even the dream sequences (David's speciality) were poorly done.There's one moment in Dune which ironically sums up everything about its tormented production. It's the moment where David Lynch has a cameo as a spice harvester who gets eaten by a giant sandworm. David's there trying his absolute hardest to harvest the best of the material, but the overwhelming production team destroy everything's he's worked towards and eat David in the process. Dune is the reason why every (good) director should have final cut and control on his/her film. I'm sure if David had complete control, then he would've given us a strange epic to cherish for years to come. However, he didn't and so the film has been viscously butchered and has little redeeming value. Oh well, I suppose every good director has to have at least one bad film in his/her filmography? Please read more strange and dazzling reviews at www.asdaman.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"A waste of a great story","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whether it was studio interference, a lack of budget, or the dumbing down of the material to suit the American audience, Dune represents a low point in both book to film adaptations (probably only outstripped by the Bakshi version of Lord of the rings or De Palmas Bonfire of the Vanities.), and David Lynch's career as a director. Herbert's novel is indeed a sprawling, incredibly detailed story, yet taken on incident alone it offers enough of what should have been some astounding set pieces when brought to the screen to pass for high octane entertainment, yet even in these it is massively under-whelming in terms of scope or narrative drive. The missteps come fast and thick beginning with the mystery of the spice Mélange and what it means to this future society being given away within the opening minutes of the film- thereby denying the audience any sense of discovery. In the same sequence the Guild Steersman calls directly for the assassination of Paul Atreides the Duke Atreides son- a deviation from the novel that completely undermines his characters journey and the inherent suspense of whether or not this child is really going to prove to be the prophesied Kwisatz Haderach- a Messiah of sorts, or if he is merely a pawn in his mothers plans for survival in the dangerous deserts of Arrakis. This is further compounded by the fact that Paul Atreides is a mere 14 year old in the opening of the book- a story device that in terms of peril ups the ante quite considerably, yet here is played by Kyle Maclachlan- easily in his early to mid twenties- with all the nuance and subtlety of a cold dead fish.Further to that, the decision to make the Baron Harkonnen and his cronies a bunch of insane comedy villains completely undermines the threat he and his House pose to Paul and the survival of the House Atreides. This is further compounded by the casting of Sting- apparently involved in the production so he can show off his buff bod in yet another misjudged scene- and ultimately merely serving to date the film to a time when he was considered in some way cool.So, some astounding production design aside, this is a thoroughly disappointing movie that simply never reflects the power of the source material it's based on. "}{"Title":"Myth of 4 hour version","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For all those who think that the 4 hour version of Dune is an myth then I have news for you. Years ago when Fox channel 5 aired this it was shown in (2) 2 hours sections without commercials. This movie was everything that a sci-fi movie needed and more. The characters were great even though I was surprised when Sting was playing a part in the movie. I had taped this on my VCR. I loved this movie from the beginning. unfortunately my son copied over a 30 minute section of the movie and I have been searching for it ever since. I have the 2 hour version but this is not the same. The two hour version omits various scenes that where great concerning the mother and son or when the Reverend mother was there when the guild came and they were reading the thoughts and the emperor asked what was really going on and then he called her given name and then called her a benegesurit witch. Also other scenes that were deleted in the two hour version was of Pauls and Chani relationship , or when Pauls sister Alia grew with power this is just a small sample of things that were deleted. So if anyone else out there knows of a copy available even if it on VHS please tell everyone who's interested how they can find it. Also you can tell if you have the original 4 hour version because the movie starts with drawn characters and tells how they overpowered the machines and how the the guild and the benegesurits came to power. The copy that is out now starts with Virginia Madsen talking about the spice and the planet and her father. "},{"Title":"One big expensive sci-fi trainwreck!","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 10,191 there stands a desolate desert planet known as Arrakis (a.k.a. Dune) where it has a precious substance that is made and sold throughout the universe as a substance called spice. A prince named Paul Artedis (Kyle MacLachen) lives on planet Calidan where his father Duke Leto Artedis (Jurgden Prochnow) has been assigned by the ruler of the galaxy known as Pasaha Emperor Shaddam IV (Jose Ferrer) to have him, Paul and wife Lady Jessica (Francesa Annis) to be on planet Arrakis to help out on spice manufacturing. However on planet Geidi Prime, overweight floating villain known as Baron Vladmire Harkonnen (Kenneth McMillan) who controls the Harkonnen empire wants to fight against the Emperor and the Duke so he can take over the planet Arakkis for his evil purposes. Once on Arakkis, trouble begins to brew for Paul and friends as the Harkonnens are trying to overthrow them leaving Paul's father to die, Paul and his mother are left in the dangerous desert where the giant sandworms roam but rescued by an underground tribe of Freman warriors. He also finds true love with native girl Chani (Sean Young) as for 2 years the Fremen with new messiah or Kwistaz Haderech is what they call it to fight against the spice miners with the Baron and Emperor to save the planet's resource of spice.One of my least favorite movies of all time and one of the biggest fiascoes in the history of film plus the worst film of Lynch's career! Dune is one of my favorite books of all time as Frank Herbert created a visionary masterpiece of a novel in 1965 as well as a book franchise to make a legacy. This movie took 15 years in the making as originally Alejandro Jorodowsky who is a very good art-house director from Chile is a fan of the novel and has a great concept to make a 5 hour film based on the novel with an ideal cast like Orson Welles to having Pink Floyd do the music score but it was dropped. In 1979 Dino De Laurentiis Studios obtained the rights to the book as he approached Ridley Scott to direct after the success of Alien as Scott was interested for he is a true fan of the novel but due to a death in the family he passed out on the project in 1980 when he was gonna do Blade Runner, but after the success of The Elephant Man they hired well known cinematic artist David Lynch who had major success with that film just didn't know about the book or never read it nor is he a Sci-fi kind of guy until he read the book for a month and wrote the script.What could have been a triumph turned into a major disaster! This movie cost $47 million and is one of the most expensive movies in film history. 2 years in the making of this movie and was released on December 14 of 1984 after major hype even from fans of the brilliant novel, this Science Fiction fantasy movie had potential but it turned out to be a major disaster as a film, at the box-office and critics. In theaters, the studios made them hand out pamphlets or cheat-sheets on the plot, terminology and characters of the film as it's one of the few movies in history to use cliff-notes and that was not a good sign. Audiences go to movies to escape from literacy and even from homework but it's a bad thing to give your audience an exam.Despite co-stars like Paul Smith (Popeye), Dean Harry Stockton, Patrick Stewart Freddie Jones, Linda Hunt, Chucky himself Brad Douriff and Max Von Sydow, you know what went wrong on this project? first off, Lynch never cared about the book for he just made a 2 hour bastardization of Herbert's vision with disgusting material that he added like heart- plugs, bloody fetuses, a cat/mouse sewn together like something out of The Human Centipede and his taste for the bizarre/macabre. Some of the casting was mixed as some were good like Paul Smith as Beast Rabin but some were bad like wooden first timer Kyle Maclachen and Sting, i mean come on? Sting for Feye? give me a break! some of the visual effects are laughable despite some few good ones like the worms or the Guild Navigator, the story is way too confusing even for hardcore fans of the novel such as myself and annoying overdoses of whispering voice overs which is terrible but not like Blade Runner which wasn't too bad to use v.o. in the theatrical cut of that masterpiece. I also hated how he turned the baron into a zit-faced joker of a fat-man than a serious overweight and intelligent politician for he was over-the-top and overacted, but Patrick Stewart was pretty good despite being in the wrong part when he could have been The Emperor.The film does have a few good points like that score by Toto/Brian Eno as it's one of the rare cases where the soundtrack is superior to the film itself, David Lynch disowned this movie since 1989 as he loathes the film as much as any true fan of the book does for it wasn't worth the print it was on film as Hollywood learned it's lesson to never hire David Lynch for big budget projects again to leave him do his own stuff which he did Blue Velvet in 1986 as he thankfully returned to independent films. Big budget Hollywood blockbusters just isn't his thing especially this poorly written, poorly acted, miscasted and poorly directed dreck.Yet the good thing about this movie version of Dune is that it makes you wanna read or reread the book, otherwise it's a $47 million mess. "},{"Title":"A failure, but a somewhat interesting one at that","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I didn't think Dune was completely awful, but it is rather disappointing. That said, it is a somewhat interesting failure, not in how bad or good it is but what it could have been. Starting with the good things, the production values are superb and actually elevate the film. The costume and set design are spot on, while the special effects are stunning. While Max Von Sydow and Patrick Stewart are quite weird in their roles, they are weird in a good way as they are very enjoyable here. And Francesca Annis is gorgeous.However, everything else doesn't work. First off, I didn't think David Lynch was the right director for this. Don't get me wrong, I do like Lynch and his films especially The Elephant Man and Mulholland Drive. But when I think of Lynch, I think of haunting and surrealistic, not taking a mammoth book and condensing it into a three hour movie. Granted, I do not go against directors who do something different once in a while, but this didn't feel like Lynch. Speaking of the length, I think 3 hours is not enough to do justice to this wonderful book, it should have been at least a 5 or 6 hour mini-series, and the pacing is often stodgy. The script is awful mostly, often cheesy and dull and the story feels bloated and skimmed over, taking elements that were so good in the book and either poorly exploring them or leaving them out entirely. At times it wasn't very easy to follow either. The music score is mostly mediocre, while I was both surprised and disappointed at how much overacting there was, Von Sydow and Stewart aside. Kyle McLachlan is a bland lead, while the rest of the cast try to make amends for the script and fail spectacularly.All in all, a big disappointment and a (interesting) failure. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Dune the Movie - Pants","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having read the whole Dune series - TWICE! I found the film lacking, lacking in plot, lacking in accuracy, lacking in - well anything.Admitedly the book is long and many of the smaller plots could not be addressed in the film due to cost and length. Fortunately the mini series has addressed these plots and, in my humble opinion, is closer to the book and the vision of Frank Herbert. I do, however, salute the films production team for a valiant attempt, but alas they failed miserably.The 1st mini series encompassed many of the nuances of the book and gave those that had read the books more to cheer about. The characters were played by competent, be it mostly unknown, actors.The CGI was, for the most part, very good (I will not comment on some of the desert scenes), the portrayal of the individual houses was well handled with a unique look for each.The 2nd series is a different matter. Hopefully they will produce a 3rd series that will go someway in complete the Dune Series. "},{"Title":"a complete waste of a good book and good actors","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie in the theaters, I was appalled. The book DUNE had been one of my favorite sci-fi novels and I had very high hopes for the movie. Instead, I was shocked to see how utterly incoherent the story was (those who went with me needed me to explain what was happening over and over). I was also angry at the revolting images in the movie that are pure David Lynch (such as the slaves with their eyelids sewn shut, the closeups of the sore on the Baron's face and much more). Perhaps the worst travesty is the complete waste of talented actors such as Max Von Sydow, Patrick Stewart, Jose Ferrer and Dean Stockwell. None of them had much to do but stand around as the special effects whizzed by! In light of all these things and the lavish budget, I give this movie a score of ONE. Perhaps I might have treated the movie a lot better if there weren't so many reasons why it SHOULD have been so much better. I think given the money and acting talent, even Ed Wood, Jr. could have come up with a better film! After all, DUNE was an amazing and intelligent book--this movie was just a self-indulgent mess and it totally ignored the terrific plot--focusing more on irrelevant details and disgusting images!! "},{"Title":"Most Awful Film Ever Made - This is NOT An Exaggeration!","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen a lot of movies in my time. There are movies that are boring like the Diary of Ann Frank where the characters do absolutely NOTHING and just sit there looking at a clock all day (literally). There are also movies that have horrible plots. But Dune takes the cake on this one. Never have I seen a more awful movie in all my life.I'm not going to talk about anything specifically, but just about the movie itself. Imagine watching a normal movie in a language you don't understand at ALL, and you'll understand more about what's going on than watching this movie in a language you can actually understand. This movie makes absolutely no sense at all. It's like watching a movie series that was 10 hours long like the Lord of the Rings and condensing it into a 5 minute movie. But you don't get to remake the film. No. All you can do is take existing footage from the 10 hour series and make it into a 5 minute movie. Now imagine this 5 minute movie, as bad as it is, gets messed up even further because whoever is editing it mixes up the proper order of the clips and you have random things stuck in where they shouldn't be. That describes this movie perfectly.Now the acting was terrible, the story bland, the characters impossible to connect to, the effects were about a century out of date, but even if all that wasn't true, it still would be a terrible movie because it makes ABSOLUTELY NO SENSE. It's like whoever was in charge of editing was drunk and no one cared and they just released the video anyway.Right now I couldn't even tell you one single character's name in the whole movie. It was like watching a messed up play where nobody cared and was just trying to get it over with. Reminds me of my school play, only my school play was about 10000x better than this trash. I'd rather watch Teletubbies than this movie. For those of you that don't know, Teletubbies is a show for 3 year old children. They're strange people in costumes with TV's on their stomach's and all they do is sit in the grass and make baby noises (there's no talking and no plot in the entire show). That show is a masterpiece compared to Dune. If you're thinking about paying money to see this trash, save yourself the insanity and watch some paint dry. For about 30 hours. It's better than spending the few hours watching this. "},{"Title":"Dune reflects the fututre of the mankind is all about power struggle for PSYCHIC POWERS.","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watched David LYNCH's DUNE last night, It is a science fiction film (Not very well explained) but I am fully convinced with the idea, and the way lot of information on consciousness is available everywhere. The next struggle between human Race will be for PSYCHIC POWERS like TELEPATHY, CLAIRVOYANCE, CLAIR-AUDIENCE, REGRESSION THROUGH THE TIME etc. And as the Scientist says the Universe is made of Dark particle and dark energy and It is always expanding, It is also possible that in time period which has been shown in the film (100th Century) there will be many planets on the Universe where there will be life. And The war and conflicts will be not between the countries anymore but between the planets. As Vedas explains the 'KALYUG has just began, It verifies the major dramatic changes in the Universe is yet to happen. I am just wondering the Future of earth is going to be ruled by Mayans, Egyptians, Indians and other civilizations who still believes and do the mystical practices to develop the consciousness and it's infinite powers. The countries who believes in WAR, WEAPONS, & ECONOMIC POLICIES will stand no where in the near future. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Stoopid!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK so there's all these people and they are trying the get some valuable resource that they use for traveling. And like the main place you get it is on this place called Iraqqis or something. And one of the guys names is Shaddam I think. So they go to this desert place and there's these people that live in caves in the desert and they are sorta TICKED OFF at all these people so they go to war with them. i think one person callers it a jihad. anyway its based on some book that was written like a million years ago (well 40). its so unrealistic. so thats just what i thought about it see it for yourself so u can make up your own opinion. "}]