[{"Title":"I Have to Disagree with Leonard Maltin....This is a Nice Little Gem","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll write more when I have more time. For now, after having read Mr. Maltin's brief critique of this film (dull script), I must say that I couldn't disagree more. This is a superb, quiet little gem. It's very realistic, and I bet it fared much better in Europe than here in the States. It's a portrait of two married people who happen to run into each other one day while Christmas shopping, and then again a few months later on the train. As they take the same route most days every week, they begin to strike up a friendship that eventually deepens. Watching both DeNiro's and Streep's expressions alone, in long moments of no dialog, are worth the price of the rental, or the time to watch it on cable. And, the film is a bit suspenseful because you think that there might be a chance that the ending might go the other way; but, I don't want to give too much away. However, it is a Hollywood picture. So, enough said.At any rate, I just love films that take place in New York but that aren't completely violent (with the exception of anything Scorsese directs) or show some of its worst parts. This is a pleasant, quiet, sweet, rather serious, and sometimes sad film that paints a very realistic portrait of marriage and infidelity. It's worth watching for these two acting Goliaths alone. "},{"Title":"Food for everyone ....................................................","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"46 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely brilliant acting on the part of the main protagonists, Streep and de Niro. I don't believe for one single moment you can find love by taking the train - I have been travelling daily for years on public transport and have never encountered anything remotely resembling what happens in the film - but films ARE made to make us dream and this film certainly does. Why, pray, if you want daily reality, then you watch a documentary.These two characters and the actors that portray them are ideally suited to the script and film. They're both pretty reserved, shy and respect the contract of marriage, but something inexorably brings them together. You watch, thinking this cannot last but somehow it does. One or other of the characters takes the right initiative at the right moment. Truly unbelievable when you look at stark reality but oh boy is it fun to watch on the screen.The same story played out by ordinary actors would be a total flop, but with Streep and De Niro, success is guaranteed right the way thru ! A must for all those who have never found true love but secretly harbour the hope of finding it one day ..................... "},{"Title":"There are things in life that are inevitable, and we are powerless to control them...","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love is more than an emotion... It's above all, the substance of our being, the gift of oneself...We all want to fall in love&#133; We all want to be caught up out of our ordinary life&#133; Maybe because it is the only true adventure, maybe because that experience makes us feel completely alive... It may only last a moment, an hour, an afternoon, but that doesn't diminish its value, because we are left with memories that we treasure for the rest of our lives...Here, Merryl Streep and DeNiro are the kind of people who are ready to take action on an opportunity&#133; Following a chance meeting in a bookshop, pre-Xmas, the two central characters find themselves inexplicably drawn to each other&#133; But both are married&#133; She has a husband, he has a wife and two lovely kids&#133; Both are meant to be together but they are inexperienced, uptight&#133; And neither really knows what to do with his fear, shyness, hesitation, and confusion&#133; On this thread of plot hangs a nice romantic film where two super stars combined their talent to conquer a dry script&#133;Director Ulu Grosbard makes sure there are plenty of subway stations, trains, hot dogs, coffee, driving rainstorm, two adjacent pay phones, walks through the streets, swelling music, and much more for the lovers to get romantic over&#133; His motion picture is strictly traditional, which makes his sensitive film something fresh and entertaining&#133; "},{"Title":"A true little gem for those of us who aren't afraid of a simple story well told","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favourite DeNiro movie and one of Meryl Streep's many great roles (but don't miss The Hours, The Bridges of Madison County and Out of Africa!). Meryl Streep can, better than most, carry a slow movie built almost entirely on moods and quiet thinking.Still, Falling in Love could never have been what it is without all the excellent supporting actors. The way it paints the image of two very different marriages slowly falling apart without the participants really understanding what is happening is compelling, and the movie, while not exactly complex or deep, doesn't ever take the easy way out. Instead it relies completely on the talents of all the actors, to tell a realistic story of what can and does happen in real life.The music is also excellent and at times it stands for a significant part of the movie's language.But don't bother if you're prejudiced against romantic drama. "},{"Title":"Very intense film","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"37 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mostly people reserve comments of  Intense to action movies butthis small film is very intense in emotion. Some scenes the actorsdo not even need to speak and you know exactly what is going onin their heads. This is a simple story by all means but like theother reviews say, the cast elevates it to something much biggerthan a normal movie. Hollywood probably wouldnt put up themoney for something like this nowadays because its about peopleand there is no murder or terrorist activity going on as a subplot. I love this movie and I wish they would put it out on DVD. Anotherone paramount seems to have forgotten about. "},{"Title":"a simple movie made special by two fantastic actors","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The script and plot to this movie is simple, but oh so recognizable. Robert DeNiro and Meryl Streep These two amazing actors  - whose appearance on screen together is absolutely magical - make of this movie a very sweet and subdued production. The plot is simple two people who don't intend to, get themselves in a situation, both not knowing what to do with they're shy, not at ease and in love. See it. It will get romance out of your little toe. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brief Encounter in Manhattan","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've read reviews and articles from its day dismissing this moving as a waster of two major talents. Now, with the benefit of hindsight, all of those comments appear short sighted if not just inaccurate. True, the film is an hommage to David Lean's Brief Encounter and I don't think anybody can deny that. The word hommage may be arguable but the concept isn't it. Streep is a feast to the eyes and ears. She was then and she is now. She constructs something memorable out something quite ordinary. De Niro falls into place but it's hard to divorce him from his well established film persona. Is this Travis? So clean? I fell into their Brief Encounter situation head on and enjoyed it thoroughly. In particular the first 45 minutes when their lives are starting to connect but before the actual connection. My favorite part? Meryl for the first time waiting for him in the train, looking out of the window to catch a glimpse. The juxtaposition of her thoughts it's dizzying, wonderful and worth the entire film. "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie for the first time, about 18 years ago. I must have been 14, 15 years old. I remember leaving the theater and telling this friend of mine, how in a way the movie was still 'with me'. The atmosphere, the feeling of it... We wanted to get back in and see the movie again right away! For years, the score used as DeNiro runs to find Streep in time (subway station-final scene), kept playing through my head every time I ran to catch the subway train myself. So after almost 20 years, putting in the DVD and watching these scenes while listening to the music was an experience, just as the movie is by itself pure magic. "},{"Title":"The one that always stick on my mind","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of all time. I first saw this movie on Laser Disc when I was in high school and had been watching it for many times since. I love this movie. Mostly because of Mr. De Niro and Mrs. Streep. The chemistry between them was exploding the moment their character met for the first time. I like how the story flows. I love how they didn't play the sex card in this movie. They are just really FALLING IN LOVE. (One of the reason why I love this movie so much). I love Frank's expression when he looks at Molly and vice versa. De Niro and Meryl Streep really prove that they really are indeed great actors. The score by Dave Grusin (Mountain Dance) completed this movie. I recommend this movie for the romantic at heart and like to enjoy great chemistry from actors. This movie will not disappoint you.  "},{"Title":"Love sees no reason","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The passion between the protagonists, De Niro and Streep is completely unbelievable. The nuances, the manner in which they fall in love is so completely real, they literally make one want to fall in love again! Streep's presence is natural, her attraction towards de Niro very gradual and in the end completely possessing. Both are brilliant. Dialogues could have had more depth, they lacked substance. Robert de Niro's honest confession to his wife, his helplessness with the feeling he feels towards Molly - it could happen to anyone! I had watched this film when I was only 16, and at double that age now, the emotion I feel is exactly the same! Watch it if you want to know what falling in love feels... "}{"Title":"It's the acting that made it great","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a very long time, I haven't seen a good movie about a love story without being against the background of modern complexities or any special times that help add spices to it, yet leaving an impact that cannot be ignored. It is a story that is moving if happening in the fifteenth century equally as in the twentieth, twenty first and forever. A woman and a man at any given time of history can relate to it and that's the beauty of it. This is a lovely example of how such remarkable acting can bring the simplest of stories so alive.  De Niro and Streep have outdone themselves in this movie conveying such deep feelings in such a simple context a story that probably happens everyday, but in this movie they make you feel it, making you aware of its complexity despite its lack of any extraordinary circumstances.  Even though De Niro as an actor always embodies such charisma and sex appeal, he able to carry himself as such a regular simple man-all that there is to him is that he is in love with a married woman other than his wife. As for Streep, she is similarly outstanding.  Together, they bring depth to a story, that otherwise could be perceived as simple and not worth telling.In my opinion this is the most important  element in movies seeing a story through the people going through it. "},{"Title":"Great great movie!","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie years ago and what I like most about it, is that is is about romance,,,plain and simple. No explicit sex, fowl language,,just old fashioned love. The characters are so vunerable to one another....rent it, but it..it's really great! "},{"Title":"For romantics only; love is alive.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not get tired of watching this movie. I really like the story and relationship development. A chance meeting in a book store and commuter train sparks a mutual romantic interest. Both people seem to be trapped in unhappy marriages and this chance meeting soon becomes planned meetings and a full blown romantic relationship.All the components of a love affair are here. The bittersweet finale is very dramatic and so goes romance. Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep are excellent as the smitten couple. The whole story is pretty ordinary, but these two actors make the characters transcend the screen. "},{"Title":"Nice to watch if you're really secure about your relationship","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this movie for the first time and all I have to say about it is I did like it, but I also feel that it does kinda send a bad message that it's okay to abandon a perfectly good normal marriage for someone you meet on a random encounter. What's odd is that I've been in a relationship before where the other person was involved with someone and they had children only I was single and I must say it was VERY painful all the time. There was absolutely no joy or romantic bliss in that relationship and I'm very glad now that I'm no longer in it. But to BOTH be married and doing something like this is just plain wrong. I love both the actors and they did very well in portraying their characters, but the movie itself was a little bit upsetting. That's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Sends a rather disquieting message","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can two happily married, reasonable upper middle class people be led by a chance encounter to abandon their goodhearted spouses and tear apart two children's home? The answer is yes in this romance featuring exquisitely subtle performances by Meryl Streep (at her creamiest) and a young Robert DeNiro. I suppose many would find a lot of romantic appeal in such a story, but this is not the ideal date movie for an established couple in an emotionally prosperous relationship.That said, watching the movie some decade and a half after its release does deliver some nice nostalgia vis-a-vis sumptuous New York winter bustle scenes and High-Eighties hair and clothing fashions. Fans of the Fox TV comedy Malcolm In the Middle will enjoy seeing a youthful Jane Kaczmarek is a substantial supporting role. "},{"Title":"ignore the sappy music, and just watch deniro and streep","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  it's not often that a movie on the WE channel will grab my attention, but perhaps it was robert deniro and meryl streep. and they're the best thing about this movie. it's nice to see deniro without a gun in his hand or a hit list. this film just goes to show how versatile he really is. he can do capone, he can do vito corleone, and he can do frank. he's not too confident (notice how long before he approaches molly on the train or how long it takes him to talk to his wife), but he can't ignore his feelings. meryl streep is wonderful as well. she gives us another real, honest, natural character. the chemistry between them is amazing. i think there's more going on when frank and molly just look at each other than in any Hollywood sex scene. this movie is ruined by the soap-operatic music and sappy ending, but i was very impressed by the performances.  "},{"Title":"True love - something to cherish","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An outstanding movie about true love. I am a true blue romantic and this movie really moved me emotionally. The lead pair has put in a terrific performance, living the roles and making you forget its a film that you are watching. I especially liked Meryl Streep when she confronts Robert De Niro regarding their meetings, at his office; and when he calls her before departing to Houston and she wrestles with herself on meeting him. As for Robert De Niro, I have not watched too many of his movies but he is dishy, to say the least. I guess he has added another life time fan in me. I liked him a lot in the two situations when he runs to catch up with Meryl Streep - when he declares his love for her and finally when he runs to catch up with her once again and when he confesses to his wife about Meryl Streep.A simple story gets transformed into something beautiful by the cast. It describes a situation which may not be common but not rare either. There is a timeless grace to it. Definitely worth watching and adding to your all-time movie greats collection  "},{"Title":"Love the ending","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a hopeless romantic. Maybe that is why I fall in love with the movie characters so easily. It does not necessarily have to be between a man and a woman. It can be between any 2 persons. Father and daughter, brother & sister or what have you.I saw the movie almost 20 years ago on a trans Atlantic flight. May be I am confusing this with another movie but if my memory serves me right, in the end Robert DeNero & Meryl Streep just missed each other at the store & it really broke my heart. I have been trying to lay my hands on it for watching it again for all these years.Just laid my hand on the DVD a couple of days back. The final minute of the movie made my day.In my opinion and what I have always believed is that true love does not necessarily involve sex. It is simply wanting to be close to someone and not seeing but simply accepting the other person as a human as they are.Believe me I will be watching this one at least a few times every year.I would place this as one of my all time favorite love story right along side of Notting Hill & Pretty Woman. "},{"Title":"true love","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read about comments from other viewers and some do not believe that such love affection can exist.In my view, it can exist but the question is how often would it actually exist, that is with a man and woman running into each other in real life who happen to love each other dearly in its true sense.This is a sad story and the saddest thing to happen in life; two potential lovers meeting at the wrong time. In some ways, the movie reflects ironically on the foolishness of human beings for creating for themselves intangible bondage only to be released at a high cost one way or another.I enjoy every inch of this long film.  "},{"Title":"THE BEST movie about love!","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the first time I saw this movie when I was about 9 y\o and I'm keep watching it over and over again. Yes, maybe the story itself is nothing special, but it's 100% real!! It's not a Spider-Man, neither a Stepford wives or Terminal or any other artificial blockbuster that mainly are made these days! Of course, this movie wouldn't be as great as is without DeNiro and Maryl Streep! Mainly it is her part! She is not only natural and brilliant, but you even don't think that she's acting! She's lived this whole life through! That is acting!! We are forgetting what is the meaning of the word acting, unfortunately! The way she's hesitating whether she should stop the affair with a married man (DeNiro) or just let it all be. The way she struggles herself and this new feeling that doesn't allow her to lead her normal life anymore! You really believe Maryl Streep the way she's going through all this. You won't doubt a minute that she's feeling all this! It's just brilliant! The main music theme by Dave Grusin is just amazing! If you still haven't seen this movie, you really must do it! Go to the nearest Rental and take it!!! You gotta see it!!! It a real movie!!!!!! Just BRILLIANT!!!!  "}{"Title":"wow","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Getting ready for work this morning, I only got to see part of this movie. What little I got to see was enchanting.  The romance between DeNiro and Streep seemed absolutely real.  It's one of those movies that makes you forget these are two big stars.  They became the two normal people they were playing.  The romance between them, the looks, the dialogue, were electric and as solid as if you could reach out and touch something with body to it. As many of the reviewers state, if you've ever been in love, you can identify with this romance--especially if you've been married.  The feelings this man and woman bare to their friends are exactly the way it is, and things you don't even bare to the lover.  I know you disapprove.  I don't approve either.  It just is.  (Forgive me if I misquoted badly.) I have got to see this movie again! "},{"Title":"Understated romance","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Underestimated by critics, this valuable melo, supported by its two strong leading players, depicts a disquieting romance, but, instead of showing rude sex or exaggerated passion, all goes hiden, quiet, buried. This understatement enriches the film, making a real romantic and enjoyable movie. I like the slow rhythm, the dreamy light, the long takes. I think it's no point in match this movie with the 1946 David Lean's classic. They are different movies, different times. "},{"Title":"Falling In Love Overlooked in De Niro/Streep Credits","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is only one thing more pleasurable than seeing a movie starring Meryl Streep or Robert De Niro, and that is to witness the magic which occurs when these two super stars perform together. The chemistry between them is overwhelming in Falling In Love--even more so than is their on-screen attraction in The Deer Hunter. Unfortunately, during their individual interviews, credits and awards Falling In Love is rarely, if ever, mentioned.Ms. Streep portrays Molly Gillmore, a doctor's wife and commercial artist; and De Niro, Frank Raftis, a construction foreman, husband and father of two young boys in Falling In Love. Fate brings the two together on a Metro North commuter train from Westchester County into Manhattan, in New York. Molly and Frank are good, moral suburbanites who just happen to be Falling In Love, all the time struggling to remain loyal to their respective families. Only De Niro and Streep possess the refined artistic abilities to slide into the roles of normal, emotional, realistic characters--and to strengthen this already fabulous screenplay.Falling In Love and its dynamic on-screen duo deserve their fair share of attention and fame. For like Molly and Frank (and Linda and Michael before them, in The Deer Hunter) Meryl Streep and Robert DeNiro are simply meant to be. Let's hope they'll engage in (at least) one more romance of destiny. "},{"Title":"The best love story ever, a must for all romantics!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that everyone who has ever been in love and hopes to find this kind of romance and love should see. Meryl and Robert were the right pair for this role as two much in love people who meet by chance.  My favorite movie of all time! You will want to watch this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"The best love story ever made.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a movie for romantics and everyone who has ever been in love or dreamed of how it would be.  I can and do watch this movie over and over again.  I believe this can happen in real life, and Robert and Meryl were the perfect pair to play the lovers in this fantastic movie.  A must for everyone to enjoy! "},{"Title":"If u think u'd never accept a relationship between married couple, think again!","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you believe this is wrong, I totally agree with you but DeNiro and Streep will force you in this movie to re-think the whole thing only if the story is like theirs.The movie starts with DeNiro not believing that one of his friends is capable of cheating on his wife and divorcing her to marry someone else! Only to find himself in his friend's shoes later! It's a very simple and honest story about the fact that no matter what you do and how hard you try, you don't control feelings they actually do control you! There are two scenes that will truly make you think and think. The scene when DeNiro tells his wife that he loves someone else and she slaps him on the face. He does nothing for what he can do! Seriously, what can be done?! If your partner comes to tell you that he/she is not in love with you anymore and that he/she is in love with someone else! What can you do? Can you force him/her to love you back?! And the second scene is when Streep drives her car hysterically to catch up with DeNiro (oh my God... just oh my God!) You HAVE TO see it. "},{"Title":"Old fashion romance!","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are into complete 100% realism, then you would have a bone to pick with this film. I mean true love... if you believe in love at first sight; you could probably believe that two strangers chance meeting could be the beginning of something beautiful. Or if hardened by cynicism, you'd probably say, nay it'd never happen it's just boredom in life's routine.Meryl Streep, to me mainly, has done her part on this film. She is not only natural and luminous, but you even don't think that she's acting! She's lived this whole life through! The way she's hesitating whether she should stop the affair with a married man (De Niro) or just let it all be. The way she struggles herself and this new feeling that doesn't allow her to lead her normal life anymore is believable as well. You won't doubt a minute that she's feeling all this. As for De Niro even though he's an actor he always embodies such charisma and sex appeal, he's able to carry himself as such a regular simple man-all that there is to him is that he is in love with a married woman other than his wife.Bottom line If you appreciate great acting, and are a romantic at heart, you will not be disappointed with this film. Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A wonderful film where Streep and DeNiro meet by accident and when they take each other's gifts in error, the love process starts.Though both are married to lovely people, there has something gone out of each marriage. Each person seems to be living parallel lives with regard to the other.For Streep, the relationship comes at a time of her father's illness and subsequent passing. DeNiro, in construction, has the opportunity to go to Houston.The story is told in plain, simple matter. There are no overt sexual scenes or violence.I questioned the role of Dianne Wiest here. Her character is under-rated and she was virtually mumbling along the way. "},{"Title":"Two very likable and very married people meet accidentally and fatefully several times and are drawn together almost magically.","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie the first time I saw it. This story proves that fate is the hunter and some things are not written into the script of life until the last minute. Meryl and Robert are perfect in their roles as are Jane, David, Harvey and Diane. The scenes on the streets of New York were pleasant and true. I enjoyed the understated element of suspense also. I always marvel at Meryl's facial expressions, they speak for her. It's a pleasure to see Robert play an ordinary blue-collar worker, he did it well. The music of Mountain Dance fit the movie perfectly. Well written, excellently acted, always a favorite. I have recommended this movie to many friends. "},{"Title":"I'm not Falling in love","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The storyline is very simple and De Niro and Meryll plays the lead roles. They both lit the screen with so much charm that it would pass for a good movie. The on-screen chemistry between them were so natural. Apart from the lead acting/actors the music of Gruzin was fine.Reviewing the cons, firstly the movie is inspired from Brief Encounter. There is not one comedy or a memorable phrase in the movie and i'm so surprised the massive on-screen talent of De Niro & Streep were wasted. The screenplay was bad,IMO, and for the first time i'm getting bored to see Meryll (in this movie) blushing like a college girl every time she sees De Niro. The cinematography was just okay. "}{"Title":"Fine but foreseeable movie about forbidden love","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie very much, and it was especially nice to watch it in Christmas time, as it showed New York in lavish Christmas decorations. Complete with the famous skating rink and all! -) I also liked that although the ending was very foreseeable, this is Hollywood after all, this was not evident until - well, the ending! This movie is rather like Brief Encounter from the 1940s. The same story about two people, already married, meeting by chance at a train/train station, and falling in love against their will. Also in both movies, the couple get a chance to have sex, but they never do it. By the way, I find the fact that they do NOT have sex much more romantic than if they had. It shows that we have to do with basically decent people caught up in an unhappy situation - and because of this it is easier to sympathize with them.Brief encounter ended unhappily though. Although the men in both movies got a job far away and moved, to put an end to the hopeless relation-that-must-not-be, in the old movie he never came back and - we must presume - the lovers never met again. I suppose everything else would have been impossible in the 1940s, but in the 1980s divorce was not such a bad thing anymore, and the movie-makers could allow the illicit couple to get together in the end.I suppose this kind of story is many bored, married women's fantasy... You are bored with your husband, but there are no real problems that would make it legitimate to leave him. Also - where would you go, what would you do..? Maybe you would just turn up lonely, unhappy and poor.Although you are in mature age, you have still not quite forgotten that dream about the prince on the white horse, who are coming to save you... maybe this is still not too late, although you are 35, 40, 45, 50..? But you do not want to go out and look for a new man deliberately, because that would be too cheap and trashy. And you would not want a man who was willing to do that to HIS spouse either - because a man like that would not be worth the degree of love and passion you dream of. Therefore you want it to happen as in these movies (and many more like them) by chance, against your conscious will - so that you can continue to look upon yourself - and him - as the decent people in the movies... "},{"Title":"A love Story","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It has two of the best actors of the last times in their early careers. The script of the drama is fairly simple and since the beginning of the film its end can be predicted without error. Due to the many coincidences that occur throughout the film. I liked the atmosphere of Christmas in NYC, the hectic city life and the usual executive living in the suburbs, keeping a daily routine of travel and adherence to a schedule. For this reason there are many chances to have an opportunity like the one this couple had to develop a love affair Ms. Streep, as always, an excellent actress playing the role of the perfect beautiful medium class wife. For Mr. De Niro, unlike other roles, I do not think he had to work too hard in his role. Entertaining film. "},{"Title":"A Well-Acted Movie","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Falling in Love can be described as an urban American Brief Encounter. Reteamed for the first time since The Deer Hunter, Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep star as a married couple. Thing of it is, they're not married to each other. Harvey Keitel,Jane Kaczmarek,George Martin,David Clennon and Dianne Wiest co-star to play key supporting roles.The movie is directed by Ulu Grosbard.Two married strangers meet randomly, become friends, and fall in love. They spend time together, riding the train into the city of New York, and begin meeting for coffee or lunch. They enjoy their time together and this enjoyment eventually blossoms into love. While Christmas shopping for their respective families, architect Frank Raftis and graphic artist Molly Gilmore meet cute, their holiday packages becoming mixed up. What starts as a pleasant chance acquaintance blossoms into romance. Inevitably, however, both parties realize that what they're doing is wrong--a shade too late to save their marriages, as it turns out. The film ends with a bittersweet one year later coda.This is a delicately crafted and richly acted drama about a form of romantic love characterized by infatuation.Added to that,in a very different role, Robert De Niro is excellent as the leading man and Meryl Streep, as usual, gives a stellar performance.Aside from them, the fine supporting cast bring the story to life with flair and sensitivity.Overall,it is one well-acted movie. "},{"Title":"Watch It!","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Falling In Love', directed by Ulu Grosbard, is a romantic-drama, that is mature & at times, heartfelt. I also enjoyed the Performances by it's star-cast! 'Falling In Love' tells the story of how Two married strangers meet randomly, become friends, and eventually fall in love.Michael Cristofer's Screenplay is mature & uncomplicated. Sure, this love-story isn't without the obstacles, but I thought the film runs with a simple tone. Though the Screenplay dips in the middle, it's culmination comes across as subdued & polite. Ulu Grosbard's Direction is quite good. Cinematography & Editing are passable.Performance-Wise I truly believe that 'Falling In Love' is a superior product, also for it's strong performances it has in store. De Niro is superb, once again. He's so restrained & controlled in each and every sequence. It takes my breath away just by thinking, that this is the very same actor who pulled off terrorizing roles in 'Cape Fear' & 'The Godfather Part 2'. What a range and what a worthy performer! Meryl Steep on the other-hand, explores acting like no one manages too. To say, that, Streep is the finest actress of the modern-era, is such an under-statement.On the whole, 'Falling In Love' is definitely worth a watch. It offers a punch! "},{"Title":"not your typical love story,","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" and i mean that in a good way.for one thing,the story isn't contrived like so many others of the genre.also it's not overly sentimental or sappy.you really believe these two people could fall in love.also the way they fell in love was realistic.Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep really do come across as genuine,playing two lonely people who meet through fate.but there's only one small hitchthey're both married.the movie is not fast paced,so if that's what you're expecting,you'll be disappointed.instead,it's an honest,unconventional love story that takes some time for the relationship to develop between the two central characters.Dianne Wiest has a small role,and is almost unrecognizable.it's nice to see Harvey Kietel in an everyman kind of role,as well as Jane Kaczmarek(Malcolm in the Middle).but it's really Streep and DE Niro who make the movie what it is.if their portrayals were not authentic or honest,the film would not work.for me,Falling in Love is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great love story","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've just seen FALLING IN LOVE for the first time and loved it. Meryl and Robert made a great team. So many memorable scenes - Molly in bed ,flicking through the pages of a magazine while pouring her heart very quietly to her friend, declaring her love for Frank and how she thinks about him all the time. I also love the scene where Molly speeds to Frank's house in the pouring rain and nearly has an accident at the train crossing. I thought Frank's explanation to his friend at the end was rushed. Are the boys now staying with him permanently? So poignant when Molly and Frank meet again in the bookshop and neither can bring themselves to admit they are free. "},{"Title":"Falling in Love","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a really sentimental film about how a first brief meeting, and then another few can start a bigger relationship. Starring Robert De Niro as Frank Raftis, he bumps into Meryl Streep as Molly Gilmore in a book store, and they get their wrapped books mixed up. A few months they meet each other again at the train station, and they become friends. They see each other a few more times after that, and then eventually they realise it is love, but they are both married! It is amazing how only a few meetings turns into obsession, it is obviously when bad things happen to them both, and their marriages, that you wonder if they should be together. Also starring Harvey Keitel as Ed Lasky and Edward Scissorhands' Dianne Wiest as Isabelle. Good! "},{"Title":"Streep, DeNiro and Little Moments Transcend Formula Romance","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a certain fondness for this movie, and twenty years later, it still gets to me. I first saw this movie in a theater during a bleak Chicago winter, and the coziness of this romantic fable warmed me at the right time. Meryl Streep and Robert DeNiro - probably at the height of their respective careers in 1984 as respected, Method-style actors and bankable stars - have certainly had more challenging roles to play than the two married suburbanites here, Molly and Frank, who develop a strong attachment to one another by way of train rides back and forth from Connecticut to Manhattan. In fact, this movie does not even have the emotional gravity of Noel Coward's Brief Encounter, which screenwriter Michael Cristopher is apparently mimicking with a mid-eighties sensibility. There are even excellent actors in supporting roles - Harvey Keitel as Frank's best friend going through his own transition, Dianne Wiest as Molly's sex-obsessed best friend, Jane Kaczmarek as Frank's content but guarded wife, David Clennon as Molly's emotionally unavailable husband - but none are given much to do, other than to be left to their own unstated thoughts and observe what's going on with the main characters.Yet the film has a certain pervasive charm and a subtle sense of intimacy that makes it seem more substantial than it has any right to be. There is a certain improvisational element to the two lead performances that contributes to this feeling and makes the characters easy to like despite upscale lifestyles that appear more appropriate in a Pottery Barn catalog. You do believe these two characters are hesitantly falling in love, and the scene where they try to make love for the first time has an aching honesty that deepens the story at the right moment. Leave it to Streep and DeNiro to make it all look so authentic in spite of some silly Hollywood story conventions, such as the boy meets girl meeting over a passel of Christmas packages at Rizzoli's or the one-year-later denouement that ends naturally on a crowded commuter train...as if there was real suspense in how the story would end. Even putting The End on the screen induces an aura of Hollywood artifice.Regardless, the little moments are what provide the most pleasure here....the way Molly explains how she has made mu-shu pork with Aunt Jemima's pancake mix; how Frank practices his line for the accidental run-in with Molly; the montage of silly, Dallas/Dynasty-era outfits that Molly tries on to look good for Frank. These moments provide a nice counterbalance to the more predictable scenes of regret and guilt that are inevitable with this story. Ulu Grosbard directs the actors with a sure hand, though the pacing drags at times, especially toward the end when he suddenly tries to build some suspense with a speeding car in a downpour. Dave Grusin provides a nice, FM-lite score highlighted by Mountain Dance, the syncopated theme that plays throughout the movie. This film is definitely recommended for those seeking Hollywood-style romance with two acting heavyweights who inject some nice realism into a slight story. "},{"Title":"Realistic atmosphere","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, one of the best romantic filmed. Love is the most important thing in the world. Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep work in this special drama with a lot of sensitivity. At the end, one can realize something If you love someone, don't give up. Fight and wait for a miracle. Nobody knows what will be his future. "},{"Title":"Great Ending","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked it. De Niro and Streep do a knock out job on it too. For me the best part was the ending....I cried all the way through it. "}{"Title":"Flawed but has sentimental value","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a perfect example of how two great actors can triumph over almost anything.  Despite an ineloquent script,  somnabulate direction, and a dated film score this movie works entirely due to powerhouse acting from Streep and DeNiro (Though Weist, Clennon and Keitel are fabulous actors they have almost nothing to do here).Also, if, like me, you are a sucker for scenes of New York  you may be slightly heartened by shots of  Grand Central Station, Rizzoli's on Fifth Ave., and  even salivate over New York hot dogs.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, this can happen in real life movie.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie.  The story is believable and the performances of De Niro and Streep are fantastic.  It's bittersweet, so make sure you have a box of tissues nearby. "},{"Title":"Simple yet Powerful","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was a real treat to watch Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep together in a light-hearted romantic flick.Everything about this me was perfect to me,from the pacing,the splendid score,the direction and of course the terrific acting.The concept dealt in this movie is very meaningful and many of us can totally relate ourselves with the characters in this movie.There is a hidden message which has been wonderfully conveyed too and that is - Love after marriage can be tempting for some at times but one should not use that as an opportunity to run away from a person who has been loyal and caring to them all throughout their marriage.Marriage is a commitment that you cant just walk away from for no rhyme or reason.You don't get to see movies like this made these days and to me this is an under-appreciated gem which has been misunderstood and unfairly judged by many.If you are in the mood for a romantic flick,give it a shot....I can assure you that you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Something wonderful","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep are romantic and vibrant. I love this movie. I think this is one of the best gifts for Valentine's Day. "},{"Title":"Stay single, have fun!","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie proves it. Stay single, stay honest and have fun! Why jumping into marriage, then get tired, then cheat, then lie, then make excuse, and make everybody's life miserable and complicated? Look at Frank, look at Ed, look at Molly.Just imagine, if you are forced to eat ham and cheese everyday 3 times a day rest of your life, what would you do? You will go eat from the bin! Just imagine, if you are forced to wear the same sweater everyday rest of your life, you will go out of your mind until you are choked and rip it off to shreds! Marriage is a very wrong concept where two partners are tied up and stuck in a situation like this. Resuls in cheating and divorce. That's the reason, most married people crave to cheat their spouse. Affair adds spice to their boring life. But then again, why saying those words in the first place, for better or worse, richer and poorer, until death do us apart, when everybody already knows marriage is obviously NOT going to last for ever. Then why going through this hypocrisy? Can you guaranty that some day you will not meet somebody else who you will find more compatible. Human beings fall for temptations, it's their nature.Maryl Streep manages to irritate me in almost all her movies. Can she say a complete sentence properly? It was like she was forgetting her lines from the script or didn't read her lines or something! And what's with the over-sized dresses and jackets, like 5 size larger than her actual size? Frank's wife is lovely, but Molly's husband looks like a homeless bum. Molly deserved better. On the other hand, what did Frank lack in his married life? Somebody please tell me that. So he cheated just for fun? for a change? This movie makes us ponder about hypocrisy, honesty, faith and temptations. "},{"Title":"One Hundred and Six Minute Hallmark Card. With Bunnies.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A married man and married woman meet on the commuter train into New York and begin an affair. If this cast played baseball, it would be an All Star Team. Juliet Taylor and Pat McCorkle get the prize for assembling this cast, who prove that regardless of a movie's degree of wretchedness, the audience can be engaged by strong performance. Let's talk about the cast, and give a shout out when we get to someone you like, okay? De Niro, Streep, Keitel, Jane Kaczmarek, George Martin, David Clennon and Diane Wiest are all known for being excellent. This lineup is consistently great from top to bottom. With pinch- hitting Frances Conroy and 5 year old Jesse Bradford on the Bench. I'm telling you...All Star Team. Now let's take a moment to address the wretchedness. The script is written by actor, writer, director Michael Christofer, whose career arcs from the Pulitzer Prize for 'The Shadow Box' to the simply awful 'Body Shots.' The script for Falling in Love is the biggest problem. The story is remarkably dull, the ultra naturalistic dialogue is forced to play within an overly-precious dual narrative, and it all rests on the notion that, despite their destructive affair, our lead characters must remain sympathetic. Nothing says Christmastime like adultery. What will young Jesse Bradford do once daddy leaves home for Mrs. Soffel?Director Ulu Grosbard doesn't help matters at all. The tone of this thing is all over the place. The pace is stagnant and mired squarely in the failures of the script. Confusing to watch also is Grosbard's love affair schmaltz in constant competition with the actors truthful humanity. This does not make for dynamics at all, quite the opposite. Oil and water, my friends. Murky, murky oil and water. Within the first ten minutes of the movie,  when meeting at a restaurant, Harvey Keitel asks De Niro, Can you please tell me what the hell we're doing here? Good question. I hope you're getting paid.The movie is shot beautifully by Peter Suschitzky, known for his work with David Cronenberg. The locations are pretty. There's a cool car drive in the rain involving life and death gravity, but the movie never earns the stakes to which it portends. Most disappointing, David Clennon and Meryl Streep do some of their all time best work when they're together in two scenes that total 40 seconds of screen time. One wonders what could have been if the story had spent more time with them, and less time commuting on the train. This All Star Game got rained out in the middle of the first. "},{"Title":"I'm hooked on De Niro & Streep, but still . . .","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie cause it starred De Niro and Streep - and that is actor heaven as far as just about anyone is concerned.  But still, I was very uncomfortable during portions of the movie - in particular, the last 10 minutes,  in which we, the audience,  were not so subtly being manipulated. Will they get together?  Will they not?  Yes?  No?  Yes?  No?  I felt like I was watching a soap opera.  Whenever a director distrusts an audience so greatly that he feels he has to overtly manipulate them into feeling what he wants them to feel,  the movie is cheapened - often beyond redemption. Still, it was so much fun to watch De Niro and Streep -   "},{"Title":"The sin here is boredom, not adultery","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This pathetic cinematic attempt stole a few ideas from the 1945 black and white classic Brief Encounter, but believe me, this is no Brief Encounter. The only similarities are the trains and the unconsummated affair between two people married to others. The story revolves around two married, fairly affluent suburbanites, Frank and Molly, who meet in a New York bookshop while Christmas shopping, and later encounter each other on a commuter train, first by accident, then (as their mutual attraction grows) by design. Frank has two small boys, and Molly has lost a baby girl a year or two earlier. They then proceed very ploddingly and boringly to fall in love.The movie does get off to a promising start, with the festive, bustling New York Christmas atmosphere. I had great expectations, considering these two stars. Neither Robert DeNiro nor Meryl Streep should have stooped to the level of this dull drivel, though they probably did the best they could with what they have here...a plodding plot, unsympathetic characters, and the poorest dialogue in cinematic history.The screenplay has not a single original phrase and could have been written by a middle school student. There is a fair bit of mindless profanity of the 'O, my G--' type, always easy to write. I note that at least one famous critic lamented the poor script, so I am not alone. Poor Molly literally can't get through an entire sentence without stumbling and stammering. I had enough of this verbal bumbling about after 15 minutes, and after two hours was practically frothing at the mouth. If the point is that forbidden attraction is making Molly tongue tied like a schoolgirl, that might work for the first couple of encounters but not indefinitely.The pair seem juvenile and absurd when trying to physically groom to attract the other. When Frank asks his friend whether he's good looking, I could hardly keep from laughing. Molly fares little better while trying on a number of outfits to determine which will prove most attractive for her new man. Also, they both come off as immature teenagers chit chatting to their best friends about their new love interests. This fails miserably as an endearing indication that they feel young and fresh, falling in love like a couple of school kids. My sympathies lie with the harmless and hapless spouses. These marriages may not be that exciting but don't seem troubled, making sympathy unlikely for these would be adulterers. Molly's husband, Brian, is a quiet physician, occasionally off in his own world dealing with the distressing patient losses he must face in his career. However, he's very kind and supportive of his wife when she has her hysterical tizzy fit at her father's grave side, caused by anguish over the affair rather than grief for her dad. Who can blame him when he lies on the phone to Frank in the hopes of discouraging the lover? Frank's wife, Ann, is a pretty and apparently loving brunette, a wholesome gardening type and devoted mother. I felt like slapping Frank virtually throughout the movie. Happily, Ann DOES slap him across the face when she realizes his love for another! No, Frank & Molly do not have sex but the affair is just too dreary for it to make any difference. The pair do make it to the bed, but Molly puts the brakes on. Now if FRANK had put the brakes on, that might have been a bit more original.These two characters are neither interesting nor sympathetic. Affairs are only of interest when guilt is present, some sense of inner conflict to add interest to the character. Sadly, there is little guilt here other than a smidgen in Molly. Frank indicates no regard at all for either his wife or his two charming young sons. Worst of all, we have the uninspiring message that it's just dandy to break up two homes (one with children) as a result of being attracted to someone else. The pair get together in the end, the spouses conveniently gotten out of the picture in predictable, uninteresting ways. Ann goes home to her mother, and Molly apparently leaves Brian (or vice versa). Really, difficult as it is to believe with these two talented actors, this movie has little to recommend it. It's not a case of adultery but sheer unadulterated boredom.Instead of this disgusting drivel, treat yourself to Brief Encounter, the genuine article and a true classic. "},{"Title":"A puff pastry...","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Brief Encounter redux has Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep, both involved in satisfying marriages, crossing paths several times before meeting each other and developing their attraction. This platonic affair isn't shown to be therapeutic for the two--in fact, it's just the opposite (Streep never looks like she's having fun). The movie examines the guilt-factor in the idea of an extra-marital fling, and director Ulu Grosbard is very adept at scaling back the temperaments of his stars (their rapport is fairly smooth). Still, a sexless affair doesn't lend itself to involving, enveloping drama, and that precise lack of passion makes itself felt. Falling in Love is as generic as the title. Any two competent actors could have played Frank and Molly, and the coy miscues, as well as the wholly unnecessary epilogue, handicap it in the end. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Lovers who seem to be star crossed but end up happy together.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a remake of an old Noel Coward movie Brief Encounter. I enjoyed watching it, but it didn't work for most people because Meryl Streep was too beautiful and Robert DeNiro too attractive. In the original, the characters were very plain people. For this reason, the movie seemed real, something that could happen to ordinary people "}{"Title":"10 times nothing...","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but thanks to Robert DeNiro and Meryl Streep the movie is watchable. The story is nothing more then a cheap romance story housewifes read those things all the time. But even with those two screen-stars i had to put my television on another channel after about half an hour.  "},{"Title":"Gimme a break.","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Obviously the director picked up on Streep & DeNiro's outstanding chemistry in The Deer Hunter and wanted to capitalize on it... but this movie was the wrong vehicle. So much talent wasted, including all the supporting players. There is not a single truly compelling moment. It's all kind of halfhearted and washed-out. How do you make adultery boring, and on top of that make the top two stars of their time unlikable? No wonder I never even heard of this movie before it hit cable.(Now I know why all the other comments are so long! It's because they have to be ten lines. Wow, this reminds me of padding essays in school. Well, phooey.) "},{"Title":"2 hit stars, a forbidden romance...so what went wrong?","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two very boring people enter into an even more boring affair leaving us pretty much bored.  How can you not succeed with maybe the best male and female actors of our time, a forbidden romance and a great locale?  Well, they manage to do it here.  Big problem number one neither is involved in a bad marriage.  Maybe it's ordinary, but it's not bad.  Therefore their spouses are giving them no reason to stray, which makes Streep and De Niro look hurtful.  Big problem number 2 this is one of the most uneventful and worthless romances ever entered into on film.  They both exceedingly behave like a couple of grade schoolers having their first crush.  Absolutely nothing to talk about, dull lunches and phone calls, no spark!  You can see them finding each other interesting, but it's not enough to warrant the making of a movie.  I only stay tuned hoping for some fireworks when their spouses would ultimately find out (they'd have to otherwise the film would not have enough material).  And the filmmakers even blow that!  Streep's husband is told offscreen leaving us confused about a line of dialogue of his late in the film.  De Niro's wife has maybe the one electric seen in the film when he finally fesses up to her.  Other than that, this is pretty empty.  Plus we get not one, but two dramatic chases in the film, which is where it could've nearly saved itself a little.  I actually sat up in suspense wondering if one of the characters was about to be killed.  Wow, a tragic ending!  I didn't expect it!  But, nope, you're standard reuniting and hug.  Even Dave Grusin, one of my favorite composers, delivers a totally out of place tv commercial-type score.  Way too upbeat.  I'm so surprised at all the good reaction here on IMBD.  I could understand it if it was cuz Streep or De Niro was your favorite actor, but not for the film itself.  Not even they could pull it out of the gutter. "},{"Title":"Where's Thelma Ritter When You Need Her?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can't believe all the positive comments about this movie. It is a dreary exercise in having nothing to say. It's like a romantic comedy without any romance or any comedy. De Niro and Streep make it watchable, but how much better would it have been if they had actual characters to portray? As it stands, they play two boring people who meet and leave their loving spouses presumably because they are bored and/or boring and end up with each other so that they make one boring couple by the end of this boring movie. If only some great character actor could have been added to the mix -- Thelma Ritter, Rosie O'Donnell, Peggy Cass, anybody --  Just give us someone to alleviate the tedium. "}]