[{"Title":"Ugly Bunch Of Creatures Causing Chaos","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"69 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins was a fantastic comedy film from 1984-the best year ever in my opinion for great movies.Basically, a guy called Billy Peltzer picks up a new pet called Gizmo and after breaking a few rules he shouldn't have, ends up spawning a bunch of ugly creatures called Gremlins who proceed to terrorize the town.The film is a success because it succeeds at producing both a comedy and a horror in one go which can't be easy. Most comedy horror films are a joke (such as some of the Ghoulies films which emulated the Gremlins series) but Gremlins is both funny and scary. It's funny seeing the Gremlins cause mischief but it's also scary throughout-they're not exactly pretty creatures and are quite scary as well.Gremlins deserves a look from anyone interested in seeing a good comedy horror movie. "},{"Title":"20th Anniversary Review","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"58 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exactly 20 years ago today Gremlins opened in theaters across the U.S. It went on to be one of the biggest smash hits not only of the summer of 1984, but of the entire year. And in my opinion, it deserved to be a hit. I remember seeing this movie at a movie theater with some friends of mine right after it opened 20 years ago, and I said afterwards, this is going to be a huge hit. And it was. Gremlins is a story that plays like a darker version of Steven Spielberg's E.T. Which is funny, because it was Spielberg himself who had the vision of Gremlins becoming a movie. Spielberg, along with his then collaborators Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy (the trio founded the production company Amblin Entertainment), served as executive producers of the film. Spielberg got a then up-and-coming screenwriter named Chris Columbus to write the script (Columbus would go on to become the director of the first two Harry Potter movies as well as the first two Home Alone pictures), and Roger Corman protege Joe Dante to direct the picture (Dante directed 1978's Piranha, a witty spoof of Spielberg's first smash hit Jaws, and a segment of Spielberg's Twilight Zone The Movie a year earlier). What they created was a movie that was great fun from start to finish.  Gremlins is about a young man who receives a very unusual Christmas gift from his inventor father. He gets a little friendly creature called a Mogwai, which is as cute as a button. But there's a twist. There are three rules that must be followed in caring for the Mogwai Rule #1 - Keep them away from light; Rule #2 - Don't get them wet; and Rule #3 - Don't feed them after midnight. When the rules get broken, all hell breaks loose as mean-spirited little monsters turn everything upside down. Gremlins then turns into a super-duper special effects picture, with the creatures created exceptionally by Chris Walas (Oscar winner for the makeup job on the 1986 remake of The Fly). These monsters are scary to be sure, but also very funny with some of the antics they provide. Even though the special effect monsters steal the show, the acting by the human actors is very good too. Zach Galligan makes the most of his film debut as Billy Peltzer, the young hero who tries to stop the gremlins; Phoebe Cates is effective as his girlfriend; the late Hoyt Axton is a hoot as the inept inventor father (some of his crazy inventions are hilarious, especially when the inventions backfire into slapstick catastrophes); Frances Lee McCain is good as the mother and housewife (who has one big scene with the nasty critters); Polly Holliday is wickedly funny as Mrs. Deagle, the meanest woman in town; and Dante regular Dick Miller is a riot as Mr. Futterman, the nice man who's always complaining about hand-made products being made out of foreign parts. Judge Reinhold and Corey Feldman have small roles as Billy's bank co-worker and good friend, respectively, and look for a quick cameo by Spielberg himself. Gremlins was such a big hit in 1984 that it got re-released back in theaters the following year before it made its debut on video. The movie grossed over $153 million at the box office (combining the original 1984 release and the 1985 re-release). And it stands alone as a great creature feature. Gremlins was also imitated many times shortly afterwards. Following in its footsteps came 1985's Ghoulies, and 1986's Troll and Critters. All these movies spawned sequels of their own, and none of them came close to capturing the greatness of Gremlins (although the original Critters came the closest; it was the only movie out of that bunch that I mildly enjoyed). Six years later came the Gremlins sequel Gremlins 2 The New Batch. It wasn't as good as the original, but it's still a good movie sequel. I'll take Gremlins 2 as well as the original Gremlins over Ghoulies or Troll anyday.***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"One of my personal favorites...","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"51 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some films are not what they seem. Take Gremlins (1984) for example. It is the story of a small-town kid who acquires a strange creature that spawns a pack of menacing green beings that terrorize the inhabitants of the cheery little area.A silly idea, yes, but surely a fun one, and surely one to be cherished. It isn't technically a great movie, or even a very good one, but it doesn't mean to be. The genius lies in the modest scale of the film -- it isn't just a crude horror film with evil alien species (see Critters), but a tongue-in-cheek parody of the rest, that still manages to fit in a few thrills along the way as if by accident.Thank Joe Dante for this movie. And thank him for providing us with magnificent and imaginative films over the years. He is one of cinema's great underrated directors, the man responsible for bringing other creatures to life very often, whether it is werewolves or small toys or Looney Toons.The movie is centered around Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan), the small-town kid mentioned above who is handed a Mogwai by his father (Hoyt Axton), who picked the puffy furball up in Chinatown during one of his routine salesman trips. Billy's father is a sort of failed inventor, reminding us of the frizzle-haired Doc Emmett Brown played by Christopher Lloyd in Back to the Future, only not quite as eccentric. Back to the Future came out a year after Gremlins, and the two are similar in the way they entertain -- silly little ideas that nevertheless become almost genius. Time travel was a myth before Back to the Future, which turned it into an adventurous notion, a way of being able to transport people back in time to see their own parents. (H.G. Wells himself hadn't even approached these topics, and I can guarantee he would have never sparked a relationship between the sibling and his mother.)Gremlins is milestone movie-making magic, a simple idea like Back to the Future, stretched out into a bigger picture. I won't kid you -- it's not as complex as Future is, but it doesn't need to be, and certainly doesn't want to be. It relies on humor and charm, and it has plenty of it.Billy works at the town bank, hounded by the city grouch (Frances Lee McCain) and threatened by the vice president (Judge Reinhold). His long-time sweetheart (Phoebe Cates) works there, too, and at the local bar, occupied by drunks at night (and on occasion some nasty gremlins). The town loon (Dick Miller) is convinced there are gremlins about, and soon he is right.Don't ever get them wet, Billy is more or less told by his father. And don't feed them after midnight. (See if you can spot the huge flaw in that rule.) Well, the small little Mogwai, Gizmo (voiced in burps and small cutesy sentences by Howie Mandel), does get wet, and spawns a set of fellow furballs -- all apparently mean-spirited and vile. And after tricking Billy by cutting the power on his clock, they get fed after midnight -- and basically evolve overnight into a bunch of green, nasty little gremlins, all of which continue to spawn throughout the town and cause absolute chaos.Will Billy defeat the gremlins, get the girl, and save the town? Take a wild guess.Everything Joe Dante touches is usually magic. Even his live-action/animation film Toy Soldiers was a load of fun because of its charming disposition. Dante doesn't try to make his films anything other than what they are -- charming and wildly, wickedly funny -- and that is undoubtedly the key to the outrageous success of Gremlins, one of the biggest box office moneymakers ever released.I wasn't a huge fan of the sequel, even though I have it in my DVD collection right next to the original. It lost the darkness of campiness of the original and went for all-out laughs (many of which failed) instead of the laugh-out-loud laughs of the original, which were concealed within a film that actually made sense (in some ways) and still managed to be dark and fun. The sequel also introduced the mandatory Goofy Idiot Character. In fact, it had two -- a Donald Trump-like manager and a gremlin that more or less belonged in The Three Stooges, and definitely not in a movie about menacing creatures. In fact, another of the first film's highlights was the way it made its creatures dark, hurtful, and just plain funny. (People complained that the launching of Frances Lee McCain out a window was too much, but come on.)As a whole, I didn't think that the sequel worked especially well. But it has as big a fan following as the original in some respects, for those who favor goofy, pointless cash-ins over original, hysterical movies.I wouldn't expect many people to love Gremlins as much as I do, but its charm is certainly worth commenting on -- and so is its wicked humor. Dark, chaotic and pretty darn infectious, the film's sense of humor quickly kicks into boot even during the campy voice-over narrative. The whole film is campy. And unlike something like Critters (which I loathe), this film is endearing and fresh and funny and has a bunch of likable characters -- especially Gizmo, the favorite and most infamous little critter ever seen on screen, and Stripe, the lead gremlin whose unfortunate frying incident at the end of the film actually makes you sad. No sequel for that little creep.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Nobody's got a story like this one. Nobody!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"47 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A dark, crazy, twisted, inventive, and violent Christmas classic. There's really no way to classify or categorize Gremlins. It's too mean-spirited to be a kid's film, but not quite intense enough to justify a higher rating (but the 15-rated UK version makes a mockery of the BBFC guidelines).Gremlins has long been an annual tradition for movie fans. The cozy, snowy atmosphere of Kingston Falls (which appears to be in upstate New York somewhere) is the perfect small town that we all wish we came from. Even when the Gremlins invade it's a homely place to be envious of.I was frightened of the Gremlins when I was a kid, but they're really nothing more than gigantic smiles with arms and legs. They exist only to have fun at the expense of human life and private property. I suppose they could be a metaphor for hedonism or apathy.Originally a much more evil script (intended to be an anti-Wonderful Life), Chris Columbus was inspired to write Gremlins as he listened to the rats in his apartment scurry about in the dark during the night. He lightened the material somewhat before filming began, but Joe Dante's wild vision makes it a twisted, festive reality.Special mention must be made of Jerry Goldsmith's outrageous score and that famous theme tune 'The Gremlin Rag', a demented circus fanfare of anarchy and mayhem. It's crazy to think that over 26 years later it's still never been released on CD.Gremlins sparked the rise of Chris Columbus as a creative force in Hollywood. Only 25 at the time of filming his career has been made up of classics, and Christmas classics, such as The Goonies, Young Sherlock Holmes, Home Alone, Home Alone 2, Harry Potter, and Bicentennial Man. Joe Dante never scored a bigger hit, but his subsequent career significant;y defined 80s and 90s cinema with movies such as Innerspace, The 'burbs, Gremlins 2, and Small Soldiers. Goldsmith scoring every one of them until his death in 2004.Neither of them knew the massive franchise and fan-following which Gremlins would provoke, but it certainly deserves it's place in pop culture history. "},{"Title":"Funny, entertaining, a little scary. Perfect as a child's first scary movie.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie used to scare me immensely when I was younger. It was the first scary movie I saw as a kid, and I think that may effect why I love it so much today. Nostalgic purposes, indeed.I think this movie is good for it's purpose. It's not meant to be some life-changing, or hysterically funny, or terrifying suspense movie. It's meant to give you some scares, some laughs, and entertainment. And it does indeed entertain.We've heard since the 50's about little green men, and in this movie, they are there. And they don't even have to come from outer space, just Chinatown. The actual mogwai (what the gremlins are before they transform) are adorable. So at first you are surprised at how this cute little furry creature who sings a little song could produce other mogwais whom are not so nice. I won't give away how they reproduce or turn into gremlins, but it's all kind of strange, and very fantasy-like.A great movies for adults to watch with kids for their first scary movie. I watched it when I was three, and while it did scare me there for a while, I still loved it a lot. I would recommend maybe six years or older, and if they get too scared, tell them it's really just puppets. (It is.) Overall, this film is entertaining, very 80's, a little scary, and pretty funny. "},{"Title":"Come on, we're talking cable","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Randall Peltzer (the late Hoyt Axton), while going all around town trying to sell his faulty wacky inventions, accidentally stumbles on a cute little Mogwai at an antique china store. The owner refuse to sell it, but the kid sees dollar signs and sells it to Mr. Peltzer, telling him three things never to do to the creature. So back in Kingston Falls, the misguided inventor presents it to his son, Billy (Zach Galligan) telling him the warning that the Chinese boy imparted to him. Needless to say, Billy ignores all three rules and soon evil little Gremlins are all over town causing rampant destruction.This movie is greatness in every single way. With style, charm, and humor to spare, this film was among the top echelon of movies from the glorious '80's (Man that decade was GREAT to be a kid or teenager in).Never overtly slapstick comical, this film is still tongue firmly in cheek none the less and seeing the amazingly great Dick Miller is ALWAYS a treat. By the by, call me dense but I never realized that Howie Mandell did the voice for Gizmo. That's kinda neat. This was followed by a sequel that's just about every bit as good as the original.My Grade A Special Edition DVD Extras Commentary by Director Joe Dante, Producer Mike Finnell and Gremlins Creator Chris Walas, Second Commentary by Dante and Actors Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates, Dick Miller and Howie Mandel; Cast & Crews bios; 8 Additional Scenes (with Optional Commentary; Photo Gallery; short vintage featurette; Theatrical & Re-issue Trailer; and Trailer for Gremlins 2 The New Batch "},{"Title":"Best of the small creature attack movies.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After this movie there were several other movies that tried to capitalize on the success of this movie. For the most part though they failed to live up to the energy and fun of this movie. Heck, not even the sequel of this one had the energy of this movie. Here we have a guy getting a pet as an early xmas gift, a cute creature called a Mogway. It however, does have a few problems, as it needs special care. One thing you can't do to it is get it wet. Well Billy does (that is the guy who got it). This breeds more of the little critters, and they are harmless enough at first as well. Then they are fed after midnight and this turns them into Gremlins. This new form is a beer drinking, candy eating, mischief machine that isn't above killing. Most of the original batch is killed off in a gruesome kitchen scene, but the leader, Stripe, gets away and dives into a ycma swimming pool, so the whole town gets overrun by the little monsters. This movie is very funny and enjoyable to watch. Even though the Gremlins do kill, this movie never gets as dark as some of the copycats, or too goofy like some of them do. It ends up being a well-made movie that is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Mayhem","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A film like Gremlins doesn't call for a review, so much as it demands a detailed discussion. This isn't because the film is particularly complicated, nor does it imply that there are loose ends to theorize about. It is simply because Gremlins can be interpreted in a number of different ways. Is it a dark family film? Or a cheesy horror flick? Is the film a clichéd product of the 80's? Or perhaps a smart satire that was years ahead of its time? For me, it is all of these things. It's a joyous romp that's hilariously silly - so much so that the absence of truly serious moments can be completely forgiven.The plot is simple; a young man receives a strange present from his dad a mysterious creature called a Gremlin! There are 3 rules that must be obeyed to insure that nothing goes wrong. One, the Gremlin must stay away from sunlight, or it will die. Two, the Gremlin must not get wet. And most importantly, the Gremlin must not be fed after midnight.Care to guess how many of these rules get broken before the film ends?Gremlins is a rare kind of a film, in that it has actually improved with age. The characters are laughably stupid, there's an abundance of product placement, and the Gremlins - even in their cute stage - are (perhaps) unintentionally creepy. These are legitimate problems, and yet, they actually manage to enhance the film. I think the over-the-top silliness of the film is to thank for this, as this allows for an environment in which unintentional laughter is not detrimental to the movie experience. This bizarre blend of self-aware comedy and unintentional humor has resulted in a film that will only continue to get better as the years pass. Admittedly, one could argue that Gremlins is a bit of an awkward film to watch, in that the the intentional and unintentional comedy is often indistinguishable from the other. One scene that effectively hones in on this issue is the famous monologue, in which one character recalls a tragic memory from her childhood. Supposedly, this scene caused a stir among studio executives, whom requested that the scene be removed as it was uncertain whether this was supposed to be sad or funny (if you care for my two cents, I laughed myself nearly to tears at this part).This could definitely be an issue for some. Is a film that contains so much unintentional humor and laughable flaws worthy of a recommendation? My answer is an unequivocal yes. The film thrives on clichés of the past. Now that what was modern in the 80's is also a tired cliché in the 21st century, Gremlins has become an intentional parody of itself. It's the tone that the film was always aiming for, and has managed to re-achieve that goal decades later.Another fascinating aspect of this film is the violence. Gremlins received a PG rating from the MPAA, and the criticism thrust at both this film, and the MPAA due to the violent images resulted in the birth of the PG-13 rating. Yes, as expected, Gremlins die (albeit, in highly creative and massively unexpected ways), but several humans perish as well. If one considers this film to be a horror movie, than this isn't unusual at all. But if one thinks of this as a family picture, than this is very unusual indeed. Once again, I reiterate this kind of movie simply demands discussion!The acting is terribly hammy, but in spite of - or rather, because of - this, the performances are delightful. Zach Gilligan is the lead actor, and Phoebe Cates portrays the love interest. Both characters are dull as dirt in terms of personality, but their moronic inclinations make them highly entertaining to watch all the same. The other actors tend to fall in the same territory.Jerry Goldsmith composed an appropriately maniacal score for this picture. It contains his signature synthesizers (adding to the film's dated feel even further), and ties in Christmas tunes to reflect the holiday setting. In terms of music, there are no questions here the tongue is absolutely in the cheek.There is roughly 45 minutes of build-up, followed by nearly an hour of Gremlins mayhem. Thanks to the camp nature of the film, the 45 minute build-up is no less entertaining than the Gremlin destruction later on. The last hour is almost non-stop craziness, and needless to say, it becomes exhausting. But it's the best kind of exhausting; the kind that comes with knowing that you're having an absolute blast. Indeed, the amount of fun here is almost overwhelming at times. It's tempting to spend the entire run-time of the movie trying to analyze its intentions, but the best route is to save this kind of thinking for afterwards. It honestly doesn't matter much in the long run whether you think Gremlins is a dumb movie for smart people, or a smart movie for dumb people. Just let it be known that Gremlins is good, dark fun for everyone! "},{"Title":"Perennial favourite","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A perennial Christmas favourite, Joe Dante's monster movie is a kid's film for grown ups, made when children's cinema still had real bite. Watched today, twenty-six years after it was first released, it still holds a great deal of charm for the adult viewer who grew up in the '80s. As with most of Dante's movie, a lot of the fun alone comes from the director's clear affection for the genre, watching for all the gags and references that are surely to come, such as the scene involving the classic Time Machine.As for the rest of the movie...the depiction of small town and family life is very well realised. There's a cosy feel to film's first half. Zach Galligan is a charming hero, and Phoebe Cates the fitting object of his affection. Dick Miller, a genre standby since the '50s, has a nice role to sink his teeth into, and it's also great to see Keye Luke in a pivotal role. The supporting characters, particularly Hoyt Axton as the inventor-father, are well drawn. When the gremlins and their brand of anarchy take over, I was less impressed. The film descends into silliness I could have done without, but then picks up for a climax in which Gizmo shows his true colours, so it's not all bad. I found the sequel, GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH, to be equally fun. "},{"Title":"This was THE movie in 1984","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back in 1984 I was a 11 year old just starting to learn to appreciate movies. In 1984 Gremlins was THE movie. It is the first movie, other than E.T. that had a strong commercial tie-in. I had all kinds of things that were Gremlin, specifically Gizmo related. My favorite was the the little Gizmos and Gremlins that you dropped into water and they grew really big. Man were those things slimy after they grew. No telling what kind of toxic chemicals I was touching with my bare hands. Oh the good old days, I can't help but give Gremlins a 10. It just wouldn't seem right if I gave it anything less. I normally don't like remakes, but I think this one would have potential with all the cool CGI out right now. Maybe Spielberg would even help with it. "}{"Title":"Best Movie...Ever","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing alot of summer movies frolick around in the grass, I felt I needed to go back to a classic...yes, thats right, Gremlins. Gremlins not only holds a place in my movie going heart, but also my mind races with ideas of plot lines that made this movie a subplot to a subplot. Also, the special effects were stupendus and way beyond it's time. Those tiny little Gremlins running around, terrorizing the small town just makes me tingle...deep down inside. Quite the Indie-Classic. A+, my friends A+ "},{"Title":"Has it's Moments","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Used to watch this movie fairly often as a teenager after it's release. It's got a pretty good re-watch-ability factor for being a mid-80s flick. The puppeteers, make-up, and costuming, have done a great job throughout the production while the animation and effects are maybe passable. The story is streamlined and focused and the pacing very good. The acting is satisfactory and passable, but nothing splendid except for maybe Hoyt Axton who helps bring some gravity and grounding to the whole cast. Of course the gremlins are the stars of the show. They have their moments and get plenty of screen time. Some of the gags work, while others fizzle. I liked the word-play and vocals done for the gremlins - you can notice some high profile voice actors in the cast like Peter Cullin and Frank Welker. It's not a great movie really, but it has some entertaining moments and did well enough to spawn a poorer sequel. Mildly recommended for nostalgia's sake. "},{"Title":"One of the best Horror/Comedies of all time!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It follows a somewhat conventional monster movie plot. An ordinary guy witnesses his unusual but cute cuddly pet spawn a horde of evil Gremlins. He tries to warn the authorities, but they don't believe him until the creatures show up and go on a rampage throughout the town. Like in many monster movies, a plan is devised to destroy them, which works, but then there's still one left which needs to be defeated. Every monster movie convention in the book is used, including all the famous shocks such as something jumping out in the foreground and something jumping out in the background, but what makes this film original is the Gremlins' silly personalities. They don't eat people or kill them in order to survive in any way. They just want to have fun and cause chaos! Their personalities are almost human and seem to represent a side of us that has no morals and just wants to let loose in a world without regulations. At times, you are cheering for the monsters, which makes this movie so unique.Two major highlights are the bar scene and the movie theater scene where all the gremlins gather together and have a great time! "},{"Title":"Cynical, cleverly-made horror parody, marred by occasional mean spiritedness.","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The master of parody Joe Dante and the master of popular entertainment Steven Spielberg combine their talents (Dante as director, Spielberg as one of the executive producers) for this cleverly assembled comedy-horror. Gremlins is a fun movie that delights in anarchic scenes of destruction and mayhem. But while some films think that destruction and mayhem on their own are automatically funny (e.g It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and 1941), this one remembers that things like characterisation and a build-up are also important. Gremlins still has its share of flaws, including unevenness in the narrative and occasional sequences that boil over into nastiness, but on the whole it is an enjoyable movie. The film's box office success certainly indicates that it caught the public mood at the time of its release.Wacky inventor Rand Pelzer (Hoyt Axton) searches for a Christmas gift for his son Billy (Zach Galligan) in a dingy curiosity shop in Chinatown. He eventually chooses a cuddly creature called a mogwai, with a severe warning from the shop-keeper's grandson that there are three golden rules any mogwai owner must obey. Never expose them to bright lights, never get them wet and, most importantly of all, never feed them after midnight. To begin with Billy is very careful with his new pet - named Gizmo - but one day one of the neighbourhood kids accidentally spills water on Gizmo. The water makes the mogwai multiply, giving birth to a whole bunch of babies.... but the babies are more malicious and devious than their parent and fool around with Billy's clock so that he unwittingly feeds them AFTER midnight. Their late night snack causes them to turn into vicious, nasty monsters bent on the destruction of the town. Wholesale devastation follows as the dangerous gremlins go on their rampage. Billy and his girlfriend Kate (Phoebe Cates) are the only ones with the courage and the know-how to fight back, but when one gremlin manages to make it to the local swimming pool - where it throws itself into the pool and gives birth to literally hundreds of little monsters - the town seems doomed.Gremlins is primarily a monster movie parody, but in a subtler way it also parodies feel-good Christmas movies. The old James Stewart classic It's A Wonderful Life is seen playing in the background on several occasions, but here there's no goodwill and seasonal cheer on display as the titular gremlins start demolishing the town. Even Cates' character has a tragic Christmas story to tell, involving the death of her father whilst trying to play Santa Claus. It is always reassuring when parodies know where they're coming from, and Gremlins contains many in-jokes for film buffs to enjoy. In particular there are a number of telling cameo roles, among them exploitation director Roger Corman, while Dick Miller (star of several early Corman horror quickies) gets a chance to send himself up delightfully as the grouchy Mr Futterman. The monsters are designed by Chris Walas who successfully creates creatures that simultaneously come across as funny, nasty and fairly real-looking. Rounding things off neatly is Jerry Goldsmith's macabre funhouse-style score. Gremlins doesn't have a great deal of plot, which allows things things to crack along at a brisk pace but afterwards leaves one reflecting how slight the whole film is. Also, the black comedy inherent in the story is soured by touches that are just a little too nasty and mean-spirited. But, generally-speaking, this is a gripping piece of entertainment, worth a look if you're a monster movie buff or a connoisseur of the cynical. "},{"Title":"Makes the 80's feel as classic and classy as the 50's...","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's quite fitting that Joe Dante's Gremlins features many scenes of people watching black-and-white classics on mini-TV sets, one is It's a Wonderful Life (of course, it's Christmas time) and another is The Invasion of the Body Snatchers (they're here already, you're next!). It's fitting because in a way, Gremlins is like a Christmas movie victim of schizophrenia, trying to swim in waters that couldn't have been more different, a Capra-like Family Christmas film and a Sci-fi/Fantasy monster B-movie, appealing to kids and moms with so many 'ow'-inducing moments and to teens and young adults with gross violence, only redeemed by its wicked sense of humor.But as twisted as it sounds, the film works and now, it exudes the same classic vibes as these very classics I mentioned, now that the 80's are like the 50's in the 80's. And that's Gremlins greatest accomplishment in my opinion, it takes me back to a time that will never be again, and it has nothing to do with chronology, but with a sense of innocent fun that I feel has deserted movies and TV programs as well. It's the kind of film that constantly reminds you of the first time you saw it, and your emotions when you discovered this strange big-eyed creature named Gizmo, perhaps the cutest cinematic creation since R2D2, an improved version of the Ewoks with a Disney-eque touch.I'll never forget that winter morning when I was having my breakfast, my father had just recorded the film the previous night, and before going to school, he was in a hurry to show me the first part, and it started with the gift-moment, which till now, remains one of my favorite Christmas scenes ever. It has everything a family reunion, the lights being turned off giving it a strangely ominous atmosphere, and the little noise inside the package adding to the suspense, not to mention that haunting whistle tune that will never fail to shed a few tears whenever I hear it. Little Gizmo's entrance is one of the most defining moment of the 80's, and most irresistible too.And Gizmo didn't need any computer support, looking like a cute puppet with lips and eyes movements, so well done that you were convinced you were watching a living creature, so the film doesn't overplay the special effects on that level. The gift scene goes on as the mother (Frances Lee McCain) takes a picture of the creature but the bright light startles Gizmo who immediately seeks refuge into Billy's arms, which is both heartbreaking and heartwarming. The father (Hoyt Axton) just remembers there are three rules to respect regarding the Mogwai, and I still see my father telling me to pay attention, rising his index finger as if I was the one to take care of Gizmo, so I religiously listened to the rules no bright lights, no water and of course, no food after midnight.I was young enough not to tell the 'absurdity' of the midnight clause, but smart enough to guess that each of these rules would be broken sooner or later and things would go out on control, yet I didn't finish the film until the year after. My father told me the movie was creepy and after another viewing, even as an adult, I can tell that the little one I was would have been scared by the film. It's a pity that a story that has so much charm and delight to offer in the first part, gets so hideously violent after, even in a fun way. Yet there is a scene where a kid played by Corey Feldman is first amazed by Gizmo but then he quickly loses interest and starts reading a comic-book, there had to be some horror and the cute material was only the set-up (although it's what I love the most about Gremlins). All the horrific events are still enjoyable and were cleverly sugarcoated by Chris Columbus' script, but I just love the non-violent parts, starting with this opening scene in the China Antiques store where the father's discovery feels like a moment borrowed from Indiana Jones (not a surprise when you know who produced the film). I love the Capra-esque look of small snow-covered town Kingston Falls and her Mr. Potter-like figure, an old hag who's the only human antagonist. And then you have Zach Galligan as Billy, and that was a perfect casting, there's so much likability conveyed by his wide-eyed naive eyes and his timid smile that his bonding with Gizmo feels genuine and real, and their interactions contribute to the film's best moments.Gremlins is full of tenderness and that little piano moment remains my favorite one. There is also a great friendship between Billy and his girlfriend played by Phoebe Cates, and what is more interesting than these two characters (certainly less flashy than the Gremlins) is that they remain as vulnerable and human at the end of the film as when it started. They never turn into some last-minute super heroes, and the last scene takes us back to what makes the film such an endearing classic, it's the perfect emotional reward and it's done in a simple and clever way, letting the final voice-over introducing that Gremlins so Un-Christmas-like score.Gremlins owes its existence to the monster-premise, no one would have cared about cute little creatures otherwise, but it's for the cute moments that I'm sure the film is still appreciated and beloved. It also reminds of the 80's where even monsters-films could afford to be cute, and special effects could be amazing without CGI, and when we could come up with new inventive creature and amazement to the eyes without rebooting or remaking old stuff. And to twice the nostalgia effect, the film doesn't just remind me of this time, but of that first time I saw it. And both were good. "},{"Title":"An effects marvel and good wholesome holiday carnage","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Y'ask me, we need more gleefully violent movies like GREMLINS to offset the cloying schmaltz we usually get. I like that this movie is like a sadistic version of IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE'S small-town atmosphere, lending some mean-spiritedness to the mischievous antics. But it's all in good dark fun, especially when Mrs. Deagle gets her comeuppance. It's a good time watching the gremlins wreak havoc; those ugly bastards are surprisingly entertaining (the bar scene in particular). On a technical level, this movie's pretty impressive; they pack some real personality into Gizmo. And credit Zack Galligan for giving a chainsaw fight with a puppet a sense of urgency.Great movie all-around.8/10 "},{"Title":"The Gremlins are here!","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't ever get it wet,keep it away from bright light and no matter how much it begs never feed it after midnight. With these instructions, young Billy Peltzer takes possession of his cuddly new pet. Billy will get a whole lot more than he bargained for.This film starred Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates & Hoyt Axton.In my opinion Gremlins is a good family comedy, it was released in 1984 and is always on the television around Christmas time now. The storyline sounds like a stupid low budget B-Movie however when you watch it you will go on a roller-coaster ride of frights and laughter. I highly recommend Gremlins to fans of family comedies as it a entertaining film too watch with your family.***/***** Good film. "},{"Title":"The great film i have been waiting for.","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is one of the best family films I have seen in a long time. It is an entertaining, witty and mischievous comedy. It is very different to most films.The plotA teenage boy receives a pet Mogwai as a Christmas present form his father and breaks the 3 main rules which are never put it under bright lights (especially sunlight), never put it near water and never ever feed it after midnight. When these are broken they turn into the mischievous gremlins.Even though nobody famous stars or directs this excellent film its still worth a watch.Overall it is a bizarrely great film. "},{"Title":"A Crazed Holiday Creature Feature That's Good for More Than Just Scares","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With its inane mix of genres, attitudes and inspirations, there's really no good reason for this movie to work as well as it does. Like the ubiquitous creatures at the heart of the plot, Gremlins delights in mayhem. The proud owner of a restless spirit and a tendency to rattle the gearbox at the slightest hint of a lull, the film can be splendidly unpredictable, charmingly sweet and morbidly profane, sometimes all within the same scene. It's vividly violent, often shockingly so, but still touts a wild sense of humor and an unexpected knack for sentimentality. I was pleasantly surprised at the lengths it was willing to go to, considering no member of the cast indispensable, and that left me hooked right up until the closing showdown. It's not the perfect picture - there are holes in the plot large enough to roll a bulldozer through - but as a sharp, silly change of pace in the holiday season, one could do far worse. "},{"Title":"Anarchic, vicious, mean-spirited and hilarious Christmas fun!","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you are fed up of saccharine sweet Christmas films then this is the perfect antidote! It all starts well enough when Billy's father buys him a cute little pet for Christmas. This isn't an ordinary pet however; it is a Mogwai and there are three rules for looking after them; keep them out of bright light, don't get them wet and above all don't feed them after midnight! The rules aren't explained but we learn them soon enough; light harms them, getting them wet causes them to multiply and feeding them after midnight causes them to turn into vicious gremlins! Billy names his Mogwai Gizmo and all goes well until it gets wet and makes five more; the new ones aren't gentle like Gizmo however; they have a mean streak and are devious; devious enough to trick Billy into feeding them after midnight which causes all hell to break out in the town of Kingston Falls. The gremlins are determined to wreak havoc and after one gets to the town pool there are thousands to contend with! Out in the town they entertain themselves attacking Father Christmas, turbo-charging a horrid old woman's stair-lift, going to a bar and finally going to the cinema to watch Snow White! This film is great anarchic fun; while the gremlins are clearly meant to be the 'bad guys' the viewer will cheer them on as they do one malevolent thing after another; all the while cackling manically. The Gremlins certainly upstage the human cast; Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates are good enough as Billy and his girl friend Kate but they aren't what the film will be remembered for. There are a lot of laughs to lighten the tone but it will still be scary for younger viewers; especially in the final scene where Billy must confront the meanest of the gremlins who is wielding a chainsaw... not to mention an earlier scene when a gremlin gets microwaved! The special effects may look a bit dated now but I'd take them over the excessively slick CGI a film would get today; also worthy of note is the delightful score by Jerry Goldsmith; it really fits the anarchic nature of the film. I'd certainly recommend this film but don't show it to younger children unless you are sure they can handle it. "}{"Title":"Gremlins","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a interesting little film about small little monsters terrorizing a small town. The movie starts with a man who buys a little mogwai pet named Gizmo from an older gentleman in Chinatown for his son Billy (Zach Galligan). There are three rules when it comes to Gizmo. You can't feed it after midnight, it can't be exposed to bright light/sunlight, and most importantly do not let it get wet. If Gizmo gets wet, many little gremlins will pop out of it's back. Of course Billy doesn't follow the rules at all. All hell breaks loose in the town right on Christmas Eve of all nights. Billy and his girlfriend Kate (Pheobe Cates) must stop the little creatures before they destroy everything and everyone.The movie is well done with it's effects. The little gremlins looks and seem like real live monsters. And Gizmo is the cutest thing on film I've ever seen. The scenes where the Gremlins are watching Snow White in the movie theatre is pure comedic gold! They even sing along to hi ho hi ho, it's off to work we go. But, that's near the end of the film. There are many slow parts throughout. The police don't believe Billy when he tells them monsters are attacking the town. And it gets annoying watching him break all of the rules that must be followed with a pet mogwai.Zach Galligan and Pheobe Cates are two of my all time favourite 80's younger actors. They both play the lead characters. I think that at times Gremlins takes itself way to serious and that's a difference from this one and the sequel. It's a movie about little monsters terrorizing a town. The second one pokes fun at the plot. I haven't seen 'Gremlins 2 The New Batch' in years, but I remember preferring that one to this.Still it's a must see movie for all.7/10 "},{"Title":"The greatest horror comedy ever made!","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Who could fault this frequently funny, crazily original and utterly daft horror movie. From the hilarious opening in Chinatown to the amazingly sad ending. This movie has it all.I can imagine this being even better if Spielberg had chosen to direct (although Dante's visual style is almost as good as Raimi's in Evil Dead 2) instead of co- produce. But no matter which way you look at it, there's no escaping the warm heart wrapped so delicate in this finely made silly fantasy. The little cute Mogwai (his name is 'Gizmo) is as lovable as E.T. (You can even see an E.T. doll on the shelf when the really evil Gremlin is hiding in the department store.The greatest thing about the film is the tender love story between the main characters. And if the story she tells about her dad doesn't make a chin wobble, you need your heart checked. "},{"Title":"Joe Dante RULES!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Joe Dante is one of my favorite modern-day schlock filmmakers. When you think about it, that's what he makes. 'Gremlins' is the jewel in his crown, a wickedly funny horror/comedy that still charms me every Christmas.Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) is a nice young man with a loving family. His inventor father (Hoyt Axton) gets him a little creature called Gizmo (voice of Howie Mandel) that looks like a cross between a teddy bear and Yoda for Christmas. There are three rules to keep in mind when taking care of Gizmo 1. Keep him away from bright lights, they hurt him. 2. Don't get him wet, he'll multiply. And most importantly, never, ever feed him after midnight. As you can imagine, all three rules are broken, Gizmo spawns a bunch of nasty ugly Gremlins, and all hell breaks loose.The movie is very funny in it's mean-spirited way. My favorite scene is where the Gremlins, after wreaking havoc, go to a movie theater and watch 'Snow White'. They love it, and they start singing along to Heigh-Ho (to Billy's amazement). The payoff shot is Gremlin heads bobbing in tune to the song. That always gets a laugh out of me. The gremlin effects are good, and little Gizmo is like a less-annoying Furby. The script by Chris Columbus is dark and menacing without being an R-rated outing (although apparently the original script is even worse), and I wonder how Columbus ended up making 'Home Alone' and 'Mrs. Doubtfire'. No matter; 'Gremlins' is a high-energy B movie that spawned a hilarious sequel. It's one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Daft, but enjoyable.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When it comes to the weird and bizarre, only two directors spring to mind. Tim Burton and Joe Dante. Dante is more underrated than Burton which is a shame. His unique brand of horror laced with traces of dark humour is the perfect formula for a film like Gremlins. Has it really been 20 years since it was made? Is there anyone out there who hasn't seen it?This interesting Christmas tale begins when Rand Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) is in Chinatown looking for a Christmas present for his son, Billy. He comes across a junk shop, where he encounters a furry creature called a Mogwai. But the owner of the shop is reluctant to sell him, as taking care of a Mogwai entails great responsibility.Rand still acquires the Mogwai (or Gizmo as he names him) from the shop owners grandson. Before he hands Gizmo over, he tells Rand there are three rules he must follow to take care of Gizmo properly1. Keep him away from bright light. Especially sunlight, or it will kill Gizmo.2. Keep him away from water. Don't get him wet.3. The most important rule of all. The rule you can never forget. Never, ever feed him after midnight.We switch then to Kingston Falls, one of those sleepy Disney/Capraesque towns. Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) is a mild mannered bank clerk who's got the hots for his co-worker Kate Berringer (Phoebe Cates). This is an interesting little town, full of quirky characters, some played by actors Joe Dante loves to have in his films. Mr Futterman (Dick Miller) is a bit of an oddball who believes Gremlins are real, and then there is Mrs Deagle, an old bat who has seriously got it in for Billy's family.When Billy finally receives Gizmo, he is overjoyed but puzzled by the vague rules he has to follow. Of course, the audience just knows they're going to be broken. And the second rule is broken courtesy of Billy's friend Pete (Corey Feldman before his career took a nosedive). After accidentally splashing Gizmo with water, five new Mogwai appear. But these Mogwai are different from Gizmo. They are more mischievous and devious (Wait until you see what they do to Billy's dog).They're led by one called Stripe, which Billy dubs because of a Mohawk of hair on his head. They later trick Billy into feeding them after midnight, and when he does, they go into cocoons. A teacher friend of Billy's who studies one of the Mogwai explains they will be going through lots of changes. He doesn't know the half of it!When they hatch, they have turned into little monsters. Green, scaly, razor sharp teeth and claws. They are now Gremlins. They proceed to multiply into an army, and begin the process of tearing Kingston Falls to shreds. This is all under the leadership of Stripe. It is now up to Billy and Kate to stop the Gremlins before they destroy their town.Although it has a very silly premise, there is something compelling about Gremlins. Joe Dante has enormous fun with the way he gleefully trashes and satirises the small-town Middle-American image Frank Capra and Norman Rockwell created. The Gremlins are the real stars of the film, and despite being produced by Steven Spielberg, Dante has incredible latitude and freedom. It is certainly clear he is on the Gremlins side, and there are many memorable scenes.Billy's mother (Frances Lee McCain) defending her kitchen is a definite highlight. The different methods she has of killing the Gremlins are quite sadistic (in particular the microwave). What happens to the Futtermans is both funny and scary. Mrs Deagle's encounter with the Gremlins is shockingly original. You might say they come to her in the middle of the night and teach her the true meaning of Christmas!Probably the most memorable scene is when they storm the local cinema and catch a screening of Snow White. I wonder what a group of malicious monsters could find of interest in that film? The ending inevitably has the showdown between Billy and Stripe, which becomes a gripping fight for survival in a department store.Gremlins is not only hilarious, but occasionally frightening. The content is of a shockingly dark tone at times. For all those parents out there, you may not want your children to watch this unless you're with them. Having a Gremlin trying to strangle Billy's mother with Christmas lights is a good indication why.The scene where Kate tells Billy about her father is unusual. Somehow, it comes across as padding. I'm not sure what it has to contribute to the film really. But overall, Gremlins is extremely entertaining. It's quite refreshing to see a dark Christmas tale. The FX are still superb even after 20 years. It is also packed to the rafters with Dante's trademark in-jokes and film references (The Howling, Invasion of the Body Snatchers) which only adds to the film's charm.One thing I especially liked is the way we don't actually see the Gremlins at first. We only hear them. It builds up anticipation to when we finally do see them. You are not disappointed.The ending is quite sad, when Billy has to say goodbye to Gizmo. It's not quite as soppy as you might think. Gremlins 2 was also a good film, although it was a great deal more satirical than the first. The original had more style and subtlety. The theme music by the late Jerry Goldsmith is very memorable too. It was one of the best theme tunes he ever composed. Small Soldiers was also along the same lines, and was another of Dante's good ones. But it still doesn't match up to the great film that is Gremlins. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have probably seen this movie more than any other in the history of me watching movies. I was a small child when I first this and it scared me to death. Now I get cracked up at it. I will always love this movie.Next year is it's 20th anniversary and I think they should re-release it in theaters. I finally learned the lesson to this movie the last time I watched it. There can always be a bad side to the good. This movie is a favorite of mine and if you have never seen this film....where have ya been living? Under a rock? Come on get out more.If ya have seen it, enjoy it again. Heck, buy the thing. Gizmo is so cute and the Gremlins are so nasty, but in the funniest of ways.You have best of both worlds. "},{"Title":"Horror gone B-Movie funny...","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...You watch it and find yourself sucked into an otherwise story by numbers movie (hey, the old guy says no sunlight, water or food after midnight so you're warned what to expect already).  Main criticism of course is its lack of focus on the hilarious antics of the evil Gremlins (something the sequel did a little better) who destroy a good portion of a town, but aren't seen nearly enough to make you detest them - instead they're little more than pests.The level of gore is surprising, which is how you can tell that this isn't technically a kids movie, so care should be taken with young children (but saying that I'd have been 7 when I saw this and had no problem....but then Nightmare on Elm Street might have desensitised me a bit by that time) but it's essential viewing if only so that you can watch the sequel too. "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorite Movie!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Everybody has that one movie that they never get tired of seeing.  It's usually the same movie that you can quote line for line.  For me, that movie is Gremlins.  This movie has everything.  Comedy, thrills, and a wonderful cast.  Joe Dante is a genius when it comes to directing and the sequel Gremlins 2  The New Batch is a worthy followup and is also a mustsee. If you have never seen this movie or if it's been a while since you have, I would recommend picking up the Gremlins Special Edition DVD.  ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Nice little movie","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was a good thing that I've been smart and knowing how PG-13 movies weren't made until 1985, as I consider this a PG-13 movie. (Dang, I couldn't believe it when I found out Jaws had a PG rating! I was really wondering how a movie like that didn't cause the MPAA raters to make a PG-13 rating) Anyway, I rented this movie out right after I turned 13(so it's probably the first PG-13 movie I saw alone) and it was as good as I had thought!Anyway, I don't see how people should complain it's too scary. I mean, if YOU want to see a movie you thought was for little kids, but was scary, rent The Secret Of NIMH. Gizmo is a very cute little fellow, and I always kind of went for furry little creatures. The gremlins were very cool, and it was interesting how clever they were to wreck all that havoc (i.e. cutting off the power of a traffic light). Yes, the effects could have better, but this is just one of those movies you just wanna have fun with, and not really take seriously. The part where the gremlins were at the bar was very funny! I'll always remember the gremlins attacking the Santa Claus guy, or the gremlins watching Snow White. It was a kind of sci-fi/horror/comedy crossover.Don't listen to the Leonard Maltin review. He gave the sequel a good rating, and that sequel was just as volient as the first one(I'll bet he did that just because he himself had a cameo in the movie). Anyway, a 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Large numbers of confused parents!!!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When this movie first came out, a lot of parents made the fatal mistake of thinking it was a cute, children's movie. In fact, it was this movie and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom that prompted the film industry to create the PG-13 rating. This one only got a PG.My mother was one of the parents who confused the movie as one suitable for children.Needless to say I was horrified by this movie as I was only 4 years old. This movie caused me to be severely afraid of the dark for many years. Yet, strangely enough, I wanted to watch it every year at my grandmother's house at Christmas time. It was tradition.I think that if parents knew what they were getting into, this wouldn't have been as big a movie as it was, and would probably have been lost among rummage sales, and good will donations as a movie nobody wanted.I love this movie, and it takes me back to when I was a frightened little boy, who was too scared to check under the bed when he heard those strange noises in the middle of the night. Almost 20 years later, those old scars still haven't healed completely, and sometimes just seeing Stripe on the cover will send chills down my spine and prompt me to move to a room with better lighting.That's damn good film-making. Freddy Krueger didn't even do that to me.I do get a kick out of the fact that every once in a while, the Disney channel will play this movie around the holidays.Hoyt Axton's monologue at the begining trys to bring us into the movie by being the story-teller but during the movie, we trick ourselves with it's only a movie. Ending it with Axton's end monologue drags us back into the movie, leaving us with the though... There just might be a Gremlin in your house. "},{"Title":"Merry Christmas!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Everybody those films that you seem to watch at least once every year. Something from childhood. Something your family used to watch with you. For a lot of people, it's 'Gremlins'. Of course, parents me see the poster with a cute little muppet and see Steven Spielberg's name on the credits and think Hey, what a great family film to watch tonight. Think again. This isn't a cuddly toy movie but rather a very dark comedy with plenty of death and violence. The story follows Billy, a some what nerdy teenager, who gets the cute little Mogwai Gizmo for his christmas. A strange little creature, he comes with three important rules Never expose him to sun light, Never spill water on him and, most importantly, never feed him after midnight or he'll turn into a creature from your worst nightmare. Start your screaming! Of course, families can still enjoy it It's set at Christmas and it does have some sweet moments making it, for me, a Christmas classic. A very well written script by future 'Harry Potter' and 'Home Alone' director Chris Columbus and excellent direction by the upcoming 'Looney Tunes' director Joe Dante. Although it's not as re-watchable as the sequel and it does have many slow parts, it's still a Christmas classic deserving of at least three viewings per year. For those of you lucky enough to have a DVD player, please check out the two excellent commentaries and the plethora of deleted scenes. Have a Merry Christmas! "}{"Title":"Grembrilliant","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see Gremlins on the big screen a few days ago after a 10 year or so stint without seeing this masterpiece. I was reminded on what a fantastic peice of filmmaking that Gremlins is, it stands head and shoulders above all eighties monster flicks and as a eighties horror it also fares very well. Comparing to it's peers, The Goolies, Critters etc seems a little unfair, the story is sharp, fast paced and is carried by all the actors. It has the distinct feel of a B movie but the dialouge at the end reminds us that we have seen a film which dares to be corny and comes out trumps. On top of all this it is the best peice of anti-CGI work since the Jason and the Argonauts Skellington fight. The models show real character from the unquestionably adorable mogwi puppet to the humerous yet somehow frightening gremlins. Had this film been made in the last 8 or 9 years the character of the film would have been lost and along with that half the fun. Take the scene where Spike is followed by thousands of Gremlins all stomping their tiny legs, to the audience this isn't perfect animation by any means but the movement gives them real character. When I read reviews that state this movie is predictable and one dimensional I remind myself that idiots that make comments like this must've forgotten that from start to finish the movie is presented as a ghost story. The essence of any good ghost story is telling you a moral. However predictable it is. When the moral is as well presented as this anyone who doesn't enjoy the film should check their pulse. "},{"Title":"One of my Favourite 'Family' Movies,","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a terrific movie with a very well developed storyline and a good cast. I always have fun watching this no matter how many times I've seen it and it normally makes for a great viewing with the family, just make sure they are older than eight at least as it is a dark film and though it isn't necessarily a horror, I wouldn't necessarily call it a family film either. I think the weakest point of the movie was its human characters, I liked Billy and Kate, but the rest of the human cast felt very underdeveloped and the majority were very two dimensional, I certainly would have liked to have seen the mother and especially the father develop more, he certainly had a story to tell that wasn't touched upon enough. The best part of the movie is, of course, the Gremlins themselves, particularly Gizmo, they can be lovable, terrifying, charming and outrageous, they're certainly one of the most memorable characters in film history. Not without its flaws, but Gremlins is a classic that I would highly recommend to anyone looking for a good horror or comedy, it's fun for the family as well depending on the ages. A man buys his son an usual creature for Christmas which comes with some important rules, when these rules aren't followed, catastrophe ensues. Best Performance Zach Galligan Worst Performance Polly Holiday "},{"Title":"Entertaining mess","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is one of the wildest, most incoherent films ever to become a hit, but the style that sometimes makes the movie difficult to follow fits the subject--we in the audience literally don't know what to expect once the title gremlins are spawned and get loose (as we know they will). The beginning of the film cleverly sets up a super-bland Typical American Town out of Frank Capra; we get to know the local eccentrics (Hopeless Inventor, Spunky Housewife, Dense Sheriff, Miserable Old Rich Bitch) and the generic teenage dreamer Billy, who is presented on his birthday with Gizmo, an ultra-cute Furby-like creature who communicates in monosyllabic squeaks. Gizmo has a dark side, though; he accidentally spawns a breed of evil lizard-like monsters who invade the town on Christmas Eve and subject it to a destructive jamboree, like a miniature street gang on a sugar high. They're cartoon characters run wild--the movie shows how nightmarish it would be if animated cartoons turned evil and invaded the real world. Classic sequences abound; Billy's mother (Frances Lee McCain) battling the demons in her kitchen with the aid of a blender and a microwave; town harpy Mrs. Deagle (Polly Holliday) getting hers via a malfunctioning stair climber; Phoebe Cates' anti-Santa speech (I wonder if actresses ever used that monologue in auditions?) and a climactic battle scene set in a movie theatre playing Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The movie gives the impression of a brainstorm, or a jazz session--not all of the ideas work, but there's so much going on it is impossible to be bored for a second. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This definitely makes my top 10 plot a man named randy peltzer is looking for a present for his son billy Peltzer just as he seems to have run out of luck he discovers a small Chinese shop and a strange creature known as a Mowgli after a small argument with the shop owner randy finally gets it when the owners grandson gives it to him as well as telling him three rules 1. Don't expose him to sunlight 2. Don't get him wet and finally never feed him after midnight And so Randy takes it home. Billy is 22 and works at a bank (just a little bit of information) Any way Billy as well as his dog who seems to get on rather well with the creature who Billy calls Gizmo Randy tells Billy to remember the three rules. Billy being the typical person that he is breaks all the rules At first gizmo multiples creating 4 more Mowgli who then eat after midnight turning them into Gremlins viscous nasty goblin like creatures With help of his mum Billy succsefully kills off three gremlins except there leader Stripe who escapes to the swimming pool and jumps in all hell brakes loose I'm not really sure why i like this movie probably because of the music and because of the gremlins them selves there cool "},{"Title":"Clever subtext behind a seemingly simple 80's Horror flick.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched Gremlins for the first time when I was roughly 10 years old. Naturally, back then, I didn't see past the simple monsters killing humans until they somehow die theme to the movie. I watched it again today, and it was simply a pleasure. The movie is so jam-packed with symbolism it's amazing.The movie starts off as Billy's dad (A failing inventor, that only creates havoc in Billy's house, by forcing his family to be Guinea pigs for his..Gizmos) brings home a seemingly harmless little furry creature, from a species called Mogwai(Chinese for Monster, cute huh?). The old Chinese guy(Not Asian-American, it's the 80's ;) doesn't want to sell him the Mogwai, claiming that it requires responsibility. His grandson(?) sneaks it out and sells it to Billy's dad, telling him the 3 rules he must keep to prevent things from going bad with the Mogwai. Billy's dad drops it on Billy like a hot potato, and drives off, in Christmas, mind you, to pursue yet another convention to market his gizmos.Billy doesn't do much to keep the rules, and one cute gizmo suddenly creates a few other Mogwais. Ones that are not very cute anymore. Those evil Mogwais like technology. They especially like to use it to do bad stuff, which first means cutting off the power to Billy's digital clock, making him break the worst rule of all, and they grow into full-fledged Gremlins(A word describing a malfunction in a technological device. Etymology unknown, at least not to Webster).The Gremlins start wreaking havoc, but almost never directly. Most of the times they are genuine Gremlins in the Machine, that cause traffic lights to go out, disable car breaks, and so on. Billy proceeds to eliminate them all when they gather in a cinema, except the big bad one, which then leads to the movie's climax One of the irresponsible ones, trying to regain control of something that now controls him.All in all, the movie's general message is Your technology might one day wake up and bite you in the ass, so be vigilant. Of course, that's a very old argument, but hey, that's pretty much all the philosophical depth behind the much-celebrated sci-fi masterpiece, The Matrix(That, along with the What is real? notion). Gremlins simply presented it 15 years earlier, with no Carrie-Ann Moss in tight latex.Technically speaking the movie is well-made, with cute camera work, and the acting is perfectly fine(Not good, but I think that's due to the rather flat characters).All in all, a good watch for those who have watched it as a kid. I hope there are no Gremlins in my ADSL modem - I'm clicking SUBMIT now )  "},{"Title":"Infectiously funny","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Zach Galligan plays Billy a young bank clerk, when his father (Hoyt Axton) brings him a some what unusual Christmas gift, a creature known as a mogwai which they name Gismo; his life changes dramatically. After a series of accidents Gismo multiply's and the cute furry offspring soon become little green beasts that terrorise the town, leaving Billy and his girlfriend (Phoebe Cates) to find a way to get rid of these gremlins, before everyone winds up dead.Gremlins is infectiously funny and effortlessly entertaining with its blend of cutsie charm and comic book horror. The creatures themselves are excellently brought to life with some masterful puppetry and Joe Dante's direction really does the film justice.This movie is crammed with memorable scenes, subtle parody and excellent, yet quite humorous horror.7/10 "},{"Title":"I Blame My Youth","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I grew up in the 80's. I look back at that time with great memories. From the clothes to the cars to the music and movies, my life was pretty decent back then.I sometimes like to 'relive' my youth and watch some movies that I remember liking as a youngster. Some of the movies still hold up as being great movies...Indiana Jones, Back to the Future, Star Wars, Die Hard to name a few. Others are not so great...Crocodile Dundee, Mannequin and Gremlins fit into this category. The concept of this film is fairly great, and I give thumbs up to Chris Columbus for writing a decent script...well, half a script.The first half of this movie isn't too annoying, but when the Gremlins start their wicked ways, I feel like I'm watching an overblown SNL skit. The amount of juvenile humor is just plain annoying. This is one of those movies that was well talked about back in 1984, but cannot stand the test of time.The highlight of this movie for me this time around was seeing the Back to the Future set being used. Granted, Gremlins came out first, but the clock tower will forever be known for Back to the Future. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun horror movie for teens with a mean streak running alongside the cartoon violence","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy's dad is an inventor and is always looking for cool presents for this son. So just before Christmas, when he finds a strange creature called a mogwai in a dark shop in Chinatown, he just has to have it despite the refusal of the owner. The rules for looking after the mogwai (who they rename Gizmo) are simple but an accident sees some water spilt on him, causing a handful more to reproduce from this one. Billy notices a difference between Gizmo and these new creatures but the full extent of the difference isn't clear until he mistakenly breaks the rule on feeding times and a whole new creature emerges.Criminally screened in the middle of the afternoon by Channel 4 recently (they edited out anything unsuitable for a daytime audience) this film is a lot of fun on many levels. At the start the film exists within an all-American small town with snow on the streets, a sense of community and white picket fences everywhere. It is a world that perhaps owes more to Spielberg more than director Dante but it is a world that the latter takes great pleasure in perverting once the film gets going in earnest. The plot is simple and straightforward, mostly relying on the build-to and delivery of the gremlins' antics and the attempts to stop them. In doing so it produces a great fun horror for older teens and adults. It funnier more than scary but it still manages to do the latter well enough to do the job for the younger element of the audience.The manic humour in the horror is well done and it produces great energy throughout. For adults there is another element in the usual referencing from Dante. It is occasionally clumsy here but mostly it is unobtrusive and funny &#150; Dante never seems to let the film main get away from him and keeps the dark tone going even when his action is a bit silly. The cast are very much secondary to the creatures and their antics (whether it be the cute Gizmo or the much more fun gremlins) and their performances reflect this. Galligan is average while Cates is quite nondescript. Support is OK from the likes of Axton, Feldman and Miller but mostly they are all second fiddle to the creatures.Overall though this is an enjoyable horror movie for younger audiences. It is very, very slightly scary as instead it is darkly funny during the violence. It is engaging even if it gets silly at times and the material is strong enough for an adult audience while also providing lots of film references for those that get them. "},{"Title":"84's E.T. but not as money grossing","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just about the same time, there was a lot of Ghostbusting going around, out came this other cute little blockbuster, that holds it's own, if comparing it to Ghostbusters, where there would of been silent competition going with these two flicks. When salesman who sucks (Axton) buys a really unique present, Gizmo, a cute little gremlin, for his son (likeable Galligan) bedlam happens, when the three vital rules, to taking responsibility for it, are ignored thanks to the neighbor's son, Feldman, who gets kind of too enthused. Soon we have many other angry and vicious Gremlins, unlike the cute Gizmo, and the majority of the blame falls on Galligan's stopped clock, as you're not spose' to feed these suckers after midnight. The little buggers really cause so much strife, in such an original fun movie, where first seeing it at 14, I found the film a little scary and unnerving, where reading the film was too violent, whatever, where at the time it's PG rating was a bit of a worry. You really didn't know where these little buggers would take it. Standouts in the film are of course Polly Holiday as a real nasty pasty and little Feldman who always impresses, whether small role or big role. Corman favorite, Dick Miller was fun to watch too, where personally I felt Galligan wasn't strong enough here, to steer a lead role. Sadly this movie paved the way for some real stinkers, Ghoulies, Troll, and Critters, and there's more. Again Axton's character really ought to get a new line of work. Well formulated movie. "},{"Title":"Horror comedy or didactic comedy?","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a film that marked the imagination of the youth of the eighties and nineties. In this film, the young Billy (Zach Galligan) bought a strange creature, apparently Eastern and property of an old Chinese, who warned him to the grave danger that could come if the creature, Gizmo, was not treated properly. The young man didn't understand the message unable to see that Gizmo wasn't a toy or a pet, he did everything he couldn't and eventually gave rise to a plague of wild monsters, the Gremlins, capable of causing chaos and destruction wherever they go.Directed by Joe Dante, the script was done by Chris Columbus, a producer who specializes himself in teen films ( The Goonies or the early films of Harry Potter franchise) or containing relevant and pedagogical messages (Bicentennial Man, Jingle All the Way, the Help etc.) and with the participation of Steven Spielberg as executive producer, something who helped to sell the film. After all, at that time, he was the most famous among the film's producers.This film is usually classified as a horror comedy but I don't see it from that perspective. For me, it's an educational comedy, a film that uses comedy and soft-horror to teach an important message that we can consider almost ecological certain things, in particular animals, should be treated with respect and care, because the consequences that can come from our negligence are rarely good. It's a family film, dedicated to young people but that will easily please the adult audience. "}{"Title":"With Mogwai Comes Great Responsibility","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This certainly isn't your typical Christmas movie. Obviously it's nowhere near as dark as Black Christmas, but it sure ain't National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation either. It's horror, it's comedy, it's Christmas, it's even philosophical at times. Gizmo is a mogwai - a cute and intelligent little pet of sorts, found by inventor Randall Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) in a basement shop run by a little old Chinese man (Keye Luke). Randall buys (well, acquires really) Gizmo as a Christmas gift for his son Billy (Zach Galligan.) But there are rules that go along with having a mogwai don't expose them to bright light, don't give them water, and don't ever feed them after midnight. Well, poor Gizmo gets water spilled on him, and the chaos begins. Water causes Gizmo to reproduce in some way, and Gizmo's offspring aren't the cute little creatures Gizmo is. They start out as more or less mischievous, then become destructive and ultimately violent. They pretty much take over the little town of Kingston Falls on Christmas Eve, wreaking havoc everywhere.It's hard to figure out who the intended audience is for this. It's too dark to be a kids movie, but the basic story isn't mature enough to be looked at as an adult comedy. And yet - in a strange sort of way - it works. It's a fun movie, with a great musical score and even as the town is wrecked and even as people die you find yourself laughing about it. How can you not laugh when Mrs. Deagle (Polly Holliday) goes flying out the upper floor window of her house!It pays tribute to a few other movies. There's a touch of It's A Wonderful Life here, and Mrs. Deagle was clearly patterned after Miss Gulch (aka the Wicked Witch of the West) from The Wizard Of Oz. And in the midst of the laughs, the mayhem and the violence there's a philosophical basis to this we should try to avoid messing with things we don't understand. Randall was told that he couldn't have the mogwai. But the Chinese man's grandson manages to secretly sell him to Randall anyway, apparently not really understanding the potential consequences, and Randall and Billy are clearly unprepared for dealing with this cute little creature.I thought the performances in this were average. Nobody was outstanding, but the story was certainly a creative fantasy, and watching this 30 years later I was struck by some of Randall's inventions. He invented a sort of Keurig machine. He invented a sort of cordless phone. He invented a sort of smokeless ash tray. None of them worked very well - but they all came to pass! Give writer Chris Columbus some points for predicting some of the future. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Monster Christmas Party","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As much as like the cheerful kind of Christmas films, personally I'm more fascinated with those bizarre ones that really put the yang in the holiday. This film though is what started that trend for me, I've seen this film when I was 7, I loved it then and I love it now it's not just one of my favorite Chirstmas films but one of my favorite films of all time.I really love the story which I'll admit is a very unusual and really daring idea for a Christmas film but it really worked and I loved it because it was just a change of pace for me. For it's time mixing horror and Christmas was really unheard of (it's still rarely done to this day), but it turned out to be a great combo where it not just delivers some frights but also smiles and managed to still emit that warm Christmas feel if you can believe that. Production value is excellent done on a big budget but used correctly, The creature effects are fantastic because their all practical, there is no CGI bull crap. The designs of both the Mogwai and Gremlins are great, they look like animals they could exist in our modern world. And the animatronics and pupetering is perfect, from their facial expressions giving each of them a persona and their movements.The voice acting for the creatures is amazing. From comedian Howie Mandel for Gizmo which is just spot on because each sound just sprouts cuteness, of course he used some of those same tones for his voice acting role for Bobby in the animated show Booby's World (another cute little guy). And of course Frank Wekler as the Gremlin Stripe is just fantastic, Frank Wekler is my favorite voice actor this guy is just a chameleon of voices, let alone the fact that I'm a Transformers fan and on a side note Peter Culen another Transformers alumi also does voice work as one of the Gremlins so that's cool. But Frank's voice also fits like a glove for this character as it just emits menace, mischievousness, and nastiness.I really like the small town they use because it just has that sense of familiarity, I myself have lived and grew up in places like Kingston Falls. And the music is great as it's by one of my favorite movie composers Jerry Goldsmith, that theme song is one of my favorite themes of all time.The characters are great from the creatures like Gizmo whom is just cute both physically but mainly in personality, you just want to hug and keep the little guy close. His character is a bit mischievous but has just this unending innocence as he just wants to have fun. Really love how he is fascinated and slightly influence by pop culture which makes the creature relatable because that's like with any of us as we see him watch some racing film staring Clark Gable that really gets Gizmo interested in driving a car of his own which he of course does near the end.Stripe and the Gremlins, their one of my favorite fictional villains and monsters. Their just fun villains because despite how much trouble and chaos they cause which is what they practically thrive on they just love to have fun. From scarfing down food and candy, playing video games, to watching Snow White. This sort of gives the Gremlins a bit of relatablity because these are the kind of things we love doing the most with our lives.However what also drives the movie are the human characters, their actually well rounded and a bit three dimensional which makes us care for them and feel like what they do and go though in this ordeal matters.Billy's dad is great, his character may have been a partial influence for Steve Urkel as he is an inventor but unfortunately not a very successful one because despite how creative his inventions are they don't work. But that never gets him down, he keeps trying because he passionate about his role it's one of the things he does best in life.Kate is also great, I'll admit I had a crush on actress Pheobe Cates when I was a kid. She's that girl next door kind of person, whom is sweet but also really sympathetic because she isn't having the easiest time as she is struggling both professionally and personally.But of course my favorite human character is Billy, I really like this protagonist because I can really relate to the guy. We see he's doesn't really have all the breaks but he has big dreams, as he is an artist he is constantly drawing and he's a fan of graphic novels/comic books, it's like with me I'm into comic books/graphic novels also and I constantly write. So he's hopping to be a comic book artist or in some profession where he can do one of the things he does best in life to be somebody, all he needs is a chance to find a way to step up. You can say the predicament he's in is that chance in one hell of a way, because we see him actually stepping up becoming somebody a hero.There are lots of great scenes, one favorite scene of mine which is Billy's mom confortation with the Gremlins which I thought was suspenseful fun and of course it had my favorite Gremlin kill which was death by Microwave, it was gross but cool seeing the Gremlin just explode like bad leftovers. That bar room scene which is hilarious because it plays out like a giant Mad Magazine or Where's Waldo comic illustration.So if your a horror fan and love Christmas then this is your party, and happy holidays.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Good luck *not* getting the theme song stuck in your mind","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A small cinema nearby showed this last night, it was the first time I have watched this since I was a kid, and the first time ever in a cinema, and enjoyed it a bit more now than I did then. Playing off the idea of gremlins wreaking havoc on unsuspecting people (like that old Bugs Bunny cartoon did, and the Terror At 40.000 Feet episode of The Twilight Zone) this shows a sickeningly cute little creature multiplying and mutating into a mischievous little grotesqueries, who, well, wreak havoc on unsuspecting people in a Wonderful Life-like suburb on Christmas Eve. The town and its people are straight out of a Hallmark greeting card, quite a contrast to the gooey, slimy effects. As naive, childlike Billy, Zach Galligan is good, but also an odd character, old enough to work at a bank and go to a bar, yet he lives in his parents' attic and read comic books with 12 years old Corey Feldman. The mother has a great confrontation with a couple of the little freaks in her kitchen, and manages to use the moronic appliances built by her well meaning, yet dim, inventor-husband to kill them. Also, early in the film, a sign outside the bank reads something to the effect of Plan for the future, which is most amusing because Back To The Future was partly filmed at the same locations as this, and even features that small supporting character, Frances Lee McCain . "},{"Title":"A fun little horror movie!","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Young banker Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) is given a pet creature by his father, inventor Randall Peltzer (Hoyt Axton), for Christmas. However, after inadvertently breaking the rules concerning the creature of no light, no water and no food after midnight, the creature multiplies into mischievous, threatening and dangerous little monsters.This movie has a good mixture of comedic and scary moments, from the creatures attacking the people and the small town to Randall's funny, malfunctioning inventions. The acting was pretty good and seem genuine - not overly done or overzealous - just right. The plot was fast-paced and to-the-point and the story was just full of surprising moments; you'll never know where one of those Gremlins will jump out at you. And, Jerry Goldsmith's music score had just the right touch for this movie - it's catchy, creepy, jumpy and crafty-sounding - perfect for the gremlins.I wished the story showed more aftermath and some sort of an emergency response after the gremlins started attacking, rather than resorting to the tactics of the two useless sheriffs. Overall, though, this is a fun little horror movie and that is great laugh-out-loud and creepy entertainment.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Ferbie's Gone Wild!","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It took me forever to finally watch this 1984 cult-classic comedy/horror. The only thing I knew before viewing this film was that it included these ferbie-like creatures and that something happens to when you add water to them. Little did I know that these cuddly weird beasts can morph into something grotesque. - Well, not really - I believe they mention that these are the true GREMLINS.Now, the story begins with a father (Hoyt Axton; great performer), an inventor, comes across mogwai, a little furry, two-legged creature with ears like a bat, and decides that it is the perfect Christmas gift for his (17+ year old) son, Billy (played by the very UNTALANTED, Zach Galligan).The situation takes a turn for the worst after Billy becomes more attached to his new PET-best friend who is now named Gizmo CREDITS by his father) who begins procreating more clones of himself after an accidental spill of water on Billy's desk. This is around the time when little Cory Feldman comes into the picture. // **As time progresses, we find out the true meaning behind these BRUTES and what purpose lies ahead of them.***I found the ACTING in this film a bit campy and childish (amateur), as if it actually were made for kids. The only good acting jobs I see are done by Hoyt Axton, who I have already mentioned, and our lead damsel in distress, Phoebe Cates (Fast Times at Ridgemont High, 1982), who plays Kate Beringer, Billy's love interest. Other then that, I was not impressed.***What did grab my attention was the SET DISGN!! Oh man! for an 80s (Holiday) flick, this project really created a sense of style. I mean, with all the X-Mas lights and the changing from cloudy-green grass to snow-weather, it is ALLURING. +++ PLUS, the animatronics they (must have) used to design the gremlins was, still for this time (2015), really well done. I do give props to the guys who help design those suckers.I give this horror-com/VERY CHEESY movie a 6 out of 10 on IMDb. It did satisfy my needs, but I really did not think it was worth it too much to see. I could have lived without it; regardless I am very happy that I have finally embarked upon it and know what all the hype was about.-- Michael Mendez "},{"Title":"A cute movie","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I rented this film because I saw it sitting on the shelf at a movie store and because it was recommended to me by a friend. it was a cute film. It was released way back in 1984 and was directed by Joe Dante and was written by Chris Columbus. It tells the story of a older man who happens to be an inventor who buys a Gremlin for his son for his birthday. However, He must remember three very important rules 1. Don't let them near any light. 2. Don't get them wet. 3. Don't feed them after midnight. When his son accidentally breaks the third rule, they start to multiply, and they are not at cute and innocent as before. I won't ruin anymore so see the film instead of reading this lol.The acting is good and the story is interesting. The Gremlins are very cleaver and mischievous. You will like this film if you like 1980's comedy's. I give Gremlins a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Remember the Rules.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins (1984) Dir Joe Dante / Cast William Ragsdale, Phoebe Cates, Hoyt Axton, Dick Miller, Polly Holiday Creative little monster comedy about small brown and white furry creatures with bat ears called Mogwai. It regards failure of technology and opens with Hoyt Axton playing a struggling inventor roaming Chinatown for a Christmas gift for his son. The store keeper refuses the sale but the owner's son sell the Mogwai Gizmo with three rules. First, do not expose them to bright light because it will kill them. Second, do not get them wet because they will multiply. Third, do not feed them after midnight because they will cocoon and become nasty slimy green monsters. Director Joe Dante brings the same humour and horror that he applied successfully to The Howling. Unfortunately the violence should not be subject to children whom it seems to appeal to. William Ragsdale plays Billy, Gizmo's new owner. He is an artist and works at the bank where he is sighted with ridicule by the ruthless Mrs. Deagle. Phoebe Cates plays his girlfriend who gives reasons for disliking Christmas. Axton is hilarious as the loving father yet failed inventor including his Bathroom Buddy. Dick Miller steals scenes as the drunken Mr. Futterman. Polly Holiday plays the ruthless Mrs. Deagle. Creature effects are inventive with a nifty community that envisions prosperity despite the mess. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Judging by its horror comedy reputation, I didn't expect to like it at all. Mostly it is not much of a horror. Yes, there are some horror elements, but mostly it is a light hearted and funny movie about some cute monsters with a frenetic pace.That is maybe one of my complaints. Maybe it could have gone a darker route. I guess Spielberg's involvement eliminates any chance of there being a darker edge to the movie. Instead it is a somewhat funny movie. I did like one thing though. It starts out as a very corny movie with really sickly sweet characters. Then it finally stops messing around with all the cuteness and gets going with the action.Once it starts with the action, then anything goes. Woman in wheelchair being thrown out, explosions and so on. There is never a boring moment with all the comedy that is going on. Especially the gremlin smoking three cigarettes and another one collapsing after drinking so much alcohol! Obviously with all this stuff, any of the remaining horror elements are gone. I didn't complain since it was so much fun to watch.The water reproduction aspect was not a strong point of the movie. Frankly this could easily get out of hand. I am not sure how anybody could have prevented the gremlins from multiplying. The gremlins that cut wires and did other intelligent things were not able to multiply enough to beat Billy and his family. That is not exactly believable. Maybe they should have had another reason.But overall these absurdities don't matter since it is so much fun to watch! I liked it.7/10 "},{"Title":"cute ,clever ,mischievous and intelligent  are the gremlins","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The actual mogwai is what the gremlins are before they transform after gizmo's get water on him or feed after a certain time this is a anti Christmas scary movie for the kids of the 80s this film was fun and a little scary back then when these kids movie were all the rage don't get these cute animals wet or bright light when his peltzer senior goes to Chinatown with his inventions he is coaxed into buying gizmo's and those the mayhem begins gremlins are hilariously and wickedly scary Joe Dantes direction is brilliant were the special effects are amazingly 80s and these cute furry friends are mysteriously cigarette and alcohol addicted to danger hiding in plane site this film feels like a Spielberg film and its only 1hr 40 I hope they make a 3rd in 3d what a film that would be and it made 148mill in America it was a surprise that it made that amount in 1984 "},{"Title":"Quite scary for a children's horror movie","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Randall Peltzer is a traveling salesman for his poorly-conceived gadgets looking for a Christmas gift for his son Billy (Zach Galligan). While in Chinatown, he finds an adorable creature called mogwai. The old man refuses to sell but the little boy said they need the money. There are 3 rules to owning a mogwai. There can be no bright light, no water and no feeding after midnight. They live in the small town of Kingston Falls. Pete Fountaine (Corey Feldman) is a neighborhood kid. Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates) is the nice girl. Gerald Hopkins (Judge Reinhold) is the ambitious climber. There's a wicked rich old Mrs. Deagle looking to put Billy's dog down. When Pete spills water on mogwai, he multiplies and five more pop out.This starts as a great children's horror at an idyllic small town with a cuddly teddy bear. The movie builds tension as Billy cluelessly break the rules. It builds to a fun ride that is actually very scary. For the younger kids, this is probably a little too much. People do die and the Gremlins get killed in splattery ways. The tension gets very high at times while at other times, it is very comedic. "}{"Title":"A Cute Family Comedy-Horror Film","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was about 12 years old when Gremlins first came out... I recall seeing it on the big screen and loved it! Back then, I wanted one like Gizmo - and I have a strong feeling other kids had a similar wish about the cute and cuddly little creature.I have recently re-watched this movie and I was quite entertained by it after all these years. What I found most humorous is idea that you should not feed them after midnight -- what about timezone? Are these little guys able to know the difference? LOL.Gremlins is a very fun movie. In my opinion, Gremlins is a family comedy-horror film - it's good for all ages.I will have to rate this film 7.5/10 -- for the cuteness. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but classic family horror film","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this back when I was eight, on Christmas Eve, and I loved it immediately, and just recently watched it a second time. I'm not one to buy into all that jolly Christmas cheer crud but this movie surprised me with its comedy, originality, soundtrack and acting.Billy Peltzer is a student (not sure whether college or high school), who works at a bank and likes his colleague, Kate. They work at a strict bank and Billy is always being harassed by a dumpy old crone, Mrs. Deagle, although she makes it look like Billy's dog is to blame. During the holidays, Deagle is twice as nasty, from refusing to give money to a mom with two hungry kids to telling Billy that she'll put his dog in a spin dryer on high heat.A few days before Christmas, Billy is given a strange otherworldly pet from his inventor father, something he got in Chinatown called a mogwai. Billy names the mogwai Gizmo (no idea why), and things are looking up for him. He even asks Kate out on a date and she accepts. However, Gizmo gets water on him, and somehow it makes him reproduce instantly with a gang of evil mogwais. After they are fed after midnight, they soon become gremlins, monsters that wreak havoc on the entire town.Just pointing out because I'm tired of hearing about how cute and adorable Gizmo is, I hated Gizmo, thought it looked like a messed up anthropomorphic Furby puppet. It was more the story I really enjoyed, and the dangerous but comedic little pranks the gremlins come up with. I also really loved the soundtrack, it was pretty catchy but not too dorky. The acting was great, although I mistook Billy Peltzer as being acted by the actor of Mario from The Little Girl who Lives Down the Lane instead of the real actor, Zach Galligan.I think it's an appropriate film for kids, no worse than anything on TV today. But IF YOU'RE A PARENT I SUGGEST WATCHING IT YOURSELF FIRST TO DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT IT'S APPROPRIATE FOR YOUR KID. I think it was originally intended to be a film for adults. Kate's story about how she lost her father on Christmas was also very disturbing, not scary, just incredibly disturbing.My only complaint was that the mischievously cute portrayal of the gremlins, especially in the bar scene, was a little too much, and very cheesy to the point where it wasn't even funny anymore, just annoying. Aside from that, Gremlins is a great movie, hilarious, adventurous, strange and creepy. If you want to celebrate Christmas with a movie but you hate the trash like Prancer or All Dogs Christmas Carol, check this one out! "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I wasn't really sure if I'd like the movie. It's a film that fails to take advantage of its cool premise, that makes you wish they had done better rather than spoiling a good idea. A boy inadvertently breaks three important rules concerning his new pet and unleashes a horde of malevolently mischievous monsters on a small town. This is well worth seeing. With a little more life this would have been a great movie. There isn't much else to say besides, go see it for yourself! I thought this film was fantastic in some ways and terrible in others. The flow of the plot is painfully cliché, up until the end where things are pretty unpredictable. I was lucky enough to see this film for free on television. "},{"Title":"A memorable cult classic remember never feed them after midnight!","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I still remember this 1984 cult classic called Gremlins from watching it as a kid till still watching a viewing from time to time the film is memorable and downright fun a good little treat and a funny and strange tale involving little green monsters, and last but not least don't forget crew leader the mean stripe! Set in the made up town of Kingston Falls havoc starts to develop during the Christmas season after a nice guy yet wimp bank teller Billy(Zack Galligan)has broken 3 important rules that involve a pet he received from his dad Rand Peltzer(Hoyt Axton). The whole town even Billy's crush and cute girl Kate(Phoebe Cates)start to notice the appearance of little green monsters all over the streets as they go into stores and homes to wreck havoc and do bad destruction. As after the rules of feeding after midnight and exposure to bright light and water formed the Gremlins and ring leader stripe it has the whole town on high alert leading to funny and good little battles with green monsters! Overall cute, fun, and crazy little film directed form Joe Dante that proves follow those three little rules most important never feed them after midnight! "},{"Title":"Gremlins","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are so many types of monsters around in the film industry. Godzilla and King Kong are the type of monsters that are massively big and known to cause terror to large cities. You can also say a monster is something like Dracula, Freddy Krueger or just a murdering villain. In my mind, you can't always put a type of monster into a certain genre and this is a type of discussion that could last for a while. Fitting into that long discussion should be the 1984 film Gremlins, a monster film in many ways. Inventor Randy Pultzer (Hoyt Axton) while in Chinatown gets an animal known as a mogwai as a early Christmas present for his son Billy (Zach Galligan). A mogwai could be described as very small and fury creature who's owner must observe strict rules regarding their handling or negative consequences will occur. For example, they can't be fed after midnight, can't be exposed to bright lights nor can they come into contact with water. If these rules are not observed basically you get monster terror.To say a mogwai is one certain type of creature would wrong. A mogwai is a type of creature that could appear in a Saturday morning cartoon or a family film but once those mogwai handling rules are broken, he turns into the exact opposite who could be something very R rated. It is then a type of creature wanting to cause harm to the town and also a very ugly looking thing. The actions scenes involving them interestingly combine horror and comedy. The scenes involving them are quite fun and also ahead of it's time with some great special effects.That said, there are some plot holes in these scenes. Being set at Christmas time, many of the action scenes are set in the snow. So how can the gremlins run through snow as they do when you know snow is filled with water which is against the mogwai rules? You can't feed a mogwai past a certain time but the film gives us no clue to what time zone we are in and if you think about it, anywhere in the world it's past midnight somewhere?As any good film should do, this film give the cast many things to do. Billy is our leader and main fighter for the town. Phoebe Cates playing Kate Beringer is the Billy's love interest. She is very likable and also very sexy as always. Randall Peltzer is the father who I'm sure feels some sort of blame towards the creatures creating havoc in his town and his character does have some funny moments with his strange and worthless inventions. Even Corey Feldman shows up as the character Pete who is like your little brother in that he is highly annoying and just seems to roam around without direction but you like him though.Gremlins apparently was one of the movies which introduced the PG-13 rating. It is a film that in some respects defines 1980's era films. It is a film that I enjoyed more when I was a little boy but the teenager in me still found something in it that I liked. Gremlins would surely work for a modern family audience today. This is a film that is as powerful then as it is now. Monster film joy. "},{"Title":"We're here...","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't ever get it wet. Keep it away from from bright light. And no matter how much it cries, no matter how much t begs...never feed it after midnight. With these instructions, young Billy Peltzer takes possession of his cuddly new pet. Billy will get a whole lot more than he bargained for.This film starred Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates & Hoyt Axton.Gremlins is hilariously scary and wickedly scary. If you haven't seen it already, you should watch it, Joe Dante did an excellent job in directing this film and so did Steven Spielberg did a great job in producing this film as well.***/***** Good film. "},{"Title":"Get Out Of My Kitchen!","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The star of ''Gremlins'' is none other than the mogwai, a small, furry, fictitious creature that looks something like a cuddly teddy bear with the ears of a rabbit, a Bambilike nose, eyes as round and deep and dark as glass buttons, a sweet disposition and a physical nature more unstable than hydrogen gas.At the beginning of the film, when the mogwai is introduced, there are the three warnings that come with it keep the creature away from direct light, never to allow it to have contact with water and, above all, never feed it after midnight.The first half of the movie is the best. That's when we meet the little gremlins, which are unbearably cute. They have impossibly big eyes, they're cuddly and friendly, and they would make ideal pets except for the fact that they hate bright lights, should not be allowed to get wet, and must never be fed after midnight. And in the second half of the movie, after the gremlins have gotten wet, been fed after midnight, etc., they turn into truly hateful creatures that look like the monster.This is just like a fable a lesson for kids to learn about responsibility and the issues that comes with owning a new pet, especially one that is uncommon in household society. The movie exploits every trick in the monster-movie book. We have scenes where monsters pop up in the foreground, and others where they stalk us in the background, and others when they drop into the frame and scare the Shinola out of everybody. And the movie itself turns nasty, especially in a scene involving a monster that gets slammed in a microwave oven.It's a clever twist in the following aspects of movie-going clichés Christmas, families, monsters, retail stores, movies, boogeymen. Highly recommendable and fun to enjoy! "},{"Title":"One of the best Christmas movies","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is essentially a kids movie for adults. This factor has probably got a lot to do with its producer, Steven Spielberg, who pulled a very similar trick with the earlier Poltergeist. Where that movie was directed by The Texas Chain Saw Massacre director Tobe Hooper, Gremlins was helmed by Joe Dante director of The Howling. But both Poltergeist and Gremlins feel like Spielberg movies and the influence of the horror directors is very watered down. I don't think Spielberg was a passive influence as producer; he seems to have been more like the actual director.Whatever the case, Gremlins focuses on an everyman suburban family in a fantastical situation, something Spielberg seems to have had an affinity with. While it is a horror movie, it's never exactly disturbing or frightening. Having said that, it is an odd combination that is occasionally jarring, such as a kitchen sequence where three Gremlins are dispatched of quickly and gorily &#x96; one is stabbed to death, another is chopped up in a blender and a third is frazzled in a microwave oven. Moments like that, along with scenes of the Gremlins drinking, smoking, killing and flashing &#x96; led to it being problematic with some parents back in the day who thought it was going to be like E.T., which is hardly surprising seeing as the cute and cuddly Mogwai is pretty much in Ewok territory. But really, it's the evil Gremlins who make this movie entertaining. They constantly laugh along to their evil deeds and generally act bad just for the hell of it. What helps matters a lot is that the creature effects are very impressive. Despite these monsters being more or less puppets, they are very well rendered indeed.The family that the film is based around are typical enough. The father is an inventor, or more truthfully a very bad inventor. His long suffering family are forced to try out his proto-type inventions around the house. This leads to a few funny scenes where the devices function disastrously. Early on its made abundantly clear that there are three hugely important rules connected to owning Mogwais &#x96; don't expose them to bright lights, don't get them wet and don't feed them after midnight (I always wondered even as a kid that that last rule was a little disconcertingly vague, I mean it's never exactly specified when you can actually start feeding them again!). Anyway the son, alongside his sidekick Corey Feldman, manages to break these rules in about twenty-five minutes. They don't hose the Mogwai down after feeding him pizza at 1am in the morning with a strobe light operating in the background but their idiotic actions really aren't a million miles away from this. But, hey, moronic behaviour is a very useful plot device for a horror film and it does allow for the mayhem to kick into full gear.Gremlins is certainly one of the most consistently entertaining Christmas movies. The holiday season backdrop actually adds quite a lot to the feel of the film to be fair. It's a pretty dumb movie but made with a lot of skill, which is quite a good combination in the final analysis. "},{"Title":"Mega madness, super badness.....","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy Peltzer is given a creature called a Mogwai by his father for Christmas, but he is unaware of the carnage he is about to encounter. There is a huge responsibility in looking after Gizmo as there are certain rules which must be followed. The Mogwai must be kept away from bright light, never made wet and never, ever be fed after midnight. When an accident occurs involving Gizmo and water, the next evolution stage of the Mogwai appears, and it isn't nice at all.....1984 was the year for movies. The majority of the movie that defined the eighties were made this year. Beverly Hills Cop, The Terminator, Ghostbusters, and Temple Of Doom to name a few. And obviously this movie.But the difference between those movies, and this movie is the fact that this doesn't hold up as much as it used to. I know its nearly 30 years ago, but the effects are really poor, especially toward the end with all the stop motion going on.But what makes them really and, is the fact that the actual puppets are amazing, and the animatronics are seamless, which makes the stop motion all the more poorer.The cast are fine, and the atmosphere of the film is pretty campy and definitely homaging B-movies, but it all happens in fits and starts.It's still a fun movie, the Bar scene is still the most bizarre, surreal thing I've ever scene, but the rest of the film just doesn't hold up. "},{"Title":"Bright Light Blub Above","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back when I was a little tyke, I was never allowed to see Gremlins because the little critters were deemed satanic and it wasn't until I was in my 20s, or a decade or more past the movie's release, I finally saw it the first time.This re-viewing is only my second time and I have to say, I wasn't/am not the biggest fan, but I sure did like and admire the attention to detail, creativity, humor and the fact it's an roundabout remake (or, homage?) to one of my favorite monster movies, The Blob.The odd thing about this flick was that it started off as a comedy with tons of sight gags, cute and imaginative scenes and nods to multiple of movies, including producer Steven Spielberg's own movies. But&#x85;then it turned dark, disturbing, actually gruesome and I'm shocked it only got slapped with a PG-Rating. Granted, in 1984, the PG-13 was just coming about, and though Rated-R would've been harsh and a box-office kill, PG was really generous.A little Mogwai creature is brought home by a comically horrible inventor father and given to his way-older-looking-than-he-was son (the actor was 20, but looked 30,) but with three simple rules it cannot touch water, it doesn't like bright lights or the deathly sunlight and don't feed it after midnight. Naturally, the (supposedly) teen son breaks all of these rules and after the water multiples the Mogwai, or the better and cuter name for him Gizmo and they're all fed after midnight, with the exception of Gizmo, they metamorphose into what my mother referred to as little Satan demons, and attack the town. It's up to man-boy, his equally older-looking teen girlfriend and Gizmo to stop the madness.Oh, those rules. While simple and a fun addition to this well-written script, the restrictions/instructions made no sense, with the exception of the bright light. Water is everywhere and in almost every &#x96; if not every, food and liquid. So what would you ever feed it? If they elaborated, like Don't get water on or in it, but you can feed him dehydrated foods&#x85; And about this midnight rule&#x85;Which midnight? (They actually bring this flaw up in the sequel, but for this movie's sake...) Is this a curse and is only good for the time zone the Mogwai's in? And it's never, ever, brought up UNTIL WHEN. Again, elaborate Don't feed it after midnight, to say, six in the morning.I might be looking in too deep in a movie that was supposed to be half light/half horror, all entertainment, but I seriously couldn't get past those open-ended and vague rules.Okay, fine, I could get past them &#x96; eventually, and I did have a good time in this totally 80s movie. Overall, it's not a bad flick, and the invention of both Gizmo and the eventual Satan's little evil fiends, was worth the watch. Especially, cute little Gizmo. Recommended if you haven't seen it, or if you want to experience 80s nostalgia. (That is, if you were alive then&#x85;&#x85;Oh, I'll shut up now.)* * * Final thoughts Many years following, and equally since, my only other viewing of this movie, I was with someone in a dark room and he flicked on the lights. Since my eyes needed and didn't get split second adjustment, without thought and only on instinct, I shouted out, but with a tiny voice Bright lights! Bright lights! He couldn't stop laughing and though he remembered it, I couldn't even recall where I got that line. Now, I appreciate it more after seeing it a second time. "}{"Title":"great 80's horror comedy about little monsters","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really liked this movie. For a movie made in the 1980's the effects were very good. The acting was great and the gremlins are hilarious. The comedy really works the way so many other movies have tried to work (and failed). Its squadron of knock-offs are entertaining but not as good, My favorite being Critters. Critters also works but still, it was not as good a movie. The others being Ghoulies, Ghoulies II, Ghoulies III, Ghoulies IV, Munchies, and I guess Troll. Gremlins also had a sequel, which declined in quality. I think it could have a 3rd installment as long as it didn't go computer animation. Gremlins is the type of movie that can be seen again and again and doesn't get old . So I totally recommend it for everyone 10+. "},{"Title":"Christmas turns into Halloween.","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins has a simple message for American suburbanites. Christmas is cute and cuddly until you get water on it! And if you feed it after midnight, Christmas turns into Halloween. As you sit down to watch this classic film, you immediately know that something bad is going to happen when a big dumb white guy shows up in Chinatown. Peltzer is a putz who sells gizmos, hence when he stumbles onto the furry ball of fun that is a Mogwai, he sees it fit to classify it as another little doohickey that does more harm than good. And therein lies your theme. Gremlins is essentially about man vs. nature and when nature is done destroying technology, it goes after the man and it strikes him right where he lives ...at the bar and the department store. Putzler brings Giz home to his son Billy who immediately gets to breaking all the rules. When Gizmo gets wet, he gives birth to a mischievous group of Mogsters, among them, Stripe. Stripe is a sadistic stalwart who rules over the quartet of Moggies and immediately makes it known to Gizmo that he rejects any familial obligation. Whether Gizmo qualifies as Stripe's father or brother is not quite clear. Billy decides that it's a good idea to give one of Gizmo's siblings to a science teacher so he can poke it, prod it and keep it locked in a cage. Time to break another rule as Billy feeds the Moggles after midnight. After that, Xmas trees attack, a Gremlin goes goo in the microwave and it's a grim grempocalypse for Kingston Falls. The Gremlins multiply and once they get tired of reeking merry mayhem and turning electric chairlifts into catapults, it's off to the cinema to sing along to Snow White. Unfortunately, Billy and girlfriend Kate decide they're gonna poop on the party and ruin the movie (the Snow White movie). Can't give away anymore. Watch it! Love it! Follow the rules! "},{"Title":"Out of the two GREMLINS films, this one is arguably the best!","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Purchasing a weird, but cute & cuddly creature named Mogwai from a Chinatown curio-shop owners son (the owner refused to sell) who along with his dad needed the money, mediocre inventor RAND PELTZER brings the creature home as a Christmas present for his son Billy. Billy takes an instant liking to the creature & re-names him Gizmo, however he soon fails to obey the rules given to him by his father that he received from the shop owner, like not allowing water to spill on him or else it will spawn more, not so nice offspring (which is what happens) or feed them after midnight (again of which happens) because this causes them to morph into giant, slimy turd look a like cocoons, that turns the cute but mean spirited mogwai into vicious giant Gremlins that soon bring their own brand of Holiday cheer on Christmas Eve when they break free & multiply even more creatures like them, in order to kill & terrorize the town, the only way to stop them is light (another thing they are not to be exposed to) or in a more graphic fashion, killing them with whatever sharp instrument you have on you. But can Billy & his love interest, not to mention Gizmo, put a stop to the evil creatures reign of terror? or will they be the ones that wind up being killed? GREMLINS is a classic film that practically everyone has seen or at least heard of. It deserves it's positive reception to. GREMLINS makes for a highly enjoyable watch, it's got a goofy sense of humour, not to mention a bit of mean streak running in it, which isn't to tough to take, since the people who wind up being terrorized (in particular a snooty neighbour of the hero) is usually the ones that get terrorized by the creatures. JOE DANTE directs the film with an assured hand, able to deliver in almost every department. The special effects creatures are well designed & articulated, easily some of special effects wizard CHRIS WALAS best work. The acting worked great for the film & despite it's goofy charms & somewhat playful attitude, the film has the odd jump or moment of suspense & always something hilarious or over the top to keep one entertained. Highly recommended for those who haven't seen it. GREMLINS is a fun time. Followed by GREMLINS 2.**** stars "},{"Title":"80's Classic That's One Of Dante's Best!","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Zach Galligan, Hoyt Axton, Phoebe Cates, Frances Lee McCain, Polly Holliday, Judge Reinhold, Corey Feldman and Dick Miller star in Joe Dante's 1984 horror comedy. This begins with inventor, Rand Peltzer (Axton) buying his son, Billy (Galligan) a cute creature called a Mogwai for Christmas. He learns the important rules of not getting it wet, keeping it out of sunlight and never feeding it after midnight. The rest of the film takes place in his town, Kingston Falls where we meet Billy who works as a bank teller and Cates (Fast Times at Ridgemont High) plays his co-worker & love-interest, Kate. Soon, Rand gives Billy the Mogwai named, Gizmo and explains the 3 rules to him. The rules are broken when Gizmo accidentally gets wet multiplying mischievous monsters led by their leader, Stripe that begin wreaking havoc. Billy, Kate and Gizmo try to stop them before they destroy the whole town. McCain (Back to the Future) plays Billy's mother, Holliday (Alice) plays ruthless, rich woman, Ruby Deagle, Reinhold (Beverly Hills Cop) plays Billy's obnoxious co-worker, Gerald, Feldman (The Goonies) plays Billy's young friend, Pete and Miller (The Howling) plays Billy's Neighbor, Murray Futterman. I've liked this since I was a kid, the cast is great, Chris Walas did a terrific job creating the Gremlins, Howie Mandel (Little Monsters) is great as the voice of Gizmo and who can forget Jerry Goldsmith's excellent score. I recommend this 80's classic that's one of Dante's best. "},{"Title":"Excellent childhood favourite","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The early 1980's were an furtive time for American genre cinema. Of course Steven Spielberg had his hand in most of those pies, with his name emblazoned above all the film titles. Whilst this is particularly annoying, the fact of the matter is, he did get some great projects made, such as Poltergeist (1982) and Back to the Future (1985) et al; plus a little gem of a horror-comedy written by then unknown, Chris Columbus and directed by Roger Corman luminary Joe Dante Gremlins. As with many of the genre films made at the time, their influence of 1950's science fiction was obvious (and of course the film makers of the time would have grown up in the first decade of the popularisation of television). And Gremlins is no different, with a range of references, blinding obvious. In two scenes for example, we see on television screens, two iconic movies from the past, It's a Wonderful Life (1946) and Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956) The former film is represented by the picture postcard image of wholesome Americana - a Norman Rockwell painting showing a quaint little village square. Kingston Falls is the setting, and the time of year is Christmas.The story is a simple tale of a father, Rand Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) purchasing something different for his son, Billy (Zach Galligan). On his travels as an inventor and salesman, Rand stumbles across a small basement shop in Chinatown, where he buys an unknown species of animal, the overwhelmingly cute Mogwai. However, the pet comes with three very important rules Never expose him to light, especially sunlight; never get him wet; and never feed him after midnight. Unfortunately, two of these rules are broken in a series of misdemeanours, and eventually unleash the anarchistic monsters of the films title. Of course the idea of a gremlin is no new thing, as is stated by Mr Futterman (played by Dante regular, and always brilliant, Dick Miller), the gremlin was a creature that had a fetish for interrupting the workings of technology during World War II. In fact the first recorded use of Gremlin was in a 1929 poem written for the men of the Royal Air Force stationed in Malta. But I digress.Needless to say, once the gremlins are unleashed - led by Stripe - the quiet town is turned into chaos, disrupted beyond belief of Christmas Eve. The scaly green monsters cause car accidents by tampering with traffic lights; the local property owner and general icon of evil, Mrs Deagle (Polly Holliday), the seasons Scrooge in female form, is sent flying out of her window on a chair lift. You get the idea. The job of thwarting the monstrous tykes is left to Billy, Gizmo (the Mogwai - as if you didn't know!), and Kate, Billy's new girlfriend (played by the stunning Phoebe Cates).Released on the same weekend as another '80's comedy classic, Ghostbusters, the film became a bit of an issue. Here was a Christmas film, like Ghostbusters, that mixed comedy with horror, but was packaged as a kids film. The massive campaign of merchandising was everywhere. From cuddly toys to Pez dispensers, every kid was able to participate in the ideas of the film. In America, the film was released in the equivalent PG rating, causing problems when young children saw it. This film eventually led to the MPAA (The Motion Picture Association of America) created the PG-13 rating. In the UK the film was released as a 15; therefore, I was unable to see the film at the cinema (you can't imagine how badly I wanted to see it, after all as an 8 year old, seeing the trailers on TV, there were little monsters in it!). And of course the BBFC (British Board of Film Certification) didn't act on this (despite a huge media frenzy), and would not create the 12 certificate until 1989's Batman.The film could be read as American fear of foreign technology. The Mogwai/Gremlin do originate form China (how ironic they are soon to be the worlds super power), but the duality of a cute creature manifesting itself as a anarchic monster, is representative of that view of the orient A seemingly traditional continent complete with archaic practises, that also produce some of the most advance technology around. Maybe too hard a pill to swallow from the land that brought us Hollywood!I genuinely loved this film when I was a kid (I did manage to see it before the video release on a very bad VHS pirate video - shhh!), and I have to say that it has not lost any of it's charm, humour, and fun. The film holds so many iconic images probably for most of my generation. Well, we did collect the stickers to complete the Panini album. And the sweets; the dolls; the T-Shirts etc, etc etc..... Excellent Christmas fare!www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Fun for the Whole Family","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Watch this if...you are looking for a fun horror movie that doesn't take itself too serious.Acting/Casting 6* - Probably the weakest aspect of the movie, but the acting isn't terrible. Everyone does a fairly solid job considering they are being terrorized by little green monsters.Directing/Cinematography/Technical 8* - Really nice job directing and the Gremlins look great and convincing. The music played is great and memorable and fits the movie well.Plot/Characters 8* - Extremely original concept that manages to fit into the horror genre, but provides plenty of comedy as well. A boy gets an exotic pet and doesn't follow the rules, which leads to a lot of trouble for all. The characters are memorable and you won't forget most of them once you see this once.Entertainment Value 7* - It was entertaining as a kid and remains entertaining as an adult. I recommend to anyone looking for a fun couple of hours.My Score 6+8+8+7 = 7.25Email your thoughts to filmwatchinfool@gmail.com "},{"Title":"Do Not Leave In Direct Sunlight.","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Day 6 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Joe Dante gives a very effective horror movie titled Gremlins. The film is about Billy Peltzer played by Zack Galligan who gets a pet called a Mogwai named Gizmo voiced by Howie Mandell. When his friend Pete played by Corey Feldman spills water on Gizmo he multiplies into 5 evil Mogwai's that eventually become Gremlins. Special Effects are superb in this film the acting is great the story is well done Gizmo is really cute and the suspense is the best thing this movie has. Alouth it is rated PG the film is not for Young children. I still recommend it for horror fans.Rated PG For Some Mlid Violence And Gore, Disturbing Images, Brief Language And Smoking Content.1hr 46min/106min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Never feed them after midnight.","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a highly entertaining film from the eighties. It is one of a kind as far as comedy/horror films go.A boy named Billy receives a Mogwai(little furry big eared creature) for Christmas that he names Gizmo. There are three rules for Mogwai, don't feed them after midnight, don't expose to bright lights, and don't get them wet. Gizmo accidentally does get wet and this results in more Mogwai being created. When the new Mogwai eat after midnight they turn into a larger reptilian like state that goes on a rampage and start to wreck havoc.Overall this film has a great overall story. It flows somewhat as a family film, then becomes a sort of horror and comedy film. Very unique in that it has some many genres with it.The cast is pretty good. Phoebe Cates and Zack Galligan play great lead human protagonists. Both are characters that you cheer for and can relate to. Howie Mandel is great as the voice for Gizmo and legendary voice actor Frank Welker is outstanding as he provides for the voice of the villain Stripe.The Gremlins themselves are what makes the film. They are just troublesome creatures that want to have a good time. However I do feel that Stripe and Gizmo are the only mogwai that stand out. But those two are the two that make this film enjoyable. Stripe is one of the better non human villains from a film ever.Overall, a very good film. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Home for the Holidays Gremlin-Style","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie made a big impact on me as a younger man for I really had not seen anything like it beforehand. Hoyt Axton plays a father who is an inventor cruising through Chinatown in search of just that special gift for his son. He is taken to a small, out-of-the-way junk shop where Axton sees this adorable creature who sings, smiles, and is just damned cute. The proprietor, an elderly Chinese man, tells Axton that this creature is not for sale, but the young boy who brought him there sells Axton the creature unbeknownst to Grandpa. Axton is given three rules that must be observed with the creature 1). No bright light 2). no water 3). never feed the creature after midnight(okay, this rule is loopy). This takes place in the first five minutes or so of the film. The rest of the film is the son getting what he will call Gizmo and what happens when these rules are inevitably broken. The scenic backdrops to the small town are quaint, surrealistic, and nostalgic. Director Joe Dante always infuses his pictures with nostalgic qualities whether it is a scene we may have seen over and over again, character types, and my favorite are the actors of older films that older(or more rehearsed audience members) will quickly identify which will undoubtedly be lost on younger viewers and certainly viewers of today by large part. We get Key Luke as the Chinese shop owner. He was most famous for his roles as Number 1 Son in the old Charlie Chan films. How about Dick Miller as Mr. Futterman - a staple in Roger Corman films. Miller's costar in Little Shop of Horrors Jackie Joseph plays his wife in this. Edward Andrews - the old, reliable character actor - plays a bank manager. William Schallert plays a minister. You can also see Polly Holliday(Flo from Alice) play a devilishly wicked Mr. Potter-type. Kenneth Tobey has a cameo as does Chuck Jones and several others. The lead actors are young but entertaining. Zach Galligan was 19 when he made this - his first feature. He does a decent job. Phoebe Cates is also rather good and very lovely. The real star though is the puppet Gizmo and the gremlins themselves. Dante did all this in an old-school manner. No CGI here - thankfully. This is real filmmaking the way real filmmaking used be done. It was labor and time intensive and rather costly but Dante does a lot here with a spartan budget. Produced by Steven Spielberg Gremlins shows what some intelligent-minded people can put together with creativity and vision. There are so many scenes that stick out with me the movie theater, the battle with the Christmas tree, the microwave scene, and many others including Mrs. Deagle's spiraling exit. All are outstanding. In the end, however; it is the little moments that I like best like the small character parts, Dick Miller going on about foreign products, and Gizmo playing a small piano-like instrument. Gremlins is now 20 years old - I saw it in the movie theater when it came out - and it has withstood the test of time rather well. I believe in another 20 years it will still be able to say the same thing. By the way who doesn't love that music? "},{"Title":"No Water, No Sunlight, No Feeding After Midnight, Or Else","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" During the year that Gremlins came out I remember watching the World Series that year and at a certain point when a number of bad plays were ruining the San Diego Padres against the Detroit Tigers, Joe Garagiola remarked that Gremlins were cursing the Padres. Garagiola gave a nice plug to what was one of the best films of that year and horribly neglected by the Academy.Hoyt Axton wants to get an unusual pet from merchant Keye Luke called a Mogwai, but he won't sell. Nevertheless his grandson John Louie does sell the cute little Mogwai to him with three conditions that have to be met in their keeping. No water, no sunlight, and no feeding after midnight or terrible consequences will result.Of course the family is delighted with the new pet especially twenty something son Zach Galligan who is the really responsible one in the family. But things do happen and on that Christmas Eve all three conditions are broken and as a result a horde of ugly little Gremlins start running amuck.I do love this film so because it strikes so many emotions at the same time. You love the little Mogwais, but you are terrified at what they've become. The Gremlins are horrifying, but at the same time you will laugh hysterically at what they do to some people. Polly Holliday, fresh from the Alice series on television plays a mean woman in the grand tradition of Margaret Hamilton. What the Gremlins have in store for her is priceless.Gremlins marked the farewell performances of both Scott Brady and Edward Andrews both of whom graced many a film and unlike some character actors from the studio days never stopped working. It's because both of these guys were memorable on the screen.Director Joe Dante, writer Chris Columbus and most of all producer Steven Spielberg who imparted his always imaginative vision to this film have given us a great one, especially around the time of Halloween. Gremlins is one timeless classic for the big and small screen. "}{"Title":"Early 1980s Film Makes Modern Standards Look Weak","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An inventor father (Hoyt Axton) wants to get his son (Zach Galligan) something special while traveling on the road. Just in time for Christmas, he returns with a mogwai (unknown to him, mogwai is Cantonese Chinese for demon). A few rules are broken, and soon the town is overwhelmed with reptilian, green-blooded monsters.Gremlins ranks as one of the classic horror films of the 1980s, dark enough to satisfy the horror people and light enough to be funny and almost a family film. The special effects and puppetry, even twenty-five years later, look as good as we can possibly expect. Followed by an equally great sequel, Gremlins has secured itself as a memorable and must-see film.The cast is crucial to the plot notably, Dick Miller. Miller appeared in many B-movies in his day (such as A Bucket of Blood) and casting him was brilliant. Howie Mandel provides the voice of Gizmo, before Mandel was the big name he is today. And Phoebe Cates? Oh my! The darling of the 1980s, and she even appears on screen with Judge Reinhold without taking off her shirt.The action, horror, comedy and cast are held together by Joe Dante, still a fresh face at the time. Steven Spielberg hand picked Dante after seeing The Howling and he could not have made a better choice. Dante will always be connected with Howling, but I think it would not be out of line to say this film eclipsed his previous work and may be his masterpiece.I do not know why someone would not have seen Gremlins, but if not, you really must. Great for fans of all genres. And I personally suggest purchasing the film on DVD. It is loaded with featurettes, deleted scenes and commentary. The Blu-ray offers no additional bonuses, so unless you're adamant about having up-to-the-minute sound quality, the DVD should be fine and affordable. (This was written in 2010; a new Blu-ray may have come out since then.) "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins was a great movie. It was much better than I expected, in fact the only reason I saw it was because it was Steven Spielberg and I greatly treasure many of his films i.e. Jaws, E.T.. But yeah, It was a very good movie seven stars, very entertaining but after watching it it leaves me with just one question. Family comedy? Don't get me wrong, I myself didn't mind Gremlins at all, but I saw almost no comedy whatsoever in this film. What I saw was light Horror that sometimes became very gruesome and dark. Such as the kitchen seen when Gremlin guts fly, and the seen when a man and his wife are plowed by a Gremlin driving their own plow. This movie I would not recommend for the whole family, it's just too dark, I don't think that parents want their children watching a teenager almost being hacked to bits by a demon with a chainsaw.In summary this was an amazingly good movie, I loved it, but the gremlins slaughtering humans and the intense suspense are too much for young children. This movie should have a PG-13 slapped on it, and be watched by a more mature audience. "},{"Title":"the classic of classics <<< potential SPOILERZ>>>","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Few movie fans remember their first trip into movie-world. For me it was this 80's directed Joe Dante piece that was written by Chris Collumbus and produced by Steven Spielberg. O, the 80's, a truly jubilant era in history...the era of the gremlins. Given to him by his inventor father, a boy is introduced to Gizmo, a cute strange furry creature that sings, acts lovable and so forth. With Gizmo comes the rules and regulations that is to be strictly administered...No food after 0000 - no daylight and no water. When this rules is broken, Gizmo first multiplies when the boy spills water over him, and then the evil offspring tricks him into giving them food after 0000. All of this results in the newly born Gizmo's turning into Gorgoyle like demon-creatures causing havoc and living for chaos. Gremlins is a classic no matter how you look at it, loaded with social commentary, humor and the most important element of movies...love. an amazing fantastic and funny piece. "},{"Title":"An exciting 80s monster movie for the whole family","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When receiving a brand new pet, Billy Peltzer is told three rules. 1. No Food after Midnight 2. No Water 3. Keep them out of the light. After breaking two of the three rules, his once cute and cuddly pet, Gizmo, squirts out multiplying, aggressive creatures that terrorize a small town.Something so cute and friendly that becomes vicious is a constant fear shown in cinema, even today. Gremlins uses this fear to make one of to make a film that still scares kids now, twenty-four years later. Although Gremlins is quite family oriented, it really is a scary film. It takes a sophisticated idea of nasty things coming in pretty boxes and shows it in a way that is most certainly impressive.Gremlins is not the most artistic movie ever made, but it is most definitely entertaining. After re watching it for a third time after five years, I still laugh at the corny PG jokes and watch intensely as those little creatures tear apart that peaceful town. It is just an entertaining film and there is nothing else to it. Overall, Gremlins will be a classic for years to come due to the original plot and immense entertainment that it provides.I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Fun little monster flick","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is the fun little monster flick that spawned a slew of ripoffs Ghoulies, Critters, a sequel, and the PG-13 rating. Its fun, funny, and noisy all at the same time.The film centers around a postcard-ish little town, with all the usual characters The nice kid, the pretty girl, the arrogant fool, the grouchy old woman, the stupid police officers, and the friendly neighbors. When Billy's dad, a struggling inventor, wanders off to Chinatown to get his son a gift, he has no idea what he's in for when he finds a box with a furry little creature named Gizmo. There are some rules surrounding Gizmo Don't expose him to sunlight, don't feed him after midnight, and don't EVER get him wet. Of course, rules were meant to be broken...The madness that ensues is, sometimes frightening, sometimes hilarious, and sometimes gross. The violence was enough to help spawn the PG-13 rating. The performances are likable despite a clichéd and a bit silly script, and the film has a nice holiday feel to it that makes it fun to watch around Dec. 25. Its also not a bad children's horror movie, with plenty of funny scenes carroling gremlins, drinking gremlins, Snow White gremlin fans.Gremlins is by no means a flawless film, but its just what the doctor ordered. It gives you a nice, fun story, and some likable characters and creatures. It helped give a rebirth to the little green monster genre that fired up in the 80's, and continued to show Joe Dante's talent as a director who blended absurd horror and absurder comedy.8/10 "},{"Title":"Awelicious","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When you watch this you'll be like all goo goo eyed. Gizmo is so cute. Yet he has problems. If he gets wet he sprouts out these evil babies that will destroy everyone and everything. Not only that but Gizmo can't eat after midnight. If he does then he'll turn all ugly like.Watch your bed and garage when you watch this. You'll never know if a ...........Gizmo will come out. Recommended for everyone in the family. Young and old. Pet and human.I recommend you watch this one before you watch the sequel. Also if you like this you'll like Critters, Critter 2 and Little Monsters. But when you watch this you should always remember.......bring the smiles along with the popcorn. "},{"Title":"monsters after midnight","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the funniest and scariest movies of all times. It was an enjoyable classic to say the least. The story starts with inventor Randall Peltzer(Hoyt Axton) makes his way in a Chinese shop and tries to sell one of his inventions, comes across a sweet creature called a mogwai, he wants to take it home to his 23 year old son Billy(Zach Galligan), who is an out of luck bank teller. Billy also has a crush on his co-worker Kate(Phoebe Cates). Billy is excited when he receives the mogwai. He then names it Gizmo. He is then told that he must follow three rules. One don't expose it to sunlight, two don't get them wet, three never feed it after midnight. What happens when Billy breaks all three rules? I enjoyed the movie it was very creative and show why its important to take care of your animal. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny Stuff Here!","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time in theaters when I was in like 2nd grade. I remember thinking how scary it seemed up front, but all in all this was a entertaining film. The bar scene still makes me laugh to this day, especially the gremlin that is playing with the puppets. It was kind of great to have them all in the theater at the end of the show watching Snow White. Corey Feldman did an okay turn in this one. Phoebe Cates is hot!! All in all, the makers of the film did a great job with the effects and the robotic and puppet work for the gremlins and mogwai. The old Chinese man is scary with those weird looking eyeballs. The scene in the house is pretty funny, too. The mean old lady with all those cats. Great movie! "},{"Title":"it's not horror. it's not entirely comedy. it's not family. it's just entertaining!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins is still a hilarious, creepy, and interesting film made by Stephen Spielberg, Chris Colombus, and Joe Dante. The story is about a teenage boy who gets a strange Christmas present from his Dad, who bought it in a strange store in Chinatown. The present is an unidentifiable, but cute, fluffy little creature called a Mogwai, which they name Gizmo. Gizmo is harmless, but there are rules to take care of him. Sunlight will kill him, if water spills on him, he pops out a dozen babies, and if you feed him, or his babies after midnight, they will become little killer gremlin creatures. And they do. Soon, tons of the little creatures run around and begin destroying the town. Entertaining film that works as horror, comedy, and family. And the great thing is that you can watch it on Halloween OR Christmas!Grade 9/10MPAA Rating PGMy Rating Ages 10 and up (frightening images, creature violence, mild language)  "},{"Title":"Somewhat dark for the target audience, but still fun.","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The plot Rand Peltzer, a traveling salesman, is searching for a Christmas gift for his son, Billy, and discovers a cute fuzzy creature named a Mogwai in an antique shop. He purchases it, but is told three rules by the grandson of the Chinese shop owner Rule #1 Keep it(him) away from bright light, especially sunlight, which kills him.Rule #2 Don't get him wet...or he multiplies.Rule #3 Don't ever feed him after midnight.Unfortunately, he does get wet, his copies turn out to be less than well-behaved(particularly one with a stripe), and they trick Billy into feeding them(except for Gizmo, the original)... which results in hundreds of scaly, ugly reptilian monsters dubbed Gremlins who destroy the town he lives in, along with a few residents.If Joe Dante meant it to be aimed at kids, it wasn't the best idea, but for everyone else, it's a fast-paced, nifty little ride(if you miss the theater sequence, you've missed the best scene), which managed to become a big hit. I enjoyed it for the most part.4 out of 5.Rated PG for comic violence and gore.  "}{"Title":"little cult film","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSEvery once in a while a film is made which will become a cult classic. These films are often not the greatest of quality regarding production and they never appeal to everyone, but that's often their beauty. These films are little affairs which you can either watch alone or watch with a few friends and which a small group of you can have little in-jokes about. Whilst it was relatively successful when first released, Gremlins is now one of those movies.When Billy Peltzer receives a christmas present from his dad, he's intrigued and overjoyed when it turns out to be a Mogwai called Gizmo. The Mogwai are an unknown species and the reason behind this is that after exposure to water and food after midnight, they metamorph into Gremlins.With some beautiful scenes in it, both this first encounter and the 1990 sequel are films worth watching. This original film is inparticular worthy of praise for it's links to classic films. One film staring Clark Gable is featured (which personally I confess to not being sure of the title for), as is Frank Capra's It's A Wonderful Life. They liked Capra's film to such an extent that Kingston Falls where Gremlins is set appears to based in design exactly on Capra's Bedford Falls. This delicious nod to Capra is shown by Billy's mother watching the film whilst baking.On a minor note, another nice little link to other films is the inventions show where Billy's father spends the majority of his time. Not just is Robbie The Robot featured as someones invention, but when the father is on the phone, if the background is watched, a man is shown using The Time Machine (1960) and disappearing through time. Chris Columbus (Writer), Joe Dante (Director) and Steven Spielberg (executive Producer) obviously have a love for classic movies as their tributes are scattered throughout this film.The one point about the Gremlins films are that nobody would suggest the acting is brilliant. With young appearances from Phoebe Cates and Judge Reinhold, the first film is not short of known actors. Ultimately though, the stars were always going to be the creatures themselves. To expect otherwise is perhaps to expect decent acting performances in 1997's Anaconda, a film which everyone watched for the snake and not for Jennifer Lopez's awful performance.Finally, one point worth bringing up is just how brilliant the late Jerry Goldsmith was when making the Gremlins soundtrack. As well as creating all the Star Trek music from the films and series, and also doing Alien, one or two cartoons and countless other amazing films, Goldsmith's beautiful little ditty for this film is catchy and lasts in the mind hours after the film has finished.To summarise, Gremlins and it's sequel were never going to be life changing films which everyone adored. They are however, wonderful little films which groups might gather around and relax whilst watching. With tributes to countless different films, often it's fun just to sit and try to spot as many tributes as possible. The scene where White Stripe (head Gremlin) is playing poker and a Gremlin is next to him dressed in the same old woman outfit as E.T. in the film of the same name from 1982, is yet another example. Basically, they're just daft, cult films which some love and some hate. Personally I think they're brilliant. "},{"Title":"They're watching Snow White... and they love it.","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When a traveling gizmo maker picks up a cute, furry little creature - who is later named Gizmo - to give to his son for Christmas, he inadvertently unleashes Hell on Earth when a bunch more of the furry little bastards start showing up and trick the son into feeding them after midnight (one of the big no-no's in having these creatures, in addition to keeping them out of the sunlight and keeping them away from water) which causes them to mutate into horrific monsters who embark on a black comic rampage that results in the death of a few cops, one local Santa, and an evil, bitchy old woman that nobody liked. Getting them wet only makes it worse because they multiply from water. Sunlight, actually any extreme light, causes pain and eventual death. So with a little help from Gizmo and his girlfriend, the son sets out to right this horrendous wrong and eventually the Chinese owner of Gizmo comes by to reclaim him.Too intense for little kids, more for teenagers, young adults and adults. Who would have guessed that this would be the springboard of Chris Columbus's career? Surprisingly entertaining but not for all. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest jokes ever played on an audience","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  GREMLINS is one of the foulest, nastiest and most mean-spirited movies ever made.  It is a sick joke disguised as a kids movie, and one of my all-time favorite f*** you movies.  This movie is designed to get back at parents too stupid or lazy to bother checking out what they are taking their kids to see by giving their kids nightmares.The first half of the movie is a saccharine-laden cute-fest, with all the ear-marks of the usual Spielberg-produced kid fodder.  Cute little Gizmo wears a Santa Claus hat, sings pretty songs and plays under the Christmas tree.  Pretty soon, he spawns nastier and more mischievous  Mogwais, but even they are pretty cute.And then...The Mogwais turn into hideous reptilian creatures which viciously attack people with knives, chainsaws and crossbows.  They are dispatched by being blown up in the microwave or shredded in a food processor. I loved it.  I saw it when I was twelve, so I was old enough to take it.  One of the best moments in my entire movie-going life has to be when almost every child in the theater screamed in terror when the Gremlin exploded in the microwave.  And, as an ultimate you brought this on yourself lesson to apathetic parents, the movie announces to the world that there is no Santa Claus.This is not a kids movie.  This is an anti-kid movie.  Bravo.  "},{"Title":"satirical fun","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Gremlins movie is a delicious satire upon all those small-town Christmas fables that one associated with Frank Capra and Steven Spielberg (even though he never made one...except this, he's executive producer!)  In post-ET 1984, a cute little critter comes into town with a set of rules that frankly don't make sense (isn't it always midnight somewhere?)  Then he gives birth to Satan's own hordes and the fun and mayhem begin.  From the bubbling swimming pool to the bulldozer to the speech about when Santa got stuck up the chimney, this is one big heap of laughs. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *** stars out of ****.Great film! it is about Billy (Zach Galligan), a kid who gets a strange pet for Christmas named Gizmo. However, Billy forgets 3 important rules of Gizmo's species, and soon lizard-like monsters are crawling around town!!!!This is a awesome film. A must-see. Acting is very good and the special effects are amazing, thought the designs for the gremlins are a little cooler in the sequel) and the music is great, too. The one draw-back is that this is NOT for kids. It is very gory at times (the kitchen scene), and it has a very disturbing moment towards the end. Just keep that in mind if you got this for your kids. "},{"Title":"Ha Ha Ha","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gemlins has got to be one of the funniest movies i have ever seen. I enjoyed watching this movie. This was released in 1984. I enjoy ever little humour part in this movie. The little Mogwai was so cute, i wish i had one because they are very very cute. I give this movie an excellent score 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"NAUGHTY","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hi ho , hi ho , it's off to work we go. I wish I could say this on Monday mornings after I get up. But on the weekends it's a different story when I watch this movie. I first got it a few years ago and I was ashamed of myself after waiting all these years. Gizmo was cute and innocent but after those rules were broken , here come the mean and gricous Gremlins. No matter how vicious they were or playing tricks on people much less getting drunk in a bar , these were the bad guys and you had to expect anything.  "},{"Title":"Party with little green monsters!","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Who'd of thought mayhem would be so much fun?  A ridiculous plot line with an almost laughable premises presents itself, and despite the far-fetched idea I found myself surrendering to the film's incredibly charm, kicking back and enjoying the onscreen mayhem.  Joe Dante brings an oddball twist of horror and loony toons-inspired comedy by making little demonic creatures have interestingly violent, yet quirky, personalities.  The gremlins hold a place as my favorite movie monsters of all time.  The real stars of the movie are Gizmo and the Gremlins (sorry Zack, Phoebe) compliments of Chris Wallas and his creature effects crew who did a spectacular job bringing the puppets to life especially in the pre-CGI age.  Watching Gremlins for the first time in years, now in the middle of the CGI age, I can honestly say I miss the days of puppets.  CGI is great for a lot of things, and CGI makes many tasks easier . . . but characters entirely done with CGI lacks the concreteness of the Gremlins puppets.  Sometimes the work is much more difficult, but I think it's worth it. I love it when the Gremlins mimic the human characters around them in speech and actions, when they perform some act of cruelty and top it off with their silly and over-the-top maniacal laughter, somehow these little demons, while terrible and viscous, take on a lovable quality to them.  They have a nice satirical edge to their personality that makes the Gremlins surpass so many creatures born into the horror genre and quickly forgotten.  And who can forget the bouncy Gremlins theme music compliments of the immensely talented Jerry Goldsmith.    Another thing I love about Gremlins is the surreal nature to everything.  The characters never quite seem real, the sets never quite look like a real place, the narration, the whole atmosphere of the town has a weird goofball fairy tale quality to it . . . but in no way is that a complaint or criticism.  Gremlins never really sets out to take place in your home town and happen to the guy next door to you, and I'm glad it doesn't.  Joe Dante set the tone and pacing for the film just perfectly and our little destructive &#145;friends' feel right at home at this nicely painted surreal world.And everyone on the cast fits well into this surreal world, from more believable `realistic' characters to over-the-top caricatures - somehow they all seem right in their places.   "},{"Title":"A great 80's critter comedy","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins isn't a incredible movie that you rave about. It's just a funny, charming movie that you can watch over and over. The cast doesn't make a big impression. (Zach Galligan got far didn't he) The direction by Joe Dante is servicable and keeps the film moving. This movie doesn't bother with subplots and just show the quiet town of Kingston Falls being torn apart by the Gremlins. Gremlins started the little monster movie genre, spawning a bunch of inferior imatations. (Ghoulies anyone?)Most people remember Gremlins fondly and I'm one of those. It's a fun flick and perfect for the whole family. Bottom Line Gremlins is not an award winner, but fun and scary all the same. "},{"Title":"Holy cartoony violence!!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Rated PG...hmm..gremlins getting killed with blenders, gremlins murdering science teachers, gremlins sending an old woman flying out a window, Stripe, the gremlin leader tossing saw blades at a teen, and, that absolutely disgusting shot of Stripe's flesh melting, and his skeleton hissing at the heroes..Well, four words Not. A. Family. Film. Actually, it isn't for anyone. This nightmarish film from Joe Dante has sickeningly gruesome cartoon violence and gore, and is an overrated piece of crap posing as family fun. I can't believe I'm thinking of seeing it again just for the one funny scene in a movie theater.. Do not recommend this film to friends, do not consider renting it, and whatever you do, do not let anyone below third grade watch this on TV. This has a few amusing bits, but avoid it like the plague if you are weak-stomached..4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Gremlins isn't a comedy","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film contains graphics that are not supposed to be seen by children of any age no matter what age you are. When I first saw the film, I was repulsed. A gremlin choking the mother with Christmas lights, a dog hung up in Christmas lights ( surprised the ASPCA didn't get involved ). A gremlin firing an arrow into the hero's arm. Gremlins eating a Santa Claus, Gremlins sending Flo from the show Alice out of a window, no matter how mean she was in the film,  she didn't deserve killing, no matter how she was killed.Yes,I can see that the film shows to follow the rules but still there is a limit of how much torture you can see on screen. I also spotted something else about the film. Don't you think that with all the killing they do in the film, that film also shows them having a caring, warm, gentleness of them when they are watching Snow White. I think that was a big mistake. First have them kill the citizens of the town then have them sing Hi Ho from Snow White, that's ridiculous. "},{"Title":"A great throwback thrillomedy","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was one of the most thought out movies that was a comedy yet was a horror movie too. I had a Gizmo doll when I was a kid. This brings up a funny freaky story. When I received the gift as a kid I wrote on the tush tag my initials DAC.We are talking maybe 17 years ago. 5 years later I got too old to have it so I sold it at a yard sale my family ran. It was sold for 10 cents. I completely forgot about it until about a year ago I went into this store that carried classic toys. I went in there to look for some old Beanie Babies. I was browsing the persons showcases and I come across a gizmo doll. I asked him if I could see it he takes it out and I am looking over the doll and something caught my attention on his tush tag in Magic Marker which I used to write DAC was those initials. I just fell out in tears and shock saying this was mine I received 16 years ago and I wrote those initials on it so I bought him back for 5 dollars. So now that doll and movie is my favorite thing I own. "},{"Title":"funny horror","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins begins with (Hoyt Axton) looking for a unique present for his son he purchases a cute, fuzzy little Mogwai from a Chinatown shopkeeper's (Keye Luke) grandson (John Louie), who dispenses the above-mentioned warning before closing the deal. Meanwhile, young bank clerk Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) must suffer such antagonists as rich-bitch Mrs. Deagle (Polly Holliday) and priggish Gerald (Judge Reinhold) while pursuing his romance with Kate (Phoebe Cates). These and a variety of other plot strands are tied together when the lovable mogwai (named Gizmo) is exposed to bright light and gotten wet. In short order, the town is invaded by nasty, predatory Gremlins, who lay waste to everything in sight as Billy and Kate try to contain the destruction. Gremlins is one of those movies that I remember from my childhood, I don't think any kid back in the 80's didn't have some kind of Gremlins memorabilia. Gremlins never gets old, it is a funny and unforgettable film.  "},{"Title":"Cute Little Monsters Huh?","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Possible Spoilers)This film is brilliant, throughly enjoyable and definatly worth watching again. I've had this on video for an absolute age now, and still it manages to make me watch it again...it really does have that special something.Yes it does take a little while to start up, but it does set the Gremlins themselves up nicely, an example of this is Mr Flutterman (Dick Miller) who mentions that Gremlins used to get in tanks and planes in WWII...Zach Gilligan and Phoebe Cates do a very good job as the Hero and Heroine of the film. In fact, the cast is very good, i can't find a fault with it...but...the real stars are of course, the GremlinsEverybody by now should know who and what Gizmo is.(if you don't, why have you been living under a rock?) Gizmo is the cute little Mogwai that starts of the whole disaster in the first place (dont judge a mogwai by its cover and all) But, for me the Gremlins themselves are alot better. The good thing is, no two Gremlins are alike, each is differant, and that itself is a testamony to the designers for such a good job. Stripe is brilliant, the lead Gremlin who constantly taunts Billy and Gizmo throughout the entire film.It's a brilliant film, a few little mistakes, but all in all..a very well made film 9/10! "},{"Title":"Gremlins","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time on tv when I was about 9 and I loved it and I taped it and continue to watch it regularly. The camera work is amazing and the special effects are also great. Some of the scenes in this movie are timeless especially when the woman puts one of the creature into a microwave and it explodes. The acting was good and it had very good script and do I have to mention Gismo. Overall a good film that everyone should see ( except for those under 5).  "},{"Title":"Best Ever","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a classic, and it will forever hold a special place on my movie shelf. I was almost brought to tears when I saw that my favourite movie was ranked so low. This movie will never be forgotten, I will always cherish this movie. Gremlins kick serious ass! "},{"Title":"Its a Wonderful Life meets Batman Returns","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **1/2     out of      ****Being someone who was scared witless by this film at the age of six I still think it's amazing that Steven Spielberg and director Joe Dante got away with releasing what I believe to be the most violent, gruesome, mean-spirited(and entertaining)kids movie you're ever likely to see; its beaten only by its nutso sequel THE NEW BATCH. I'd say it was ahead of its time but I was only just born when it was released so I can only imagine what it would be like in a cinema full of littlies and their parents and their subsequent reactions to certain scenes. Take the sequence where the mother is fending off the little mutants by throwing them in a microwave and a blender only to have another one jump on her and start brutally choking her with christmas lights. What about Phoebe Cates' monologue explaining why she hates Christmas... and that's how I found out there was no Santa Claus. Now THAT'S gutsy film making. "},{"Title":"Rules for Owning A Mogwai 1). Don't Let it Near Bright Lights; 2). Don't Get it Wet and 3.) What Ever You Do, DO NOT Feed it After Midnight. No Matter How Much it Cries and Begs. Other Than That, You Got A","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Our story begins in Chinatown where American inventor Rand Peltzer was trying to push one of his latest inventions as well as find a Christmas present for his son. A boy lead him to his grandfather's shop that sold all sorts of odd stuff, but one thing that interested Rand was a small furry creature than sang a small cooing song. He had to have it. The shop-owner told Rand that it was a Mogwai and that it was not for sale because much responsibility came with owning one, however his grandson sneaked it to Rand. Rand's home town was Kingston Falls where his son Billy lived. This morning, Billy was heading for work with his dog Barney but his worthless car wouldn't start so he had to walk. His job is at the bank. Just then, in came Mrs. Deagle, a cold, heartless, old millionairess. She brought with her the remains of her ceramic snowman and said Barney was to blame. Billy was nearly fired for bringing the dog to work.       That night, while Billy and Mom tried preparing dinner with Rand's faulty inventions, Rand returned home then and presented Billy with his gift. A small, brown and white furry Mogwai whom Rand named Gizmo. Rand told Billy what he needed to know about owning a Mogwai the light thing, the water thing and the no feeding after midnight thing. Gizmo became adjusted to his new home. Billy's little friend Pete came over to see Gizmo and accidentally spilled water on him causing him to shoot out five Mogwai copies! Rand wanted to market them as The Peltzer Pet; Billy left one for science teacher Roy Hanson to study; that night, the four remaining Mogwai, sans Gizmo, begged for food. Billy noticed the clock said 1135 so it was okay, but what he didn't know was that those conniving little creatures had unplugged the clock so it was actually 200 AM! UH OH!! They scarfed down some chicken and entered a pupal stage. They became cocoons! But they soon hatched and became hideous little mischievous THINGS. Gremlins! The one at the school attacks poor Mr. Hanson. The ones at the home go after Mom who takes out three of them with a cuisenart, microwave and butcher knife. They also began terrorizing poor Gizmo; some of the gremlins went after snow plow driver Murry Futterman with his own snow plow! Others attacked Mrs. Deagle, so I guess they're not all bad! Others went to the bar where Billy's girlfriend Katie worked. The gremlins got drunk and wrecked the place. Billy and Gizmo jumped in the car and to their surprise it started! They race to Katie's rescue then jump back in the car, only the piece of junk won't start again! So they race on foot to the YMCA where one of the gremlins falls into a pool and multiplies into a thousand copies! Double Uh Oh!!         The gremlins go to the theater and see Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs. A quick thinking Billy sets the place on fire, killing all but one of the gremlins. The remainder was Stripe, the leader. He evaded them to the department store. They had to stop him before he reached water! Stripe tried to kill Billy while Katie shed some light on the subject. Literally. All seemed lost, but it was Gizmo to the rescue who pulled open the shades and let direct sunlight, which kills this species, melt Stripe away to a steamy pile of gremlin guts. Well, all seemed well until the shop-owner who used to own Gizmo showed up and took Gizmo home with him because he knew they weren't ready for a Mogwai, but when they were, Mogwai would be waiting.        A pretty good movie. It's quite interesting. Zach Galligan was OKAY. Not great, but okay. Phoebe Cates is cute. So is Gizmo! Hoyt Axton, who sadly is no longer with us, was good, so were Dick Miller and Corey Feldman! Polly Holiday was a perfect mean old lady! By the way, that's cartoon director Chuck Jones talking to Billy at the first bar scene. The ending to the movie was a bummer, but don't despair, Gremlins fans, Gizmo and Billy are reunited in 1990's Gremlins 2 The New Batch. In conclusion, if you're looking for a good film that's suitable for Halloween or Christmas, as well as a film about little creepy, kooky creatures, Gremlins is for you!- "},{"Title":"Don't feed them after midnight?","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When is after midnight? They should have said between midnight and 1am or something like that. Because it's always after midnight.Another problem is where is the gremlin from the lab? Maybe he rejoined his pals at some point.Beyond the logic problems, this is a fun flick. Only in the 80s would a studio movie have the balls to say there is no Santa in a movie kids would watch!And Joe Dante regular Dick Miller will always make a good monster movie better! "},{"Title":"Puts You In The Christmas Spirit!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Gremlins' seemed to be marketed as a fun family comedy about little muppet - type creatures that invade a small town. I'm sure the parents who brought their kids to see this thought it would be a fun family night out. That's when angry parents started walking out of test screenings... 'Gremlins' features Gremlin blending, Gremlin microwaving, blood, guts, dog hanging by tree lights, weird bubbles on the Gremlin's backs with baby Gremlins hatching in them, fathers getting stuck in the family chimney and dying, a few somewhat grizzly human deaths and, oh, of course, the cutest creature on the Earth... being tortured. Yes, 'Gremlins' is not your average Christmas movie but for the sickest of minds, it's a must see! Mr. Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) is a scientist who creates less than perfect inventions. When away from home, he gets his son Billy (Zach Galligan) an early Christmas present A cute furry creature named Gizmo (Voice of Howie Mandel) who seems to be the perfect pet but he has three important rules not to break Don't expose him to bright light or sunlight which would kill him, don't get him wet in which case he would multiply and, most importantly, don't let him eat after midnight or else all hell will break loose. Yes, before we know it, slimy green creatures are invading the cosy town of Kingston Falls with their eyes set on Billy and Gizmo. It's up to Billy to stop the creatures, save the town and get the girl he loves (Phoebe Cates). I remember my sister subjected me to watching Gremlins when I was about 5 and I had nightmares all night but now it's high on my list of favorite films. It has a cast at it's best including Dick Miller and Judge Reinhold, a very dark humoured and mean yet hilarious script by Chris Columbus and expert fantasy directing by Joe Dante which sets you right in the mood from the opening credits then about 30 minutes into the film he throws it all in your film. Yes, 'Gremlins' is an almost flawless film let down by only a few over long sequences (The Gremlin Bar scene starts out great but descends into boredom) but that's all made up for with the hilariously dark Christmas Story from Phoebe Cates about her father's Christmas Eve surprise that didn't turn out as planned. The scene really caused a lot of controversy as did the now infamous kitchen scene which features Gremlins meeting their demise by butcher's knife, blender and, of course, microwave. Ladies and Gentleman, if this happened in 'Wonderful Life', the suicide would have been inevitable. Get ready for a different kind of Christmas movie!!! "}{"Title":"Good movie gone bad","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    Like the little furry guys themselves, this is a movie with a very promising start that ends up nowhere fun.  Axton picks up meek creature, unaware of consequences if simple handling instructions are ignored.  End result is a bunch of little monsters that terrorize small town.  The intro is fine, Phoebe Cates looks spectacular, and some of the initial monster action is amusing.  But like too many in the Spielberg/Lucas action-fantasy genre, film is gory, unpleasant and mean-spirited when the going gets tough.  Not recommended.     "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!!!!!!!!!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a fun movie. It was funny and heart-warming. Chris wallace's special effects are very good, the story is good, the acting is very good, etc. A must-see. Reccomended for family viewing. "},{"Title":"Gremlins 6/10","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Cute furry creatures who talk in nonsense language and never shut up. Furby? Nope, it's a Mogwai, a thing that a man, Randall Peltzer (Hoyt Axton), buys from a Chinese man to give his son Billy (Zach Galligan) for Christmas. Billy firstly enjoys it, after hearing the three rules of taking care of them don't put them in bright light, don't let them get water on them, and don't feed them after midnight. Bright light kills them, water makes them reproduce, and feeding them after midnight makes them into monsters. So, of course, Zach breaks the rules and wrecks havoc on his small town.Cheesy but fun, Gremlins is a film that seems to just let go and play along. The gremlins were very well made and didn't seem that mechanical (and they do look like giant Furbies). People behind me were talking about how they wanted one. Of course, until they turn evil.This is definately not a thinker's movie. If you just put your mind on hold, it's a fun 100 minutes. If you over-analyze, it can get confusing. Since this is a perfect description of a popcorn movie, the characters leave something to be desired. Who is who? I don't know. But in movies like this, you shouldn't care.The main actors were all good, but it wasn't as funny as movies like this should be. These should be laugh-during-their-adventures, not a-few-laughs-let's-call-this-a-comedy. The stupidity of the characters made most of the laughs.Gremlins (and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom) are the two movies that caused the PG-13 rating to come into play, since the MPAA decided that they were too violent for PG but not enough for R. I understand what they mean (although most of the blood in this movie is green and are the gremlins).Cheesy and fun, but not very funny, Gremlins is a good time waster.My rating 6/10Rated PG for language, creature violence, and scary situations. "},{"Title":"Juvenile fun","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Re-watching Gremlins after many years, I found myself a little bored with the opening of the picture. The first 30 minutes range from good to bad, I found the characters boring. But once the Gremlins come into play, things get much better, infact, I couldn't stop laughing at the juvenile jokes and stupidity. The Gremlins are the stars of the show, I didn't particulary care for main human characters...they seemed so poorly written, or lacked good direction.The photography is servicable, but the directing seemed a little uninspired to me. The Gremlins are excellent puppets, you do believe that they exist. Technically, the film is fine, but I wish more thought was put into the characters, and the first 20 minutes were condensed into something more interesting than the usual introductions. "},{"Title":"How 'bout a 3rd? (May contain spoilers)","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like everyone in existance I love the Grimlin movies (I haven't read any other reviews so don't correct me if I'm wrong) The first is way creeper and more serious than the eqaully cool second. It starts with a man who is in China. He decided to shop for Christmas presents and steps into an ancient store to look for something interesting. He finds Mackguy, a furry little creature who is just to cute to pass up. The storesman refuses but his grandson sneeks it out and tells the guy to leave it put of bright light, away from water and NEVER FEED IT AT MIDNIGHT! The guy gives the freindly little thing to his son, it is very freindly with the dog even! But when some water spills on it, pods jump out of the little one's back and grow into decoys that are nowhere near as nice. So he gives them some food a quarter to midnight but they stall and slowly turn into vicous little lizard men that just go for trouble. The story is funny, dark, hilarious, serious, goofy and touching. Check out the 2nd as well. Both of these movies kick arse! "},{"Title":"They are cute & funny as long as you don't feed them after midnight.","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know how the creator of those little monsters came up with the idea of making small devils in a teddybear-suite but after all, HE REALLY DID IT!!! If you have not seen this movie, you have missed a lifetime experience. If you can buy it at any price at all, do it you wont have any regrets.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy/sci-fi","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins probably is under rated, but it thourougly delivers when your looking for a comedy and a bit of tame horror(theres hardly any). Even though the little critters are evil, they are very likeable and the people who created them did a fantastic job in designing them.And in the end, after you watch it, you really will wonder if thats a possum or gremlin in the vent ;) "},{"Title":"don`t grow up so fast, please","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is really funny even if its genre could be considered horror or sf. The cute little Gitzmos can change into murderer gremlins only adding some water. Some of them appear as little punks or heavy metal-fans or members of street bands that like so much to drink, break everything and kill human beings. Maybe the message is that it is really simple to transform our sons into punks or let them degenerate into psycho-killers, drunk or madmen and to ruin even the most clean and organized society... it`s enough some water more than necessary... don`t grow up so fast, sons! we want you all obedient and cute like Gitzmo! "},{"Title":"Spielberg does it again!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Along with Stephen King,Stephen Spielberg is one of my favirote movie writers/directors,and his 1984 classic Gremilins is great.It had great suspense and horror,of course it wasn't enough to scare me,but no shame there,although there are movies that can scare me,there are very few,no more than five.ANyway,Gremlin dosen't try to be a comepletely Horror film,it also has some great comedy,like when the Gremlins are watching Snow White.It has very good and likeable charicters,and a not so bad sequel,get the family,popcorn and soda,Gremlins will give you a night of thrills,laughs and fun,by the way,you can thank me later! "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Quite original comedy horror film that is just as much fun no matter how many times you watch it. I really think the special effects were good and there were a lot of really funny scenes, especially the one in the movie theater! "}{"Title":"A deeply beloved all time favorite","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember the first time I ever saw this great film was at an old drive in theater in my area when I was very young and to this very day, it remains one of my favorite films of all time.  This movie was so very well written and acted and is a dynamic mix of horror and laughs.  This is one film that I could watch over and over again!  "},{"Title":"Ah, Joe Dante at his best.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bitter biting fun, this is the anti-muppet movie, and it's a joy from start to finish. Featuring performances from puppets and actors both that delight in each sublimely ridiculous situation, this one is fun for the whole family. It holds up very well after all these years, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Mogwai is for life - not just for Christmas!!!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can imagine every kid who ever saw this film begged, and I mean BEGGED their parents for a Mogwai for Xmas!!! I probably did, I can't remember. And even if I did, I wouldn't admit to it!!!This film is great. Spielberg had a hand in this film somewhere, you can feel it. Yep, this one appeals to both kids and adults.A nice plot, some great SFX and animatronics, and some good acting make this a film for nearly everyone.The initial story, about a boy who gets a cute, fluffy pet for Christmas, is known to everyone. The Mogwai itself is sooooooo cute, and the way it speaks and sings furthers it's cute appeal. So it comes as a shock when the boy who owns him ends up breaking the three important rules that he must abide by, and all hell breaks loose!!!Don't feed them after midnight.  Don't get water on them.  Don't ever expose them to sunlight!All of these rules are broken, and what ensues is comic/horror chaos.The Gremlins themselves are nasty little things. Grrrrrr!!! They can either be out-and-out menacing, funny and stupid, or both at the same time. It was nice to see the mixture of comedy and horror in this film, and it works all the better for it.The music plays a pivotal role in letting us know when we should be scared or when we should laugh. It's a weird kinda sound that is made and works well enough to suit the mood of the film.The one-on-one between Billy and the Stripe, is actually very tense, and violent. I mean Chainsaw's, razor sharp blades? Phew!My review has so far been a mixture of comments in no particular order, so without more time being wasted, go and watch this film.9/10Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"classic for christmas","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i saw this when i was about 5 and i was convinced that gizmo was real. it wasn't untill i was about 10 that i realised he wasn't (that was a very sad day. the effects for the gremlins and gizmo are amazing. this film seems to be on every christmas here so when i watch it it always brings back good memories. its and underrated classic.8/10 "},{"Title":"exciting, compelling and touching","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Very compelling, an extremely touching ending with a great speech from the old Chinese man and touching speech about why Phoebe Cates doesn't like Christmas.  Plenty of black humour to enjoy from the gremlins themselves and the old lady flying out of window.  Character development for some of the characters not great but can be overlooked.  Overall 10/10  "},{"Title":"best film ever","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i completely agree with nerveboy, it has to be one of the best films around. i enjoyed it so much that for the past months I've been looking for the film on video which is rather hard to find when you consider the film came out 17 years ago.the story starts as a man telling a story. it goes that the mogwai (known as gizmo) was brought for a present for his son (william, or billy for short) the man is told by the sellers grandson that there are three important rules never to be broken. a)he doesnt like bright lights and sunlight will kill him. b)keep him away from water, dont get him wet. and c) probably the most important rule never to forget, no matter how much he cries, no matter how much he begs, never, never feed him after midnight. As it goes these rules are accidentally broken and the result is the funniest group of evil monsters you can imagine(gremlins), my favourite three scenes are the cinema scene(same as nerveboy), dary's pub scene where there getting drunk and playing poker doing keep-fit, (its really funny), and the snowplow( i really like the music)So if theres any film you're going to rent from yur local video shop, this is the one-'gremlins'As it goes though i feel the follow up movie 'gremlins2-the new batch' left much to be desired forSo remember, next time something breaks down in yur house before you call the repair man, turn on all the lights, check every cupboard and under every bed, cos who knows there may be a gremlin in your house- quote taken from the film said by Rand Peltzer "},{"Title":"Yum Yum!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not gonna waste your time describing the movie other than to say that it is more than entertaining and the kids as well as the adults'll love it. It's really funny, contains numerous references to classic horror and sci/fi movies and has pretty decent acting. There's things in this movie that you just don't see too much of anymore these days. I'll sum it up with this if you ever wanted to see a vicious little monster bite the dust by means of microwave power, look no further. There's a funny scene involving a blender as well that's hilarious but I'll let you check that out for yourself. One last thing I saw this movie on HBO the other day and I've been saying Yum yum ever since. You just might too. Rating **** out of ***** (as far as movies about vicious little monsters go) "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Christmas movies.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is awesome it is just too funny everything from Gremlins attacking Citizens to Gremlins Breakdancing is outrageous. These critters are really a HUGE pimple in the rear. I really like this movie and everyone seems like they had fun doing it the movie is very underrated for dumb reasons like parents thinking it's too dark for their children. Well I saw this and MANY (Including the Freddy and Michael Myers films) movies as a kid and I turned out fine it is all about how you explain the film to them and then they will understand besides it isn't even as bad in tone as the previous films I mentioned. Anyway Phoebe Cates was one of my first crushes mainly because of this film and is pretty good in it I also like Mr. Anderson who was hilarious in the scenes were he fights off the Gremlins. And I will never ever Forget the Gremlins getting drunk in a Bar or singing along to Hi, Ho at a late night screening of Disney's Snow White & The Seven Dwarves it is simply just too funny. "},{"Title":"I bet you're all wondering what I thought of this. ^_^","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Odd that I've been using this handle online for years without having ever seen this movie.  It is actually a reference to a series, of sorts, of Bob Clampett cartoons.  I have actually just seen this movie for the first time this afternoon.So, without slipping too deep in character, what did I think?Ha ha ha...Ha ha ha ha ha!...(pause)BWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!!This movie rules.Seriously though, I should be ashamed of myself for not having ever seen this movie for so long.  And not just because of my username or whatever; this is one of the Essential Eighties Movies.  I've seen, off the top of my head, E.T. and the Breakfast Club and Risky Business and Spinal Tap and so on and so on, but not Gremlins?!?  What the heck was wrong with me?But yes, Gremlins is good, very funny.  Go watch it if you haven't seen it yet.  You will apreciate it a lot more if you hate Furbies.Hee hee hee... "},{"Title":"CLASSIC","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i grew up with the gremlins movies.they are part of my young years.the gremlins are very great looking and gizmo is very cute.in the beginning it might be a little boring but when the gremlins come you will be happy you waited.it has some comedy too. "}{"Title":"CLASSIC","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i grew up with the gremlins movies.they are part of my young years.the gremlins are very great looking and gizmo is very cute.in the beginning it might be a little boring but when the gremlins come you will be happy you waited.it has some comedy too. "},{"Title":"The absolute best.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins is the funniest most destructive film ever. Im no film critic but i can tell you that even though it was first released just under 17 years ago gremlins is still the original disaster movie. I WANT STRIP! he is the coolest evilist most destructive little devil i have ever seen.Just like me! All my mates agree that gremlins is the worlds best film i have over 300 pieces of gremlins stuff and it all rules! Gremlins is without a doubt the worlds coolest film "},{"Title":"Original premise supports the movie until the Gremlins arrive... then it's a riot! (SPOILERS)","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The atmospheric opening sequence in 'Chinatown'... the father who is a klutz of an inventor... the local harridan... the Mogwai. All of these elements will keep you entertained during the first portion of the movie, Gizmo especially, but it's when the Gremlins arrive that the real fun starts! Ever heard of the phrase 'Build it up, tear it down'? Well that's exactly the technique that Dante and Spielberg use here, building up the aura of quintessential small-town America and then gleefully allowing their malevolent little protégés to tear down that image by running amok!As mentioned, the first segment is still entertaining. Mrs Deagle, the harridan, is wonderfully evil and still scares me to this day (As does The Wicked Witch of the West in The Wizard of Oz!), Gizmo is cute enough to have kids all over the world screaming petulantly at their parents I want one!, and there is constant delight at seeing such inventiveness being practised. Once Gizmo gets wet, however, the movie cranks up several notches and never slows down. There are several great set-pieces, which I won't spoil here.Particularly satisfying is the sense that Spielberg is poking fun at the schmaltzy nature of some of the previous projects he's been behind. There is a wicked sense of humour on display here, from both director and producer, and several scenes might scare sensitive kids. However, I used to love getting scared and thrilled at the same time, and that's what this movie does so well for youngsters. Part of its attraction when I was growing up, I think... To give the impression that only kids will enjoy it is false though. This is a fun movie for all the family that continues the tradition of great 80's flicks with something for everyone, a la Raiders of the Lost Ark and Back to the Future. A real treat. "},{"Title":"Gremlins is a little bit different to your ordinary movie!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was young when I hired this movie classic and admit I was scared out of my wits! But many years on, I have grown to love what it is all about. In fact, I now laugh at what I guess I was so scared off. Gremlins are creatures that are meant to scare and humour the audience at the same time.Don't ever get it wet. Keep it away from bright light. And no matter how much it cries, no matter how much it begs...never, ever feed it after midnight. With these instructions, young Billy Peltzer takes possession of his new cuddly pet, a gift from his father. But Billy will get a whole lot more than he bargained for and the small quite town of Kingston Falls is in for a Christmas they will never forget!  The first point I want to discuss about this movie is that of the great story behind it. It was very original and one that I liked. I enjoyed the idea of little menacing creatures causing havoc in an innocent little town, and the way that the Gremlins just take over. At the start of this film, the audience is aware that with the cute pet Gizmo (a Mogwai), comes much responsibility. I love the fact that there are three rules attached. If you break them, then all hell will break lose. It is an interesting concept and one I must say that worked. I feel that there has been some movies which have tried to copy the Gremlins concept which don't even come close. The Critters (and there sequels) for example, were a poor attempt in trying to follow on from the Gremlins.The human cast of Gremlins was a pretty good one. The well known person from the Gremlins for me is the gorgeous Phoebe Cates. Her character in this film is full of hurt and regret, which the audience I am sure feel sorry for, plus she also helps save the day. I recently saw her very first movie, Fast times at Ridgemont High. That was a one hell of a teenage film. Cates looked stunning in it as well. Playing the lead role of Billy Peltzer was Zach Galligan. Zach has hardly been heard of since the role of Billy in Gremlins (and the sequel). Yet I seem to ask myself the question, why? He was excellent in Gremlins and a good choice as the main character. I guess he has done some other movie which have been flops. This includes the 1994 comedy All Tied Up, starring the stunning Terri Hatcher.It's now time to talk about the real &#145;stars' of this show. Yes, those little green monsters. All credit needs to go to puppet makers in the Gremlins. These &#145;things' looked so real. Special comment needs to go to the creator of the &#145;Stripe' Gremlin. He was an amazing character. I want to say that the character of Gizmo was very restricted. We hardly ever see the whole animal. I liked him much more the second time around. The Gremlins is a movie that has so much happen in a little time. While these creatures remain &#145;Mogwais', they are quite harmless, but once they turn into the gruesome Gremlins they cause disaster after disaster. The scene in the school was quite satirical, with the Gremlin having his revenge on the school teacher. The only criticism of this scene is that we never actually find out what happens to that Gremlin. I guess he eventually meets up with whole group, but how does the viewing audience know this? Then we have the hilarious scene at the Peltzer household. The mother was quite game tackling those gruesome creatures. I love it when she blends one in the mixer and then fries one in the microwave. When Stripe escapes, he hurts the small town of Kingston Falls. The scene at the YMCA swimming pool was clever. Then when you see all the Gremlins walking into town you appreciate that they are not real. Then you have the pub scene where Kate is trapped serving all these mischievous characters, it was totally wild. Also the scene with the snow plough going through the Futterman's house was crazy and suits the Gremlins totally. By the end we see one of the great pieces of directing, seeing all the Gremlins in the cinema watching quite a tame film in Snow White. Plus the final battle between Billy and Stripe in the Supermarket. It is so clever to see the little Gremlin tackle Billy with a chainsaw and a bow and arrow. Plus we see the best scene with Gizmo here. He is driving a Barbie-doll car, which was cute. I wont describe the end, but I will say that it was quite gut wrenching.Credit must go to the director and producer of Gremlins. Steven Spielberg is a genius and one of the best producers in the business. His other movies which I have loved include E.T., The Goonies, and Jurassic Park. I also enjoyed the directing of Joe Dante. He was very inventive and takes us on a wild  roller-coaster ride with the Gremlins. To say that the original Gremlins film is a favourite of mine is an understatement. This movie is full of cuteness, cleverness, mischievousness and intelligence, all rolled into one. I also remember the posters advertising the Gremlins in this country (Australia). It was a Gremlin peeking out of a toilet. When I saw that I just had to see it, even though I did get nightmares after doing so. So, if you're air conditioner goes on the fritz, or washing machine blows up, or your video recorder konks out, before you call the repairman, turn on all the lights and check under all the beds, cos you never can tell, there just might be a Gremlin in your house!Rating 4 Stars or 9/10. "},{"Title":"Twisted and Demented","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins is a strange, disgusting, twisted, demented, bizarre, funny, and violence-packed comedy. See what they can fit into an hour and a half? Gremlins is a down-right genuine classic. It's all about an inventor dad who buys a fuzzy-wuzzy creature for his son that will make you say, Can I have one?. But after the first half-hour, you say, I never want one of those things! Why? (WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILER!) Because the three rules that were supposed to be followed are accidentally broken, and more fuzzy creatures pop up and then later turn into despicable and gruesome monsters.You'll get more laughs than you expected were in such a violent movie. I hope that you love this movie as much as I did and still do. 10/10  "},{"Title":"One of the greats...","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many great films have a half a dozen (or more) copy-cats.  This is one of the films that borrows, yet still stands alone in creating a revolution of beastie pictures.  Gremlins, along with it's sequal are part of the Greats, like Jaws, Star Wars, Ghostbusters, among many many others.  Some people don't get this dark comedy, and that's understandable.  It is a mean spirited, fantasy film at times, but sometimes you laugh harder after you've been scared nearly to death.  It would be wrong to deny this film it's just do.  It showed, along with Jaws, that thrillers can be fun and profitable, if you do it right.  A loveable Creature named Gizmo, is brought home to Billy Peltzer, by his father, Rand.  The new gift came with 3 rules.  All of which Billy must abide by,and was forwarned.  Billy does his best, but fails as he brakes the most important rule and lets loose hundreds of green monsters, that love to break things, and hurt people.  It is a zany film, and if you haven't seen it, I don't want to give to much away.  Enjoy the film, and it's sequel, which is one of the few arguably worthy sequels in film history.  So check out Gremlins. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best films ever made, in my option.  A must see film. Some of my favorite scenes The movie theater, the toy shop,and the kid in the tree suit.  This is OK for the kiddies, though it is rather violent. Funny, check out the reference to Forbidden Planet! "},{"Title":"Gizmo ka ka","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember when I saw this in the cinema for the first time.  There was a queue a mile long!  We actually had to sit in the aisle to watch this movie!  I really enjoyed this.  You feel like you're on an adventure to find Stripe and the other mutated Gremlins.  The scene in the swimming pool in the YMCA where there are hundreds of pods waiting to hatch.  That sent a chill up my spine I can tell you.  Well I was only 7 at the time.  Gremlins is a good mixture of horror and comedy.  Another good scene is the one where Gizmo is driving around in the toy store in a toy car.  A good laugh for everyone.  Stay away from Gremlins 2 though....  it's is not half as good as this one.  Rent Gremlins today! "},{"Title":"I wish I had a Bathroom Buddy","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Possibly one of the greatest movies of the 80's, if not the last forty years.  Classic and influential, and what's best, it's still entertaining to watch even after all these years.The story concerns Billy (Zach Galligan), a young bank teller/free lance cartoonist whose father brings him home a rare creature as a Christmas present.  Gizmo, the creature in question, soon multiplies when he's splashed with water, and spawns a group of evil clones, led by Stripe.  These creatures then transform into monsters and escape into town, causing all categories of chaos on Christmas Eve.Joe Dante successfully copies the same style he employed for his earlier film THE HOWLING and packs this movie with enough in-jokes for four movies.  For all their grotesque physiques, the gremlins are somewhat cute, particularly when they watch SNOW WHITE and the SEVEN DWARFS, easily the film's most famous scene.But the movie's finest moment concerns the fate of Ruby Deagle, the town's evil old landowner.  Much like Aunt Edna in NATIONAL LAMPOON'S VACATION, you'll laugh rather then be appalled when the old nag gets her just desserts.All in all, if you've never scene this movie, you're missing out on one of the greatest motion pictures of our time.  Alternately scary and funny, sometimes in the same minute, it stands alone among all the horror/comedies of it's time, second only to GHOSTBUSTERS.  So get up right now and root for Gizmo and Billy as the fight the forces of evil.  You won't be sorry, I'll promise you that. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most chaotic and entertaining film ever","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I consider Gremlins to be a masterpiece of its kind. If you doubted that they could make a movie about little green creatures wreaking havoc on a town, then see Gremlins. Fast-paced, energetic, and tons of fun.OVERALL 8 "}{"Title":"Unmatched originality","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   So the next time your refrigerator goes on the fritz, don't call a repairman.  You just never know, there might be a gremlin in the house. These are the words to end Gremlins.  And after the rollercoaster ride that the film has just put us through, they are the perfect way to end the film.  These creatures are perhaps the funniest and most entertaining little ghouls I have ever seen.  They act like spoiled rotten little rich kids.  These gremlins could be human characters in books by Steven King.  They are not just mischeivious, they are down right mean, hilarious, awful, cruel and carefree.  Their idea of a good time is to spit up nasty loogies, flash people, swing from light fixtures, play poker, drink to annebriation, bite, claw, scratch and kill.  If you haven't seen this film, you have no idea what you are missing.  I think this is one of the most original films, on par with Star Wars in terms of originality.  Neither film has been imitated.  You just can't do it.  Not only is this film entertaining and a little scary, but it is unbelievably funny.  And I think the hilarity stems from watching these varments act crazy.  They don't give a rat's ass about anything or anyone.  They do what they please when they please and they are oblivious to the consequences of their actions.  There is one scene where they are attacking a Santa Clause and they are just hanging off him like he is a toy.  They are just terrorizing him.  They probably won't kill him, but they sure will scare the hell out of him.  They are also incredibly juvenile in their speech.  They seem to have a firm grasp of the English language but they speak like babies.  Deagle, YUM YUM!  or when they see Gizmo at one point, they whisper, Gizmo, Caca Gremlins has one of the most amazing production teams assembled.  It was directed by Joe Dante, produced by the Amblin people ( Kennedy, Marshall and Spielberg ) and written by Chris Columbus.  No wonder this is a top notch production.  With people like this that have the propensity for success, I'm sure great pains were taken to get everything right.  And it shows.Gremlins is a film that I don't think can be imitated and that is because any attempt to make a film like this again and you would be accused of duplicating it.  So this may actually go down in history as one of the only films out there that doesn't have a clone.9 out of 10 One of the best film to come out of the 80's.  Watch for a funny line in Goonies when Chunk is calling the cops to report the Fratelli's and the cop says to him, Sure, sure, just like the time you called and told us about the little green monsters that were attacking you.  Same production team and also Corey Feldman was in both films.  That is a great connection. This is just pure fun.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some people just didn't get it. This movie is not only the greatest comedy I have ever seen but also the best horror film I have ever seen. It is just so funny and disgusting at the same time that you will just love it. First the there is Gizmo the cutest thing you have ever seen in any movie. It makes a great pet. But you have to remember these three rules, Don't expose him to bright lights and especially not sun light it will kill him, never get him wet, and the most important rule the rule you must never forget, no matter how much he cries and how much he begs never ever feed him after midnight. With these three rules the young Peltzer acepts his new pet and frient. But he gets a hell of a lot more than he bargainded for. Because if you them after midnight they turn into little mean grean monsters with razor sharp teeth. "},{"Title":" Give it some credit , A 6.6 ? come on !!!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is supposed to be a kid's flick ? I didn't and still don't think so . This was a great movie that was fun for all ages and shouldn't be labeled a kiddie flick . They die in blenders , microwaves ,etc...They drink beer , and flash people... These guys are classic !!! "},{"Title":"One of the best monster movies ever made","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was 13 years old when I first saw Gremlins way back when it first came out in theaters during the summer of 1984. That summer Gremlins played opposite several big hit movies such as Ghostbusters, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, and The Karate Kid. All terrific movies. But Gremlins was my favorite of the bunch, and it still is today. One of the first films to come from Steven Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment, this horror/comedy directed by Joe Dante and written by Chris Columbus is great fun. It ranks up there with Spielberg's Jurassic Park as one of the great monster movies ever made. Forget those monster ripoffs that followed after this film became a box office smash. If you want to see a movie about little creatures on the rampage, see Gremlins. It's scary, and very, very funny.**** (out of ****)  "},{"Title":"Funny light horror film","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a light, funny chiller about an exotic pet gone bad - a Mogwai- that becomes evil on Christmas after very specific rules are broken.  There are good special effects and physical comedy - it makes the perfect dark Christmas movie.  Incidentally, this and Indiana Jones & The Temple of Doom were the films that forced the MPAA to begin the PG-13 rating.  It does seem a bit dated, though, since its 1984 release. "},{"Title":"Gremlins little monsters!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best studio films to come out of America from one of the worlds most under rated directors.  Dante brings fun, flare and a little bit of horror to the big screen.  Brilliant  kids film for big kids, a real treat - my only problem is I was not old enough to see it at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Funny and delightfully twisted","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite the cute exterior and fuzzy main character (Gizmo), this film is surprisingly subversive given that it was advertised as family fare. Sadistic mayhem ensues on Christmas eve  the little green monsters kill hapless denziens gleefully, the hero's mother splatters a few gremlins before being attacked brutally, the hero's girlfriend tells us how her father died-- falling down the chimney, breaking his neck while pretending to be santa (my god!)-- and finally a melting scene that would make any dracula envious.  This is not a kids movie.  There are corny moments but are instantly undercut by something sinister.  Dante does well in the execution of the kinetic action, treating it like a live cartoon.  Have fun with this nasty one!      "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all times!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":""}{"Title":"Funny and cool mix of cute little pet and slimy, scary, but in some strange way charming monsters.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The plot is well known. This is a cultmovie that should be seen. At first its warm, sweet and cuddly. Like a christmas-carol. Suddenty you are into a wild chaos with slimy monsters taking over a small town. The sequel never feeled as cool as this one. Critters go to bed... THE GREMLINS ARE TAKING OVER!!!!!!!!! By the way, where is Gremlins 3????? "},{"Title":"An 80's classic","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A boy gets a strange creature for Christmas from his Father,but after something goes wrong the creature multiplies into others and they transform.Horror comedy is severely underrated while I think this kicks butt!!!.Somewhat Violent for kids.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Another Great Dante Flick","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Joe Dante seems to have some connection directly into my head, as his films never fail to entertain me.  Gremlins is no exception, as it basically parodies the old Universal horror flicks, monster movies in general, small town movies and plays like Our Town, and throws in a whole lot in-jokes and sight gags as well (see Trivia).  The Gremlins remain to this day the most grotesquely loveable monsters in screen history.  "},{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my all-time favorite movie. It is funny, scary, and creative (which is lacked in today's movies). Rent it (or even better, buy it) today! "},{"Title":"It Came From The Eighties","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The sort of film where a good idea suffers from a patchy script and a lot of revisions, Gremlins reflects the time when it was made. The 1980s were a decade of goofy gimmick movies, and Gremlins offers exactly that.While scouring Chinatown to sell one of his many inventions, Randall Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) is introduced to a cute, furry critter called a Mogwai. He names it Gizmo and brings it home as a pet for his son Billy (Zach Galligan). Gizmo requires special handling no bright light, no water, and no feeding after midnight. After getting wet, Gizmo produces replicant Mogwai. This could really be the big one, Randall says happily. He is soon proved tragically correct.When it was released in the summer of 1984, Gremlins was a marvel of cinematic wizardry on account of the animatronic puppets that make up the title characters. Much of the talk around the film centered on a sequence in the Peltzer kitchen where Billy's mother (Frances Lee McCain) has to fend off various attacks from the nasty gremlins, and in doing so contributed to the creation of a new MPAA- rating, PG-13.It's a brilliant sequence, the one moment in the film where the special effects (designed by future Oscar winner Chris Walas), the story (by Chris Columbus) and a human performance deliver on the payoff Gremlins promises. McCain is so intense yet so funny you can get as much from watching her face as you do from the carnage on the countertops around her. It's one of the great moments of 1980s cinema.The rest of the time, Gremlins is a tonally imbalanced, under- funny concept film that doesn't do much more than flog merchandise in the guise of a story. Conceived as a straight horror film, Gremlins went through various changes after producer Stephen Spielberg took hold of the project, so that when it finally was released, it became a scare comedy without the jokes.Entire plot lines were dropped, but the film is so ineptly constructed that their beginnings remain. We are introduced to Billy's interest in comics, a local pub under threat of condemnation, a poor mother trying to find a way to feed her children for Christmas, an obnoxious co-worker of Billy's played by Judge Reinhold, and other things, all of which vanish when the gremlins take over the second half. None are addressed again; Reinhold, the biggest male name in the cast, disappears entirely once the gremlins attack.Director Joe Dante does what he can to make the filler interesting. I like the Reinhold character's come-on to Billy's girlfriend Kate (Phoebe Cates), inviting her to his apartment with the tagline I'm talking cable. It's a very 1980s experience in that and other ways, such as when the gremlins don leg warmers and start flashdancing. But for too long a time, Gremlins seems to be in a holding pattern, doing nothing much at all except presenting these red- herring story lines that never get resolved while the monsters themselves wait in the wings.It's a very goofy film. One secondary character has a consuming hatred for all foreign things, which he talks about non-stop. A science teacher runs late-night tests on a caged gremlin in a middle-school laboratory. Both father and son Peltzer are walking Murphy's Laws, where anything that can go wrong does. Once they run amok, the gremlins often wear fitted caps and coats, as if they happened upon the little people's section of L. L. Bean.Gremlins kicks into a higher gear with that attack, though it never again achieves anything like the sustained brilliance of the kitchen battle with Mrs. Peltzer. The film posits at one point that the gremlins are subtle creatures who creep into machinery and make the resulting carnage seem like an accident. This would have made for an intriguing idea, but Dante and Spielberg never do anything with it. They are making a gimmick movie, and striving for audience impact in the cheapest way possible.It's fun for young people, I suppose, and those who first saw it when they were children. Give me the sequel instead, where the comedy is much stronger and the story more engaging. "},{"Title":"-)","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I guess you could rank this one as a holiday classic. A kid gets a Mowgwi (against the original owner's advice) from his father, a klutzy inventor, as a Christmas gift. All hell breaks loose when he inadvertently breaks the rules, especially the one not to feed the pets after midnight. One of the offsprings jumps in the pool, reproduces like mad, and the next thing you know, the peaceful little town isn't so peaceful anymore. I loved the mischief played by the creatures and the attempts to get everything back to normal. My favoritesthe scenes with the mean old lady and the line You hate Washington's Birthday and no one thinks anything of it but if you hate Christmas they think you're a leper. This ranks as one of my all-time favorite movies-I loved it! You will too.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Mayem Prevails.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Blockbuster hit comedy of evil creatures(gremlins) who are accidentally unleashed on a small town at Christmastime, and the efforts of the teenagers(Zach Galligan & Phoebe Cates) to stop them.This isn't the popular view, but this film is just sour; the illogical plot dealing with the rules surrounding the gremlins has been mocked even by those who are fans, I just found the mayhem to be too intense and mean spirited, ruining any enjoyment that the story desperately tries to muster. I have to agree with critic Leonard Maltin here...who would turn up in the sequel!(There had to be one of course, though that's another story... "},{"Title":"Monster Christmas","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've been seeking out some Christmas related films I'd not seen before and wondering why my wife to this day still utters Bright lights when ever a room is lit up suddenly and talks about Gizmo eyes, I decided to follow her recommendation and watch it with her.I'm broadly aware of Joe Dante's reputation for spoof monster flicks and to be fair, I'll cut him some slack for mashing up a cutesy Christmas movie supposedly centring on a teenage boy's predilection for unusual and cuddly pets with a vintage monster movie with lots of outlandish and ghoulish deaths along the way. The film just about works by switching between the two modes at will, keeping the viewer on the hop all the time, indeed he serves notice of his intentions by interspersing classic film clips of quite different movies, It's A Wonderful Life and Them for instance.Although many of the attack scenes are plain silly, like when Billy's mother takes on four Gremlins in her kitchen and especially the demise of Mrs Deagle which must have set back the sales of chairlifts at the time, Dante generally gets away with mixing up the goofy with the gore, even if to me the Gremlins themselves looked no more dangerous than Animal from The Muppets.A strange mixture then but perhaps not a movie to play for the very young on Christmas Eve. "},{"Title":"Follow 'the rules' to PG horror-lite fun.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins came out at the right time. In another decade this low key flick could've sunk without trace even with the Spielberg name prominently associated. But once people realised it wasn't that scary and that it was pretty much all just harmless fun Gremlins took off, even inspiring a same-old sequel that I'll get to soon.A good natured inventor of 'amazing machines that do not work' stumbles across a bizarre, unique and yes; cute pint sized creature in an out of the way Chinatown curio shop. He promptly shills out a couple hundred bucks to the owner's grandson and takes said creature home to the sleepy town of Kingston Falls for his son &#x96; who at 20 odd years of age should really be too old for pets, but that's another story.The son is named Billy (Zach Gilligan) and the creature is dubbed Gizmo, the pair bond almost immediately and it seems that aside from 'the rules' it appears that Gizmo is low maintenance and an ideal companion.Aaaaah, but the Rules! Gizmo is a Mogwai, a small fuzzy likable bundle of fur and wing-like ears that hums, gurgles and whistles pure happiness. He appears to be part-ewok with the facial structure of Yoda and the coat of a zu-zu pet. He can eat almost anything, is perfectly happy with only a TV for company and remains cute regardless of the situation.But&#x85; he happens to be extremely susceptible to bright light (sunlight kills him), has no need for water and in fact the preference is that he steer well clear of it, and in a quite strange twist cannot eat after 12 PM (which leads to many 'what about' logic issues that are acknowledged in the sequel).You'll never guess what happens! It turns out that being exposed to water makes Gizmo reproduce instantly, ping-pong sized fuzzballs that in mere seconds grow to full sized &#x96; which still means very small &#x96; Mogwais. Only these are a little different to the perpetually cheerful and innocent Gizmo. These ones have a mean streak.Now as it makes no sense to explain three different rules and then not utilise them, that night our furry friends &#x96; sans Gizmo &#x96; manage to order some late night tucker. This results in a quickfire pupal stage in which they are cocooned in some slimy scaly glowing casings as they trans-Mogwai-fy, followed by a similarly swift re-birth where they emerge as slightly larger, almost hairless, infinitely less cute and more menacing Gremlins.And at this point the film starts earning every bit of its PG rating. The Gremlins immediately set about making mischief, which starts as knocking things over and making a mess, and ends with multiple deaths. As the numbers grow quick the expanded numbers begin to wreak havoc on the formerly quiet little town, and the local residents wonder just what to do with this menace so close to Christmas (it's nearly Christmas, I didn't mention it because it has squat to do with the plot. Neither does the fact that Billy has a pair of pants that burn for his fellow bank employee Kate (Phoebe Cates), that also is a meaningless sub-plot that only means the two have someone to hold onto as they flee the Gremlins).Nothing is taken seriously &#x96; nor should it be when you are dealing with a film involving small scaly mischief makers. Billy's Mum has a memorable scene in which she dispatches a small group of Gremlins in her own kitchen, and a bar scene with a large group of Gremlins letting off steam is quite elaborate later in the film.The characters are basically caricatures charged only with maintaining shocked expressions once the fun starts, although Billy's Dad steals the show with his positive outlook in the face of his own failings as an inventor. There is also a bitchy local rich woman and a US proud paranoid xenophobe who blames everything on foreigners.The reason though that the human cast are so bland is that any personality would detract from the real stars of the show the Gremlins, who remain front and centre and tongue in cheek for the last hour of the film. There are dumb ones, sorta cute ones, slightly scary ones and one downright menacing one with a mo(gwai?)-hawk named Stripe who appears more dastardly than the rest.The pace moves along with breakneck speed after the Gremlins are introduced and some of the Gremlin death scenes are perhaps a little OTT gross and gory (which reflects Director Joe Dante's background in B movie horror).All in all though Gremlins is but a good natured kiddie flick with some funny moments and a simple but effective premise, and even though it is now over 25 years old Gremlins remains as effective and as amusing as it was when I first saw it in the 80s.The sequel on the other hand&#x85; Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. Like night-club pick-ups in the wee hours of the morning, they start small, cute and fuzzy, and often end up big, ugly and scaly. Maybe they too shouldn't eat after midnight. "},{"Title":"A Christmas-themed monster movie and a great one at that","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When it comes to Steven Spielberg, the master of filmmaking, the way he teams up with other directors to produce all of their films they've directed. First, he teamed up with Robert Zemeckis to produce the Back To The Future trilogy and later teamed up with Michael Bay to produce the Transformers film series, but before he met them, he teamed up with Joe Dante to produce a monster film known as Gremlins and hired Chris Columbus (who would later write the screenplay for Richard Donner's The Goonies and would later become a director to direct the first two Home Alone films and the first two Harry Potter films) to write the screenplay while being accompanied by two collaborators Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy.It tells the story about Billy Peltzer, a teenager who is given a small creature called a Mogwai by his father. He is unaware of the carnage he is about to encounter. There is a huge responsibility in looking after Gizmo as there are certain rules which must be followed. The Mogwai must be kept away from bright light, never made wet and never, ever be fed after midnight. When an accident occurs involving Gizmo and water, the next evolution stage of the Mogwai appears, creating an army of hellish-looking devils.With a premise/concept that inventive, this is a great film at it's best. It's a Christmas family film at first, but it turns into a horror and comedy film in the second half. It's like a furry version of ET... except it's much darker as anyone expected. Despite that issue, it's a entertaining film nonetheless.The creature make ups for the Gremlins are pretty damn good and the special effects are amazing. The acting is spectacular. Zach Gilligan did a good job as Billy, Phoebe Cates did great as the pretty girl named Kate and Corey Feldman (Hey there, Mouth. Didn't know you were gonna join Sean Astin and the rest of the Goonies later.) did great Pete. The voices for Gizmo, Stripe were amazing thanks to some great spirit from Howie Mandel and Frank Welker. The music from Jerry Goldsmith (who later died in 2004) and the Gremlins Rap Song was surprisingly good and very catchy to listen to. The script is witty and funny with some of the memorable scenes including the part where the Gremlins are watching Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs before they started singing Heigh Ho.I would recommend this anyone who has a taste for monster movies as Joe Dante's wonderful achievement and a great Christmas-themed monster movie at that.Rating 9/10 "}{"Title":"Scary funny family fare","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins belongs to a category of movies which has very few members - it is funny, it is full of action and suspense (and some mild scares) and it is a great movie for family viewing.The story is simple but effective - the Peltzer family acquire a mogwai called Gizmo, a rare oriental creature which comes with but two rules - don't get it wet (because this causes it to bud off new creatures) and don't feed it after midnight (because this causes mogwais to turn into gremlins). Of course, the warnings are provided without explanation, so no-one attaches any importance to them and, in due course Gizmo buds off new mogwais which end up in a swimming pool - hordes of gremlins emerge and proceed to lay waste to the small town, and only Billy Pelzer (with the help of Gizmo) can stop them.Zach Galligan is an engaging Billy, and it's a shame that he never really went on to bigger and better things his co-star, Phoebe Cates, had a run of moderate success before marrying Kevin Kline and becoming a full-time mother.But the real stars of the movie are the puppet gremlins and the physical effects. They fit well with the light tone, and director Joe Dante manages the difficult trick of generating a genuine sense of jeopardy with the malicious little puppets, yet a reassuring sense that no-one comes to any real harm.One wonders what it would be like to see a remake with CGI gremlins and some of the dark doings which were envisaged in the original script... "},{"Title":"Memorable 80's product still packs a mean punch.","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I would consider this my favourite Christmas movie of all time. And if your tastes tend towards the dark, twisted, and subversive, and you enjoy a healthy amount of humour with your horror, I'm sure you consider this essential Christmas viewing as well.It was the brainchild of Chris Columbus, whose screenplay caught the attention of Steven Spielberg who then suggested Joe Dante as director. Spielberg had enjoyed both Dantes' Jaws send-up Piranha, as well as The Howling, and the two had also directed segments of the previous years' notorious Twilight Zone The Movie. The story centres around bank teller and aspiring artist Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan), whose travelling salesman / inventor father Rand (singer / songwriter / actor Hoyt Axton) picked up an unusual Christmas present for Billy during a visit to Chinatown a cute little fuzzy animal identified as a Mogwai, whom Rand christens Gizmo. Gizmo comes with a set of insane rules, which of course must be followed and which, naturally, are meant to be broken soon enough he must not be exposed to bright light, *especially* sunlight, he must not come into contact with water, and he must not eat after midnight. Rule # 2 is broken, and Gizmo spawns a quintet of new Mogwai that prove to be absolutely incorrigible. When rule # 3 is broken (unknowingly), the new Mogwai become Gremlins (the name coming from WWII, when any machinery experiencing problems would be said to have 'gremlins' in it), little reptilian monsters that proceed to tear an idyllic small town to pieces.This continues to hold up on repeat viewings. Even if there are firmly dated aspects to the presentation at times (Mega madness!), it's still as fun as it ever was, with an endearing human cast in addition to the diminutive stars. Galligan and sexy Phoebe Cates are an appealing lead couple, Axton and Frances Lee McCain are a delight as the parents, Polly Holliday is just a riot as the crabby, greedy local busybody Mrs. Deagle (a perfect '80s stand in for Mr. Potter from It's a Wonderful Life), and Judge Reinhold a hoot as smarmy and ambitious bank vice-president Gerald. Superb supporting players include the *always* welcome Dick Miller as Mr. Futterman (who's reunited with his co-star from The Little Shop of Horrors, Jackie Joseph), Scott Brady, Edward Andrews, Glynn Turman, Keye Luke, Corey Feldman, Jonathan Banks, Harry Carey, Jr., Belinda Balaski, and The Real Don Steele, the real life D.J. who will be familiar to fans of New World productions from the '70s. Appearing uncredited are veterans Kenneth Tobey and William Schallert. Spielberg and composer Jerry Goldsmith make fleeting appearances which the viewer will want to watch for. The voice artists are all fun, including Howie Mandel as Gizmo, and ultra ubiquitous Frank Welker as Stripe; Police Academy series sound effects guy Michael Winslow is also among this bunch.Excellent and highly enjoyable effects by Chris Walas and his team, Goldsmiths' irresistible score including that Gremlin Rag main theme, and numerous in-jokes and visual gags add to the fun. The title characters are never less than entertaining - sometimes frightening, sometimes extremely funny - and one can't help but like these guys - after all, they can't be *all* bad when they like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs so much. They kind of have the personalities of children, albeit children whose pranks have a decidedly sadistic nature. And when they raise Hell in a tavern, they're just as obnoxious and destructive as any human drunks. The scene with McCain dispatching three of the monsters in her kitchen justifiably gave the movie its reputation. It's show stopping stuff, although the business with the microwave (not to mention Cates' priceless story of why she dislikes the Christmas season) did rub a fair amount of people the wrong way. And when all is said and done with this movie, there is a very blatant yet effective message about learning to be responsible.Followed by a sequel six years later, Gremlins would prove to be so successful - and merchandise friendly, no doubt - that it would get a theatrical re-release, and lead to a number of other imitative comedy / horror movies about little monsters - Critters, Troll, Ghoulies, Hobgoblins, and their sequels - but leads the pack by far.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"I love Gizmo","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie so much, i love seeing Gizmo, he dose cheer me up when I am in the blues.This movie is about Billy who get this creature from his dad from a antic store for Xmas present. Bily names the cute little Creature Gizmo, there 3 rules he need follow.1) He can't be in lights or sun light that would kill him. 2) Never get him wet. 3)Never feed him after Midnight.Then a friend of him comes over to seem him and then start playing with him and knocking of a glass with a bit of water in it that falls on Gizmo start shaking really badly and fur balls start jumping out of Gizmo back, which turn into more creatures and look a lot more Goofy then first Gizmo. Then billy falls a sleep for bit looking at clock (His unaware that creatures have chewing the wire on clock) and then he feed them after midnight.Turn in green big eggs, when they hatch that when the fun really start for the creatures and take over the town.This is great fun enjoyable movie for whole family to watch, the most of it is comedy that is bit of Drama in this movie with Billy Girlfriend who dose not like Xmas because something bad happened to family when she little girl on Xmas day, which is little sad. Yes it's A horror/comedy, I do think it's suitable for kids, my kids love this movie they both seen this movie 10 times by now. I seen it, well, I see it so many times I have lot count.Acting from the whole cast is great and creature effects were really outstanding.I going to give this a whooping 10 out of bloody 10 One reason I giving this movie 10 out of 10 is that Gizmo, why can't he be real! "},{"Title":"Gremlins (1984)","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I never cared for this as much as most, even in 1984 I thought the special effects were a little cheesy and that the gremlins looked like stuffed animals, not real living things. It's a good thing that it doesn't take itself seriously. It is so predictable, the minute you hear the warnings of gremlins not liking light, not to feed them after midnight and never ever expose them to water, you just KNOW all those things are going to happen. Also, you know the something is going to happen to the evil Polly Holliday character, so it is rather clichéd in that way. On the plus side, there is some originality and creativity. There are some very funny scenes as well. "},{"Title":"So funny!","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Movie is fantastic!Joe Dante's Gremlins is a fun and enjoyable film, but it is scary at times, but I still love it. It really is the best little monster attack type film, and you even root for the Gremlins themselves, because of their enjoyable pranks, stupidity and by far their laughs, it just sticks in your head.This movie even spawned a sequel Gremlins 2 The New Batch, which is also filmed by Joe Dante, it is great as well, but it isn't as good as it's predecessor. If you haven't seen this film then, go rent it, buy it, you just have to see Gremlins. "},{"Title":"Gremlins..ahh good old monsters that ARNT CGI.","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was absolutely false advertisement. they advertised it as a family movie..well they sure put it that way at the begging of the movie. Till they eat after midnight! Holy crap when i was a kid and saw this movie...well the first time i saw it i was 5. didn't think it was scary at all and loved it, until that night when i went to bed..i had nightmares for the rest of elementary school. and i hated the movie from then on out...but as i hit middle school i basically mentally prepared myself over middle school about it and finally 8th grade year i watched gremlins the movie that scared the sh** out of me when i was little.... And boy i don't know what i was missing. but this movie is one of the best i have seen. Just the cast was great the animatronics on the gremlins was flawless, and i love this movie now as a 16 year old. i watch it all the time and every time i watch it, its pure genius. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous but somewhat entertaining","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a kid this was one of my favorite films. Now as I look at it about twenty years later with a more critical eye the film holds considerably less charm.The basic premise is this A young man is given a strange pet by his father, along with three rules to be strictly followed. Predictably, those rules aren't followed and mayhem ensues.The special effects are starting to show their age a bit but they're not too bad. My main complaint against the movie is that it's so kiddie-oriented. I'm sure that today's kids will eat it up (as I did years ago) but for anyone else the main draw will be nostalgia.Some situations in the plot are either hokey or make little sense. Why on earth would Billy bring his dog to work with him? Also, since Gremlins multiply when they come in contact with water you'd think that walking around in the snow would be a recipe for disaster. That's just a couple of examples.Although I'm sure that you wouldn't expect otherwise, the acting is nothing to write home about either. At least the incredibly cute Phoebe Cates is present as the requisite romantic interest. Joe Dante's direction is mostly mediocre as well and the score is typical of the eighties (take that as a detraction or a compliment).Yet, despite all this the movie is still fairly entertaining. If you haven't seen it since you were a kid, though, you'd better prepare yourself for at least a few moments that will make you roll your eyes and groan. "},{"Title":"My favourite guilty pleasure","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins benefits a little from the fact that I grew up with it, but mostly I liked the sequel and since then I've realized the original is better. It's a guilty pleasure, but a well-shot, well-told one, owing partly to a classic setting and effective narration by Hoyt Axton.Gremlins is a black comedy and scores some laughs. However, its story is an inspired mythology in its own right. A young man (Zach Galligan) receives a cute but unknown creature named Gizmo who multiplies, and after the new creatures (mogwai) eat after midnight, they become monsters. Lively, entertaining monsters- connected to the legendary gremlins in the mind of a veteran of World War II (Dick Miller). In one memorable sequence, they are also connected with the urban legend of pets being blown up in microwaves- this movie definitely struck a chord by borrowing from popular mythology. While the gremlins are shown enjoying the destruction they cause, with a bar scene being a highlight of the movie, the original manages to be a simpler product than its sequel, and less is more. Additionally, the original has the paradox of horror on Christmas, which the sequel misses. With cute and passable puppetry and passable performances, Gremlins remains a nice distraction. "},{"Title":"A holiday movie favorite.","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My Take A cult classic holiday comedy with wild knowing in-jokes and crazy special effects. I watched the sequel before watching this original. I like both films the same, one of the best horror/comedy films, and maybe one of the best film of all time. The story is memorable and director Joe Dante and Executive producer Steven Spielberg gives all their best to adapt Chris Colombus' offbeat and quirky script.Who would forget the early nights before Christmas, when young Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) receives the cute furball Gizmo as a present fro his dad (Hoyt Axton)? And who would also forget the bad results when the three very important rules (1. Don't Expose them to bright light 2. Don't get him wet 3. (Most importantly!!!) Don't feed them after midnight) are broken? And finally, who would forget the mischief and mayhem the night before Christmas, and the endless fun at every viewing?GREMLINS is that familiar movie that you couldn't help but love, even if some of its standards don't live up. Sure the special effects are long surpassed and so is the pacing, but GREMLINS is that classic in its own way that you'll just love it the way it is. Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"great horror/comedy blend","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i liked Gremlins a lot.i thought it was well acted and funny.it also had some black humour,which i liked.i liked the look of the gremlins.they would probably be scary for some children.they are quite freaky looking.i thought the puppetry was amazing.for the most part it really looked like these creatures were doing what the movie showed them doing.the gremlins were hysterical at times in what they said and how they acted.this is my idea of a good horror/comedy.it balances both elements well.it think the potential was there for the movie to be really awful,but good writing makes all the difference.the only real complaint i have about the movie,is you could really tell it was all a set,which looked suspiciously like many movie sets of the time.i'm sure they used that particular set for several movies.anyway,this is just a small complaint.and i'm probably being petty.otherwise,i really enjoyed the movie.for me,Gremlins is an 8/10. "}{"Title":"Endearing Feel-Good Horror Comedy","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is one of my favorite horror comedies in that it boasts some endearing characters, innovative ideas, and excellent execution of story.While this is definitely not for fans of all ages, the exception being younger children, most everyone else will enjoy this fast-paced, twisted romp into the netherworld of magickal, mystical beasties and their lore.Set in what was then contemporary America, and peopled with the popular young actors of the day, this work exhibits some of the same teenage appeal as did most 80's movies, but with the added draw of lovingly created monsters and characters.It is great fun, if somewhat darkling in consideration, although to watch it today, it is rather dated.It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"There's Only 3 Rules!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy (Zach Galligan) just got the best Christmas present ever A cute fuzzy lil Creature who's as nice as can be. But, with this little Gremlin comes 3 rules, and if you break them, all hell will break loose!8/10- I loved it! While I'll always think of Gremlins as fuzzy green things that bother people on Planes when they're in the... Twilight Zone, these cutie-pies are a joy to watch for an hour and 40 minutes.This was the 3rd Joe Dante film I've seen (Twilight Zone The Movie and Homecoming) and so far, I've loved all his work. He's a great director and all the actors were top-notch. "},{"Title":"A classy little Horror/comedy","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a film that I missed as a kid and its a real pity cause its awesome. Everyone I know thinks its a truly special movie and so do I. The story is a really cool and original one. A man visting China town picks up a pet for his son. Not any old pet though, this is a mowgi and there are 3 rules that go with it. Don't get in sunlight,Never get it wet and never feed it after midnight. Billy the boy who receives it calls it Gizmo and things go fine until he gets Gizmo wet and he multiplys. Then by accident he feeds the new mowgwi food after midnight and they become GREMLINS!!!!! Its a cracking film filled with laughs and nasty parts galore that will have everyone either in stitches or behind the couch. The Gremlins are nasty critters that like mischief so the film got a high 15 rating here in the UK. However fear not this is a family film through and through with nothing but Gremliney pranks the whole way through. The acting ain't class buts its done to a decent level and Hoyt Axton makes a great Mr. Peltzer. The characters are cool Billy, Mrs Deagle but not just the human characters the cute mowgi Gizmo and evil Gremlin leader Stripe are acts of Genius. See Gremlins with the family are with friends its the best way to do it. The Gremlins themselves are puppets and they looked cool then but they look even cooler now. Its plain and simply a great little piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Irresistibly Loony Little Monsters On The Loose Comedy Horror Classic","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's Christmas in American picture-postcard town Kingston Falls. Billy Peltzer is given an unusual present; a cute little furry creature called a Mogwai. He is delighted with the gift until he accidentally gets it wet and it quickly multiplies. Worse still is to come when the new creatures are fed after midnight and transform into horribly mischievous Gremlins ...Most people's favourite Christmas movie is It's A Wonderful Life. My favourite is Gremlins. It's a fabulous flick, because it somehow manages to be both a sentimental good-natured modern-day fairytale, and an uproariously riotous comic horror film that stomps all over the nice wholesome image of Christmas and small-town America. The script by Chris Columbus is simply fantastic - all the characters are beautifully drawn, the Three Rules Of Gremlins are brilliant, and there are whole scenes which are simply priceless - the evocative Chinatown opening, the Sam Peckinpah kitchen massacre sequence, Kate's phenomenal Why I Hate Christmas speech, Mrs Deagle's grisly demise and the Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs spectacle, to name but a few. This is one of those rare examples of a film where everything just gels together beautifully - Dante's gleefully insane direction, Jerry Goldsmith's alternately soothing and teeth-grating score, wonderful camera-work by John Hora and eye-popping special effects puppetry by Chris Walas - Gizmo and Stripe are not just props in this movie, they are real characters who give performances with more depth than a lot of A-list actors I could name. The rest of the cast are equally wonderful; Galligan and Cates (for my money the best and cutest young actress of the eighties) are extremely appealing, Axton is terrific as the hapless inventor dad, Miller hilarious as the xenophobic neighbour Mr Futterman, and Luke is unforgettable as the wise old grandfather. Look out also for an unbilled bit by Dante alumni Kenneth Tobey and executive producer Steven Spielberg in a rare cameo appearance. This is a brilliantly made, wonderfully wicked horror comedy, in equal parts intriguing, funny, gross, touching and scary. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Gremlins!!  A Joe Dante Film.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins (1984) was a strange fantasy film from Roger Corman protégé Joe Dante. He creates a film that pays homage to the science-fiction films of the fifties. The film was so successful, it spawned a line of merchandise, a couple of video games and a highly successful sequel. A middle aged inventor (Hoyt Axton) is searching for a perfect Christmas present for his son. One day he comes across an Asian curio shop. He falls for the store owner's unique pet. After an unsuccessful business deal with the shop's owner (Keye Luke) his young assistant sells the pet to him. Before parting he tells him the rules of the Mogwai. Never get him wet, keep him out of light and NEVER feed him after midnight. Delighted, he takes the pet home. His kid (Zach Galligan) falls in love with his new pet. But being a stupid kid, following set rules is not as easy as it seems. Co-stars Phoebe Cates (wow) and Roger Corman stock player Dick Miller.A fun film for all ages. But keep the real young ones away. Several scenes will scare them silly. Followed by an equally as entertaining sequel.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Gremlins","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From executive producer Steven Spielberg, writer Chris Columbus and director Joe Dante (The Howling, Small Soldiers), this was released in cinemas as a family comedy horror. It turned out however to have too many scenes which scared young children, so they changed it to a 15 certificate, which in a way is fair enough. Basically Randall Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) is looking for Christmas present for his son Billy (Zach Galligan), and after secretly paying for it, despite the owner Mr. Wing (Keye Luke) saying no, he finds a Mogwai. There are rules to owning the Mogwai, which Billy names Gizmo, he must be kept away from bright lights, especially sunlight which will kill him, he must stay away from water, and most important, he must never eat after midnight. Trying to have fun with and take care of Gizmo, it is not long before the first rule is broken when water is spilt, causing his body to spit out more Mogwais. While the school scientist does some tests on one of the Mogwais, Billy unintentionally breaks the big one by feeding them after midnight, causing all but Gizmo to be in cocoons transforming. As soon as they hatch, that is when the chaos starts, the leader Stripe jumps in a swimming pool causing multiplication, and these larger monsters, called Gremlins according to Murray Futterman (Dick Miller), wreak havoc in the town while it is dark. Billy and his love interest Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates), who has had a horrible incident happen at Christmas before, are now trying to find a way to kill them all. They find all of them cooped up in the cinema watching Snow White and turn the gas on the blow them up, but the leader Stripe manages to get away, but don't worry, he is stopped before multiplying and melted with sunlight. Also starring Frances Lee McCain as Lynn Peltzer, Polly Holliday as Ruby Deagle, Jackie Joseph as Sheila Futterman, Scott Brady as Sheriff Frank, Harry Carey Jr. as Mr. Anderson, Corey Feldman as Pete Fountaine, Judge Reinhold as Gerald Hopkins, Frank Welker as Stripe / Mogwai / Gremlins, Howie Mandel as Gizmo, Chuck Jones as Mr. Jones, Jerry Goldsmith as Man in Telephone Booth Glancing at Camera and Steven Spielberg as Man in Electric Wheelchair. The cute and cuddly Mogwai is fun, the nasty and ugly Gremlins are entertaining, and the spoofs and in-jokes in amongst the sometimes scary moments make this a great alternative to the feel-good Christmas specials, a great black comedy fantasy. It was number 34 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"This movie still works","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For me personally, Gremlins is pure youth sentiment. I was only 6 years old when the movie first appeared, but I had a great time watching it then. Of course I wondered what would be left of it now. I'm 20 years older, my taste for movies has developed and I'm used to see a lot of movies (some of them enhanced with the latest technologies and special effects). Would Gremlins still be a good movie or would it all look very dated? Well, I can assure you that overall this movie is still more than OK. The Gremlins still look cool and slimy and the fact that they create a lot of chaos and mayhem is still fun to watch. Another positive thing about the movie is that it doesn't really seem dated. Of course there are always details that remind you of the fact that this isn't a recent movie, but it never really bothered me. If there is one negative thing that I could mention about Gremlins than it must be the fact that this is still called a horror movie. The Gremlins aren't scary at all, never have been in my opinion. Perhaps to some people they looked scary more than 20 years ago, but today we are used to a lot worse, so calling this a horror movie isn't exactly right anymore.As you probably already know there are three rules that have to be taken into account when dealing with a Mogwai. Never feed it after midnight (otherwise they become monsters), make sure it doesn't get too much light or it will die and never get it wet or it will reproduce. Of course the Mogwai does get some water over him and immediately some furry balls start coming out of his back, which rapidly change into new Mogwai's. The original one is cute and sweet, but his children aren't that nice. Especially not Stripe, their leader. Soon they turn into little green monsters and start a lot of mayhem.Maybe today it all seems a bit silly, but it still is a very fun movie. And no, it isn't a technological miracle, but that doesn't bother me. The fact that I see it more as a parody on other horror movies and that it still stands after all these years is the main reason why I still cherish this movie. I'm sure that the younger generation doesn't like it anymore because it isn't spectacular enough, but for me this movie still works. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie of the 1980's.","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a very funny film and it has a great cast.The movie starts out in Chinatown on Christmas Eve,where Randall Peltzer,played by Hoyt Axton(Heart Like A Wheel),is doing some Christmas shopping,dragged off the street by a young Chinese boy to his grandfather's store where he has some great antiques.Randall Peltzer hears the Mogwai make noise and sing,he is interested in buying Gizmo,the name he will give the Mogwai,but the kid's grandfather,Mr. Wing,played superbly by Keye Luke(Kung Fu)refuses to sell him cause the Mogwai requires much responsibility.The kid sells Gizmo to Randall anyways telling him there are rules that should be followed,first rule is Keep him out of bright light,especially sun light,it will kill him.The second is never get him wet.The Third rule is never feed him after midnight.After Randall buys Gizmo,we see a small town called Kingston Falls,where Randall Peltzer is from.Billy Peltzer,played awesomely by Zach Galligan(Wax Work 1,and 2,Gremlins 2,and Psychic)is on his way to work,but his car won't start.Murray Futterman,played greatly by Dick Miller(Gremlins 2,White Line Fever,and Night Of The Creeps)offers to help him.Murray Futterman is very patriotic about American machinery.Billy has some trouble at the bank cause of a mean old rich lady named Ruby Deagle,played by Polly Holiday(Alice and Flo).Mrs. Deagle is angry cause of Billy's dog,Barney,broke her glass snowman,she threatens to kill Barney if she catches him.Billy brought Barney to work and is tied underneath the counter,but gets loose and scares Mrs. Deagle.At the Peltzer house,things are great when Randall gets home and gives Billy his Christmas present,Gizmo.Billy's mom,Lynn,played by Frances Lee McCain(Footloose,Stand By Me and,Scream)takes a picture of Gizmo and Gizmo is scared cause of the bright light.Randall explains the rules to Billy and Lynn.Billy later on has his friend,Pete,played by Corey Feldman(Friday The 13th The Final Chapter,The Goonies and The Lost Boys)over at his house and meets Gizmo.Pete accidentally knocks over water on Gizmo.The Mogwai multiplies with water,5 new Mogwais,the leader,Stripe,has a mohawk on his head.The new 5 Mogwais are not like Gizmo,they are very mischievous,they sabotage the clock so they can eat after midnight.In the morning,Billy sees cocoons on the floor and shows his mom,finds out the clock was sabotaged.The cocoons hatch and the Gremlins are born,Billy manages to kill 4 out of 5 Gremlins except Stripe,who gets away to the Y.M.C.A. and gets to the pool so he can multiply.The reign of the Gremlins has started.Some go over to the Futterman's house,they mess up their antenna on the roof,they end up driving Murray Futterman's tractor into his living room,injuring Murray and his wife Sheila,played by Jackie Joseph.Billy goes to the Sheriff's station and tells Sheriff Frank,played by Scott Brady,and Deputy Brent,played by Jonathan Banks(Wise Guy,Beverly Hills Cop,and 48 Hours),but don't believe him.Meanwhile,some of the Gremlins go over to Ruby Deagle's house and a couple sing Christmas Carols,as soon as she gets outside,she see the Gremlins and gets scared,little does she know,one Gremlin messed up her electric stair chair.When she sits down and pushes the button on the remote,Mrs. Deagle flies up the stairs and out the window and lands in the snow,upside down.The Tavern is infested with Gremlins,the bartender is non other than Kate,played by Phoebe Cates(Private School,Fast Times At Ridgemont High,and Gremlins 2),Kate also works at the bank where Billy works,Billy comes to her rescue and they hide out in what is left of the bank.Later on,all the Gremlins are at the movie theatre,they are watchingSnow White And The Seven Dwarfs.Billy manages to kill all the Gremlins by blowing up the theatre,though Stripe was out of the theatre,Billy and Kate see him at the retail store,Kate goes to turn on the lights while Billy goes deal with Stripe.Gizmo manages to save the night by getting the Barbie Corvette and driving it to the string that opens the roof hole for the sunlight to get in,Stripe was at the fountain,about to multiply,but the sunlight kills him.Things are somewhat better,but Mr. Wing,is there to get Gizmo,and is upset about the irresponsibility of Randall Peltzer,he believes that one day,they will be ready to take care of Gizmo.Gizmo saysBye Billy.I love this movie so much,I give it 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars.The supporting cast are great too,Judge Reinhold(Fast Times At Ridgemont High,Beverly Hills Cop 1,2,and 3)as Gerald,the bank Vice President.Harry Carey Jr.(Mask and Back To The Future Part III)as Mr. Anderson.Howie Mandell(The Little Monsters)did a great job as the voice of Gizmo.For The Transformersfans,you will recognize some voices,Peter Cullen,who did Optimus Prime and Ironhide did some of the Gremlins and Mogwai voices.Frank Welker,who did the voice of Megatron,Rumble,Frenzy,Soundwave,and Wheelie,did some Gremlins and Mogwai voices too.Michael Winslow(The Police Academy movies and Spaceballs)does so Gremlins and Mogwai voices too. "},{"Title":"Still love it after all these years","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw Gremlins around 1988, and have never grown tired of it. Stripe, Gizmo, and company were wildly thought up and put to life.Billy Peltzer gets a bizarre pet for Christmas. A Mogwai, which originates from China. But beware there are 3 important rules that tag along with owning a mogwai.1. Never get it wet. Don't give it any water to drink and don't ever give it a bath.2. Keep it out of bright light. Especially sunlight, it could kill it.3. And the most important rule of all. No matter how much it begs, don't ever feed it after midnight.So of course after accidentally getting it wet the mogwai multiplies. Then thinking it's only 1142 p.m., Billy decides to give the whole brood of creatures a batch of Kentucky Fried Chicken. But of course Billy's clock had stopped! So now after emerging from a cocoon stage, Kingston Falls is blessed with little monsters called Gremlins, and Christmas will never be the same! "},{"Title":"excellent......","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this film!!!! it had great special effects,  interesting characters, and a swift pace. I especially liked gizmo, he was rather strange, but still cool. A must-see!!!!! "}{"Title":"Silly, funny, but a little too dark at times","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" firstly, i just bought this on bluray last night and haven't seen this film in a very long time. but after seeing it after so many years in full, i must say its darker then i remembered it. the gizmo is cute in the beginning, and i half expected this movie to be not so dark because gizmo was so fluffy and cute. however once the other gremlins come it gets a bit dark. perhaps too dark. first thing that made me gasp in horror was when its implied the spike mogwi (not yet turned into a gremlin) tied up the dog outside with Christmas lights. that was just so wrong. i didn't find it funny, but i don't think it was supposed to be. I'm sure it was meant to show how bad and sadistic the gremlins can be, and it sure did, but as an owner of 4 lovable dogs and a big animal lover myself i found this part to be in bad taste. thankfully the dog wasn't hurt in the film or anything, but still, it looked painful and i felt very bad after seeing this, and i had to go hug my own dogs, lol. later in the film you see gremlins with GUNS trying to shoot people, injecting a needle into a teacher, scratching up a moms face while in a Christmas tree before trying to strangle her, nearly bulldozing a man to his death (thankfully later was confirmed that he survived that somehow). from memory, the gremlins of film 2 were not nearly as sadistic or murderous. sometimes scary or creepy but not like the first film where they were killers. anyone who says this is a family movie should be warned. its a strange movie to be sure, its got moments where the kids would definitely enjoy it (as i did when i was a child) and parts where adults are going to think wow this is pretty twisted. phoebe Cate's character's speech about why she doesn't like Christmas was pretty bizarre as many have stated and just doesn't fit anywhere in the movie. maybe this was why they added it on there, the ridiculous randomness of it, but still, it would have been fine without it.another thing that people don't seem to give credit for is jerry goldsmiths very memorable film score which really suits the movie and is both scary at times, and funny/silly at others, especially with his very funny, memorable gremlins theme tune. you can almost hear the gremlins singing along with it! overall, however, the creature gremlin effects are fantastic and very well done. it reminds us that CGI can never replace the pure magic and creepy realism of puppetry and animatronics that were so wonderful back in the day. this film also reminded me why so many of my favorite films are from the 80's. movies then seemed to have a childlike fun quality to them that seems lost in todays cinema. they were fun, over the top and magical, from the kid movies to the macho action flicks, 80's movies had that magic of cinema that todays films are sorely missing. the film's got plenty of scares and silliness, as well as some good suspense, to entertain just about anyone who likes movies. my only major criticism is that there are some moments that i think are just too dark for a movie like this. i actually prefer the sequel, where i think they got a good balance of silliness and creep out scenes, without being too serious or too dark. on the whole, the 2 gremlins films are very good scary fun movies but do be warned, the first film does get dark at times and may not be great for younger viewers. i wouldn't really call this a family film, more like a horror comedy. "},{"Title":"A whimsical UFO softie is the best friend for an American boy","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I dislike this movie for a number of reasons.Reason No.1 I have never considered Gremlin topic to be a childish one. Here the movie is a piece of supposed family-oriented entertainment, a kind of soft sci-fi, which I do not respect. For children this piece of entertainment is harmful (it makes kids believe in a kind gremlin. and other scum), while for grown-ups this film is simply flat.Reason No.2 This movie did not make me laugh or smile, did not make me fear, did not entertain me - it just dragged on for an hour and a half. I could not believe my eyes later when I saw articles about famous men who adored this flick and considered it to be the best of the best.Reason No.3 The idea of friendship between a child and a gremlin can be quite well executed but in this movie it just does not work. The extraterrestrial looks stupid and goofy while the child is a run-of-the-mill boy. There is no chemistry to amaze. A helpless wretched gremlin, who lost his parents? Fie! Come on, give me Predator to enjoy.Reason No.4 Lack of fresh ideas. I cannot remember a single interesting thing about this movie, though I watched it very attentively. Oh, yes, there is a sub-plot about Mrs. Deagle building a Nuclear Power plant in Kingston Falls. It's still being remade and remixed here and there on TV. Big ...deal.There is a very low-end and cheap British movie Xtro, which is superior in each and every point mentioned above. The child who played Tony there was to be nominated for an Oscar, the aliens were real bad, and the chemistry between the child and his altered father was insane.I understand quite well that, perhaps, none of those who would read this comment of mine, will agree. Sorry, Gremlins is too soft and too boring, in my humble opinion.Don't get me wrong, I like and do enjoy high-quality family movies (during our Soviet times we had a lot of excellent family films - both thought-provoking and extremely entertaining). Most likely, you will never see them, while they are not so widespread as Bollywood samples.While I am pretty sure that something good about this movie still slips my mind and still exists, I give it a few points to be more objective.Verdict a very soft pathetic American sc-fi of 3 out of 10 kind. Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"Another one of the 80's finest","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Throughout the 80's cinema goers experienced some incredible movies and were treated to some very special moments and Gremlins firmly cements itself into the top draw of the era.While Gremlins is a Very black comedy it still appeals to most people. Whether it's the scary side, or the cute side (provided by Gizmo) the film delights and scares people still to this day.After viewing both of the films again very recently with my girlfriend, who has never seen either before, it was great to see the reaction of a new viewer watching 25 years after its release.Very well directed, shame about some of the acting and some of the music pieces are haunting.Now what makes it so special? Well ...to be honest i don't know, it just has a magic factor to it that holds you throughout and keeps you wanting to revisit time after time. Having both Gremlins and Gremlins 2 in your DVD/Blu-ray collection is a must, if not i urge you to pick them up! Especially if you have never seen them! Now all i have to decide is which film is better 1 ...or 2? "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" there have been many movie of comedy and horror combined. such as ghoustbusters or the gingerbread man. But only one film takes the ability to scare and do insane stuff ant the same time. Thats why i am completely bonkers for gremlins. The gremlins may be monsters, but they are monsters of the most important ingredient for movie that we hardly see...CHAOS! That is what a monster movie needs. Not some crappy story about a guy who goes into your dreams, or was dead and some how came back. I have a word for that....overused OvErUsEd OVERUSED!!!! And gremlins really take the cake when it comes to chaos. The story is very ORIGINAL the characters are lovable as they are hateable. I don't care much for all sudden deaths but gremlins are BARBARIC! the real lucky death for everyone is Mrs.deagles death. The gremlins shoot her through a window.....no they didn't shoot her THEY LAUNCHED HER!!!!!Also the thing that entourage's me is the theme song. It has a circusy scary and crazy feeling that no movie composer can do anymore because of audience demands. Also the fact they got voice acting legend FRANK WELLKER to do some gremlins and stripe. Frank does many voices but none is creepier than stripe.overall(s) in short i haven't seen a movie like this and hopefully i will in the future..... "},{"Title":"Some serious movies don't last in time. Some fun movies do.","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently re-watched Gremlins and loved it! I have no idea why this isn't considered a masterpiece of the horror/comedy genre. It is a pleasure to watch in 2009 so it should have been seen as groundbreaking back in 1984. Perhaps that is an overstatement but this movie is great entertainment.The structure is very smart. First, we observe the life in this small town where everyone and everything is so nice and innocent. Except an old lady but she is a caricature so she is not really scary.The central family is as sweet and nice as you would expect. The father is an ambitious inventor (In the some day I will be successful kind of way) and he decides to buy a little creature as a Christmas present for his son. There is probably no biologist in the world who is aware of this species' existence but who cares? The town is sweet and innocent, the family is sweet and innocent and guess what? The little creature is even more sweet and innocent. The reason I called the structure smart is because there is a gradual change in the mood and things start becoming slowly darker and creepier. There are some rules concerning the little creature (Alright, they call it Gizmo) which must be followed but do you really think everything goes according to plan? The rules are broken one by one and here we are. The Gremlins are finally in the picture. You want me to describe them? Analogy Gremlins are to Gizmo what Cain is to Abel.The great thing about the Gremlins is that they are not just bad. They are not pure evil. Their habits bare a resemblance to those of regular people. They are evil alright. But they are like the evil in all of us. Our dark side. They like to drink, smoke and make a mess. Alright they also kill people as well as one another but there wouldn't be a movie without that.It is so much fun to watch these creatures laugh hysterically at everything. Their sole purpose in life is to enjoy themselves especially in expense of others. Not very extraterrestrial, wouldn't you think? The acting is great but only by the Gremlins. I'm kidding. But not so much. The girl is good but the boy is not very charismatic. The others, well, not important.The music is very effective. Innocence alternates with creepiness in a way that fits the film perfectly.This movie certainly deserves not to be forgotten. All people between 12 and 30 will have a great time watching it. "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked Gremlins. I was not expecting much because I thought that this film was one of those ridiculous 80's horror films. But, when I saw the names of Steven Spielberg and Joe Dante, I decided to give this movie a try. I was pleased at the result.This film starts with an inventor buying an unusual gift for his son, a Mogwai. They are cute creatures, but there are three important rules they must follow. When all these rules are broken, the Mogwai transforms into nastier creatures. They decide to wreak some havoc.The acting is good. I liked Zach Galligan, Pheobe Cates, Corey Feldman, and Judge Reinhold. They set the tone of the film.The special effects are great. I liked the creatures and in today movies, they would still look real.The score by Jerry Goldsmith is another beauty of a score.There is a great mixture of comedy and horror. I was either laughing or cowering. This is not the best film ever, but it's still pretty good. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"A great movie with a lot of heart, humor, and ugly little monsters","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a fantastic movie. I really like it. The plot to it is that an inventor goes to a Chinese street market and buys a cute, furry little creature called a mogwai for his son Billy. It multiplies into monsters called Gremlins, which terrorize the town. See, just reading the plot makes it sound great. The deaths are actually humorous (such as when a mean lady gets launched out her window by the Gremlins.) and so is the movie. The only reason I didn't give it a perfect 10 is that it can get old after a while, and in my opinion isn't the best dark comedy ever made.9/10 "},{"Title":"A comical Christmas movie!","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Invetor Randy Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) has bought a special and unusual gift for his son Billy (Zach Galligan). It's a furry Chinese creature which is a Mogwai named Gizmo (Voiced by Howie Mandall) whom is cute and cuddly but there are three rules if he wants to keep the thing, number 1 is Don't get it wet, number 2 is keep it away from the light especially sunlight cause sunlight would kill it and the most important rule is never feed it after midnight. Billy does what he can but accidentally gets Gizmo wet which makes it multiply other Mogwais and also accidentally fed the other Mogwaii except Gizmo after midnight. It somehow transforms the cuddly creatures into vicious and intelligent reptilian ghouls that start attacking the town of Kingston Falls.An original and brilliant horror fantasy from Joe Dante and producer Steven Spielberg is one of the greatest movies of the 80's! the film became one of the biggest box-office hits of 1984 and of all time thanks to the magic of it's original screenplay by Chris Columbus, great acting and excellent creature effects. It also incorporates satire and dark humor with gruesomeness, the film co-stars Dick Miller, Corey Feldman, and Phoebe Cates with appearance by Chuck Jones. Along with Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom the following year, it drew big time controversy among parents who thought the film was too violent for kids and the MPAA created PG-13 that year. Chris Walas's special effects are just outstanding with the lovable fur-balls and the not-so-lovable monsters that made them memorable.The film has been imitated throughout the years until the early 90's with films like Ghoulies, Munchies, Evil Toons, Beasties, Troll, Elves, Spookies and the worst one of them all Hobgoblins. Although Critters 1 & 2 were exceptions cause those were fun movies in their own right. This is a classic film for the holidays even Halloween, i also recommended the brilliant yet underrated sequel. "},{"Title":"One Of The 80's Best Movies!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies since I saw it as a little kid. I'm pretty sure if my Dad had actually seen what happened in the movie, he would have taken it away from me, but it was safely hidden behind a PG rating, so he didn't mind me watching it (my Mom was much cooler and we would always watch it together). Anyway, I thought it was great then, and I think it's great now. I just re-watched it yesterday, and it's still amazing. What's great is how well director Joe Dante combines all sorts of elements; horror, comedy, romance, etc. Really, I'd call this the most twisted Christmas film ever, even worse than Bad Santa. Yes, they're different, and yes, that movie was one of the sickest films ever (but hilarious), but what makes Gremlins so sick is how it starts of so harmless and cutesy. Bad Santa made no denial that it wasn't for children, but Gremlins tricks you. As it starts, the last thing you expect to be is scared. A peaceful, snowy hometown, kind citizens, a loving dad who brings home a REALLY cute little creature named Gizmo. What's scary about that? Then, after you've safely settled in and are comfortable, Dante pulls the carpet out under you feet and the story turns into one about ugly monsters blowing up in microwaves or being killed in a blender. Dante actually did horror/comedy well. It seems like most movies that claim to be horror/comedies are actually just silly comedies with lots of blood and guts which aren't in the least bit scary. Here, the movie is blood-chillingly scary in scenes, and gut bustingly funny in others. For instance, the scene with the Gremlins wreaking havoc at Dorry's tavern is just plain silly and funny, but the scene with Frances Lee McCain searching the house and finding the creatures in her kitchen is just REALLY scary and creepy. Plus, the acting's great and the special effects are amazing. It makes me sad to think that if any other movie like this was made, they'd use bad CGI that's not at all realistic. People mtalk about how much more advanced movies are today, but I disagree. Which is easier to believe is real the Gremlins in this movie or Yoda in Star Wars Episode Two? This movie was follwed by a terrific sequel that threw the horror out the window and made no denial to being a flat out comedy, and one of the smartest and most entertaining ever. Don't miss that one, either. "},{"Title":"There are just three rules...","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1) Buy GREMLINS. 2) Watch GREMLINS 3) Repeat #2 several times Every time I surf the t.v. and I come across GREMLINS, I will put down the remote and watch it til the end. GREMLINS, for its time, was truly groundbreaking. It was E.T., except with really rotten friends and relatives. Well-paced and directed Joe Dante, with unique performances by Zach Galligan and the gorgeous Phoebe Cates, GREMLINS deftly treads in and out of suspense/horror and comedy. (Phoebe Cates' explication of how her father died is still outrageous.) And there are plenty of pitched battles between the good guys and the unruly gremlins to keep the plot moving. Just don't show this movie to young kids around Christmastime. This special edition has a lot of goodies that true GREMLINS fans will enjoy, and the quality is top-notch. Just don't get it wet. I've loved Gremlins since I was a wee girl of only about 5 or 6, and previously my only copy of the film was a tattered VHS, worn out and almost grainy from repeated viewings. I purchased Gremlins on DVD and was astonished at how beautiful the transfer from film to DVD was. The details are crystal clear and the sound is impeccable. Certain small visual details of the movie were totally lost on my old VHS, but stand out gorgeously on this DVD. The movie itself doesn't need further praise from me - it's fun and funny, gory and touching at the same time. My personal favorite scene is when all of the Gremlins are in the movie theater, singing Hi Ho right along with the dwarfs in Snow White. The special effects are amazing for the time, the score was perfect, and Gizmo never ceases to be adorable. A must-buy. "}{"Title":"Are you People crazy or what ??","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can not understand how this movie can have a such underestimate rate 6.9 ??? Are you crazy people ?? This movie is one of the best movie of the 80's. It's fun to watch, it's scary to watch, it's one of the best monster movie ever made. I mean this is a classic , come on this is Gremlins !! The story of the mogwaï who can become a monster if we human don't follow simple rules is so touching and funny at the same time!! Sure this is a simple storyline but the movie is not pretending to give you the screenplay of Usual suspect! This is a great teenage monster movie with great frightening scenes. And the movie deal with deep subject like human responsibility toward nature and how we can let everything destroy it self by not paying attentionPlease wake up and see it again , because we never know, there might be a gremlin behind YOU !!! "},{"Title":"Never Gets Old!","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins (1984, Dir. Joe Dante) When Billy Peltzer is given a small creature called a Mogwai by his father, he is unaware of the carnage he is about to encounter. There is a huge responsibility in looking after Gizmo as there are certain rules which must be followed. The Mogwai must be kept away from bright light, never made wet and never, ever be fed after midnight. When an accident occurs involving Gizmo and water, the next evolution stage of the Mogwai appears, and it isn't nice at all.Now, who hasn't heard of gremlins, yet alone seen 'gremlins'? 'Gremlins' is one of those films, that although it's not perfect, never gets old. It's has both is scary moments and also it's comedy moments, whilst not going over the top. The gremlins still look amazingly real, and although there are a few dodgy shots compared to todays standards, the actual gremlins are beautifully made and operated. Although, 'Gremlins' isn't really a family film, it is a film that the whole family can enjoy. It the type of film that can even be viewed during the Christmas holiday. It's just a great big bunch of Spielberg fun and can not be missed! The old bat never looked better. - Mr. Jones (Chuck Jones) "},{"Title":"Not bad but nicer when i was 10","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Today i saw this movie again. Last time must have been when it came out in 84-85. I still remembered a couple of scenes(like when the gremlins are at the cinema, the beginning in china town, that it was Christmas time etc...)but it lost the magic a little. I remember liking it more. If i were 10 again i would give it 9 points probably. I read on other people review that the music is so good. I don't really agree with that. One of the most important things from the 80s movies was the songs and melodies. For example ROCKY, INDIANA JONES, BEVERLY HILLS COP, KARATE KID etc...all had incredible soundtracks but this movie not and thats a shame. Still, i will watch this movie again in maybe 15 years to give my final opinion about it. Thanks for reading this and take care everybody. "},{"Title":"Loads of fun","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clever and cute, nasty and vicious, funny and rampant. These words not only describe the movie Gremlins, but also the furry little creatures themselves.Yes, it's another huge commercial success from the Spielberg production company. Gremlins is in fact a very funny E.T. gone wrong as the once cute and cuddly Mogwai 'Gizzmo' spawns several not so nice offspring which proceed to destroy the peaceful town of Kingston Falls. Chris Columbus' story is inventive, and Joe Dante's direction (very much tongue in cheek) is effective as the creatures, both nasty and nice, proceed to steal the show from the main players. Special mention to the f/x crew and Jerry Goldsmith's score.Entertaining and loads of fun.Sunday, August 15, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Fun with value-added","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've just scanned some of the reviews, but don't yet see a few things that should be of interest to some in seeing this movie. Forgive me if I repeat something I don't have time to find in this longish listing. The movie's a keeper. This is wink-wink nudge-nudge juice of the first water. I see great comments on the cast here, and it's amazing to see Hoyt Axton -- the guy who wrote Joy To The World, Never Been To Spain, etc. -- acting so credibly in this comic role. His mama helped Carl Perkins write Blue Suede Shoes for Pete's sake, and he just shines here. Gone too soon. And did you get a load of Spielberg peddling past the payphone on his 3-wheeled whatchamacallit when Hoyt is calling home at the last minute? He's a producer who participates, as with the double-bill playing on the movie theater marquee, his personal working titles for what later became E.T. and Close Encounters of the Third Kind... The movie is laden with little nuggets, and it's a fun story with an ending that lets you walk away satisfied -- a movie that continues to be fun. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" See GREMLINS. Everything about it is wonderful. I don't care if you stop reading this review. I won't be offended. Go to the video rental place, rent Gremlins, and enjoy this instant classic.For those of you that will wait a bit before you leave to be entertained, here is what the movie is about. The movie Gremlins is about a boy named Billy Peltzer. For Christmas, he gets three unusual rules, (Don't get him wet, Don't expose him to light, and never, NEVER,feed him after midnight)and a cuter than cute as a button creature called a mogwai. The Peltzer family names the mogwai Gizmo, and instantly, and accidentally, for that matter, break the bright light rule. Gizmo is shocked for a moment, but recovers in seconds.They learn that bright light hurts Mogwais. The next 15-20 minutes are all just packed with extremely cute stuff that Gizmo and Billy do together. then, the water rule is broken, and Gizmo multiples. The new mogwais are nothing like Gizmo. They just seem meaner than Gizmo(and they all ARE meaner). The new mogwais have a leader mogwai named Stripe. (Stripe has a white puffy Mohawk on his head, so you can tell him apart from the other mogwai.) And finally, the new mogwais trick Billy into feeding them after midnight, and become (you guessed it) Gremlins. The Gremlins are as mean-spirited as they were when they were mogwai! They are still even lead by Stripe! And Stripe still has a puffy, white Mohawk! The only differences between the Gremlins and the evil Mogwais are Gremlins are slimy and evil and can hurt you, and the mogwai are furry and evil and cannot hurt you (yet). The Gremlins reek havoc,(but worse, MUUUUUCH worse) on the town, which is very funny.The acting is tremendous and the puppetry is amazing and the movie itself is jaw dropping. See Gremlins. one of the most unforgettable movies ever made.Rated PG for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Happy","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I mean really happy that this movie was made. And we can thank Steven Spielberg for that. If he hadn't put his name up, this movie might not have been made at all! The effects people weren't that happy, because it was more than difficult to make the puppets (Gremlins) move/give them emotions!You all know the 3 rules Don't talk about Gremlins, don't ... ;o) Seriously though Don't make them wet, don't expose them to bright light (especially sun light) and don't give them food after midnight! Now these rules come back to haunt you and/or the scriptwriter in part 2, but more about that in another review (for part 2 of course) ...Although it's lighter than originally intended (the Gremlins were supposed to eat people, if I remember the statements of the director correctly or do other horrible stuff), there are still some nasty stuff in there. But you don't have to worry, it's nothing your kid will be offended by! ;o)One of the best scenes of the movie is, when Phoebe talks about why she hates Christmas! The studio wanted that scene out, but Dante (director) fought for it and Spielberg helped him out (although he too didn't understand the motivation for that scene) ... Now go on and watch/buy the second one (if you don't already have)! "},{"Title":"I couldn't stop laughing (after I turned thirteen)","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, I saw this film twice. The first time was in grade six... lets just say I had a week gut. Now, the kitchen scene, as well as the melting scene at the end, and the scene in which billy is shot in the stomach with a mini crossbow and then attacked with a mini chainsaw has scarred for life MANY kids that I know (including a boy who will remain nameless who can't walk into toys R us because he's afraid of firbees). At eleven years old, i picked it up in the family section of my local Hollywood video and was pleased to see a PG rating. The first misleading bit of info. Then I popped it in and actually watched it... and long story short my already-eaten dinner wound up on my bedroom floor during the microwave scene. For two years I went hating the movie. Then, I found the magic of slasher movies.Well, once I could stomach freddy VS jason, I decided to give It a second chance. I watched it, laughed until I felt like I was going to puke, watched it again, bought the second one and well... I became a gremlins fan. The only problem with this movie is the fact that it is made out to look like a children's film (don't believe me, watch the trailer). It really should be released with a more mature rating (pg-13 maybe...) for those violent scenes.But if you have a good stomach and get joy from the pain and suffering of fictional characters, you'll love this movie! "},{"Title":"I am not a Movie ! I am a Cartoon !! (DVD)","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The opposite is more frequent the cartoons would like to be movies, either with a realistic art (Final Fantasy),or with real live actors (Who framed Roger Rabbit ? or Looney Tunes Back in Action from the same director).Here you got first a really lively setting a small American town in the 80's. Then, it turns into an horror movie (the symbolic fight of the desperate housewife in her kitchen), and when it could have been a bloody nightmare, the monsters suffer from gremlins madness and it becomes a hilarious, funny horror movie I think that with Ghostbusters (seen both in theaters for Christmas 84 at 10 years old), it was the first ones of this kind.In addition to the nostalgia, the enjoyment comes from a lot of merit (the name of Spielberg as producer may not be fortuitous) - Christmas time. It gives a good contrast to the horror- Jerry Goldsmith music two great theme the romantic mogwai song & the frenzy gremlins theme - Joe Dante as a director he has the sense to make fun as well as to frighten- A great collection of characters greatly interpreted from the failed inventor and father, the nationalist neighbor, to an horrible Mrs. Deagle and so on&#x85; Well, all of them bring theirs personal stories to the story- The metaphoric script the gentle Gizmo is the nature gift (as said from the old Chinese) and the gremlins are what happens when responsibility fails. Spiderman or Plato should agree with this. And as it is funny, every one accept to see the bad sides of human nature. - Finally, the special effects are top without any digital help, Gizmo & his pals seem truly alive.A must seen movie ! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the 80s","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is a classic, one of the most brilliant movies of the 80s which includes The Goonies, The Karate Kid and Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Gremlins focuses on a young man and his new unusual, yet cute pet, Gizmo the Mogwai. When he is given this gift by his father he is told he must obey by three rules which are, Do not feed them after midnight, Do not get them wet and keep them away from bright light. As this is a film all three rules are broken and mayhem is assured. From Joe Dante (Small Soldiers) and Steven Spielberg (Jaws) this is a fantastic film for the whole family and if you have not seen it you are a minority, all i can say is go and watch this now! You will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"An classic films from the 1980's.","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a young bank teller (Zach Galligan) receives an unusual mysterious new pet as a gift. When he accidentally disobeys several crucial rules for its care. It's unintentionally spawning an army of blood thirsty, trouble-making monsters.Directed by Joe Dante (The Howling, Innerspace, Small Soldiers) made this deliciously dark, amusing film. This has cuteness, murder, love, mayhem, destruction and more to this beloved popular cult classic. This was one of the biggest hits of 1984. Gremlins is a genuinely special film.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an fine digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has two entertaining commentaries tracks by the cast and filmmakers. DVD also has behind the scenes featurette, photo gallery, original theatrical trailer and more. Steven Spielberg is one of the executive producers of this film. Written by Chris Columbis (The Goonies, Home Alone, Rent). (**** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"not bad but not for everyone","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An eccentric inventor is on a business trip in New York City and stops in Chinatown to try and find the perfect Christmas gift for his son. He comes across a unique, furry little species known as a mogwai and is warned of the possible danger involved if he doesn't follow the explicit rules of ownership. He gives it to his son as a pet, but the rules are broken and it spawns hordes of little green monsters that thrive on carnage and wreak havoc on the once idyllic little town of Kingston Falls. Well-crafted film has a creative premise, dazzling special effects, and laugh-out loud humor, but goes way overboard on violence and destruction. Not bad, just not entirely necessary in terms of its content. **½ "},{"Title":"Rich cheesefest!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh come on! This is a cult classic from the 80's craziness. Well, well. What we got here? A damn cute creature (Gizmo) that mutates horrible evil creatures when he has contact with water. The evil creatures start a reign of terror in Christmas! How can they be stopped? And how many disasters will they cause? Sure, Gremlins is a cheesefest with some neat f/x and campy music but you have to accept that this movie is entertaining and makes you chuckle. Gizmo is a cute character and makes you want to have one of your own.This movie was a huge hit in the 80's and it's still by today one of the most entertaining cheese movies.This is another option to watch at Christmas and it's recommended for a younger audience for a better viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Wickedly funny classic","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins is the classic creature-feature with the lovable cutie Gizmo and his offsprings who set the small town of Kingston Falls completely ablaze when their owner Billy fails on one of the 3 crucial rules; feeding them after midnight.Everybody knows Gremlins and it's a complete classic. Gizmo was a household name in the 80's and most kids had numerous toys and teddy's of him. Snow White got somewhat revived as it was the creatures' favorite film and that's just funny. Many hilarious moments are here as the Gremlins start chewing up the little town and wrecking more havoc than George W. Bush could with all his arsenal (Mrs. Deegle's fate is, as said before, a classic).Gremlins was so good when I was a kid but you notice some other things as well when you see it as an adult. The level of violence is surprisingly brutal and the little critters are very, very nasty. This is nasty humor all the way. And my god is Zach Galligan a horrible actor. I thought David Duchovny was the most expressionless actor around but I was wrong. There are also some very downbeat moments thrown in here which could so easily have been edited out (a point which Gremlins 2 actually made fun of).Overall the film completely deserves the classic stamp though. Gizmo is priceless, the critters even more priceless and it's wickedly funny with many hidden gems (ever noticed that time machine at the convention!). And it's surprisingly well crafted with good special effects that don't look bad at all today. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've always loved this film but i recently got the chance to see it at a local cinema. What can i say i was blown away. In that one viewing i actually realised why it to me is such a good film. Its dark and violet while also being funny and at some points the chaos is even poetic. It has the perfect balance of horror and humour to make it an engrossing and even thought provoking film which most people will remember long after the film has ended.There is not much more i can say other than watch this film.i rate this film 9.5 "},{"Title":"Scared me when I was little","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this movie ( I was in elementary school back then), I was expecting a nice kids films with nice cute furry creatures, and well, I got the creatures, but not the way I expected. Now anyways, this movies starts with a inventor, Rand Peltzer(Hoyt Axton)going to Chinatown, looking for a gift for his son, Billy(Zach Galligan) for Christmas. He goes into a shop and after a failed attempt to pitch one of his inventions, the bathroom buddy, he hears something in the back. There's a box, with a extremely adorable creature named a Mogwai, singing an equally as cute song. Although the owner(Keye Luke) refuses to sell Peltzer the Mogwai, his grandson(John Louie), says different. Before he sells the Mogwai, the boy tells Peltzer 3 rules to follow 1;don't expose him to bright lights(especially sunlight, it kills him), 2;don't get him wet, and the most important one, NEVER feed him after midnight. While Peltzer isn't the one in this movie who winds up breaking the rules, his son does. After getting his new pet, now called Gizmo(and struggling not to break rule #1), he winds up breaking rules #2 & #3, which as a result forces poor Gizmo to... we'll just say, the title creatures are born and wreak havoc on Billy's hometown, Kingston Falls. While I was frightened with this movie back then, now I just shake it off. The scene in the bar is quite funny(I'm not giving anything away.), and I find Gizmo to be soooooooo cuuuuuute, I prefer the sequel overall. C. "},{"Title":"Parents should read more about movies before taking their kids.","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the movie that caused PG-13, because all the parents didn't pay attention to the reviews or the trailers and just saw a cutesy movie. They took their kids to it to find it's a monster movie where people drop like flies. So, they threw a **** storm to end all **** storms and PG-13 was born. Of course this didn't happened in Japan when Gremlins was just another movie. This is the kind of violence they should to five year old on Sailor Moon, they don't hide death from children, it's stupid. We're protecting our children to death in this country and I say it's enough. Time we were more like Japan and I would start by disbanding the PTA, considering it's not improving our schools any, like it was designed to do, instead they complain about movies and TV. Dispand the PTA today! Anyway, the movie was good but I prefer Polly Holiday as the nice person, not the evil Banker lady. I give GREMLINS...9 STARS! "},{"Title":"Don't Miss Out On A Great Film! A Kid's Review","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SEE GREMLINS. Everything about it is wonderful. I don't care if you stop reading this review. I won't be offended. Go to the video rental place, rent Gremlins, and enjoy this instant classic.For those of you that will wait a bit before you leave to be entertained, here is what the movie is about. The movie Gremlins is about a boy named Billy Peltzer. For Christmas, he gets three unusual rules, (Don't get him wet, Don't expose him to light, and never, NEVER,feed him after midnight)and a cuter than cute as a button creature called a mogwai. The Peltzer family names the mogwai Gizmo, and instantly, and accidentally, for that matter, break the bright light rule. Gizmo is shocked for a moment, but recovers in seconds.They learn that bright light hurts Mogwais. The next 15-20 minutes are all just packed with extremely cute stuff that Gizmo and Billy do together. then, the water rule is broken, and Gizmo multiples. The new mogwais are nothing like Gizmo. They just seem meaner than Gizmo(and they all ARE meaner). The new mogwais have a leader mogwai named Stripe. (Stripe has a white puffy Mohawk on his head, so you can tell him apart from the other mogwai.) And finally, the new mogwais trick Billy into feeding them after midnight, and become (you guessed it) Gremlins. The Gremlins are as mean-spirited as they were when they were mogwai! They are still even lead by Stripe! And Stripe still has a puffy, white Mohawk! The only differences between the Gremlins and the evil Mogwais are Gremlins are slimy and evil and can hurt you, and the mogwai are furry and evil and cannot hurt you (yet). The Gremlins reek havoc,(but worse, MUUUUUCH worse) on the town, which is very funny.The acting is tremendous and the puppetry is amazing and the movie itself is jaw dropping. See Gremlins. one of the most unforgettable movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Gremlins rule!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't see this movie till Summer 2005.But I gotta say that i enjoyed the movie a lot.Gremlins is about Gizmo a furry Monwaki who is bought by a traveling salesman who wanted to find the perfect Christmas present for his son, Billy.In order to take care of this creature, you have to follow 3 rules. 1. Let it near bright light, Sunlight can kill it. 2. Don't let it get near any source of water 3. NEVER feed it after midnightIf you do feed these types of creatures after midnight. You'll be seeing some nasty results. Gremlins are vicious and mischievous creatures. They like to dismantle machinery and have the pleasure of killing people.It's up to Billy and his new little friend Gizmo to eliminate the Gremlins before they turn the whole town upside down.If I saw this movie years before I'd be scared to death if I saw it for the first time as a kid.It's rated PG. Violent and thrilling for a PG movie. I recommend it to Ages 10 and up. Please know this movie may frighten little kids. I know I'd be if I did saw it as a kid.But Gremlins is highly recommended to those who like to see little creatures attacking. "},{"Title":"My favorite Christmas movie of all time.","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Usually, when we think of Christmas movies, we think of flicks like It's a Wonderful Life. Well, here's a new kind Gremlins. This has got to be one of the coolest movies ever made. Joe Dante - always a director with some neat ideas - couldn't have pulled it off better.It all begins when inventor Rand Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) buys a furry little creature called mogwai from a Chinese salesman (Keye Luke). There are three rules about mogwai 1) Never expose him to bright light (the sun could kill him). 2) Never expose him to water (certainly don't give him a bath). 3) The most important rule of all is never, ever, EVER, under any circumstances, feed him after midnight. So, Rand gives mogwai to his son Billy (Zach Galligan). But, as you might have guessed, the rules get broken, and before long, the little town of Kingston Falls is overrun by mean, green gremlins.Everything that you love about movies, you're likely to find in Gremlins. Whether it's the inside jokes (a cinema is showing A Boy's Life and Watch the Skies, the working titles for E.T. and Close Encounters of the Third Kind, respectively), the indictment of vicious landlady Ruby Deagle (Polly Holliday), Lynn Peltzer's (Frances Lee McCain) battles with the gremlins, or the overall jab at a wholesome American small town, this is a top-notch thriller/comedy. I'm sure that Phoebe Cates is proud to have gotten an early role in this (she plays Billy's girlfriend Kate Beringer). And since this is a Joe Dante movie, B-movie actor Dick Miller of course gets a role he plays sour neighbor Murray Futterman.Maybe this is just me, but I've noticed some similarities between Gremlins and Ghostbusters. The obvious one is that they're both about things that nobody wants around town, but there's more. They're both plural nouns beginning with G. Gremlins has 8 letters, Ghostbusters has 12; 8 and 12 are both divisible by 4. Both movies were released on 8 June 1984 (a year ending with 4, a day divisible by 4).Oh well, maybe I'm the only one who would even notice that. The point is that this is one great movie, and everyone should see it. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Classic Horror/Comedy That Everyone Must See!","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a classic horror/comedy that everyone must see, with great performances and a really fun story!. This is a brilliantly made film, that's funny, and actually had a few suspenseful moments, plus the comedy was brilliantly done!. All the characters are awesome, and i really loved the dialog, plus Gizmo was so adorable!. Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates have excellent chemistry together, and the finale was fantastic, plus the ending was cool.There are many over the top moments, and all the special effects were awesome, plus Dick Miller was really funny in his role!. The characters are really well developed, and there are plenty of laughs to be had, plus the bar scene was great!. This is one of the best Horror/Comedy's out there in my opinion beautifully told, and i say everyone must see it!, absolutely everyone!. The Direction is brilliant!. Joe Dante does a brilliant job here, with excellent camera work, great angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is great!. Zach Galligan is excellent here, he is extremely likable, had excellent chemistry with Phoebe Cates, seemed like a really neat guy and was charismatic!. Phoebe Cates, is gorgeous, and does fine with what she had to do i really liked her, her chemistry with Galligan was also on. Hoyt Axton was good here, he had a great presence to him i liked him. Keye Luke is awesome as the grandfather i loved him he also looked really cool!. Corey Feldman has barely anything to do he did okay i guess. Dick Miller is hilarious here, wished he had more screen time though. Polly Holliday plays the bitch to perfection i hated her. Judge Reinhold looked bored here, and for good reason he is barely in the film!. Frances Lee McCain is good as the mom. Howie Mandell is amazing as the voice of Gizmo. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall See it right this instant! a true classic. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"overrun by the mogawis","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In this daft movie, a teenage American boy gets an unusual creature for his birthday, a cute, furry little creature called a Mogwai.  There are just certain rules you need to follow like don't leave him in the sun, don't get him wet ... the fun starts as soon as the boy starts forgetting the rules.When the Mogwais become Gremlins and you realise they really are horrible little killers rather than the little cuties you thought they were, the movie gets really funny.  There's a scene where the Gremlins are singing 'Heigh Ho' which is hilarious.  The film also had a fabulous theme with all the little voices squeaking away together.  The creatures are far more memorable than the humans who appear (notably Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates). "},{"Title":"Xenophobia","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The hidden subtext of the Gremlins being a nuisance from World War Two and now being in everything shipped into America is both a true statement of US xenophobia and typical right-wing baloney (coming from a battle-scarred WW2 vet no less).  This is most likely a Spielberg influence rubbing off into the script.Joe Dante is an underachiever.  He never has made anything better and has only made things worse for himself by repeating the formula of this movie over and over.  Character depth is nonexistant, leaving us with either stereotypes or cardboard prop-ups.  You can tell she's an evil old lady because she has wrinkles and talks in a grim voice all the time.  No Hannibal Lecter subtly here.Jerry Goldsmith does kiddy music here and, while it is different to hear him go from Patton and The Omen to this, it still leaves a nagging feeling that he'd been smoking too many joints with Danny Elfman.  The first half of the film suffers from poor editing, but the second half marginally makes up for it.Overall, required viewing for children of the 80s.  It's amazing how something so horrifically gruesome could be passed off as a PG movie back then.  Yes, I count decapitations and microwave explosions to be gruesome.  You laugh, but you don't know why other than that it's different.  3 out of 5 stars.  You could do worse and see Small Soldiers. "},{"Title":"Who are we supposed to root for?","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The late 70s and 80s have blessed us with bogeymen beyond count Pinhead, Freddy, Jason, Mike Myers, Candyman... all speaking to a collective subconscious desire to watch a hapless protagonist - more often than not squeaky-clean, young, white and female - bite the dust. Gremlins is a cinematic anomaly of their weirdest variety. Part slasher film, part parody, part Christmas movie, it turns all three of these sub-genres on their heads and manages to give us the very best they can deliver. It follows Billy Peltzer and his brand new pet Mogwai, Gizmo. Gizmo is an instantly lovable creature, semi-legally imported from China, but he comes with his very strict set of rules do not expose him to sunlight, do not get him wet, and never, ever feed him after midnight. It doesn't take a genius to imagine where things go from here, but it did take geniuses of a kind to created what we end up witnessing.The Gremlins themselves are wonderfully inventive, nasty little bastards, and watching them pillage their way through mid-80s suburban America is an unmitigated joy. Whether it's wreaking havoc at a local movie theater or hot-wiring traffic lights, their mischievousness makes them lovable and relatable in a sick, twisted way. As such, bar the core relationship between Gizmo and Billy, the human characters are efficiently but economically set up, enough so that we care when evil strikes, but never at the expense of the film's warped idea of fun.It's a cult movie, but one of the highest order, made very skillfully by people who were clearly in love with every iota of the concept. Rarely has a film been so much fun. "},{"Title":"Don't miss the message...","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, the Mogwai are cute.  Yes, the gremlins are funny.  But, we're missing the message...Gremlins is great because it is one of the most biting anti-consumerism movies in history.  This film is loaded with little statements about American lives being over gadgetized and how this love for Gizmos could eventually lead to our downfall.  Just ask Mr. Futterman...There are also tons of little jabs at man's attempt to control nature and failing (even Billy's attempts to wrangle his dog are unsuccessful).Look for some of the great skewed camera angles when something weird is about to happen.  Also, the many shots where Red, White, and Blue are prominent in the frame.  Not artistry, think again! "},{"Title":"Cheesy uninteresting film","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I never understood why people loved these crappy 80s movies so much. This film I enjoyed a little as a child, but looking back on it, the comedy is terribly crude. (i.e. Elderly woman flying out of a window by a gremlin attack.) The racial subtext to it is also something that no one here has discussed yet. You have a perfect, white suburban American family celebrating Christmas, and suddenly, from the depths of Chinatown comes a mysterious creature that brings havoc and destruction to the perfect world. This otherness, rather than being reasoned or communicated with, is eventually exterminated. Can we say xenophobia? The depictions of the gremlins, as they stand in stark contrast to those whom they terrorize, are comical, asexual, childish creatures, much like the depictions of blacks in Birth of a Nation.Besides that, the acting and plot were mediocre, and the film was overall cheesy. Nonetheless, I see a little merit in it as some of it is cute and entertaining. I don't seek to criticize those who may enjoy it and ruin their fun, but I hardly see films like this ever having a chance of being made in this time as the 80s were rather reactionary compared to films of the 70s in terms of diversity and representation. Besides that, though, the film is pretty bland and not one that I would opt to watch, even in my dullest hour. "},{"Title":"The ultimate feel-good family movie!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the ONLY film I have come across in the IMDb that does not appear to have attracted a bad or negative comment. 98% of reviewers were obviously captivated by it. I am not about to change that, I believe GREMLINS was probably the most innovative and lovable fantasy ever conceived. Without doubt, Gizmo was the cutest and most lovable creature ever put up on the big screen and as one reviewer correctly pointed out, not a child on this planet in 1984 didn't want Gizmo for Christmas (I had to buy 3)There were those who saw Stripe as way over-the-top violent and this was an arguably justifiable complaint in some circles, but hey, this was predominantly a comedy and the gremlins played it for fun rather than horror. Gizmo of course retained his Disneyesque appeal throughout the movie watching as his compatriots tore the neighborhood apart. Yes, the cinema sequence was a classic and both this and the less-successful sequel worked at an adult level too - just listen to some of the black humor that would sail well over the heads of the younger viewer.A multi layered, almost unclassifiable masterpiece of entertainment and Phoebe Cates?  damn, that girl does something for me! The daughter, girlfriend, schoolfriend...everyone wants! "},{"Title":"A fun film","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins is one of the all time best fun family movies ever made. Without thinking, it must have been a fun film to make, let alone watch. The story line, characters, and even the setting are so enjoyable that a plot isn't even needed. Everything about the movie is already fun.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant! Simply Brilliant!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This a very Brilliant movie. Probably one of the best Comedy/Horror movies I have ever seen.WARNING! POSSIBLE SPOILERS! An Inventor buys an adorable little creature. It is soooo cute!! He gives it to his son as gift. But there are some rules......Keep him out of the light. Keep him away from water. Don't feed him after midnight. Well, of course all these rules are broken, and before you can say Gizmo the whole town is over run by these Gremlins. they don't stay cute and cuddly long. The turn into these demonic little green devils. The only thing that ticks me off about this movie is that Critters has made a lot of money off the idea from Gremlins. This is an excellent movie to watch. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Funny, entertaining, scary and NOT for children","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Possible spoilers ahead...I loved this film when it first came out and now, 16 years later, it still holds up. The performances range from very good (Polly Holliday, Frances Lee McCain) to OK (everybody else). The special effects are superb, Gizmo is soooooo cute, the movie is never dull and there are tons of references for film buffs (like me). BUT it is NOT for children. I remember seeing it on opening night back in 1984, and when the evil gremlins attacked and the violence got real extreme (the mother killing three of them in a blender, microwave and knife), I still remember mothers dragging screaming, terrified children out of the theatre. There's also an extremely morbid Christmas tragedy that Phoebe Cates relates and people are killed--on screen! If they had toned down the violence and avoided killing people (injuring would have been fine) this would be a great film for everybody. As it is, it is a great film...for junior high on up. Also, when the gremlins invade the bar would someone explain where they got all those little clothes and how they knew how to play cards, drink beer, break dance, etc etc. Also there's a gremlin in the school that kills a teacher, slashes Zach Galligan...and then is forgotten! There are plenty of logic lapses in the script, but it's still worth seeing. Deserves an R rating, not a PG. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable 1980s Non-Sense","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins is one of those guilty pleasures.  It is not a very good film, but there is just something about this film that makes it watchable and enjoyable.  Young Zach Galligan gets a pet for Christmas, but everything goes terribly wrong when the pet gets wet.  Now there are several of these cute creatures, but the new ones are evil and after eating a bucket of chicken after midnight, they become the title Gremlins.  Chaos follows and the small mid-western town is torn apart piece by piece.  The film is fun, but pretty short on direction, screenplay, and characterization.  All in all, a film that over-achieves for the most-part.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a 'thumbs up'!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With a clever storyline and well crafted animation this horror/comedy makes for an entertaining 1 1/2 hours.  There are several cute scenes where you just can't help but laugh, but the dark and vivid violence ruins the chance of a family film.  Whether you like it or leave it, this film is a classic! "},{"Title":"Gremlins","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Appealing comedy/horror about a cute, fuzzy animal that multiplies into into an army of mischievous and repulsive creatures. All hell breaks loose! The film is entertaining for all ages. Followed by a sequel.  "},{"Title":"A classic but not original...","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Gremlins' is a monster film which we can always remember and love. But is it really good? Well, here's the thing. This movie has a great idea of finally using gremlins as the monster. They also use them so well that the gremlins are the most likable character (except the leader who's a total pain in the neck). It's also a film which kids and adults can watch with no problem because it's a children's Christmas film and at the same time it's also monster horror movie. Like 'Home Alone', this movie becomes one of those films that becomes a must see on'Christmas' too. It's one hell of a film.The problem of the movie is that it has no originality. It's all about people not believing that there was a monster and they get the monster destroying the whole town. Wait! Where have I seen that idea before? Hmmm... Oh wait a minute! 'Frankenstien'! And there are a whole lot more movies like these too. And it doesn't really help the movie to survive in the movie world. Still, it's really entertaining and it has all the cool clichés. So it's definitely a must see for movie buffs or Christmas lovers!!!! "},{"Title":"Silly but a very clever and engaging film- succeeds in both comedy and horror","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will admit some of it is very silly, but all the same it is infectious fun from start to finish. Directed by Joe Dante, produced by Steven Spielburg and written by Chris Columbus, Gremlins has quickly established itself in my opinion as a comedy horror classic. The direction is rock solid throughout, and is super efficient. The script is funny and inventive, and the story growing from a very simple idea is engaging and delightful. Plus all the characters are credible. And I have to say Jerry Goldsmith's music is a treat, that man knows how to compose a good music score I can tell you. Haunting, shocking and exciting are three ways to describe the score here. The gremlins are the scene stealers here, at first they are very cute then all of a sudden when they start causing carnage they are quite the opposite. But the acting from the human actors is just as good. Zach Galligan is bland at first, but as the film gets going and you know more of his character you warm to him. Hoyt Axton is indeed a hoot as the inept inventor, and Keye Luke is great as the Grandfather(Mr Wing). Also watch out for a young Corey Feldman as Pete Fountaine. Plus the Christmas speech makes it essential Christmas viewing. All in all, silly it is, but it is clever and consistently engaging. Not only that, it succeeds at both comedy and horror, and that isn't easy to do. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Joe Dante's magnificently manic monster movie.","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Joe Dante proudly wears his influences on his sleeve in this excellent Spielberg-produced demented comedy/horror about mischievous creatures that run riot in the sleepy town of Kingston Falls.Referencing all of his favourite films and cartoons, including The Wizard of Oz (the film's villain is Oz's Mrs. Gulch in all but name), Looney Tunes (check out the sound effects Dante uses), Disney (Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs features heavily in the story), and Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Joe has a blast allowing his toothy critters to (very amusingly) wreak havoc in typically Spielbergian small-town America.Hoyt Axton plays Rand Peltzer, a less than successful inventor who buys his son Billy (Zach Galligan) a most unusual Christmas gift a creature called a mogwai (which he names Gizmo). This impossibly cute bundle of fur comes with a strict set of rules which are inevitably broken. The result is a horde of vicious foot high monsters that set out to cause trouble wherever they can.With the help of Gizmo, and gorgeous workmate Kate (the always stunning Phoebe Cates), Billy sets out to destroy the gremlins.Although perhaps a bit too scary in places for more sensitive youngsters (the kitchen attack scene, in particular is quite frightening), Gremlins is great fun for monster movie addicts of all ages. My kids&#151;aged four and six&#151;love this film (although I admit that I have been gradually conditioning them one of the toys they have had from birth is a bendy Gremlin!). It really is hard to resist the movie's non-stop manic and zany comedy (the Gremlins are a hoot as they break-dance, get drunk, play poker, and sing Christmas carols!).Sure, some moments are perhaps a little too daft (personally, I don't understand that rule about not feeding a mogwai after midnight, and I can't fully accept the scene where Gizmo drives a fully functioning Barbie car) but excellent animatronics courtesy of Chris Walas, a nifty script from Chris Columbus, loads of in-jokes for fans of fantasy films (look out for blink-and-you'll-miss-them appearances from Gremlins producer Steven Spielberg and animator Chuck Jones, an appearance from Forbidden Planet's Robbie the Robot, a stuffed ET toy sat between a cuddly Sylvester and Bugs Bunny, and the Time Machine from the 60s George Pal movie) all go to make Gremlins an unmissable treat.And its got Phoebe Cates in it too! Which means it gets the full 10/10. "},{"Title":"Dark Film, But Awesome Fun","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SPOILERSI know this is not a Holiday film, I know, actually, it is. It takes place around the Holidays. You wouldn't think it's a Holiday film, but it kind of is. Anyway, I've always loved Gremlins, I always thought it was really funny and really scary at the same time. I only know a couple films that can be funny and scary at the same time. The Evil Dead, The Evil Dead Two, Army Of Darkness, and this. As you can see, not many films can do that. What I liked was at first a Gremlin seems really cute and cuddly, but please, please don't feed it after midnight. If you do, it becomes scaly, and green. Green! They become green! Can you believe that? It is so bizarre! I'm definitely overreacting, it is not that exciting that they turn green.A man buys a strange little creature for his teenage boy, Billy. It is called a Mogwai, or Gremlin. The only problem is that there are three important rules for taking care of a Mogwai. Never splash water on it, never expose it to sunlight, and never, never, never, never feed it after midnight. Billy loves the Mogwai, but water is splashed onto it. It multiplies to more Mogwai. They are more meaner than the first Mogwai, or it is called in this film Gizmo. Then all of the Mogwai except for Gizmo eat after midnight. They suddenly turn green, scaly, and murderous. There is a leader Mogwai called Stripe. Anyway, the kill humans and drink and smoke. Then Stripe goes into a pool and multiplies. There are a lot of Mogwai now. Eventually after deaths after deaths every Mogwai are killed in an explosion, except Stripe. Billy and Gizmo go to a store and Stripe is exposed to sunlight, thus melting him. When Billy goes home the original owner of Gizmo takes him away. Yes, it has a kind of sad ending.Overall, this is a fun journey of excitement from beginning to end. There is also an awesome death in it. Mrs. Deagle, someone who has a grudge against Billy because of his dog, goes on a lift chair. Unfortunaley, the Mogwai had fixed it just for her. She goes on it, it goes really fast, and she flies out a window, where she falls to her death. Anyway, this is a great film that anyone that is a fan of horror and comedy will enjoy.8/10Recommended Films Gremlins Two The New Batch. "},{"Title":"despite its faults, it is still enjoyable","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember that Gremlins took the country by storm back in the 1980s, but I was not allowed to watch it until I was much older. When I did get to watch it in my teens, I did enjoy the film. In fact, I enjoyed it more then than I do now after re-watching it. I think it was able to captivate an audience of the 1980s in the same way that E.T. did, but in today's world of CGI and a higher level of action, it falls short. Either that, or you have to be young to really enjoy this film. (I've just had to re-rate it a point lower than I had previously rated it.) 'Gremlins' is a cute film, and it's still funny and enjoyable to watch. The main problem with the film is the acting. The characters were a little boring, despite some of their quirks. I guess Gizmo and the Gremlins are meant to take the spotlight anyway, but whenever the main male or female characters come on the screen, there is an unhealthy dishing of dialogue. The love story is a little silly, but I do think it is done well. However, the serious dialog is often ridiculed as funny -- in part, it's down to some bad acting. The horrible story about the female lead's father is an example of this. It's a horrible story, but the manner in which it is told is almost amusing. It's difficult to take that seriously.Okay, I'll stop criticizing it now. It's a pretty good film, and it is a film that I enjoyed much more when I was younger. "},{"Title":"Too scary for kids, not clever enough for adults","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins starts out well enough, as an inventor looking for a Christmas present for his son buys a strange little creature from a Chinese boy, despite the boy's grandfather's warnings that taking care of a mogwai requires a great amount of responsibility. Gizmo the mogwai goes home with the inventor to a small town where a mean old lady tries to make everyone's life hell and the inventor's son, Billy, has a crush on a girl. There are three rules to taking care of a mogwai never get one wet, never expose one to sunlight, and never feed one after midnight. Of course, we know that by the end of the movie, all of those rules will have been broken at least once.Gremlins goes downhill once it becomes clear that it's a movie without any kind of intended audience. Gizmo, the only good gremlin, is as adorable as a stuffed toy and the characters are portrayed in a broad way children can easily understand, but shortly after Billy's friend accidentally breaks the no water rule, the movie turns into something between satire and horror. It's too scary for kids, but not clever enough, scary enough, or sharp enough to hold the interest of adults. Kids will be the ones eager to see the mean old lady get her comeuppance, but the way in which she does will probably give them nightmares. Likewise, Billy's girlfriend's story of why she doesn't like Christmas is completely out of place for a movie geared at children. The movie doesn't know whether it wants us to laugh at the gremlins or to be truly afraid of them. The whole thing might have worked as a campily over-the-top shorter film, but there's not enough substance for a full-length movie, and after a while it grows tiresome waiting for the gremlins to be defeated and the movie to end.I kept thinking of another 80's movie in which buying something strange from an old Chinese man leads to chaos, Little Shop of Horrors. Unlike Gremlins, Little Shop of Horrors knows what it is (a satire) and knows who it was made for (teenagers and adults). Its twists and turns are capable of holding the audience's attention and it's genuinely funny. Gremlins could have been a children's movie about a cute gremlin named Gizmo, a horror film, or a tongue-in-cheek sendup of horror films. Trying to be all three at once doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Nasty.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's disturbing that this film is supposed to be fun and amusing -- the poor befuddled snowplow driver's home being destroyed; the tavern being trashed while the girl is being terrorized, the science teacher viciously attacked, the murder of the town meanie. It would have been quite possible to make the gremlins pesky and troublesome without urging the audience to laugh at horrible misfortune.The characters were all cookie-cutter cliches wise old oriental, bungling inventor dad, sad-eyed tragic love interest, perky and resourceful kid, and the resurrection of Elvira Gulch, who was a much better character in the Wizard of Oz.Sure, Gizmo was cute, and the scene where the monsters all gathered to watch Snow White had its charm, but overall Gremlins lacks anything endearing or enduring. "}{"Title":"This is Not A Cute Little Kids Film!","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When this came out, the amazing special-effects helped make this film a big hit, along with an interesting story with a likable little creature (Gizmo) who got the viewers involved in the story, rooting for him.However, this isn't some cute little animal picture. His offspring are anything but cute and lovable. They are downright nasty, and scary at times. Because of that meanness, violence and some profanity I do not recommend this movie to kids. The sequel I would recommend instead. That has much more of a comedic tone with less language.There is humor here, too, though, such as the clothing and actions of some of the gremlins. The film is entertaining all the way through, and very intense in spots. On my last viewing of it, several years ago, I was shocked to hear the Lord's name in vain several times by Dick Miller and once by a little kid! That did it for me; now I stick with the sequel. "},{"Title":"Cute, Adorable BUT bit too gruesome","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Daddy gets a gift in China OR Chinatown). Its for Christmas. for his son.He got the son a Gremlin. The son was given a rules. One of which was NO Bright Lights, NO WATER. Well as it happens, Gremlin or Gizmo as its named. or Chinese Mugwai. So adorable and fluffy. The sounds. Just melting me constantly. heheeh.There were a group of gremlins, that were evil and caused havoc with the town.Few faults to point out. Horror and Christmas?????When Mugwai was accidentally in water, he multiplied. But how did they turn evil???SO overall, Mugwai so adorable like a FUrby. Bit too guey for my likeing "},{"Title":"Cute Creatures Make the Movie","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins (1984) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Cute Steven Spielberg-produced horror-comedy about a teen (Zach Galligan) whose given a creature for Christmas but there are three rules that you must follow. He breaks one of the rule by putting water on it, which makes more of the creatures pop up. He breaks the most important rule by feeding them after midnight and soon some ugly, green and slimy gremlins come to cause trouble. As with many of Joe Dante's early pictures, this one here is not only an homage to earlier monster movies but it's also quite clever in how it shows this affection towards older movies while at the same time trying to take the material to the next level. With a screenplay by Chris Columbus, direction by Dante and someone like Spielberg as a producer I must admit that I was expecting a lot more out of this blockbuster. There's no question that there are many good things going in this film but I thought that way too much detail was paid to the human characters and this meant that whenever the monsters weren't on the screen then things just slowed down to the point where the entire film crashes. There's no doubt that the main attraction are going to be the cute hairy creatures and the ugly monsters. You can tell that the screenplay really wanted to build up these creatures and especially when you consider how much screen time the furry guys get in the first half of the movie. The best moments of the movie happen early on as we're introduced to small town America and get to witness a part of their lives, which I'm sure most viewers can relate to. This includes the always suspicious neighbor (played by Dick Miller) and the rich old woman who hates everyone but herself. Some of the best moments happen early on when we see a few of the directions these two characters take. The problem is that our main guy, his girl (Phoebe Cates) and everyone are rather underwritten and don't come off nearly as charming as the creatures. The screenplay is also rather basic in terms of any type of story as we meet the creatures, they grow, they attack and then its over. The story mainly goes for silly jokes that really weren't that well-written and this includes a rather silly sequence where the gremlins take over a bar and go crazy. I'm still curious where the gremlins got their clothes and weapons but that's another story. I thought Galligan was pretty good in his role and there's no question that Cates can bring some energy to the screen. Seeing Miller is always fun and we also get other familiar faces like Corey Feldman, Harry Carey, Jr. and Keye Luke. GREMLINS is certainly cute enough for what it is but I'd stop a little short of calling it an actual good movie. "},{"Title":"Don't get him wet, keep him out of bright light, and never feed him after midnight.","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When inventor Rand Peltzer picks up a cute and exotic animal from a Chinatown store for his son as a Christmas present, he is given instructions and warnings about caring for it. Little can he imagine what chaos will ensue when his son breaks two of the three rules. After water is spilled on Gizmo, several other gremlins are born who end up breaking the third rule and turn into scaly evil monsters. Romance is a side story in this movie between Billy and his Christmas-hating girlfriend Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates).Gremlins is an '80's horror comedy that works well. The comedy and horror are blended in a proportion to make it just right. I love the reason why Kate hates Christmas (watch the movie to hear her story) and I like the creatures-both in their furry form and as scaly little monsters. The plot moves along at a good rate and the film never becomes boring.Gremlins is an annual tradition in my house during the Christmas season and it seems to have held up well over the years. "},{"Title":"Mischieviously clever!","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is what I can say is clever, quirky, and very entertaining. Gremlins is by chance a clever and witty movie by Steven Spielberg. This fantasy/horror/comedy is well made and very fun to watch. Having a pet is always a hassle, yet it can be fun. When you have a Mogwai, you're will to pay a high price. A inventor wannabe named Randall Peltzer(Hoyt Axton) is buying a gift for his son Billy(Zach Galligan), the owner's grandson(John Louie) gives Ran the three important rules1) Never give it water, 2) Keep it out of bright light, 3) Never feed him after midnight. Did Billy abide by the rules? NO! Those cute furry Mogwois become these hideous green gremlins, and they spread terror all over the small town. But somehow, these guys were beneficial in one way, they scared the living daylights out of poor Mrs. Deagle(Polly Holliday, Alice, Flo, Mrs. Doubtfire) she was not well-liked in town. He heart was bad, the gremlins made it go away. HAHAHA! I liked the bar scene where all of them were having fun, and I liked the gremlin with the leg-warmers did all the dancing to Michael Sembello's song. They have one soft spot in the movie, Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The movie was entertaining and very funny in the process, my brother's first girlfriend was frightened by this movie, my brother? E.T. You must have guts, watch it. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"I rarely use it myself sir, it promotes rust. Entertaining family orientated fantasy horror.","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins starts with an inventor named Randall Peltzer (Hoyt Axton) being lead into a shop by a young Chinese boy (John Louie) & introduces Randall to his Grandfather (Keye Luke). Randall is looking for a Christmas present for his son Billy (Zach Galligan) & finds a cage in the corner of the shop with a cute little creature inside called a Mogwai & buys it, however there are three rules which must never be broken, don't get him wet, expose him to sunlight & most importantly never feed him after midnight. Back home in the small American town of Kingston Falls & Randall gives Billy the Mogwai who he calls Gizmo, unfortunately one of Billy's friends Pete (Cory Feldman) spills water on Gizmo which make him reproduce as little Mogwai's pop out of his back. These ones are different to Gizmo, they are mischievous & trick Billy into feeding them after midnight. The next morning & Billy's room is full of slimy green cocoons which eventually hatch & let loose green scaly monsters with big ears & sharp teeth. It's not long before one of them has jumped into the local swimming pool for reproduction purposes & before anyone knows it the entire town is overrun with Gremlins intent on death & destruction. It's up to Billy & his girlfriend Kate (Phoebe Cates) to try & save the day as the local authorities have a hard time believing their story...Directed by Joe Dante Gremlins is a big budget family orientated horror fantasy film with a strong comedy element & for what it is it isn't too bad at all. The script by Chris Columbus takes a little while to get going as there isn't a green slimy Gremlin until past the 45 minute mark which is a bit long really. When they do show up most of what they get up to is of moral questionalbility with beer drinking, smoking cigarette's, attacking people, causing crashes & playing poker rather than all out blood & gore, in fact not that many people actually die in Gremlins. In a way I'm not sure quite what Gremlins set out to be, a scary horror film with monsters on the rampage or a more family fantasy type film with the sentimental Father Son stuff, the lovable inventor whose inventions never quite work, the highly intelligent family dog who can seemingly understand English, the way the Mogwai's are so cute & in the end Gremlins is half & half with neither element particularly dominating. The gore & violence is relatively restrained & mostly aimed at the Gremlins themselves with a one being sliced up in a meat mincer, one explodes in a microwave, one is decapitated & it's head lands on a fire & there is a cool melting Gremlin at the end. The character's are likable even if their a little overblown & overly comical. With a budget of about $11,000,000 Gremlins is technically very good with that Hollywood polish to it. The special effects are generally very good although don't forget that Gremlins was made way before the advent of CGI so expect lots of puppets & animatronics rather than flashy computer effects. The cinematography, music & production values are great & it is well made throughout. The acting is OK but nothing spectacular. Gremlins is one of those somewhat predictable 'feel good' films made by big studios & at what it sets out to be Gremlins succeeds & is a very good film in it's own right. The slightly slow first half & it's indecision on what it wants to be stops it from obtaining classic status in my eyes but Gremlins is still a fine film & well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects Amazing in every way!!!love it! i thought that it was very well cast! I thought that it definitely had a good original and innovative storyline!Above all there was also very good visual special effects "},{"Title":"Dante and Spielberg just couldn't resist the urge.","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A big hit when it came out, Gremlins has stood the test of time quite well. There's a visual quality and mood to the movie that makes it a cut above many such fantasy-based 80s films, some of which look decidedly dated by now. The creatures look real and behave in an interesting/amusing rather than predictable way.Those of us who enjoyed it as kids back then can now appreciate its subversive nature &#x96; at least people that are clueless naive liberals in search of the millionth movie to feature an anti-Capitalist message. (Actually, 1,000,000 might be more of a low estimate. Check out my Left-Wing Propaganda in TV & Cinema list for more on this.) This anti-American message is so subliminal, so obscured by the thick layers of the movie's Disney-wise cartoon-like shenanigans, that it can only be detected by those who pay attention to such things, i.e. viewers who are fully aware of how rampant left-wing propaganda was/is/always-will-be in American (but also European) movies. The fact that Joe Dante and Stevie Spielberg were director and producer, respectively, makes perfect sense inasmuch that they're both flaming closet Marxists. What doesn't make sense at all is that those two joined up and actually gave us a quality product. Spielberg had said au revoir to quality after Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981), whereas Dante had only ever made one very good movie &#x96; this one. The Howling and Gremlins 2 are merely solid, the rest of his filmography ranges from mediocre to utterly commercial pap.What's left-wing about it? 1) The town's witch/ogre is also its richest person (rich people are evil, unless they happen to be Communist dictators or Beverly Hills leftists, in which case they are noble and perfect); a woman more than happy to render as many people homeless in her town as she can, plus she's the widow of a stock-market millionaire &#x96; and we know how very evil Wall Street and anything even remotely associated with profit-making is (unless of course a Hollywood film-maker is making millions of profit that doesn't count). (Btw, her character is a shameless rip-off (or tribute, ha ha) of the evil witch from Wizard of Oz.) 2) The Chinaman (whose own country is Communist; I don't know whether this was intentional or whether it was the exotic bonus they were after) scolds the all-American family, giving them a brief but stern lecture as to why they do not deserve to have a wonderful creature such as the mogwai, because, in the Chinaman's words your society isn't ready for it. In other words, American society is too evil, what with its free democratic society and a successful Capitalist system that had enabled it to become among the wealthiest countries in the world (a fact that far-Left liberals like Spielberg and other like-minded Hollywood chums of his simply can't stomach &#x96; in spite of the fact that HIS career is as Capitalist in nature as Henry Ford's!). 3) When the sheriff makes a comment about how patriotic Gizmo is, he misses out on the way in which the little critter was playing with the American flag &#x96; namely with a touch of disgust. Fortunately, the laughable political messages of the three deranged men involved with the movie's script, direction and production is too hidden to ruin the entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Zonked-out Christmas confection with claws","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A furry, cooing mystical creature called a mogwai is adopted by a small town American family with the proviso it must not get wet...or eat after midnight. Turns out water causes the mogwai to multiply trouble-making little duplicates, while late night snacks turn the spawn into terrifying demons with an appetite for murder. Well-produced special-effects package in a Christmas setting was generally thought at the time to be director Joe Dante's wicked variation of E.T. (even with Steven Spielberg as its executive producer); but the film E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial had three-dimensional human characters as well as the adorable alien, while Gremlins writer Chris Columbus doesn't reach that far (in fact, he hardly reaches at all). Columbus sets up his cut-out characters to be targets, and then unleashes a barrage of nasty pranks on them (staged by Dante to get quick, cheap laughs). It's intended to be a black comedy, but some of the satire is too outrageous (such as with the break-dancing gremlin) and much of the mayhem is more mean-spirited than funny. There's OK work from Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates as the young couple at the center of the story (Cates once again working her cherubic, Lolita-like innocence to her advantage); yet the whole film has a sleepy, lethargic feel, as though it had been overworked at its earliest stages and arrived on the screen exhausted from all the effort. Followed by a sequel in 1990. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Was it supposed to be a comedy or horror?","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've always asked that. Maybe it's just a parody. But I did enjoy this 80's flick. You have to admit that it is pretty memorable. I loved all the characters. Even the bad guys. It's just fun and exciting to watch. You get your laughs, but at the same time, you get your chills. You do question what age gap this was meant for. I would recommend for pre teens and up. That's for sure. I do have one more question If the animals can't eat after midnight, then when are they supposed to eat? Even if it's 1100 P.M., still... isn't that after midnight? Great movie from the 80's. Have fun with it.7/10 "}{"Title":"Not Underrated, Just Underdeveloped","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's strange how some films become not just successful, but hugely successful.  Revisiting this movie recently, it's apparent that not only is it obviously dated two decades later, but it's very much a film which is remembered as being better than it is.It requires an obvious suspension of disbelief to accept the very arbitrary rules of keeping a Mogwai (WHY does feeding it after midnight turn it into a Gremlin?)  That's par for the course for a blockbuster, and not a problem in itself.  The Mogwai's mechanical movement can't help but make it look fake, but we can overlook that too.  The real disappointment here is that the script, having crawled somewhat in the first half, falls away in the second, almost as if the Gremlins themselves had gotten to it in their chaotic manner.  Sure, we see scenes of havoc, but to what ultimate purpose?  The movie got a PG rating, but the Gremlins display the kind of behavior you wouldn't want kids to associate with, especially in the rowdy bar scene, during which Phobe Cates is behind the bar, inexplicably serving them drinks when most people would have high-tailed it out of there as soon as the little devils showed up.The film also struggles to maintain a consistent tone.  Yes, it's a comedy foremost, but with some horror thrown in.  The comedy doesn't entirely work, even and especially in the scenes where the monsters run amok, and the film's lack of real tension undermines any attempt at a darker quality.  It is not aided in the least by the totally nondescript Zach Galligan in the leading role.  He is so bland that if he didn't keep moving you would lose him in the wallpaper.  Hoyt Axton is also ineffective in a stiff, monotone performance as the hapless inventor father, whereas Francis Lee McCain gets to add some beef to her role as typical American Housewife with one of the movie's best scenes as she defends her house, most notably the kitchen, from the Gremlins.  Cates and Reinhold are pedestrian in their supporting roles.  The writing is such that the characters pretty much sidle up to an underwhelming resolution, putting the cap on a movie that, like one of Peltzer's inventions, promises much but soon goes haywire. "},{"Title":"Best watched with a cheese burger and a glass of dry white wine!","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy is a young man who's life is turned upside down when his father   (an abusive unsuccessful inventor) decides its time Billy owned his   very first pet. Billy is presented with a small furry creature who goes   by the name of Gizmo. All seems well for the first few days as Gizmo   settles into his new home, although small and lacking in a downstairs   toilet Gizmo is content with life. Gizmo a huge fan of chicken legs   particularly Kentucky fried chicken also likes nothing more than a soak   in a nice warm bath is outraged when Billy refuses to pop to the   nearest KFC and decides it's time to teach Billy a lesson. Enlisting   the help of his friends the gremlins (a small time group of Albanian   criminals) Gizmo sets about terrorising the town with a particularly   vicious brand of violence. The gremlins though are led by a power   hungry drug addict called Alan who has his sights set much higher and   aims to eventually run the city of New York, which we see in gremlins   2. Soon the course is set for a power struggle between Gizmo and Alan   culminating in an almighty show down in the local supermarket car park,   I think it's an Asda. "},{"Title":"Terrific little gem.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best subversive little 'comedies' of the 80's, this film not only has the malevolent little critters themselves, but also the great Phoebe Cates as the ingenue, in her best work since Fast Times at Ridgemont High. Fun, silly, and strange, this is what a David Lynch film would look like if he had gone to USC film school. That's sort of a compliment, sort of a dig, ) Anyway, this is a fun one for the whole family, especially if you're babysitting. Rent it at night, you won't regret it!           "}]