[{"Title":"A fantastic, multi-layered sci-fi parable...","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Minor spoilers*It's great to see this odd and remarkable film finally getting a worthwhile DVD release. BROTHER FROM ANOTHER PLANET is among the few John Sayles films I've seen, and watching it again makes me want to check out what else I might have missed.Blending sly topical humor with science fiction, BROTHER FROM... superficially resembles ALPHAVILLE or MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH as it explores various themes assimilation, perception and identity; and technology and control; along with less abstract but equally serious issues like drug abuse and urban despair. This fantastic film is notable for its' dry humor and complex observation of urban problems, and is also notable for Joe Morton's astonishing, expressive performance in a mute role, which - though helped by Morton's theatrical training and his overall attractiveness - still has to be seen to be believed.Crash landing his tiny space ship in Harlem, our silent hero tries to make sense of his surroundings, moving from fear and puzzlement to relative comfort. Because of his dark skin, certain assumptions are instantly made of him, even as his silence gives no one anything to hang a stereotype on. It quickly becomes apparent that 'he ain't from around here.' The edgy humor turns on this (pay attention for great spoof quotes from TERMINATOR and TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE/BLAZING SADDLES) - not so p.c. at the surface, but still broad-minded and intelligently observational, with an intriguing viewpoint - that of a very disoriented immigrant dropped into the American subculture he's expected to most easily fit into. Simultaneously, his quiet and graceful manner of dealing with the world around him implies an unquestionable conviction that every human ought to be considered with some kind of respect and dignity, even as day-to-day realities might necessarily modify this ideal (another of the key themes here). A short subplot involving a nightclub singer touches vaguely upon Harlem's celebrated past, making apparent Sayles' belief in the contemporary value of history, and his awareness of the importance of context even in a fantastical story. Likewise, a second subplot - though a tad clumsy - deals with Harlem's more recent history - a struggle to survive and preserve identity through an avalanche of drugs, potential violence and despair. As a runaway slave from another world, themes of technology, surveillance and control (shown in the eyeball/flashback scenes, and the great capture scene near the end) are also introduced, even as Sayles' references African-American history at unexpected moments throughout (My people built this country. Ever heard of South Carolina?...) - implying to a degree that technology can easily be manipulated to make slaves of us all, or at least that technology hold the potential to divorce us from our history. With all of the varied themes and subplots, BROTHER FROM... could've easily become overloaded or didactic, but Sayles' loose stylishness and light touch as a director (along with the skill of the cast) makes it all work well, even with a very modest budget and a tight shooting schedule. The cinematography throughout is remarkable - lots of long takes, with characters woven into the fabric of everyday life. The pacing is slow and methodical (Sayles is always very meticulous in developing plot and characters), but never dull.This is a great film - below a hip and ironic surface, the covert intellect and graceful sweetness of this film links its' numerous themes into a seamless and unique fantasy/parable. This cult classic from the mid-80s deserved a wider audience at the time, and still does - I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When Rod Serling created the classic Twilight Zone TV show, he presented it as a harmless fantasy/SF show when it was actually a series of morality plays. In this film you have John Sayles' take on the same concept. He talks a standard SF cliche -- the stranded ET -- and uses it as the jumping-off place for a story about something altogether different. He doesn't appear at the end, like Serling, and tell you what the moral or message was.Rather than talk about all that (art appreciation and interpretation is pretty much a subjective affair), I would like to say a word or two about the performance of Mr. Joe Morton as the eponymous characterZowie!The Brother is totally mute. And yet Morton's performance knocks the poop out of any piece of acting you could name. Human and humane, empathetic and sympathetic. This guy will have you laughing and crying right along with him.An incredible performance. Well worth the price of the rental, and the popcorn, and the gas that you burned up picking it up and... "},{"Title":"Great Cult Film.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best and most underrated movies I have ever seen.  This is a brilliant black comedy with great social commentary on racism and classism.  I loved it the first time I saw it, and it held up when I bought it on DVD.  This is definitely worth the time it takes to watch it, and you will find yourself quoting the movie later.  The Beer . . . on the Rocks quote is my personal favorite, but the card trick is a close second.  Have fun with this little known, early John Sayles Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Odd, quiet and very watchable.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very strange film to watch, but easy to do so despite the fact that the plot is only added to near the end of the film with the men in black. It's no masterpiece at all, not even on a low budget standard, but one thing that brings above a lot of other films is a great performance by Joe Morton as The Brother, not an easy role to do, but his mute performance is pulled off so charismatically, that we can't help but be drawn into to The Brother's adventures. The film is at times very witty, very clever and very charming. John Sayles (writer/director) did well at adding in just enough subtle comedy. Most of the way through, the film is not really a science fiction film, it just happens to contain an alien. If I were to hazard a guess at how Sayles came up with the idea of The Brother From Another Planet, I would assume he started with the idea of; what if everything was kind of new and unfamiliar to you, as if you were born again, he probably started with that and worked from there to form this delightful film. One down side is the ending, because; as I mentioned before, 80% of the film is not really science fiction like, but the ending is very much science fiction, but it doesn't spoil the picture too much.I give this gem a firm 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Brother From Another Planet","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Brother From Another Planet, is about an African American alien who crash lands on Earth in Harlem, in New York City. The brother does not speak English (or any language at all) but he can understand others and soon makes friends at a local bar and gets a job fixing things. He also gets a place to stay, lodging with a single mother. Many things on Earth seem unusual to the brother and he encounters many unusual people and situations. Soon we also find out about two men in black who are after the brother and want to get rid of him. He also shows his many alien talents during the film. Winner of The Caixa de Catalunya Award for Best Actor (Joe Morton, who plays the brother) and Best Screenplay (John Sayles, who also directed and edited the film) at The Catalonian International Film Festival. The Brother From Another Planet, has good direction, a good script, a good performance by Joe Morton, as well as a good supporting cast, good original music, good cinematography and good film editing. The Brother From Another Planet, takes a little while to get into but gives us an entertaining story, a likable main character and likable side characters, interesting situations and the script is filled with good dialogue, good character development, is full of smart satire and unusual characters and lots of unique situations and plot twists. The film is quite enjoyable and entertaining and is deliciously different. I enjoyed this film quite a bit and it is a nice clever sci-fi/comedy. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this film!  Lots of laughs, lots of humanity.  It's awesome that such an unknown cast can deliver such a great performance.  The guys in the bar are hysterical.  Every scene is a gem, but the card trick on the subway is one of my all time favorites.  Go rent this movie today.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Strange and unique quiet drama...","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1st watched 6/6/2007 - 7 out of 10(Dir-John Sayles) Strange and unique quiet drama about a man who lands on earth as an escapee from another planet where he was apparently a slave. Joe Morton, as this brother from the other planet has no dialogue but effectively portrays a true illegal alien. He really is a frail being who just wants to do good and be needed. He is being hunted by what appears to be his owners but he affects everyone he comes across in such a positive way that they get behind him 100% and keep these thugs from getting him. He eventually earns his money by fixing things with his otherworldly powers(once he realizes that stealing isn't right) and even gets to the point of hunting down a drug dealer in Harlem who has caused the demise of a young one in the neighborhood. This character is probably the most likable alien that has ever been put on the screen(next to maybe E.T.) and it's definitely a departure from most films. The low production value is certainly evident but the character and the storyline keeps you interested and rooting for this unlikely hero from another planet. These were the type of quiet independent movies that were made in the 80's when it was truly seen that the budget was low, but the makers only cared about creating a worthwhile project and John Sayles definitely did that with this one. This 80's relic is not to be missed by a true cinemaphile or anyone who wants to see the benefits of good deeds even if it's coming from someone with feet a little different than ours. "},{"Title":"Typical Sayles","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What I love about Sayles is that he never forgets that first and foremost, movies should tell stories.This one is a real gem in the rough. It has the irreverence and SciFi conventions of Barry Sonnenfeld's MIB but with social commentary instead of a budget. Also, instead of merely clever comments on NYC life, Sayles shows his characteristic political side by highlighting little tableaux of real life. Slipping in the Harriet Tubman subplot was pure Sayles.I especially loved his usage of music and the chemistry of the barroom regulars. That fight with the MIB was a hoot! Sayles, a Corman vet, knows that special effects shouldn't be used for the sake of having them. "},{"Title":"The second best Science Fiction movie ever.","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only Science fiction movie that is better than this is ``The Day the Earth Stood Still''.  This is just a great movie.  This is a thinking mans movie.  If you want Star Wars this is not for you. As with all the best Science Fiction this is a movie about human kind in the present and not alien life-forms in some distant future.  "},{"Title":"Saw somethin' strange, watch your back, 'cause you never quite know where the M.I.B.s is at.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mute, three-toed, super-sensory humanoid (a fine performance from Joe Morton) arrives on Earth, appropriately landing near Ellis Island and taking up residence in Harlem, where his African American appearance helps him to blend in with the locals. The inquisitive alien sets about exploring his strange new environment, absorbing the unique sights and sounds of '80s New York with the help of his otherworldly sense of touch and his removable eyeball, but his journey of discovery is interrupted when he finds himself being hunted by two mysterious men in black...Although writer/director/star John Sayles' strongly suggests that Morton's character is an escaped slave and makes references to class divide, racism and America's history of slavery, he ensures that The Brother From Another Planet doesn't ram a moralistic or political message down the viewer's throat, focusing instead on examining the human condition though the use of interesting characters, quirky dialogue and intriguing situations. The film is all the better for it&#x97;a somewhat bizarre but fun sci-fi adventure on the surface, but one that can be dissected, examined and discussed on a deeper level if so desired. "}{"Title":"An Unusual Cult Classic","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mute alien (Joe Morton) with the appearance of a black human is chased by outer-space bounty hunters through the streets of Harlem.If this film had been made five years earlier, it might have fallen into the blaxploitation trap. But, luckily, this is not the case because it is above and beyond blaxploitation and in many ways far more clever. Rather than dwell on race, it just sort of accepts it.There is the theme of immigration, though it is not heavy-handed and the viewer can choose to see this as a parable or not. They can choose to see it as science fiction or not. (Obviously it is, but it is light.) There is plenty of room for a viewer to imprint his or her own thoughts on to the story and make it their own.Bonus Fisher Stevens shows up. "},{"Title":"Went in for a blackspoitation movie, got a gem of a film","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" With a ridiculous title as this, I thought the movie would be about alien black people high-fiving each other. Maybe something akin to Blackula or Black Dynamite. Boy, was I wrong. You can see something is off with expectations like these when you see the cast. None of the actors are high rollers in Hollywood, but you know most of them for their work throughout, as support characters.Joe Morton is the main character in the movie, along an African American cast that is too long to list here, but I know most of them. John Sayles, the director, is one of the immigration agents, while the other is David Strathairn. You've got Fisher Stevens and Giancarlo Esposito in small roles. It just goes on and on. Of course, in 1984 they were not known actors, but they proved in time that they are good ones.The plot is simple, an alien running on Earth from two enforcers, but the script is filled with complexity, tackling in a subtle way things like racism, social status, societal satire. And they are part of the story, while this quiet (Joe Morton doesn't say a word all movie) timid alien is discovering Earth with its good and bad points, starting from Harlem.Bottom line highly underrated film, it is low budget, but it has class. I am not surprised it has become a cult classic and I am glad I had the chance to see it. And it's free! You can watch it online royalty free. "},{"Title":"The Brother from Another Planet","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A black skinned alien, who doesn't utter a single word yet understands what others are saying, crashlands in Harlem. He meets various people, such as some quirky, interesting black characters in a bar setting who would befriend him even though he doesn't say anything to them. He often sits or looks on as people just chat away. He has gifted abilities such as his touch being able to repair equipment magically, the way his right eye can be removed and used as an image recording device, can heal wounds, or how anything solid object he embraces with his touch can speak from the noise of a past incident. In Harlem, he's introduced to racism, poverty, lust, drugs, crime, sex, among other things as two alien police(played by director Sayles and his frequent actor David Strathairn)are trying to locate his whereabouts so they can haul him in. The film show our alien's particular interest in two tragic dope-pushers(..and abusers)and how their plight might result from wealthy uptown types. I think ultimately, the film is a candid fish-out-of-water view of Harlem's plight from a babe's point-of-view.Introspective tale regarding Harlem and how it is viewed by many( a beat cop who chats with our alien, two white men from Indiana who get lost, etc). I thought the film was on target using comedy as an avenue to expose what had happened to Harlem over the years. Particularly interesting is listening to the men in the bar as they often are our real insight into how Halrem has changed over the years. Joe Morton is really amazing because he has to be convincing without a line of dialogue. Having us believe he's from some other planet is not the easiest task, but it's a credit to the actor and his director that this flick accomplishes it. Just a brilliant indie from acclaimed writer/director Sayles. "},{"Title":"filming location","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Brother from another planet was partially filmed in Hoboken,NJ at Mister Bigs Super Heroes (a sandwich shop.) John Sayles likes to film around there since it is near his home. I happened to be at Mr. Bigs, And asked around to see if I could be an extra. I waited around & they shot me in two scenes(I appear-for maybe 25 seconds- in the scene where the Brother is repairing/souping up the video games for Ace.) I forgot about it until I saw the movie 2 years later. Of course,I think it is a good movie... "},{"Title":"A great film for its time and cost","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really enjoyed this film. It is a good example of dialogue over action within a story. The main character does not have any dialogue, but the film is carried so well by the supporting cast that we begin to learn about the main character as much as the supporting cast. Sayles did a great job on this film for a respectable low budget film (some might even say a B film). A good film to watch...It is also a good film for most any screenwriter to study. Screenplays are essentially dialogue and action. That is to say that a reading (or spec) screenplay is set up that way. Dialogue is the vehicle that drives the story, and this film demonstrates that point very well. The idea that the main character has no dialogue is complemented by the dialogue of the supporting cast in intelligent ways. "},{"Title":"Now Here Is Something Different!","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can you say different? Have often do you see a movie in which the lead character never utters one word?That's the case here, a unique story of an alien who crashes near Harlem, a famous black neighborhood in New York City. The alien is a black man, so he fits in despite not being able to speak! He's just looked upon as another brother, as the title indicates.Two aliens come after him - white guys, naturally. In the Liberal world of films, white people are bad and black people are good 99 percent of the time.....at least when there is a contrast between the two. Writer-director John Sayles is a prime example of this type of racist thinking. But he wrote a fun film here, I have to give him that.Even though some of the scenes make absolutely no sense, it's an entertaining movie start- to-finish. Joe Morton plays the sympathetic alien with three toes and strange nails. You have to root for him because he's portrayed as such an innocent, harmless creature.The best part of the film is the humor, some subtle, some not-so-subtle. The guys in the neighborhood bar where the alien hangs out brought the biggest laughs.I find this a lot of fun to watch every three or four years. "},{"Title":"great concept, interesting start but ...","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" An alien (Joe Morton) lands in NYC. At first, he's outwardly a black man missing a leg. He's mute, has the ability to heal, fix machines, takes out his eye, reads minds and super athletic. He grows a leg. He befriends a group at a local bar in a black neighborhood. He is being pursued by two mysterious Man in Black (David Strathairn, John Sayles).It's a really interesting concept to do a low budget indie of a friendly alien finding his way in a minority neighborhood of a modern city. It starts well but it meanders and rambles. I want it to do something and it would be great to have the brother learn to speak. There are some nice scenes early on like the Korean grocery store but the movie fades. Instead of accelerating into the climax, it devolves into silliness. "},{"Title":"Sayles biting satire","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Sayles wrote and directed Brother from Another Planet on a budget of $350,000, money very well spent. Sayles also edited the film. Joe Morton is an alien, this time in the literal sense. He escapes slavery from his planet and lands in Harlem, NYC, USA, EARTH.The writer-director also saves money by playing one of the bounty hunters tracking down the runaway alien. Morton is Brother and he is a deaf mute with telekinetic powers. He is chased by the men in black who are looking to return him to their home planet. Sayles has written a thoughtful and funny sci-fi black comedy and proves that money is secondary in the movie business. "},{"Title":"Early John Sayles film made it's mark, and introduced talent","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think John Sayles is one of the greatest directors in America. This is his first commercial film (still was small, independent, and low budget). While Matewan or others may have been better films, I think this is a good second place offering from such a talented director. I'm so excited that this film is finally out on DVD. I can see the facial expressions on Joe Mortons face so much clearer, it reminds me of when I saw it in the theatre over 15 years ago. This is definitely one of my favorite movies of all time (out of many thousands)! It has so much in it of commentaries about American life, including of course race and cultures. But it goes much deeper than that. Wildly entertaining and funny, while also being a tense thriller at times about someone on the run from the bad authorities. The story is about a run-away slave or convict who has escaped in a spaceship and crash landed on earth, arriving on Ellis Island. A new twist on the meaning of illegal alien. He sneaks on the boat to shore and begins exploring New York City, learning fast this strange but wonderful culture (that of mid-1980s New York City- which was a wonderfully rich culture). He ends up spending some of his extra time in a run-down bar in Harlem, where the regular clientele expound the wisdom of the ages while they try to figure out who this guy is that can't talk. (Joe Morton's character has no speech capability, but manages to communicate at least as well with his facial and body gestures.) Meanwhile, the bounty hunters from space are on his trail in NYC, just missing him sometimes, but getting ever closer.Speaking of characters- this film is full of more talent than any other film I can recall. That they did all this on a low budget just amazes me, because ALL the actors do such good acting. There is a lot of dialog in this film, and a large cast. Most of them have been in many films since, and got their start in this one. In addition to being in many of John Sayles' other films, David Strathairn has been in dozens of other recent films, and is a well-recognized face. Joe Morton played two of his most outstanding roles in this film, and in the cult movie Trouble in Mind. After that he has been in hot demand in Hollywood to this day. I just keep seeing him in movies, and he really deserves it- he is such a great actor! And the list goes on. Finally, the music sound track is just gorgeous- mostly light reggae, dub, and light jazz. Just wonderful, and now it is back in print too- on CD. Marvelous! "},{"Title":"An overlooked sleeper","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a terrific film for a lot of reasons (not the least of which is the outrageously alien behavior of two alien cops trying to pass as INS agents in Harlem), but the best thing about it is the transcendent performance of Joe Morton as the gentle mute alien trying to make contact with his own people. It's hard to take the Academy Awards seriously when they overlook a performance such as Morton's.Although Morton doesn't speak a single word throughout the film, he conveys so much meaning and feeling through gestures, body language, and facial expressions that one can only wonder why we need language at all. "}{"Title":"still ahead of its time","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A great break-out film from John Sayles. There's so much in this film that got ripped off by later efforts at 'sci fi comedy', especially The Men In Black, but no later film quite captures the remarkable innocence of the alien visitor here (brilliantly performed by Joe Morton), and none so well integrates insightful satire, touches of thriller, and engagement with social issues - many of which haunt us to this day. And for a low budget film, it looks so good! - obviously the work of crafts-people deciding to do the best they could with what they had. It is true that you may not look back on this film and remember it as a whole story (it is very episodic), but many set-pieces are so good, you'll find it hard to forget them. (For instance, you'll be walking down the street and glance at the graffiti on the wall and suddenly flash-back to the discovery that these missives may be an effort at communication between aliens from another world.) Just infectiously humane and good humored, without losing any depth. "},{"Title":"A Sister relates","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has been a favorite of mine since I first saw it. The Brother from Another Planet was featured at the French-American film festival in my temporary hometown of Avignon, France in the spring/summer of 1984, and I saw it in the Utopia theater there, a venue equal to this enchanting, unusual film. My own situation informed my viewing; as I had recently graduated from college and flown to France to work for the summer (before heading into the 'real' world), Brother spoke to me about life as a foreigner without a voice. I was self-conscious about my French and had chosen to spend my early weeks there silently observing. The parallels were too many to enumerate. My reactions were visceral; I appreciated the situations more than had I been viewing with a majority American audience. Separate from my personal perspective, however, I believe the film depicts a wonderful cross-section of characters who were simultaneously of their era and archetypal; I enjoyed meeting the compendium the Brother met and seeing them through his eyes. Joe Morton was skilled at communicating without words, conveying emotion and thoughtfulness in his character's truly alien environment. The interplanetary bounty hunters, my personal favorites, were clearly inspirations for the later Men in Black feature franchise. I'm glad I saw them before MIB debuted. There was nothing formulaic about this story. Sayles' fresh approach made me into a lifelong fan; he is a storyteller whose tales are always worth the trip. For a film with the potential for both scintillating discussion or simply quirky-but-never-shallow entertainment, check out The Brother. "},{"Title":"A science fiction comedy, with social commentary","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A space alien crash lands in the Hudson River and makes his way to the Harlem neighborhood of New York City. This is not your typical alien - he is mute and can pass for a black human. This setup allows director Sayles to examine the human condition, as it exits in Harlem in the 1980s, from the most innocent of perspectives. I can't comment on the accuracy of the observations made in The Brother From Another Planet, but I can say it is a fun movie that seems grounded in social reality.The fact that The Brother can't speak works in his favor, since people are quite willing to talk at him about anything and everything that is going on in their lives and they assume that his reactions are accepting and kindly. Maybe quiet listening *is* the way to win friends. The Brother has been pretty trashed by his fall to earth and upon arrival looks much like a homeless person. In no time he comes under the help of social services and its attendant bureaucracy - how easy it is for that to happen is the kind of social observation that runs throughout this film. The Brother has some special talents, like being able to heal wounds. In one of the most touching scenes he heals a minor scrape on the knee of a young kid and the kid just smiles and accepts it as a common occurrence - a testament to how open kids are to any sort of experience.The Brother is being pursued by two men from his home planet, the implication made being that they are trying to retrieve an escaped slave. The two pursuers are played by David Strathairn and Sayles himself. They are dressed in all black and seem to be a takeoff on John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd in The Blues Brothers. Their movements are choreographed in a synchronized way that has hilarious effect. They can speak, but are not much more familiar with human behavior than The Brother. In one scene at a neighborhood bar they are asked what they want to drink and, after some hesitation, they say Beer, and then are asked what kind and say Draft, and then add On the rocks. This movie is not to be watched for any special sci-fi effects, which are not much beyond those in 50s B-movies, but rather for the keen observations and the winning performance by Joe Morton as the alien. Morton's performance is all the more admirable since, being speechless, he has to revert to the skills of the silent film actors to command our attention.I am still a bit mystified by the ending. It resolves the fascination the The Brother has with graffiti, but left me with several possible interpretations. "},{"Title":"Another slice of history","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Sayle's low-budget parable on race relations in America circa 1984.The Brother (Joe Morton) is an escapee from outer space who crash-lands near Ellis Island.  He finds his way to Harlem, trying to survive, and trying to evade his pursuers from his home planet.One of the characters in the film laments the deteriorating condition of Harlem, a tarnishing of its shiny history.  Watching the film made me ponder the 20 years of history past since then, how race relations and the feelings behind them have changed since then.The film tends to meander, it seems like Sayle's first effort instead of his fourth.  And although making the lead and title character a mute may have been done to further Sayle's point, it leaves an emotional hole that's difficult for an actor to fill. "},{"Title":"Memorable Movie!!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie on the late, late movie on TV in the mid '80s, and it's a show that I have never forgotten.  It's about an intergalactic slave that crash lands on Ellis Island in NYC, and he learns about the human condition while running away from galactic bounty hunters.  The subject matter is serious, and shows the plight of African Americans in the US and some of the issues that they deal with on a daily basis like drugs, segregation & negative stereotypes.  Underneath the serious subject matter, there is some subtle humour thrown in.  One part that stands out is when Joe Morton is confronted on the street by a religious fund-raiser.  In the background there are some guys having an argument, it looks like they are arguing with someone that's in the window of the building on the block.  It also has a very real edge to it, which is one of the many charms this movie exudes.  This movie wasn't made on a big budget, but at the same time it manages to stand it's own against some other big budget movies of it's time.  Joe Morton plays the alien, and makes the role his own.  He doesn't speak throughout the entire movie, but manages to say a lot with his facial expressions and body language. This movie really showcases the raw talent that Joe Morton has as an actor.  Anytime I have seen him in other TV shows & movies, this film always flashes back to me.  It's available on DVD, but unfortunately the master used does not give the respect that this movie solely deserves.  They should put recorded in Vantage Vision on the cover of the keep-case.  At the same time I am glad that I have been able to purchase this movie, because it is a cherished addition to my DVD library. "},{"Title":"Interesting but not successful","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" An alien from outer space (Joe Morton) crash lands in NY. He looks like a black man, is totally mute and can fix machines and heal wounds with his bare hands. He's taken in by the citizens of Harlem who grow to like him...but he's being followed by two men in black (John Sayles and David Stratham) who want to bring him back to outer space.An interesting change of pace for director/writer and editor John Sayles...but it doesn't really work. I caught this in 1984 at an art cinema and was pretty unimpressed. My thoughts haven't really changed much. There's no real plot...just Morton wandering around and meeting all these odd but always friendly people. The dialogue is great and Morton is excellent (that's why I'm giving it a 6) but the rest of the acting is pretty bad (except for Sayles and Stratham) and nothing really happens. It just sort of lays there. It also leads to a real ambiguous ending which could be interpreted a number of different ways. Still, this was the kind of independent film that came out in the 1980s and 90s before Hollywood took them over. For that alone this is interesting to watch. It has been beautifully restored by the Anarchists Covention (???) and UCLA. It looks better now than it did in 1984! "},{"Title":"a different turn for John Sayles","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In what may have been John Sayles's most Hollywood-style movie - and I use that description loosely - an alien slave (Joe Morton) lands in Harlem and tries to escape two bounty hunters (the director and David Strathairn) from his planet. In the process, even though he can't talk, he starts fixing video-games (unintentionally, natch). It just goes to show that you don't need an exorbitant budget to make a good movie about extraterrestrial life. Maybe not Sayles's all-time masterpiece, but worth seeing, partly as a look at people's everyday lives. I'd recommend it.Make all the white people disappear. Yeah... "},{"Title":"Remarkable given time, budget it was shot with","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering Sayles shot this as a pick-up piece to give himself something to do while waiting for financing of Matewan, this is a remarkable film. It doesn't have the production values or amazingly well-crafted writing I've come to expect from Sayles, but it is still interesting and amusing. "},{"Title":"The Brother from Another Planet","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was someone else who wanted to watch it more than I did, having seen Alan Davies mention it on Q.I., but the description I read certainly sounded interesting, so I watched as well. Basically The Brother (Terminator 2 Judgement Day's Joe Morton) is an alien from outer space who lands in the upper harbour of New York City, he is an escaped slave who looks just like any normal black man, in rags like a tramp. Also, he is unable to talk, so ending up in Harlem (which feels like the lower side) he makes some friends in a bar owner and some of the regulars. But they also discover his secret power, from his hands he creates a ray of light, and this enables him to fix anything put in front of him, such as wounds, televisions, arcade machines, and fruit machines. So while the mute hero makes money doing this mending job and empathises people with his inability to talk, he is unaware that two bounty hunters from his home planet have come to Earth to take him back. There is also some story where he takes his eye out to show drug dealers in action and have someone do something about it, and by the end he has I guess accepted his new environment. Also starring Daryl Edwards as Fly, Steve James as Odell, Leonard Jackson as Smokey, Bill Cobbs as Walter, Maggie Renzi as Noreen, Tom Wright as Sam, Renn Woods as Bernice and Reggie Rock Bythewood as Rickey. Morton makes his character that never utters one word likable, he makes everyone around him feel good, the healing power moments are like something out of E.T., and this is supposedly meant to show realistic situations put in front of this alien, if it had some more spice added it would be a good watch, but it's a pretty average science-fiction satire. Okay! "},{"Title":"One Very Unusual Immigrant, To Say The Least!","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although many unusual immigrants have passed through the gates of Ellis Island, none perhaps has been more so than the one who crashlands his spaceship in NY Harbor and fetches up on that storied entryway in John Sayles' The Brother From Another Planet (1984). The nameless black Brother looks a lot like other illegal aliens--except for his taloned, three-toed feet, of course--and although mute, does have some compensating abilities. He can fix mechanical devices such as video games and TVs with a mere touch, like some kind of techno pinball wizard, and heal a child's booboos with a laying on of hands. He can also get vibes from objects by touching them, can regrow a limb overnight, and can pop an eyeball out of his head to plant like a secret spying device. Anyway, this charming and often very funny film shows us what happens when this Brother winds up in Harlem and meets an assortment of neighborhood characters--barflies, a single mother, a lounge singer, a social worker, junkies--and tries to do something about the heroin scourge afflicting the city, all while being pursued by a pair of Men In Black-type bounty hunters. This sweet movie makes some poignant observations about Harlem in the mid-'80s, and Joe Morton, seven years pre-T2, uses all the nonverbal tricks of the actor's trade to make us see through the Brother's eye(s). His is a fascinating character, so I was a bit disappointed that we never get to learn anything about his background, or why he is on the run. Sayles tells us in an interview that his film cost only $400 K to make, but even without elaborate FX, it works just fine. And I just loved the reference to my favorite movie, 1948's The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, that Sayles manages to work into his script. One other thing Watch this film with the DVD's English subtitles on; you'll need them for a lot of the background talk, not to mention that Rasta guy! "}{"Title":"A cult classic waiting to be discovered","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like Moscow on the Hudson also released the same year, this movie tells the story of a foreigner looking to start a new life. White males are negative, authority figures, while everyone else is just trying to do the best they can to get by. The minority figures - African-Americans, Hispanics, and women are the only ones willing to help the newcomer. The science fiction aspect was a great touch and allowed the story to be expanded in scope to include some great nuances.Joe Morton's current role in the Sci-Fi Channel's Eureka is just as quirky and compelling as his performance in this movie. He's a great actor that we will hopefully see more of in the future. "},{"Title":"one of my top 10 - of all time","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very thoughtful and thought provoking movie by John Sayles.A parable and a morality play on the human condition.  As timely now as it was 20 years a ago.One of the things I like most about the movie is that the main character (played by Joe Morton) is mute, yet he is eloquent.  People have one-side dialogues with him that give them more insight into themselves than if they were speaking with a normal person.Brilliant.The movie tackles issues like racism and drug use without preaching.  It doesn't offer any easy answers, but it does offer hope.John Sayles even makes an appearance as a funny character. "},{"Title":"The Brother Who Fell To Earth...","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Caught a midnight showing and was pleasantly surprised by this John Sayles redux of THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH. Joe Morton is great as the mute fugitive trying to keep some distance between himself and Sayles (who plays one of the two intergalactic bounty hunters come to claim him). Superb cinematography throughout. With so many lesser efforts being hauled out and dusted off, now would seem like the perfect time to bring a BROTHER FROM ANOTHER PLANET series to cable television. Any takers...? "},{"Title":"Good enough - better than 6.6","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out about 15 years ago. It probably is not politically correct enough for one reason or another to make it today, but it is well worth watching. It is definitely better than the 6.6 the readers have given it... "},{"Title":"interesting story","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" i saw this one on IFC one morning. its about an alien (who looks human)that crash lands in Harlem and he cant speak, but understands English (somehow), has huge feet, and he fixes things with a beam of light from his hand. but, its actually a good storyline and idea. i guess its like traveling to another country and not knowing the customs. he's on another planet and doesn't know anything. its interesting to watch how he treats other people and how they treat him. overall its a movie i would probably recommend to friends by bringing it up drunk while playing poker, but its still pretty good and worthy of a comment. and you gotta love the wicked awesome 80s special effects and the fake big feet. "},{"Title":"Manifestations of science fiction and the modern world of mutable slavery","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Sayles film, The Brother From Another Planet, uses the arhcetypes of science fiction to examine the stunted evolution of history. His story stands as a character study of a alien slave who crash lands in earth's culture epic center of New York City. Through this window into the life of the ultimate foreigner Sayles analyzes the social barriers that segregate people culturally, these divisions stand as an allegory for slavery, paralleling the nature of history, positing that it does not repeat itself so much as it evolves into different manifestations. The starting point begins with the brother character running from intergalactic slave traders while assimilating into the American lifestyle (an attempt to start his new life and blend into the society around him), along his way he observes the supporting cast of everyday characters and learns that several societal institutions (immigration, the drug game, sex) are mutated tools of civil control. Sayles is interested in the construction and roots of these devices, the primary barrier between human rational and animal instinct, and begs the question, is it within are makeup as human beings to fear/control the differences between people or are we predisposed as animals to exercise a Darwinian ideology of the strong dominating the weak? From his film it seems to that he believes that latter, that although we can rationally say people are people we can not morally explain social injustices and that there is an automated response of dog eat dog that restricts history from changing. While Sayles is strong in his assertions, the end of his film leaves the audience with a resolution that the subservient can only offer survive in their convictions, the just will be rewarded in their brotherhood and imperial control is fleeting/incapable to separate the plight of the many. "},{"Title":"This is The World, and youze beez alien","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So aliens can be black and illegal.  Some can regrow toes and fix computer games by passing their hands over them.This is really a movie about illegal aliens controversy in the USA, Brothers that can't understand bro-speak and the assumptions this society makes about who people are by the way they look.  As someone who grew up in a furrin country but can fake being a Merkin, I've always gotten a kick out of such presumptions.  I highly recommend this movie to any furrners confused about the attitudes of certain Merkins.  To fully appreciate this movie you have to know that among US soldiers stationed overseas, the US is The World and anything outside it's borders is another planet that may or may not exist in reality.  So when a Merkin calls a furrner alien they really do think of them as something akin to the visitors at Roswell.Great Ahnold Ahhl be bahk reference by the alien bounty hunters in the trench coats.One of my favorite movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"Not up to par for John Sayles","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Sayles is my favorite American director-writer from the early 1980's to the present.  I have seen most of his films, and this is the worst.  The film lacks most of Sayles' distinctive touches as both a writer and director.  It lack dynamics, interrelationships, and any interesting development.  This films compares extremely poorly with one of my all-time favorites, Nicholas Roeg's The Man Who Fell to Earth, which has the similar theme of an alien from outer space coming to the United States.  There are a few outstanding moments and shots in Sayles film, but its level of interest can be demonstrated by the fact that ITS alien uses his energies to repair pinball machines by merely touching them. "}]