[{"Title":"Outstanding murder mystery centered around a different type of racism...","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"40 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A Soldier's Story, directed by Norman Jewison, tells a very powerful and tragic tale of black racism in WWII America.  It is equally puzzling and disturbing and will leave you thinking about it for a long time to come.The story takes place at a military base in the American South during the last full year of the Second World War, in 1944.  Sergeant Vernon Waters, a Black man, is shot to death.  The locals, as well as the Black enlisted men at the base, believe it to be the work of the Ku Klux Klan.  Captain Davenport, also a Black man, as well as the first Black officer most of the men at this base have ever seen, is asked to investigate this.  The White officers all want to see this matter brought to a swift and tidy conclusion in order to prevent what they see as a potential race riot between the Black soldiers and local Whites around town.Davenport (deftly played by the late Howard E. Rollins Jr.) questions the enlisted men at the base, and begins to learn that the murdered sergeant(Adolph Ceaser in an Oscar-nominated performance) had no shortage of enemies, White and Black.Through a series of flashbacks, we learn that Waters is a man of great personal pride and dignity, a man who believes that the African-American race has great potential to take it's rightful place in history alongside the White race in America.  But his pride is also fueled by a terrible hatred of Black men, mostly Southern men, who he believes are hurting the race by presenting themselves as lower-class bumpkins; the stereotypical shiftless, lazy, ignorant types; the smiling, singing clowns; the yassah-boss niggers.One soldier, C.J. Memphis, a simple but charming, illiterate, guitar-strumming man, comes to personify these character traits in Waters' eyes.  The clash between those two personalities is a crucial centerpiece to this movie's message.Ceaser is astonishing as Waters, a man so full of loathing and bile towards his own people, you can feel it oozing off the screen.  His best moment occurs in a bar where he stares into a mirror and talks in a dark tone about his unit's heroic efforts in France in the First World War, and how one Black soldier destroyed that sterling image in the minds of many White Frenchmen.....and what Waters did in response.  It's chilling.An undervalued film that you may have to look a little harder in your local video store to find, but well worth the effort! "},{"Title":"Hidden treasure!","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"27 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies.  The thing that I find so amazing is that few people have ever heard of it much less seen it.  The acting and story line is excellent.  This is one of those great whodunits with a great twist that compels us to examine our stereotypes and presumptions.  If you find yourself looking for a great tip at the video store check this movie out.  I think you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Enthralling film about racism in the military","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Commerating the 20th Anniversary of a brilliant classic!This was one of the most powerful films that came out in 1984. Director Norman Jewison(In The Heat Of The Night)adaptation of the Puliitzer Prize-winning play(by Charles Fuller) and numerous NAACP awards for best achievement in African-American literature,tells about the ramificiations of racism and loyalty through the prism of blacks in the military,revealed through a mystery set in the 1940's deep South. Howard E. Rollins(Ragtime,and from the TV series In The Heat Of The Night)plays a military investigator,Captain Davenport,who is assigned to the murder of a drill instructor,Sergeant Waters,played by Adolph Caesar(The Color Purple),who was in charge of a black platoon during World War II. Under pressure from his superiors to wrap his investigation up quickly,Rollins instead delves deeply into the relationships between the despised drill instructor and his men,uncovering lies and animousity,and confronting the question of what it means to be black in a white man's world. Rollins delivers a riveting,stoic,emotional lead into the role of Captain Davenport while Caesar gives an electrifying performance as the Sergeant. A lot of fresh faces gives brilliant performances throughout the film including one from a youthful Denzel Washington,who makes an early appearance as a soldier with a deep grudge against the drill instructor and a deep mistrust of Rollins' investigator. Look for appearances by Larry Riley, David Alan Grier,Robert Townsend,and Patti LaBelle. A powerfully written story that makes the most of its large and impressive ensemble cast which still is enthralling--some 20th after its release.MPAA Rating PG-For Language,Racial Overtones and Comment,Violence.  "},{"Title":"Near Perfect Film-Making. Not Enough Good Things Can Be Said.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Canadian director Norman Jewison once took a tour of the U.S. south in the mid-1940s following his high school graduation and was shocked to see the way that black people were treated by white people. Jewison's intense hitch-hiking journey led to a career which includes credits like In the Heat of the Night and The Hurricane. However his best film is probably A Soldier's Story, an intense character-study that deals with African-American soldiers in Louisiana during World War II. Master Sergeant Adolph Caesar (Oscar-nominated) has been murdered. Enter investigator Howard E. Rollins (also African-American) who tries to figure out the case. What follows are intense flashbacks and the realization that Caesar was despised not only by white people (the primary suspects at the start) but also his own men (all African-American). The mystery twists and turns into chaos and in the end it is not a sure thing if the crime will ever be solved. A really chilling film that is top-notch in all cinematic departments. Robert Townsend, Larry Riley, David Allen Grier and yes the Denzel Washington are the soldiers that make the most lasting impressions in this brilliant piece of the cinema. Without a doubt one of the finest productions of the 1980s. 5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating mystery with a great script and a fine ensemble cast make this a must-see","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent film, at it's heart a case study in human psychology, but also a mystery and an intriguing one at that.  The cast, mostly unknowns at the time, is fantastic and contains many now-familiar faces, most notably Denzel Washington and David Alan Grier.  Adolph Caesar was nominated for an Oscar and Howard Rollins, Jr. probably should have been.  Another highlight (at least for me) are the songs sung by Larry Riley and Patte LaBelle. This is a gem of a film, one that is most highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Uncle Sam And Uncle Tom","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The problem with a film like A Soldier's Story is that too many will skip it because it is one of those black social films. They expect a boring bitchy sermon. That's too bad, because they miss out on one of the best ensemble films of the 1980s, not to mention a tough mystery story that navigates deep psychological waters in delivering a message far less rosy and doctrinaire than you might expect.It is World War II, and just outside a Louisiana army base for colored troops, a black master sergeant is shot to death on a deserted road. Whites from the nearby town are suspected. Howard Rollins Jr. plays Capt. Davenport, a black lawyer sent by Washington to investigate. The expectation is he will ruffle no feathers and work instead at being what the base commander calls a credit to your race. But Davenport quickly makes clear he isn't anyone's token, even if it means pressing white suspects or investigating the possibility that whites didn't kill Sgt. Waters at all.Today, you see the film and notice Denzel Washington has a major role as one of Sgt. Waters' men. But the star of the film is neither him nor Rollins, but Adolph Caesar as the doomed Sgt. Waters. They still hate you! he almost laughs as he is being murdered, and one of the many mysteries sorted out in the film is that Waters wasn't talking to the killer but himself.Waters is bent out of shape not only over white American attitudes towards blacks, but his own attitude about how a black person can be more acceptable in white society. He expresses admiration for Nazi Germany, noting that they have a commendably direct way at getting at the problem of racial purity. For him, the black race is held down by a certain type of southern black, geechies he calls them, who play to white stereotyping by not speaking correct English and so on.Caesar tackles Sgt. Waters as if his were a Shakespearean role, and in a way it is, Shylock crossed with Richard III, filtered through a multitude of American racial prisms, white on black, black on white, black on black. His every twitch and body shudder come over perfectly, especially when you watch a second time. Even in smaller moments, like when he's getting ready to beat the tar out of Denzel, and is joshing with the other non-coms, he never lets go of that glint in his eye or his hold on the viewer's jugular.Though Rollins and Washington are both very good in support, even better is Art Evans as Waters' sad flunky, Wilkie, who gives two contradictory depositions to Davenport and the deepest insight as to what made Waters tick. Dennis Lipscomb as Capt. Taylor is also fantastic, a white officer who tells Davenport frankly he doesn't want him investigating the murder because of the color of his skin. Taylor's not a bigot, mind, he just wants justice and fears a black officer won't be able to make an arrest in Louisiana. Taylor's more socially awkward than anything else, and scripter Charles Fuller, working from his great A Soldier's Play, has a lot of fun with him and his exchanges with Davenport.When Davenport tells him of an especially cruel trick Waters played, Taylor refuses to believe it. Colored people aren't that devious, he says, a nice line in that you discover Taylor's racism and his naive decency simultaneously.In his DVD commentary, director Norman Jewison doesn't mention his earlier In The Still Of The Night, which is odd given the many parallels between the two films. Both are murder mysteries set in the American South with blacks and whites butting heads. Rollins even went on to appear in Still Of The Night the TV series. I don't see this film as a copy of that earlier one, but a variation on the same theme, and in many ways an improvement.Instead of noble Sidney Poitier, you have a deep raft of black acting talent representing a variety of different attitudes and moral shadings. Real stock is taken, too, of America's racial divide, how people can still feel American enough to want to die for their country even if it won't let them drink from the same water fountain. There's something heartbreaking about the scene where we see the black soldiers celebrating being sent off to combat, in the wake of what happened to WWI hero Sgt. Waters. Will they come back with memories of their own Cafe Napoleon? "},{"Title":"One of the Best of All Time","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't even say this movie is underappreciated and overlooked b/c it did get a nomination for Best Picture...but I'll say it is anyway! )  This movie is not just a great black film, it's a great film, period.  Howard Rollins shows the great actor he once was (and makes you saddened by how his later career after Heat of the Night turned out) and you cannot beat the who's who of the rest of the cast Robert Townsend, Denzel, Adolph Caesar... I'm glad I found out it's on DVD with commentary by Mr. Jewison cause it deserves the format (although more goodies would've been great). If you haven't seen it, you must.  For excellent acting and story it rarely gets better than this one... "},{"Title":"A gripping military drama","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       A Soldier's Story, (1984) is the story of an Army sergeant who isfound murdered in cold blood. Whodunnit? The choices are many in this engrossing, complex morality play which is set in thebackdrop of the segregated Army of WWII. (Only 60 years ago!)This is truly a black eye on the military if there ever was one.Several  future stars are featured here including Oscar winnerDenzel Washington, David Alan Grier, and the excellent  HowardRollins Jr. who stars as an Army Capt. and lawyer sent fromWashington to unravel this mysterious killing. The movie reallybelongs to Adolph Ceasar as the murdered sergeant , however. AWWI veteran and medal winner he constantly affirms the the abilityof the black soldier in a segregated Army as professional, efficientand courageous, but who fails to stand for any weaknesses hesees in his men, many of whom are naieve country boys, whoseways he believes are keeping black men subjugated in UncleSam's Army. One chiling scene not to be missed is Ceasar'ssolliliquy in the bar with his staff sergeant, in which he describesan incident in France in WWI. An excellent movie which should beviewed as part of recent US history. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Really really Good","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Directed by Norman Jewison, A Soldier's Story is a gripping film that tells the story of an African-American captain and lawyer who is sent to the Deep South to investigate the murder of a sergeant. But the film does not just tell the story of the investigation; it also opens up a whole new state of affairs for the audience to see. Jewison shows the hard-core racism that was present during World War II. Racism is the central theme that surrounds the murderous plot.The movie takes place in 1944, on a black army base in Louisiana where the men eagerly wait to be sent to Europe to fight World War II. Captain Davenport is brought in from Washington D.C. to inspect the unexpected murder of Sergeant Waters. Captain Davenport tediously interviews each man who was under Waters' command. All men gives his story and about how their great or not so great encounters with the late Sergeant Waters. The movie constantly flashes back and forth between the past and present as the men tell their stories to Davenport, explicitly introducing the different attitudes and animosities towards Sergeant Waters. All the men that Davenport interviewed had a motive to kill.This film explores a variety of racial behaviors that African-American men had to face at that time. Not only does it show racism from whites to blacks but also from black to blacks. Jewison does not spare the audience's ears as every sort of racial slur is thrown at the men, with the cruelest racist words coming from the black Sergeant Waters. He gives us a scandalous taste of this unsympathetic prejudice and bigotry through-out the entire picture and then at the end, just like that, all the arguments, issues, and chauvinism between all the men on the base is solved. The men finally get to fight in the war, everyone is content, and saluting one another; as if none of the narrow-minded racist name-calling and bias misconceptions never happened. Jewison failed to give this movie a real ending.How can Jewison, a white man from Canada ever be able too see that something like this would never happen? How can an entire movie that is built on preconceptions and injustice have an ending with a white man giving a black man a hand up and saluting other white officers without any acknowledgement of the unfair treatment that was handed to him? Jewison did an acceptable job displaying life for a black man in 1944, searching for his own identity in a world of whites who believe they are superior; I just think that representing open racism as OK is not OK.However, the acting is superb. Denzel Washington in particular, did an exceptional job, playing Private Peterson, as he resisted Sergeant Waters and refused to be talked down. Even though he couldn't back all his talking and lost in a fist fight against Waters, he did admirably well as he refused to be disparaged by another black man with only a few stripes more than him. Adolph Caesar, who starred as Sergeant Waters, also did a delightful job portraying a hateful man who enjoyed putting black men away who made his race look bad. Although he was malicious and intolerable towards his all black troop, he became a character you'd love to hate. Because of his sharp wit, small stature and roughness, he gave A Soldier's Story a slight sense of mean humor. Moreover, he gives the audience a sense of black on black hate and opens up a new perspective of how blacks had to endure racism with-in their own culture.A Soldier's Story is highly recommendable. It's a type of movie that keeps it's audience captivated through-out the entire view and never gets dull. The film is unpredictable and comical but only to a certain extent. Addressing serious issues, there are times when A Soldier's Story draws the audience in to sympathize with the characters and feel their pain. However, a special appearance from Patti LaBelle will help ease that pain and standing up and shouting is the only option when she blows only like Patti LaBelle can. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, wonderfully done in every way","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A murder mystery among black soldiers during World War II - in the last years of the segregated military. The plot is completely unpredictable but fascinating. The characters are strongly written, very believable and varied.  **** SPOILERS **** Like the best movies, the central motivation for the crime runs away from cliche. In his rage for an idea - that black men be given respect and have dignity - the sergeant doesn't care about individuals and their welfare. Anyone under his command whom he believes retards that respect from being accorded - or who fails to reflect pride and dignity as a black man - must be punished - regardless of their warmth or personality.The fact that rural black southern men seem in the early 1940s to this sergeant to be relatively old-fashioned in their relaxed ways (compared to northern blacks - most of whom lived in large  cities and work in large industries), in their acceptance of a second class citizenship and in their deference to whites, drives the sergeant wild with hatred.In that sense, this movie is like the French play and movie, Danton - for the villain, the individual is unimportant (no matter how sweet, how well-loved by others) and his welfare is subordinated to a greater idea (whether fraternite and egalite for all mankind in Danton or respect and dignity for the black man in America in A Soldier's Story). Of course, like in Danton, the general principle (egalite or respect) causes the authority (here, the sergeant) to treat the person retarding the principle's acceptance at least as badly as the injustice from which the reformer (the sergeant) seeks relief.The murder at the heart of this movie is the revenge by those who care for individual human beings more than they care for the general principles about how those individuals should be treated. **** SPOILERS END **** I found the setting and characters both believable and intensely interesting, and enjoyed the frequent humor (e.g., the reaction of townspeople and black soldiers to a black captain). The reaction of the regiment to the news that they were being allowed to go into action against the Axis powers was moving - and the way this news overshadowed (among the soldiers) the resolution of the murder, was very well done and believable. This is one terrific movie - truly one of the best American movies of the 1980s. I fear that the largely black cast might cause whites to relegate the movie to to a separate black audience category - it shouldn't be seen that way - its appeal is completely universal. "}{"Title":"Powerful film","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's much to recommend about this film. First it is refreshing to see a story about racism not done in the typical fashion where 'good' and 'bad' are so clearly delineated (ie. this a story about racism within the black community). Socially conscious director Jewison (In the Heat of the Night) also does a wonderful job (with the help of the scriptwriter of course) in authentically capturing the social climate of that bygone era. The acting is superb throughout. The only faces I recognized were Denzel's and David Allan Grier's but the unknowns (at least to me) were more than competent in their roles, especially Caesar's portrayal of the trouble Sgt. Waters. This film is not only fine cinema but it is also important history. Recommended, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"A must-see mystery drama inside a WWII black army base","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An old movie I never saw but had heard about. It has held up very well over the two decades since it came out (1984). The DVD comments by the director are interesting low budget, core cast came from Broadway stage version, filmed at Ft. Chafee, Arkansas, Governor Bill Clinton visited the lot, local buildings and people were heavily used. Denzel Washington is fine in an early role; Adolph Caesar (well named for his role!)is fascinating; Howard Rollins is a force. Hard to put a finger on a weak link. Much of the music and barracks scenes are improvised giving the word ensemble real meaning. Definitely worth a first or second look. The spontaneous celebration of the long-awaited announcement that the unit is finally going to be shipped to Europe to fight is a special and real moment--validating the men's commitments to the U.S., with all its flaws, and the army itself, which would gradually emerge as a leading force for racial integration in the country. "},{"Title":"Historcal drama. Excellent mystery.  Accurate military portrayals.","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm an Army vet of several years and I feel somewhat qualified to comment on the accuracy of the portrayal of the military in the movies. I completed basic training and lived and worked in the same type of Army wooden barracks as in A Soldier's Story. I was subordinate AND superior, in rank, in the course of my career, to soldiers like the disciplinarian Sergeant Waters. Overall, I believe A Soldier's Story is an accurate portrayal of Army personnel and history. A Soldier's Story is also an extremely entertaining mystery. Movie-making at its finest!I am proud that the U.S. Army led the way in racial integration in U.S. history. These years were unduly difficult years for African American soldiers, who contributed greatly to the U.S. war effort. Not only did African American soldiers have to deal with enemy action abroad, they also had to contend with extreme and violent racism at home! A Soldier's Story depicts this part of American history in a gripping, entertaining, and touching manner. Highly recommended 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Soldier's Story &#x85; A Compelling One Indeed","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Who murdered Sgt. Waters? This is the mystery posed at the outset of A Soldier's Story, as we see Waters&#x97;speaking incoherently and obviously intoxicated&#x97;being shot to death on a country road. The setting is Tynin, Louisiana, and the year is 1944, near the end of WWII. Tynin, like the rest of the Deep South, is a town plagued by racial segregation and Klan terrorism. That said, everyone on the Tynin army base, both black and white, has no doubt that the black sergeant's killing was at the hands of white racists, some are even certain that it was the work of the KKK.Enter Capt. Davenport, a Negro army officer/lawyer assigned by Washington to investigate Waters' killing. No stranger to racial hostility himself, he perceives himself as a crusader, out to see that justice&#x97;ultimately racial justice--is served for the murder. However, he has the unfortunate experience of learning that internal black racism can be just as hostile and damaging as the external racism historically afflicted by white society.Howard Rollins plays Capt. Davenport, the no nonsense, stoic black army officer investigating Waters' murder, and Dennis Lipscomb plays Captain Taylor, the late Waters' white commanding officer, who, like Davenport, desperately wants Waters' killers prosecuted. However, Taylor earnestly tries to persuade Davenport to relinquish the investigation, believing that as a black man, there's no way that Davenport can possibly get at the truth behind the killing.But it is Adolph Caesar who commands most of your attention throughout this movie in the role of the sadistic Sgt. Vernon Waters. The mystery of Sgt. Waters' murder is the focal point of A Soldier's Story, and, fittingly, Caesar is the man of this movie. Through a series of film flashbacks of Waters, via Davenport's interviews with black soldiers of Waters' platoon and Captain Taylor, we learn that Waters was an intensely embittered, disillusioned black master sergeant who believed that Southern blacks, perpetuating stereotypes of minstrelsy and ignorance, impede the black race from attaining acceptance and respect from white society. That said, he embarks on his own personal crusade to rid the black race of such dregs so that the race can prosper and progress.With his raspy, deep voice, Caesar spent most of his career doing narrations for Hollywood productions. (While hearing him deliver his lines in this movie, and if you're over 45, you can't help but to reminisce about the classic tag line he delivered in TV commercials for the United Negro College Fund way back in the day&#x97;A mind is a terrible thing to waste.) But it is in this role as Sgt. Waters in A Soldier's Story that Caesar displays his powerful talent as a dramatic actor, in a role that would eventually become his signature. It is with his penetrating voice that he effectively embodies the hatred and bitterness that personifies the Waters' character. Although small in stature, his screen presence is commanding, and at times even chilling, particularly when he vents his animosity and sadism toward the Southern Negroes of his platoon, whom he deprecatingly refers to as geeches. It is a hatred so intense that as Pvt. Wilke (Water's subordinate) explains to Davenport, You could just feel it. Caesar would go on to win a well-deserved Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of Sgt. Waters in A Soldier's Story, a performance that would make him a star overnight. Unfortunately, he would suffer an untimely death two years after the movie was released, just as he was coming into his own as a Hollywood celebrity.In what was only his second appearance in a Hollywood movie, Denzel Washington delivers a solid performance as Pvt. Peterson, the outspoken and assertive soldier from Alabama, totally unafraid to challenge Waters' bigotry toward the Southern black soldiers. In stark contrast to Peterson, veteran actor Art Evans plays Pvt. Wilkie, Waters' docile and acquiescent flunky, who, in an effort to regain his rank of sergeant, a rank Waters had stripped, is more than willing to facilitate the sergeant's dastardly deeds.In one of the movie's most memorable performances, Larry Riley plays C.J. Memphis, a Mississippi farmhand turned soldier who becomes the most unfortunate and tragic victim of Water's malevolence. Although engaging and exceptionally talented, both musically and athletically, Memphis is obviously the most illiterate and uncultured soldier of Waters' platoon, and a rube too naïve to realize that of all of the Southern soldiers, he's the geeche that Waters despises most.In addition to the movie's intriguing drama and suspense, A Soldier's Story features prime musical entertainment. Iconic R&B vocalist Patti LaBelle plays Big Mary, owner of a bar where the black soldiers from the army base frequent. Her mesmerizing blues/gospel singing, coupled with Riley's own fine Mississippi Delta blues singing and guitar playing, makes for some of the movie's most entertaining moments.Charles Fuller, the playwright of A Soldier's Story and screenwriter for this movie, did quite a fine job of transitioning his Pulitzer-Prize winning play to the big screen, and the added dimensions of cinema greatly enhances his story. However, even though the story is intended to be a whodunit, you'll most likely gather who murdered Waters before it is revealed at the end of the movie.Nevertheless, A Soldier's Story is a truly compelling tale, and the magnificent performances delivered by the cast alone, a cast that would be perceived by many today as all-star, will have you wanting to watch this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"Some things need getting rid of!","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILER ALERT*** Drinking himself into a drunken stupor US Army Sgt. Waters, Adolph Caesar, staggered out of Big Mary's Place and was later found by the Tynin Bridge beaten and shot to death.With Sgt. Waters being black it was immediately suspected that he was murdered by either members of the KKK or local townspeople who, in the deep south in 1944, didn't take too kindly in blacks, even servicemen, being in their town. There was also the fear that the black soldiers, from an all black army garrison, stationed outside of Tynin would take matters in their own hands in revenge of their fellow black Sgt. Waters being murdered by, as suspected, some of Tynin's racist citizens.Sending a US Army black officer to investigate the Waters murder was thought, by the Pentagon, to be the best way to defuse this very dangerous and explosive situation. As things turned out it was, the Waters murder, far more shocking as well as racist then anyone could have imagined! With the racism being instigated my the murder victim himself the late Sgt. Waters!Powerhouse movie that has black US Army Captain Davenport, Howard E. Rolins Jr, go against type in what his white superior officers expected him to do, white wash his investigation, and get to the meat of the matter in Sgt. Waters' murder. As he uncovered the circumstance's that lead to Waters murder Capt. Davenport became to realize that it was his actions towards the black troops that he commanded, not that of local white racists, that lead to his ignoble demise.As Capt. Davenport found out there was very bitter hatred towards the black troops stationed outside of Tynin but it was Sgt. Waters own racism, towards some of his men, that eventually lead to his murder. Being a spit & polish as well as educated career man Sgt. Waters look down on some his fellow blacks in them dragging top notch soldiers like himself down.****SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ON*** Using his #1 suck up Pvt. Wilkie, Art Evens, to do his dirty work Sgt. Waters framed Pvt.C.J Memphis, Larry Riley, in a triple murder on the army base. Knowing that the charge wouldn't stick, were not even sure if anyone was murdered in the first place, Waters then getting C.J to take a swing at him, knocking Waters flat on his butt, was a charge-striking a superior officer-which did.With the good natured C.J now locked up in the stockade a vengeful and sadistic Waters paid him a visit telling C.J that he's to do at least five years for belting him. This lead to a despondent and terrified, in being behind bars, C.J into hanging himself the following evening! It was the unexpected suicide of C.J that lead Sgt. Waters to go on a drinking binge that lead to him ending up murdered! The big question in Capt. Davenport's mind is who among the black troops on the base murdered him!More then anything else the movie A Soldier's Story shows that racism comes in all shapes sizes as well as colors. The bitter racism that Sgt. Waters had for poor C.J Memphis was far more vicious then the racism that the local whites had for him or any other black for that matter. Just because C.J was good natured and didn't have a chip on his shoulder like the infuriated Sgt. Waters did lead to Waters framing him for a number of murders that C.J didn't commit. The chip that Sgt. Waters carried all his adult life was that he couldn't accept the fact that he was black and thus put down by the society that he grew up in. And it was that sick and dangerous distortion of reality that lead not only to Sgt. Waters feelings of insecurity but the racism that he developed over the years against his own, like in the case of C.J Memphis, people! And in the end it was Sgt. Waters' own men whom he commanded that made him pay for it! "},{"Title":"Preconceived Notions","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A murder of a black sergeant on a post in Louisiana in the spring of 1944 threatens blow up into a racially charged situation. A natural assumption is that the Ku Klux Klan would have seen a black man with stripes signifying authority and considered him a target. There were in fact race riots during World War II a fact the War Department considers in assigning one of the few black officers in the army, Howard Rollins to go to the post and investigate.The late sergeant played by Adolph Caesar is a controversial man who no one is neutral about. In fact as Rollins probes a few people tell different stories and contradict themselves, giving different views about what kind of a guy Caesar was in life.The film was directed by Norman Jewison and A Soldier's Story doesn't have one bit of wasted film footage or one bad performance out of his ensemble cast. Jewison got an Academy Award for directing In The Heat Of The Night also about a murder in the deep south that a black homicide detective gets corralled into helping the investigation.Actually there is one element of the plot that is exactly the same as In The Heat Of The Night. Sidney Poitier as Virgil Tibbs driven by his own attitudes and the way he's been treated in the town of Sparta, Mississippi originally pursues one line of investigation. Later on however he gets on track and finds the real culprit. The exact same thing happens in A Soldier's Story. Ironically enough Howard Rollins also got to play Virgil Tibbs in the television series adapted from In The Heat Of The Night.Two favorites in the supporting cast are a young Denzel Washington as one of the platoon soldiers and Art Evans as an older guy in the platoon who's been a non-commissioned officer before and is craftily kissing up to the right people to get those stripes back. The whole platoon is a cross section of male black America circa 1944.That in itself is what makes A Soldier's Story a great film. It's a murder mystery, a sociological study of racism external and internal, and a well acted drama that can be viewed many times with something new learned with every viewing. "},{"Title":"Conundrums.","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Someone has murdered the top sergeant of an all-black Army company in the middle of World War II and a lawyer -- a black lawyer, Howard E. Rollins, Jr. -- is sent from Washington to investigate the case. The enlisted men in the Southern camp are all black. The officers are all white except Rollins, who is a captain. They've never seen an African-American officer before. In the face of all kinds of opposition from the other officers, who are either naive or racists, and overcoming the recalcitrance of the enlisted men, Rollins pushes ahead until the culprits are discovered and the case solved.The victim, Adolph Caesar, was the highest-ranking enlisted man who had seen service in France in World War I. Man, is he a complicated person. The men alternatively respect him for his spit-and-polish demands or hate him for his persecution of unsophisticated blacks from the country, the kind who play blues on the guitar and carry around Lucky Tiger balm. Caesar is short and skinny, like the early Frank Sinatra, but he's tough as nails too and is able to clobber a much larger Denzel Washington in a bare-knuckled fist fight. Suspects abound.It's far from a traditional detective story though, and there are scenes of questioning, accompanied by flashbacks, but no climactic courtroom confrontation. In recent cop movies we know right away who the villains are. In the old-fashioned mysteries, Hercule Poirot or Sherlock Holmes or Philip Marlowe keep a tight rein on their judgments until the final reveal. Not here. The cool Rollins takes his job seriously -- too seriously perhaps -- and wants to arrest everyone seriatim upon whom suspicion happens to fall at any given moment -- men and officers alike. And he's always mistaken until the last few minutes when the miscreants give themselves away and spill the beans gratuitously, even in the absence of any evidence against them. I mean, I should say, there is not a shred of evidence against them except their confession. (All evidence comes in shreds.) The movie is never dull but it meanders around, covering baseballs games and combat exercises. Rollins strides manfully and quietly through his part, linking all these various dynamics and ancillary events, but the show belongs to Adolph Caesar as the heart-breakingly torn-up top sergeant who doesn't know which race he owes allegiance to. That coffee-grinder voice! What a performance. He died two years after the movie was released.The location shooting is colorful and evocative. Not just the vast emptiness of Fort Chafee, Arkansas, but the brief glimpses we get of Tynan, Louisiana, where the summer evenings are so hot and drenched, and the air conditioners so uninvented that people simply move their parlors and floor lamps out onto the sidewalks and fan themselves while playing checkers. Everyone glistens with sweat. Once in a while I thought I smelled body odor.The plot, though, has its weaknesses. Nobody could describe it as taut. That's not necessarily bad. Life itself is rarely taut. But the impression left by the film is not that art is imitating life but that the writer isn't sure where he's going, or how much in the way of drama and significance he can pack into the running time. And none of the white guys are particularly admirable either, though there's plenty of diversity among the black enlisted men. Dennis Lipscomb is the white captain who is Rollins' counterpart. He wants to get the whole thing over with as quickly and quietly as possible. The character redeems himself, but Lipscomb is not a forceful actor but rather the sort who would make a satisfactory clerk, the truculent kind who informs you that the rules preclude his complying with your request.But, as I say, you're very unlikely to get bored. And although the chief conundrum, which has to do with racial identity, is buried beneath a multitude of digressions, it still lends the movie a deathless power. Fortunately, though the problem still exists, it's not as demanding as it once was. At least the now-integrated armed forces have African-American officers, and some have achieved even higher rank. "},{"Title":"Profoundly ingenious film","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here is one of those overlooked films that seem to leave as soon as they arrive. And it's a shame that had to happen to this film because A Soldier's Story is a remarkable film. It takes place during the second world war at a training camp for black soldiers. When one of the highest ranking black Sergeants is murdered Captain Davenport is sent in to investigate the murder. Davenport, also a black man, must wade through prejudice and animosity to find out the truth behind this murder. The film is told half through flashbacks that occur via the interviews Davenport conducts during his investigation, and half through present tense. The film is rife with powerhouse performances and moving dialouge that all builds towards a fantastic climax. I was surprisingly impressed with this film that I really knew nothing about going in to.This is one of those movies fueled by powerfully dramatic performances by great actors. There is little to no action in the film and it is primarily told through dialouge. There are some aesthetically beautiful scenes but most of the films subtle brilliance comes from its actors. It all begins with Howard E. Rollins Jr., an actor who died at the mere age of 46 and never became a big name, but proves his merit through this film alone. He wonderfully portrays a stoic military leader with a vulnerable heart underneath. He also represents the break away from racial stereotypes, something the other black soldiers haven't yet achieved. They all use their race as a crutch and an excuse, accusing others animosity on racism rather than actual dislike. There is a lot of overt racism amongst the white soldiers of the camp and Rollins' character marks a movement away from that crutch.The supporting performances of this film are equally powerful. Aldolph Caesar, another relatively unknown actor, plays the murdered Sergeant Waters, who only appears in the flashbacks. His performance is one of the best of the film and his character is arguably the most profound. He isn't likable at all and is really a pretty cruel and unfair person, yet he he's smart and knows what he is talking about when he speaks so eloquently of the racial divide that negatively affects the military. He represents an older outlook on segregation, one that can't move society forward. What he represents is what Davenport knows what must be fought back in order for the military to reach undivided potential. The rest of the supporting cast are all magnificent and each is special in their own way with each performance as good as the next. It includes such talent as Art Evans, David Alan Greer, and even Denzel Washington.A Soldier's Story is an ingenious film. It is intelligent, moving, memorable, and even highly amusing at moments. It is beautifully shot and every moment of the film visually compliments the brilliant actors on screen. It is a film that thrives from the high-in performances of its actors who eloquently deliver brilliantly written dialouge that is as sharp and witty as it is profound. This is one of those truly incredible films that will leave you deep in though afterwards. It should not be missed. "},{"Title":"The Murder Mystery Is Really Background To The Bigger Racial Issues Portrayed","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie tries to do two separate and distinct things; one it does very well, the other is a so-so effort. As regards the latter, frankly, this isn't the most compelling murder mystery you're ever going to come across. On a US Army base made up of mostly black troops in Louisiana in 1944, a black sergeant is murdered, and the question is who did it. Many think it was local Klansmen who didn't like seeing a black man in a position of responsibility, but that theory is quickly rejected and in steps Captain Davenport (played by Howard Rollins) - a black lawyer/officer charged with solving the mystery. Most of the movie is told in flashbacks as Davenport questions the various soldiers on the base to try to unravel the mystery. Rollins was good in the role, and the movie paints a complex (and sometimes confusing) picture of Sgt. Waters, giving reasons for both liking and disliking him, and opening up the possibility that virtually everyone he came into contact with might have had some motive for wanting to kill him. The mystery around the killer's identity is indeed a mystery right up to the very end. There was no reason given to suspect any one character over another. Still, I wasn't especially drawn in by the murder mystery, and if that was all that was going on here this would have been a real disappointment. My sense, though, is that the murder mystery was really background to a bigger issue.What's interesting here is the racial study. What's interesting is watching the pride black soldiers felt in seeing a black officer for the first time. What's interesting is seeing the discomfort of white officers around how to react to a black officer. What's interesting is seeing the interactions between the black soldiers themselves, all trying in their own way to find a way to fit in and to advance at the same time - some asserting their racial identity, some feeling that to get ahead they had to become more like whites, and not always getting along with each other as they approach the racial issues in different ways. This was, indeed, an interesting look at what life might have been like on such a base at the time, and it was that part of the story that was really most interesting to me. The murder mystery was worth watching only insofar as it helped to highlight those racial issues that were ever-present.Of note, I suppose, is that this is one of the earliest roles played by Denzel Washington, as a private on the base who's one of the suspects in the murder because of a confrontation he had with Rivers. It's an important although not a huge role. Rollins was really the star of the movie, and he was very good. Adolph Caesar as Sgt. Rivers was good - perhaps a bit of a caricature of an army sergeant in some ways, but still quite good. "},{"Title":"Poignant Tale of Reverse Discrimination Showing How Racism Cuts In Both Directions","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the toughest tasks for playwrights and filmmakers is to create a piece that explores a known injustice without it seeming either like a moral sermon or a propaganda speech. A Soldier's Story adapted from the Pultizer-prize winning play (A Soldier's Play) by Charles Fuller meets the issue of racism in such a way that you never feel like the producers were standing on soap boxes. Instead, Charles Fuller and Norman Jewison make their point through a thoroughly compelling murder mystery set on a colored or rather African-American army base in a southern rural community during the latter part of World War II. Or better stated, the story makes its own point without the writer or the filmmakers pushing the over-arching themes on the audience with a sledge-hammer. The point of the story is only gradually revealed, and not unlike an Agatha Christie mystery, the solution is unexpected, startling and simultaneously sobering. This is not just pure escapism, although much of the story is highly entertaining and thought-provoking, much like Twain's Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.The first scene is the murder itself, inflicted upon some kind of army sergeant who happens to be a mulatto, someone of white and black lineage. While wandering from the local tavern completely juiced late one night, he is shot in cold blood. The base is convinced the murder was at the hands of the KKK who don't like the base comprised of African-Americans in their neck of the woods. A few weeks later, an African-American army officer, Captain Davenport (Howard Rollins) arrives from Washington DC to investigate the crime, which gets quite a stir as no one in this predominantly white community has ever seen a black commissioned officer before. The officer begins his investigation by interviewing the many soldiers of the platoon who had been under the leadership of the slain sergeant.We learn that the victim of the story, Sergeant Waters, played by Adolph Caesar in an academy-nominated performance in which he re-prised his role from the stage play, was a hard-driving non-commissioned officer who feels like his men can't quite measure up to his expectations. His African-American platoon was actually a baseball team, and no matter that they won nearly every game and might have had a chance to play the NY Yankees in an exhibition game, Waters seems unimpressed. After winning a big game against a white team, instead of allowing the players to celebrate, he wants them to work mundane detail. Even when one of the white captains insists the men can take the rest of the day off, Waters tries to change his mind. When Private Peterson (Denzel Washington) protests, he and the sergeant engage in hand-to-hand combat.As the investigation continues, we learn more and more about the victim as the pieces of the puzzle fall into place. Underneath a veneer of detached and brutal confidence, Waters wants desperately to curry favor with the white community through the army hierarchy. And he seems to have some strange attitudes regarding members of the African-American race. Waters is enigmatic as he seems both an African-American and yet someone who disowns his race. Waters admonishes and demotes one of his underlings, Private Wilkie, because he had been drunk on guard duty. Not because of the dangerousness and incompetence of the act itself but because he feels it would reflect badly in the eyes of the white officers Coloured folks always talking' about what they'll do...if the white man give 'em a chance. You get it, and what do you do with it? You wind up drunk on guard duty. This is an absolutely brilliant film with first-rate acting. Much of the cast, except for Howard Rollins, re-prised their roles from the off-Broadway play including Denzel Washington, the late Adolph Caesar, and the late Larry Riley as C.J. Memphis. (Samuel Jackson actually played one of the roles in the original play but not the film.) The tour-de-force performance by Caesar as Sergeant Waters is one of the great screen performances of the century, in my humble opinion. Not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Howard Rollins - The next Sidney Potier???","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In 1981 Howard Rollins' role as Coalhouse Walker, Jr. in the Depression Era drama, Ragtime, probably paved the way for him to become a first rate black actor in Hollywood. However, it was his role as Capt. Davenport in 1984's A Soldier's Story that solidified that thought. Anyone who has seen 1967's In the Heat of the Night, starring the one and only Sidney Potier, would certainly draw comparisons to the two performances. Rollins' performance is simply marvelous. As a World War II army officer, he is sent by his superiors to a base in a racially divided southern town to investigate the murder of a platoon sergeant under mysterious circumstances. Adolph Caesar's performance as Sgt. Waters(the victim in question), a veteran soldier(who happens to be black)who wreaks with animosity towards his own race is riveting. Although slightly built, his domineering persona, bigoted conviction, and ornery demeanor are imposing to say the least. Denzel Washington,(in one of his early roles) as Pfc. Peterson, is his usual conspicuous self. Wings Hauser, as Lt. Byrd,is perfect as a racist army officer who is a prime suspect in the case. Although most people who haven't seen A Soldiers Story will undoubtedly be shocked by its conclusion, it is the perfect ending to a movie that depicts how people are not only preyed upon by other races but also by corrupted descendants of its own lineage. As for Howard Rollins becoming the next Sidney Potier, his downfall and untimely death are well documented. However, the torch was obviously passed on to another actor featured in the film, Mr. Denzel Washington, who, like Sir Sidney Potier, is now considered one of the greatest actors of all time, black or otherwise. "},{"Title":"This film comes at you at so many different angles, never letting up on an agitated psychosis.","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Fear, pain and anxiety bottled up in one insurmountable scope detailing the plight of the black political journey in a time where radical thoughts are called on to produce positive change. Great examples of the changing of the times thru the eyes of the aggrieved. What was thought to be socially acceptable by those without vision is instead exploited and exposed as hindrance not glory. The details in this film are on display by brilliant actors. The actions are quite believable where a light is fixed on the quality of authenticity of military conduct buried deep in the south. The entire film is not sad, there are performances by Patti LaBelle and a genuine feel the south. Though loyalty is recognized as the standards of propriety or morality, betrayal is exposed thru the story for the sake of justice. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Highly recommended","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie and thought it brought out some very important points about things within the African American community that I was unaware of. To say more about this might be considered a spoiler so I won't.I was saddened to read down the cast list and see many of the major actors had passed away.Apparently this is one of the early Denzel Washington movies (I think #5 if IMDb is comprehensive). He's gone on to be the biggest star of this cast. Also Robert Townsend has done very well for himself.Thoroughly enjoyable! "},{"Title":"A cinematic triumph of Race, War and Power Dynamics","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A high ranking officer travels to a Southern base to investigate the murder of one of its Black Sergeants. The interviews and interrogations the visiting officer conducts with White and Black soldiers, unveils the tension between the races as well as the dissension within the Black circle. The ironies run rampant; an Army of One with a deep division between the races; a race protesting their right to fight against a nation who oppressed and killed an entire people, in support of that country that has killed and oppressed them. Much to his chagrin the visiting officer discovers that he is unwelcomed by not only the Whites but also his own. The suspects all have their own motivations, being driven by what they consider is right and just. What is done in the dark does come to light eventually. A message that transcends all institutions of society and which reflects our human inclinations of jealousy and corruption. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, great mystery.","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A SOLDIER'S STORY takes us to a colored Army base back to a time near the end of WWII when black and white soldiers were segregated. A multi-faceted film depicting the human need and ability to overcome and persevere, a film about the pride and self-hate of ol' Sgt. Waters and his desire to see his race  get the respect they deserve Great character study, well acted, done in a theatre style. Adolph Caeser plays the wily Sgt. Waters. His spit and polish style should have won him the Oscar that year. Robert Townsend plays the bumbling but good hearted errand boy.Larry Riley, along with the great Patti LaBelle just brought down the house. This is an intense drama pitting racial segregation and southern attitudes with a quest for excellence and pride. "},{"Title":"Rent it tonight","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Intelligent script and super casting.  I never get tired of this movie. An irresistible slice of American History with a side of whodunnit.  The mystery should have you guessing until the end.  Do yourself a favor and rent it next time you're in the video store. "},{"Title":"A Solider's Story","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Brilliantly intense adaptation of the Charles Fuller play about internal conflicts among black soliders. Jewison's camera explores the pain and outrage inflicted by racial prejudice. Powerhouse performances from an ensemble cast that includes Washington, Grier and Caesar, who received an Oscar nomination as a tyrannical black sergeant.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful acting performance","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Adolph Caeser delivers one of the best acting performances in recent history.Every time I see the following scene, I am truly convinced of the character's plight. Sgt. Waters (Adolph Caeser) is sitting at an officers bar with another soldier drinking.....telling a story that explains his view of the negro's (to borrow his term) state of affairs entering WWII. The background fades to black and the audience is left with a memorable soliloquy performed by Adolph Ceasar. "},{"Title":"A very moving story, about the long journey on race relations in USA","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This a moving story on the sacrifices and progress attained in the military in particular and society in general by the American Blacks. It is a wonderful film made by Norman Jewison and that reveals many new actors including Denzell Washington. The words Powerful and Moving, aptly describe this movie, it never wears out as many times as you watch it.  "},{"Title":"A military attorney from the North arrives in  a Southern base to investigate a murder of a detestable sergeant","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Interesting and electrifying movie with African American all-star-cast who makes memorable performance , it packs suspense , mystery , thrills , jazzy music and is quite entertaining . An African American officer (Howard E. Rollins) from the North is sent to a Southern base stationed in Louisiana to investigate a killing of an unpopular sergeant (Adolph Caesar) in a racially charged situation in World War II . He has three days to learn the truth about a murder and the truth is a story you won't forget plenty of racism in outside the corps . There he finds a motley group of soldiers (Art Evans , Denzel Washington , David Alan Grier , William Allen Young , Robert Towsend) and various suspect white officers (Scott Paulin , Wings Hauser) .This intriguing and totally absorbing film features solid acting , suspense , whodunit , mysterious elements , racism , jazz and blues . From the Pulitzer-prize winning play by Charles Fuller , with the most of the Broadway cast and dealing about an incisive probe into racism . Adolph Caesar, Denzel Washington, and Larry Riley all recreated their roles from the original 1981 Lucille Lortel Off-Broadway production; when the play was revived in 2005, James McDaniel assumed Caesar's Sgt. Waters character . Magnificent performances from main cast as Howard Rollins and Adolph Caesar as a hateful sergeant who achieved prize as the best actor given by L.A. Films Critics 84 . Extraordinary support cast as a then little-known Denzel Washington -who went on to win an Academy Award for Glory- , William Allen Young whose role of Pvt. Henson in A Soldier's Play, was played by Samuel L. Jackson in the stage version . Jazzy and atmospheric musical score by Jazzman Herbie Hancock is full of blues , and wonderful songs sung by Patti LaBelle . Evocative cinematography by Russell Boyd , being filmed in Little Rock and Fort Smith , Arkansas .The motion picture was professionally produced and directed by Norman Jewison . He is a prestigious and veteran filmmaker, his greatest film is of course ¨Jesus Christ Superstar¨ . He directed successful movies as ¨Fiddler on the roof¨ , ¨Agnes of God¨ , ¨Moonstruck¨ , ¨Thomas Crown¨ and ¨Cinncinati Kid¨ . However , he also got some flops as ¨Bogus¨, ¨In country¨ , ¨Only you¨ and ¨Other's people money¨ and his last picture titled ¨The statement¨. He considers ¨The Hurricane¨ (1999) the last in a trilogy of racial bigotry movies he's realized, the first two being ¨In the Heat of the Night¨ (1967) and ¨A Soldier's Story¨ (1984) . Rating  Better than average . "}{"Title":"A Profound Study of Racism","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Colonel Nivens The worst thing you can do, in this part of the country, is pay too much attention to the death of a Negro under mysterious circumstances. If A Soldier's Story had kept itself to this level, it probably would have done better at the box office, been considered more daring and controversial and been talked about as a landmark film. It also probably would have been trendy, clichéd, one dimensional, and, of course, at least partially false. If you don't see something in its entirety, it's very easy to misunderstand it. For centuries people looked at the land around them and concluded the world was flat. A clear example of how the vast majority sees something that is irrefutable, yet in reality it is a lowest common denominator myth based in ignorance. A Soldier's Story is a much better film than to rely on such one or even two dimensional near-sightedness. The story and characters are motivated by life-like emotions and thoughts, so it is honest, meaningful and, not surprisingly, overlooked as one of the finest films to cover the subject of racism.It would be very convenient, and the solution for racism would be very easy, if all the blame for it could be attributed to a specific group of people from a specific area of a country; in this case the opening quote above refers to the whites who lived in and mostly controlled the southern United States during the 1940s. If the white people in the south were the entire cause of racism for black Americans then jailing, executing or somehow making them stop their terrible practices would be the simple solution for the blacks to live happily ever after. But real adults know happily ever after only exists as a sweet, neat and tidy way to finish children's stories. Sometimes, however, even real adults can forget that the causes and therefore the solution to racism is not as simple, neat and convenient as we like to think and tell each other during our semi-thoughtful moods. For a start, like so many other undesirable things in societies and life, racism is so pervasive and entrenched that it becomes invisible even though it is constantly in our field of vision. A good example is when one of the black soldiers said Sir, they lynched Jefferson the week I got here and two weeks after that- and he doesn't finish the statement as he is interrupted by his C.O. The subject of his sentence, a previous racial murder, is dismissed as irrelevant to the current murder of that day. It is used as a throw away line, something the characters and most of the audience quickly dismiss, for a variety of reasons, but mostly because underlying its dismissal is Yeah, they lynched blacks back then with a regular frequency and your point is...? Just as tragically, the attitude with which the character delivering the line is somewhat dismissive, or more correctly, defeatist, as in Yeah, and what can we do about it? We're the ones being lynched and we ain't got the power. Just another one of us murdered. All of this is conveyed effectively by its brevity and casualness, just as it, sadly, is in real life. Not even a sub-plot, just a minor bit of story and character foundation, a throw-away line. That's the nature of something that is pervasive and entrenched, the majority believing the half truths or outright lies used to justify the actions more than the actions themselves; and the majority must be complicit in pervasive, institutional racism or it would not exist. Another thing real adults know is that black and white, in the human world, are concepts, ideas, there are no men who are all black, just as there are no men that are all white. Most men (and women) are gray, varying shades of black and white, just as probably no men are all good or all evil. And in and among these shades of gray is self-loathing and all types of racism, including racism with members of your own race. I think Groucho Marx was speaking for the common man when he said I would not want to belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member. There is a great deal of detail in the many trees within this film but it is easy to miss much of it, partially because you're involved with the story (forest) and also because the subject is painful, pervasive and ignored as much as possible, even in the relatively safe confines of a movie. A really excellent film, like any form of art, will make you be more aware of reality, something we constantly obscure with our personal and social delusions. Another reason the depth of this movie can be missed is the presentation of the story. It is presented like a Hollywood film, in a formulaic-style package, which betrays the content. The presentation is a little slick but the subject, story and details are not, which is written by Charles Fuller, who also did the original play for which he won a deserved Pulitzer Prize. Not to disparage Norman Jewison at all, a man who has directed a number of great masterpieces, including the masterfully presented In the Heat of the Night, which did not share quite the same intricate details of racism as this offering does. Perhaps this is just an example of how as wonderful as the movie medium can occasionally be it may lack in intellectual presentation when compared to the play or novel. Regardless, for what it offers, including outstanding performances all around, including the late but greats Adolph Caesar, Larry Riley, and, of course, Howard E. Rollins Jr., it doesn't get much better than A Soldier's Story, a movie I recommend for multiple viewings to afford yourself the opportunity to see the pervasive racism within your world and self a little more clearly. "},{"Title":"I want to love this picture","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's 1944 Tynin, Louisiana. Sergeant Waters is killed by an unknown assailant. All the black soldiers suspect the local Klan. Captain Davenport is sent in to investigate the murder. The C.O. Colonel Nivins is a southerner. He restricts the black soldiers from going into town and gives Davenport 3 days before sending him back. Most of the men are baseball players from the Negro League. Waters was a hard leader of men. The investigation leads to different suspects.I want to love this picture. The acting is superb. Adolph Caesar is excellent. There are tons of great black actors including a young Denzel Washington. Norman Jewison is doing his best work. However this is a whodunnit and the suspects are a little random. It feels like a series of twists and turns that isn't set up that well. In the end, I'm simply waiting for the last twist to reveal the real killer. The biggest problem is that I doesn't really care about what happened. There are so many good actors here that I want to love this more. "},{"Title":"Age makes the identity of the culprit slightly dated.","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A very dense film about the black soldiers in 1944-45 waiting to be sent to Europe. They had been recruited in great numbers by Roosevelt's administration but they were kept in separate units with only white officers at their head. The Blacks though could be promoted to non- commissioned officer positions which was already a great improvement on what they called the first war. Waiting too long in Tynen, Louisiana, some rivalries appear among the Black men, especially since the sergeant of this unit, Sergeant Waters, is using his position and this long wait to get rid of those he does not like as representative of the Black race because he considers this second war is going to change the fate of the Blacks in America and those who are just fools, clowns, those who sing to make people happy and entertain them are not and should not be legitimate members of the race. By using his power to victimize one soldier he considered such a clown, on his own recollection of how a black soldier was mistreated in Café Napoleon in Paris in the first war into playing the black monkey, half nude with a tail attached to his bottom and eating bananas for the fun of the customers, he manages to bring this black soldier here in Tynen to breaking point and committing suicide.One night this very sergeant gets killed when drunk and on his way back to the base. Everyone says it is the Ku Klux Klan. But it is not. Too simple.Washington DC sends a lawyer with the rank of Captain to investigate. He is the first black officer everyone sees, and I should say to emphasize the occasion for the first time. Reaction are tremendous joy among the black soldiers and very dubitative if not hostile reactions from the white officers since the unit works on a de facto segregated basis with the officers' club only hosting white men since all officers are white. But the Captain sent by Washington is black and that is a shock to the local officers, and what's more to have this investigating officer, accompanied by the local captain responsible for security, coming to the club to interrogate two white officers in the billiards room, or pools room if you prefer. We are thus led to the belief that these two officers had something to do with the death of the sergeant. But that's where we are wrong of course. Too simple.I won't tell you who did it but it has to do with judging who is fit to be a negro and who is not fit to be one. Sergeant Waters did it first and before anyone and others decided that they had the same right and that Sergeant Waters, as a black man, had to be eliminated from the racial plate as unfit for the future. When we look back at the history of Blacks in the USA after the Civil War and their emancipation (amendments 13 and 14 to the US Constitution), we find out that on both sides of the racial divide, the main question is always who or what type of black man is fit to be a black man in the present situation and for the future. The Ku Klux Klan wanted to control the Blacks at least politically by using frightening violence. But you find out that Booker T. Washington was supporting one type of Black people, though he did not reject the others and just suggested they should get educated his way. Marcus Garvey is very expansive on his vision of what black people should be and how they should behave and he rejects, at times very vociferously, those who do not fit his model. The various black movements, NAACP, Nation of Islam, Black Panther Party, Black Nationalists, etc, all have a clear definition of what Blacks should be and how they should behave, what religion must be their inspiration, what objectives they should have and how they should advocate them and reach them, etc. That's exactly the point here some then have the tendency to reject those who do not fit their definition, reject them by ostracizing them, victimizing them, hassling them, or even killing them. Who has the right, black or white, to decide who is fit to be a black man or not?The film is a little bit old. This question is today slightly obsolete, but the question can be generalized and taken away from the racial divide. As soon as there is a clear cut divide that creates some antagonism, on both side of the divide they pretend they know who is fit to be on their side or on the other side. On both side of a divide people live with clichés. Even if today the question of gay rights is pretty active along that line, the Case of Ferguson, Missouri, and the killing of unarmed Michael Brown by a police officer who shot at least six bullets shows the racial divide is still not erased in the USA, still on August 9, 2014. That makes the film still valuable, even though I find the end too close to another cliché. That's the element that has aged. But I can't tell how without telling you who is the culprit.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Excellent, well acted film - One of my very favorites...(although not normally one of my favorite Genres) Blu-ray Excellent (for it's age) A8 V9","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I normally do not gravitate toward films dealing with social issues, or as in this case, Racism, per se, although there are a number of excellent films on these kinds of subjects. But, there was a certain 'Something' about this one; a certain 'Magic' that probably can be primarily attributed to the actors and the outstandingly BRILLIANT job that they did.A VERY low budget film; you really have to hand it to Norman Jewison for pulling it off so damn well! I believe that this was only Denzel Washington's 2nd film. WOW, can you ever tell what a powerhouse talent and presence that he was to become. Adolph Caesar who rightfully received the Best Supporting Actor nomination for his performance was fantastic!I think also what really makes this film resonate more strongly is that, as Jewison said in the commentary, being either white or black, many people can truly relate to these characters. He also said that this was probably the first film which gave such a substantial insight into the African-American psyche of those at the time and especially the ones in the military. I also appreciated the excellent theme of racism within one's own people. It was truly quite powerful...Like I mention in my summary, this basic type of film is not normally within my most favorite Genres; I usually gravitate much more towards Science Fiction, Horror, and Film Noir. But, as I do with all of my reviews here, I really try to evaluate or describe a film based upon how WELL it is done, no matter the Genre. Well, let me tell you... this film is truly one of the very best, especially about these issues. You not only have amazing performances by very gifted actors, but you also have a lovely score by Herbie Hancock, who in my estimation as a music lover and Audiophile for over 30 years (and a vinyl / digital audio collection of some 15,000 albums) he is ABSOLUTELY one of THE best musicians / composers alive. And what is more, the soundtrack on this film is COMPLETELY improvised; and trust me, when it comes to Jazz, improvisation IS the very essence of absolute aural beauty! And, if that were not enough... you also have an expertly crafted murder mystery along with everything else.I can not recommend this film highly enough. If this is the type of movie that you like and you really appreciate excellent performances, then you should fully enjoy this rare, quality film... "},{"Title":"A glimpse into racism within the segregated black U.S Army","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was nominated for three Academy awards including Best Picture and deservedly so. It continues to be a highly underrated film but I suspect it will receive much greater appreciation as time goes by, as in the case of many films that are considered great classics today. The movie is about a black officer, Captain Davenport (Howard E. Rollins, Jr.), who is sent to investigate the murder of a black sergeant (Adolph Caesar) in Louisiana near the end of World War II. Captain Davenport is faced with the tremendous pressure of being in the unprecedented role of a black officer who must get at the truth of who killed sergeant Waters, no matter the consequences. The story focuses on racism within the segregated black U.S Army regiment and is told in flashbacks with rich writing and highly complex characters, especially the conflicted and hated sergeant Waters, the defiant Private First Class Peterson, (played by Denzel Washington), and the self-righteous Captain Davenport. The acting is compelling! In fact, Rollins, Ceasar(who was actually nominated for Best Supporting Actor), and Washington were all deserving of an Academy Award nomination for their acting. This was one of Denzel Washington's earliest films but one of his strongest performances and I say this as a fan of his work in such films as Cry Freedom, Glory, Maxcolm X, Courage Under Fire, Crimson Tide, Man on Fire, Training Day, to name a few. In fact, if you're a Denzel Washington fan, you would be remissed if you don't see this earlier work of his. This film was also one of the last major films for three of the main actors; the very talented Howard E. Rollins Jr., who is best known for his Academy Award nominated role in Ragtime, Adolph Ceasar, best known for this role and his role as Mister in the film Color Purple, and Larry Riley, who played CJ Memphis in the film. The fact that these three very talented actors died in their prime (between 39-52 years of age) makes this film even more nostalgic for me when I watch it today. May their memory live on in this superb film. "},{"Title":"A Stone-Cold, Under-Rated Masterpiece","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a stone-cold, under-rated masterpiece which continues to stand up over the years. I've watched it many times and it's definitely in my top ten of all time for several reasons. First and foremost is the superb ensemble acting, inspired and united by the great Adolph Caesar. There is a wonderful sense of totally professional unity and purpose among all the cast that is extremely rare. I think it's Norman Jewison's best. Having seen it many times since 1984, I am continually impressed by all the interesting subtleties throughout. Such as the way the camera moves and tracks the action, the wonderful editing, lighting, sense of time and place, dramatic tension and pacing, great script-----this movie is a textbook of how to make a really great movie. Film students should study it and learn from it. It's got everything going it for it that stands up with any of the so-called greatest movies of all time. It should have won Best Picture when it came out, and Best Actor for Adolph Caesar. It says a lot about Hollywood that it didn't. It focuses on a dark chapter in American history that Hollywood rarely visits, and it's a tough and hard-hitting story about racism and anger that wasn't intended to be big at the box office---which to me makes it all the more valuable. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Gem","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a great film, with a gripping murder mystery at it's core, but there are many things that make up this movie, and they are all important. It is a study of the the larger society during the WW2 era, racial politics, human frailty, and human dignity. The cast is great, and you'll see many familiar faces, including a young Denzel Washington. The acting is across-the-board superb. There is hard won humor and wry wisdom in the film, it has excellent pacing, and good use of retrospective. My only complaint is the score by Herbie Hancock. The movie is set during WW2, but the music is all 80's synthesizer. Totally out of place and it detracts from the film a bit. But all in all, this is well worth a watch, you will love this movie and enjoy trying to figure out who the killer is! "},{"Title":"Before the Army Was Integrated Soldier's Story A Gripping Film ***1/2","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Powerful film detailing the segregation in the armed forces which existed prior to 1948.The gripping film takes place in Louisiana where a black sergeant has been shot to death. A black army official has been sent in from Washington to investigate the murder.Well directed by Norman Jewison who seemed to focus on murder mysteries as he did so well in the 1967 Oscar winning film In the Heat of the Night.It first appears obvious that the Ku Klux Klan has done the sergeant. (Adolph Caesar in a brilliant Oscar nominated performance for best supporting actor.) Later on the attention drifts to two white soldiers, one of whom, had beaten the sergeant up moments before the shots rang out.Howard E. Rollins, Jr. is effective as the investigator who pulls no punches in his investigation.Flashbacks work beautifully in this film as it is recounted how Caesar was ashamed of dumb blacks whom he felt was holding up the progress of the rest of the black people in the army. He provokes one to hit him and thereby he can have him jailed for striking an officer. The sergeant has done this previously in other parts of the country.One black soldier stands up to him and that person is played by Denzel Washington in his first movie. What an impressive performance for Washington!This film was nominated for best picture of 1984 and lost to Amadeus. That choice of the latter could easily be criticized with this film dealing with segregation, perseverance and doing what was right. "},{"Title":"A Soldier's Story triumphs with a story within a story","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A Soldier's Story, adapted from the stage play by Charles Fuller, comes to the big screen in an even bigger way. Wonderful performances by Adolph Caesar, Howard Rollins, & Denzel Washington. The film not only chronicles the murder investigation of a black sergeant but also the racial difficulties within the African American people as well. The backdrop for the film is the ongoing WW2, which further provides tension for both black & white soldiers as well as the public at large.Sent to a Southern Army base on the murder investigation of black Mstr. Sgt. Vernon Waters by Washington, Captain Davenport(Rollins) quickly realizes he is looked up to by young black soldiers & scoffed at by fellow white officers. Davenport is discouraged from digging deeper into the murder by Captain Taylor(Dennis Lipscomb) & Colonel Niven(Trey Wilson). Davenport questions all soldiers & non-commissioned officers in Mstr. Sgt. Waters unit. Each man recollects Waters from their own perspectives, leaving Davenport to further scrutinize each man & his story. Sgt. Waters was a career soldier who had a lot of issues with the state of the country in regards to race, especially Southern black men. Waters made it known that he despised the Southern blacks, their lack of education, & their down home ways. Sgt. Waters especially had it in for one soldier named C.J. Memphis(Larry Riley), a simple Southern black with incredible athletic skills. Unfortunately for Memphis, Waters tricked Memphis into hitting him in front of witnesses, thus landing Memphis in the brig for striking a non-commissioned officer. Pfc. Petersen, angry at Waters, stood up to the brash sergeant who challenged him to a fist fight. Petersen lost the fight but gained Waters' respect. Next, Davenport questions 2 white officers who had contact with Waters on the night of his murder. Both men admit to hitting & verbally abusing Waters but left him alive on the side of the road. Capt. Taylor suggests that Waters was possibly killed by locals or Klansmen who hate to see blacks in uniform. Undeterred, Davenport pushes forward with his investigation. Of the men Davenport interviewed, 3 stood out more than others. Pvt. Wilke(Art Evans), Pfc. Petersen(Denzel Washigton), & Cpl. Cobb's(David Alan Grier) testimony of Sgt. Water's abusive behavior towards black soldiers is legendary amongst the troops. Meanwhile, the black troops got word that they were given the green light to fight in the war. Pvt. Wilke is arrested for conspiracy while Pfc. Petersen & Pvt, Smalls(David Harris) attempt to go AWOL to escape from justice. The two are captured & brought before Davenport. Davenport reveals the two men really murdered Sgt. Waters because some people need getting rid of. Davenport solves his case, Cpt. Taylor apologizes for his conduct, & the black troops prepare for battle in WW2.A Soldier's Story is a winner in every way a film can. This is one not to miss so take a gander. Adolph Caesar's portrayal of mean Mstr. Sgt. Waters is reason enough to enjoy this movie. A soon to be classic!! "},{"Title":"well-crafted story about racism and self-hatred","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a good film for younger viewers, as it tells of a by-gone era where racism was not just accepted but the law of the land--even in our armed forces. The story concerns a murder of a nasty black Sergeant (Adolph Caesar--the first name, in this case, seem quite appropriate) who, it turns out, had a deep and profound hatred of his race. And, because he was such a nasty man, it is difficult for the investigator (Howard Rollins) to determine WHO committed the murder. For a while it reminds you of Murder on the Orient Express, in that you think maybe EVERYONE involved did it! The only negative note is that Caesar's performance, though magnificent, was his last as he died around the time the movie was released. "}{"Title":"A Soldiers Story","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the best movies I have ever seen. It was 8yrs or more ago when I last seen this picture. I was very young but must of watched it 20x + when I moved I lost the VHS tape and have been ever since been looking for it, problem was I couldn't remember the name of it, but I did remember the song from Chain Gang, so for years I listened out for the song, and recently only did I get the name of the song and tried to search the film that way. Well by chance I asked someone on a forum...described the film and presto someone new exactly what film I was talking about. So went to video store and only available in VHS which I no longer have o( So now I'm looking for it on the net to buy on DVD, I rate this film 10/10! Awesome movie!!! "},{"Title":"must have been one of Adolph Caesar's only movies","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In something that could only come from Norman Jewison, a murder on a military base during WWII sets off a series of racial tensions. The Deep South setting creates the same sort of feeling that Jewison's In the Heat of the Night did, what with different kinds of tension. Nowadays, we may just want to watch it to see one of Denzel Washington's early roles (I believe that he wasn't very famous when A Soldier's Story came out). But I would say that it's a lot more than that, as you can feel everything about to explode. Very tense.So I recommend it. Also starring Howard E. Rollins Jr., Adolph Caesar, David Alan Grier and Patti LaBelle. As it is, this one and The Color Purple are Adolph Caesar's only two starring roles to my knowledge. And how many African-Americans are named Adolph? "},{"Title":"A fight against prejudice","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Recap Around the time of the second world war, a black sergeant is murdered on an American Military base in the South. On the base, the privates are mostly black and the officers white, and the atmosphere is racially charged both off and on the base. From Washington comes captain Davenport, a military lawyer graduated from Harvard, to solve the murder. But he is met with mistrust, mostly because he himself is black, something that is still unthinkable among the base personnel. Having but a few days to solve the case Davenport finds that the sergeant was very unpopular and the murderer might be anyone from the officers that saw him with contempt to the privates that he oppressed.Comments A good murder story that toys with the idea of presumption. There are many presumptions thrown about in this film, and it is only Davenport that can sort them out, or in many cases, wish to sort them out. It is set in a racially charged atmosphere perhaps best exemplified when Davenport arrives at the base and white trainer asks a black private that is staring Have you never seen a black officer before? and the private responds bluntly No sir&#x85; have you?.It is set in the mid forties, but the ideas and presumptions it shows sadly still actual. But it tries to do two things at once, one being the murder story and one showing racial prejudice. It does it good, but there are better murder stories out there, and there are better movies about racism too.There are many good actors, Howard Rollins Jr. as Davenport among them,(unfortunately many that has died before their time since), but maybe most notable now is an early role for Denzel Washington.6/10 "},{"Title":"Hoped for more","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I suppose the big thing for this movie is that most of the actors are black and it seeks to portray conditions in the military during the time of WWII.I, on the other hand, was just looking to watch a good murder mystery.What I got was the equivalent of In The Heat Of The Night if it was put on by your local amateur dramatics society.The murder story is nothing startling or new. Somebody is killed, various people are suspected and eventually the guilty person is found. You can do your own guessing, but it doesn't take an Einstein.What put me off is that the acting is not very good. Other than the Sargent I didn't feel that any of the characters offered anything beyond the clichéd characters role they were handed. "},{"Title":"Important stuff, not bad, and very pretty visually, but a bit dragged out.","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A Soldier's Story (1984)Key here is the story, an attempt to give some exposure to problems of blacks in the military during WWII. That's commendable, and the movie makes it beautiful and on some level an accurate period piece. But there are too many obvious moments here, too many times where it seems that familiar (even for 1984) stereotypes are upended, or where justice is somehow being served to history. This gets in the way of some really fine performances, and in a way waters down the really important points, about the conflict of assimilation and equality for blacks in a military not ready for it, and in a culture (the deep South) completely resistant to it.A young Denzel Washington, and a seasoned Norma Jewison directing, at least make this movie worth watching, but neither rises to their best stuff. The set designer (and to some extent cinematographer) deserve credit for making a convincing setting for it all. And maybe most engaging, though also seemingly patched in for entertainment purposes, is Patti LaBelle as a searing blues performer, great to see. "},{"Title":"The 30 Year Old Denzel Washington","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The 30 year old Denzel Washington acted in two films in 1984. Both were insignificant, but 'A Soldier's Story' had the best plot. It was relevant for the time, but now it seems a bit dated. The issues that were raised at the time needed to be expressed, but now it needs more subtlety. "}]