[{"Title":"Remember yourself","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"318 out of 351 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We all remember being a teenager.  A crazy, intense time when your high were higher and your lows were lower, and every experience was that much more significant.John Hughes movie brilliantly captures that environment, that era in our lives, and all the social rifts that we all helped to create for ourselves. I have heard it said that The Breakfast Club is melodramatic, overacted, and simplistic.  If you subscribe to that flippant perspective you might as well join Vernon in his office because you are doing the same thing that he did.  Seeing the movie as you want to see it, in the simplest terms and the most convenient definitions.If you really want to understand this film, think back to your own high school days.  Think about your last year there.  Dig out your old diary or book of angstful poems and reaquaint yourself with who you were then, when you felt things more deeply.  The Breakfast Club does not exist not for highschool kids, as some suggest.  Why would they need it?  They live there. It exists for all of us who have already been through there, who feel that they are above it now.  It exists so that we can remember what it was like and better understand ourselves, and the next generation.  Because you can't dismiss something you understand. "},{"Title":"The cream of the crop in 80's fare.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"261 out of 295 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best, if not THE best, 80's film there is.  The fact is, every teen character in this movie can be related to someone we knew in high-school.  As a child of the 80's, I can honestly say that this is a representative cross-section of every high school in North America. The geek, the jock, the outcast, the rich pretty-girl snob, and the future criminal.  They all exist, to some degree or another, in the classrooms of every high school on the continent.What makes this film rise above the rest is the character development. Every character in this film is three-dimensional.  They all change, in one way or another, by the end of the film.  Whether or not things remain the way they are long after this film ends is unknown, and that adds to the rama.  The most important scene in this film is when the characters, as a group, all open up to one-another and describe the hell that their daily school routines are in a personal fashion.  Nobody likes the role they must inevitably portray in the high-school scene, but the fact is, it is often inescapable.  This film gives the viewer some insight into how the other people around them might have felt during that particular time in their lives.Each of the main characters in this film shines, but Judd Nelson (John Bender) and Emilio Estevez (Andrew Clark) rise above the rest.  Simply put, these two actors each put their heart and soul into their respective characters, and it shows.At the end of the film, the viewer is left to make their own conclusions as to how things will carry forth.  And I'm sure that most people will do that. This is one movie that left me feeling both happy and sad for each of the characters, and it isn't easy to make me care about a film in that way. Even if you aren't a fan of the 80's genre, this isn't one you would want to miss.My Rating  10/10 "},{"Title":"Don't you forget about me","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"185 out of 223 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is one of the most influential films I have ever watched. It reaches out to you - and your touched by it. No matter what little sub-culture you were shifted into whilst going through the trials and tribulations of Secondary school you could relate to it.It may have been clichéd but what film isn't, we like certain elements we can relate to otherwise what would we take from films.Judd Nelson gives a convincing performance of 'Bender' the criminal. He managed to sway from angry to emotional - making you feel for him when he is describing what things are like at 'his house'. He seemed to have a lot of great lines including the Manilow comment! The emotion in this film is immense considering it is a teenage film - and touches on 5 lost characters who seem to be searching for some type of approval or acceptance. (Just like our-selves) Ringwald shows just how versatile she is, and very different from Pretty in Pink. I heard that Ally Sheedy originally went for Ringwalds part and they swapped?Emilio Estevez carrys his role off very well as a Jock - it gets a little cringe worthy when hes high at the end - and rushing around like a loony. But the end with Ally Sheedy certainly makes up for it.The ending is good, however even ten years later after I first saw this film I always wanted to know what they did the next day! This is such a great film, I can relate to it so much! I love it is truly the best, you can watch over and over and never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"One of my (personal) favorite comedies. John Hughes strikes again!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"174 out of 214 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Parents have never understood the youth of the world. Elvis used to be evil. Now he's too tame for modern music enthusiasts. Just imagine how tame Eminem will seem years from now. And as a scarier thought, who (or what) could be worse than some of the singers on today's market?John Hughes is locked in a time capsule, still bearing the mind of a teenager, and he is able to tap into these feelings of teenage angst. That is what separates The Breakfast Club from, say, The New Guy, or one of those other stupid teen films of recent years.And the jerk, played by Judd Nelson, isn't meant to be cool. He is a jerk, and if older viewers took the time to pay attention to the film, they would perhaps realize that the point of the film, from the very beginning, is to establish that this so-called jerk is only acting like one to get attention. Because he is obviously shunned at home. He's an outcast. And unlike other films that refuse to establish their characters, The Breakfast Club introduces him as a jerk, and proceeds to explain why he is that way. This is what makes this movie tick.I knew a kid like Bender (Nelson) once when I was in school, and generations of kids continue to go through the exact same things. Once they reach a certain age, though, it seems as though all adults suddenly break away from the teenage emotions. John Hughes never did, I guess. (Although he certainly tapped into adult behavior with his best film, Planes, Trains and Automobiles 1987, a welcome introduction to Hughes' adult comedy, hinted at in Vacation 1981, which he wrote.)The film opens with a quote from David Bowie that just about sums the entire film up. We are introduced to five kids spending eight hours of detention at Shermer High School in Illinois. They are Andrew the Jock (Emilio Estevez), Brian the Nerd (Anthony Michael Hall), Bender the Criminal (Judd Nelson), Claire the Princess (Molly Ringwald), and Allison the Basketcase (Ally Sheedy). They are looked over by the school principal (Paul Gleason), who assigns them the task of writing a report on why they are here in detention and what they did to get there.To say that the outcome is predictable is an understatement. We know who's going to get together with whom from the beginning, but getting there's all the fun. Watching the characters come to appreciate their differences and learn that they're more than just billboard examples of angry teenagers is more than half the fun.Teenagers are not as unaware of who they are as some people always think. John Hughes knew this, and deliberately tapped into this state of mind as no other director has done before -- or since, for that matter. Sure, they've tried. (Hughes' Ferris Bueller's Day Off was just about the only other film that tried to show teenagers as something more than stupid hormone-crazy rambunctious adolescents, but as young adults who were trying to grow up fast -- the scene where Ferris and Sloane pretend their water is wine is good evidence of this.)Hughes' teenage characters were not the clichés they are now when The Breakfast Club came out in 1985 -- this film has proved to be the steeple of teen clichés (many of them poked fun at in Not Another Teen Movie, which features a cameo by Ringwald). Think of 2001 or Halloween -- the drifting spaceships and psycho killers chasing sex-hungry teenagers is now routine, but it wasn't then. The Jock, The Nerd, The Criminal, The Princess, and The Basketcase weren't clichéd back then, either -- although Hughes purposely chose these references to the characters in order to let Brian, The Nerd, say that they were more than just that in the beginning of the film when he's reading his essay in voice-over narrative.I seriously doubt whether this film is any better than the work of Coppola, Cortiz, Kurosawa, Scorsese, Welles, et al. If I were assembling a list of the greatest movies ever made, I'd never include this.But sometimes the greatest films aren't just the films that are technically perfect, but those that connect to you on one level or another. I know that my all-time favorite comedy (Planes, Trains and Automobiles) may not be considered better than something such as Some Like it Hot, but that film doesn't affect me the same way. I either don't connect with the story, the characters, the feelings, or I just don't appreciate the film as a whole. I appreciate The Breakfast Club in many ways, and for that reason it will always be considered one of my favorite films. Even if it is kinda sappy. "},{"Title":"A love letter to all high school loners","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"165 out of 201 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must admit that I was a true loner in high school, and essentially I'm now at 33 I'm still a loner who has become a bit more jaded with the passage of time.  With that said, John Hughes The Breakfast Club seems to me to be a sort of love letter to all of us who just seemed to blend into the background during our high school years.  Of course like everyone I also have a favorite character in the film, and my choice is Allison who is wonderfully played by Ally Sheedy.  So, my advice to all who have read this far is to try and watch this film with your emotions rather than trying to analyze the film to death. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"145 out of 167 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading some of the negative comments made about this movie, i decided to make some of my own.  Yes, to younger viewers,this movie will appear to be outdated. The only thing outdated is the clothing styles and the music. It doesnt matter what year you went to high school or what school you even went to, there will always be a criminal, a jock, a princess, a nerd, and a basket case. This movie is the best teenage movie, no matter when you are a teenager!  "},{"Title":"Classic 80s for all Generations","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"77 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah the Breakfast Club. Although I am a child of the 80's, I came along at the tail end of Generation X. The cast of The Breakfast Club were actors that I looked up to as a child, and still enjoy as an adult. I remember my own mother was a big fan of this movie, even though she was an adult with children.Of all the Brat Pack movies, this remains my favorite. Even over two decades later, the movie still holds generations of people captive and sends us all into deep thoughts of our own glory days when we thought that life was BS, and that we had it tough. We were just a few years shy of seeing how tough life would be once we escape the protective circus tent known as high school. Over and over you hear people wishing that a sequel to this film had been made. I am very glad there was not one. Surely we can't imagine this would have been a happily ever after for these characters. They came together one day, but like most high school relationships, all good things must come to an end. The closest thing to a sequel for this movie would be St. Elmo's Fire and again.....all good things must come to an end.One thing that I loved most about this movie was the tell tale showing of intelligence in the least thought of places; the school janitor. The movie portrayed the janitor as being a hell of a lot smarter than the assistant principal. I have found in my life's experience this is quite believable. It's also sad. I believe that those employed by the education system could learn a very important lesson about young adults and the way their minds work. Youth knows when it's elders have forgotten how to see things. Youth knows how to use that against them. The moral is simple; stay young! "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the best teen films of the 80s","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"94 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five teenagers are assigned detention on a Saturday morning and afternoon. They are a jock (Emilio Estevez), a hood (Judd Nelson), a rich girl (Molly Ringwald), a geek (Anthony Michael Hall) and a basket case (Ally Sheedy). During the course of the detention (and with a little help from marijuana) they open up and talk and begin to know each other.A dead on target examination of teen life in 1984/85. This was a very challenging thing to do--release a film about teens just talking and relating to each other. It also was (unjustly) awarded an R rating for the frequent swearing--but that's how high schoolers talk!I was in college when this came out, but I saw it with a friend who was still in high school. According to him the movie got everything right--the clothes, dialogue, styles and music were accurate. He said it was one of the few movies that accurately showed how he felt. I felt the same way. I think any teenager can relate to this movie. The movie is somewhat unpleasant (some of the kids really attack each other verbally) but there's plenty of comedy mixed in too.The cast Estevez (what ever happened to...) is just great as the jock. He gives a very believable and moving performance especially in a speech about his father. Nelson, however, is horrible as the hood. He looks the part but he's way too eloquent and his acting was pretty bad. Ringwald and Hall are perfect in their roles, but they WERE teenagers when this was filmed. Sheedy does what she can with a criminally underwritten role. John Kapelos (as a janitor) is hardly in it (I'm assuming his part was severely cut) and Paul Gleason (a good actor) is given a very 1-dimensional role--the evil adult. He does what he can with it.The movie isn't perfect--parents are the root of all the kids problems; there are annoying lapses in logic (like how does Ringwald get to see Nelson at the end and Sheedys character wasn't assigned detention, so wouldn't Gleason know that) and there is a whole dance sequence squeezed in.Still--a truly great teenage movie. A definite must-see. A bonus is that the movie opens with one of the best songs of the 1980s (and a big hit)--Simple Minds Don't You Forget About Me. This is rightfully considered a classic.Who'd your mom marry--Mr. Rogers? No--Mr. Johnson "},{"Title":"You pay after you play.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"65 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best if not the best brat pack flick. John Hughes writes and directs this dramatic comedy about five Chicago high school kids that are from different circles and stations in life being forced to spend a Saturday together in detention. Before the day is over this group finds out that they have more in common than they thought and even some friendships are created. The very impressive cast includesEmilio Estevez, Ally Sheedy, Judd Nelson, Anthony Michael Hall and Molly Ringwald. Paul Gleason plays the hapless teacher trying to contain the group and then there is John Kapelos as the custodian. This is a don't miss and is fun to watch over and over again. Spit that gum out and remember to ask for a hall pass. "},{"Title":"One of the best portrayals of adolescent life ever done","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes is in my opinions the king of teens. Each of his teen films is great, from Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink (which he co-wrote and produced), and Ferris Bueller's Day Off. They all have funny and serious moments and are classics. By the same token, The Breakfast Club is no exception. However, it stands out as doing the best job of the above films at portraying 80s teen life (and perhaps even teen life today) as it really was (is). Hence the familiar plot Five high school students from different crowds in school (a nerd, a jock, a prom queen, a delinquent, and a loner) are thrown together for a Saturday detention in their school library for various reasons. Detention is supervised by the gruff and demeaning principal Richard Vernon, believably portrayed by Paul Gleason. As the day progresses, each member tells the story of why they are in detention, and by day's end they realize they have more in common than they ever imagined.What makes the film unique is that each character tells his or her own story with credibility and persistence. Jock Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez) is under pressure from his father to perform up to high standards, which Mr. Clark believes will add to his (dad's) lost youth. Nerd Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall) excels academically, but is failing shop class. Neither he nor his family can accept an F. Delinquent John Bender (Judd Nelson), while tough on the exterior, masks a difficult home life. Prom queen Claire(Molly Ringwald) has pressure to conform from her friends, as well as issues with her parental unit. Loner Allison (Ally Sheedy) has few if any friends, wears all black, and has similar problems at home. Can the emotional bonding they share in detention hold true beyond the library, and can stereotypes be broken?The Breakfast Club presents no-doubt stereotypical characters, and every member represents countless real-life examples. But what makes it so enjoyable is that applies a variety of themes to its context prejudice/discrimination, acceptance/tolerance, diversity, class/status differences, family matters, group dynamics, etc. It also encourages us to look at others and ourselves beyond surface-level appearances. Finally, The Breakfast Club has great 1980s pop culture and societal integrations, from the soundtrack with Simple Minds Don't You (Forget about Me), to wealthy, surburban American life (haves and have nots), and superficial values of the me decade. It reminds us that there truly is diversity in all of us. We are different, but we are all the same in one way or another. "}{"Title":"Labeled Delinquents -Actually Students- Most Defineately Human Beings- Undeniabley Eighties!","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film The Breakfast Club reflects the recognizably flippant disposition that so many 1980's movies so vividly portrayed, however, it differentiates itself from such a post in several acutely creative aspects. Set in a Chicagoland north suburban high school, it accompanied the artistic genre that so many film companies engaged in when using Chicago as an ideal filming venue during the eighties' movie era. Unlike so many films set in Chicago, The Breakfast Club capriciously emanates a mandatory acrimony with every one of the main characters in this film! The one scene whereby all of the students commiserate with each other about their justified tales of woe, became a scene which evokes a bevy of utterly human responses. At that juncture in this film, these students were thoroughly aware of the fact that they could ill afford the luxury of pulling back any punches, and, it was incumbent upon them to ameliorate their socially awkward circumstances. Each one of them, the student (Anthony Michael Hall); the athlete (Emilio Estevez); the princess (Molly Ringwald); the basket case (Ally Sheedy); and finally, the criminal (Judd Nelson), became the precarious representative of the walk of life whom they represented in the high school which they were attending. The very last scene of Judd Nelson (The Criminal) was a significant trademark of the entire film's dynamic. Judd Nelson's agitation was manifested through his desultorily assembled attire. As a matter of fact, each one of the major characters in this movie were flawlessly executed to exact the proclivities of a handful of teen-age cultural stereotypes. Any director and/or writer will tell you that articulating a perfect 10 character development with every one of the main characters in any given film, becomes an insurmountable task which is neon impossible to successfully accomplish! The movie,  The Breakfast Club, managed to depict every one of their main characters with an uncanny cogency that puts this film in an auspicious category all by itself! The Breakfast Club was made in 1985, and, it was partially responsible for laying out the existing paradigm for movies, as well as high school students' attitudes in general, for the decade of the 1980's. In 1985, Out of Africa won the academy award for best picture. Out of Africa is, of course, a fabulous film, however, The Breakfast Club is far more adept at sparking naturally human interaction into the scope of cinematic entertainment. A film like  The Breakfast Club accommodates the purpose of movie going, which is, often times, to re-emphasize the significance of delving into the tumultuous intricacies of faulted human nature. A grass roots recognition of our egregious inadequacies as individuals, is an indelibly crucial component to stellar movie making. At such a level, the film; The Breakfast Club, is virtually second to none in procuring such a coveted feat. Director, John Hughes, deserves one accolade after the next for his efforts in the wonderful production of this film. The acting was phenomenal! Subsequent to the making of the film The Breakfast Club, all of these actors and actresses have gone on to be eighties icons, as well as perennial top billing entertainers. It has always been a yearly ritual with me to see this film on the Saturday before Easter. Last night, I watched The Breakfast Club once again, and, I thought it was better than I ever previously remember it to be from times before! It is an absolute must to see this 1980's marvel; The Breakfast Club - Eighties Classic! An Ultimate Movie Treasure Extraordinaire! Five Stars! "},{"Title":"Mix Fixations With Detention And You Get Candor!!!","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The cast in this movie is sensational!! It stars Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez, and Judd Nelson!! The nefarious escapades which took place at this typical north suburban high school in the Chicago area, garnered a fascination with the movie viewer in 1985!! What this movie accomplishes, is the homogenization of teenage attitudes and trepidations which formidably afflict all of these barely post pubic adolescents, at a firmly entrenched, grass roots level!! The plot focuses on a detention on a Saturday morning that all of these kids have to serve..The cross section of delinquents so to speak, include The student, the athlete, the princess, the basket case, and the criminal!! The student, Anthony Michael Hall, is besieged with lofty assumptions concerning his predetermined success.. Why is this so bothersome? There is nothing above the grade A! The athlete, Emilio Estevez, (Just being related to a Sheen, makes him talented) is hounded by the quest for stellar accomplishments merely because he is suppose to be the ultimate man! The princess, Molly Ringwald, (As synonymous with the 80's as Duran Duran and deficit spending) was the spoiled rich girl, her hang ups with being enormously popular, brought on a myriad of potentially fatal insecurities!! The basket case, Ally Sheedy, will do anything for attention, eventually, being sort of creepy has to lose the mystique that might be associated with it! Finally, the criminal, Judd Nelson, (Suddenly Susan) who had the largest role of any actor or actress in this movie, his character was one depicting a malcontent who was disgruntled with a capital D!!! The precarious camaraderie which all of them seem to share is the burden of identity displacement The question all of them are pondering is How did everyone get to be like everybody else? Watch the movie, and you will know what I am talking about! I found this movie to have an appropriately intense dialog!! The concise delivery on many of the crucial points that this film purported were totally convincing!! The poignant portrayal of the supercilious social perspectives, which pertained to these five teenagers, for this movie, were astutely formatted with an acrimoniously succinct realism! Also, the only aspects that delved into the obtuse with The Breakfast Club were deliberate!!! The movie depicted an extremity of candid feelings that evoked a bevy of demonstrative inhibitions by all of the characters in this film! Their fervor was effective, not to mention, absolutely phenomenal in terms of their feasibility!! The Breakfast Club is considered to be a 1980's classic! This film signified a radical shift in material priorities from the Woodstock era! High School kids were different, however, they were no less complex! One of the biggest problems which these high school kids are faced with is that they have to listen to each other, because, by and large, nobody in the outside world, really listens to them!! Unrealistic expectations were the culprit to emotional dissatisfaction with all five teenagers' societal plight!! Breakfast Club was a proverbial instance of whereby a dash of powerful and esoteric philosophies about adolescent attitudes did, indeed, go a long way. The positive identification with the 1980's is ubiquitous in this film. Every decade has a unique cultural mindset, Breakfast Club contributed to the trademark of 80's idealism. It is always enlightening when the comprehension of another individual is impetuous, as well as successfully humanistic while evaluating someone's tertiary responses. When these five teenagers served a detention on a Saturday morning, they wound up becoming the recipients of an auspicious life lesson! I would have to say that I like Breakfast Club better every time I see it! Amongst all of the other attributes it possesses, The Breakfast Club is extraordinarily funny! Best line in the movie Judd Nelson says to Molly Ringwald You won't let a guy stick his tongue down your throat, but you can eat sushi! Remarkable movie!! PLEASE SEE THIS FILM!! "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as I remember (and AWFUL for girls)","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie to watch with my 15 year old. I was a college freshman the year it was released and I haven't seen it since. I remember it making some big powerful statement. Well, I ended up feeling pretty embarrassed watching this with my kid. All it really did this time around was make it clear how far we've come with representing youth cinematically since people like Cameron Crowe have come on the scene.The Breakfast Club now seems amateurish, laughably overacted and over-scored (Judd Nelson's speech about this family beating on him) and just well, again, pretty embarrassing.Additionally, it offered a pretty sh**ty message for young women. Molly Ringwald ends up sucking face with a guy who verbally abuses her all day...and Ally Sheedy ends up with a guy who would have been embarrassed to be seen with her until Molly Ringwald made her into a mini-me. Geez, makes you realize how an entire generation of supposedly liberated women ended up marrying guys who treat them like garbage, and are now addicted to plastic surgery.I think the only thing the Breakfast Club is good for anymore is to look back upon, roll our eyes a bit and be proud of how far we've come! "},{"Title":"The movie that made detention and high school a little cooler","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really did enjoy The Breakfast Club, and I can truly agree with people that this is a classic. There is a main reason why I liked this movie and it's not because of the acting or the way it was made.I'm a high school graduate(Class of 2003), and after high school you really take a look at what your years were like. Were you a jock, cheerleader, nerd, weirdo, junkie, party girl/boy, pretty, ugly, skinny, fat...? It goes on and on. Either one of these roles we were in high school and we did get harassed at least once by someone and all you could think was Why me?. This movie helps point out what the problems were, everyone has their own problems and pressures and take it out on other people. While the kid who pulled a knife on you might go home and have his father beat him almost to death. The nerd you knocked the books out of their hands, might go home to parents who are pressuring them to get the best grades they can and put their social life behind. It continues and high school is always going to be like that, sorry to those who are still in school.What will happen? You mean on Monday? They whole time during that monologue between the kids at the end, I kept on thinking, and they'll go back to their regular lives afterwards.I will always recommend The Breakfast Club, because you will have a true taste of what high school is like.9/10 "},{"Title":"...most watched movie...","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TBS Superstation plays _The Breakfast Club_ so often that I've never bothered buying the movie. The thing is, no matter when it's on or what else is on, I always end up watching it with great intent. My mind never wanders from the screen, and if it wasn't for commercials, I would probably never get up for a snack or a bathroom break. The best thing about _The Breakfast Club_ is the fact that, even after 16 years, the film still paints a spot-on picture of high-school life. In fact, it may even be more relevant today that it was in 1985 (aside from the obvious changes in fashion ;-) "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated teen pics ever","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While a passable film. It just never rang true. Hughes tries to define all 80's teens in 5 cookie cutter characters speaking as if they were in their 30's. Although it is sometimes billed as a comedy, it's simply not funny. As a drama it comes across as preachy and overdone with the whole film trying to take itself way too seriously. It might have made a decent stage play, but didn't make such a great movie.  I was in high school in the 80's and if we would have seen kids that acted like the characters in The Breakfast Club we probably would have exiled them (after beating them up). Don't get me wrong, I don't hate this film, I just think that it's a far cry from the way it really was and much less than Hughes' other teen films of the era. Actually Fast Times at Ridgemont High had much more believable characters (of course they were based on real people). Even the teens in American Pie ring truer. "},{"Title":"John Hughes Brilliance","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is quite simply my favorite movie of all time made more credible by the fact that it took Hughes just two days to finish the script, the acting is believable, it is nice to see Molly Ringwald playing a character other then the loseR or reject despite wanted the role of the basketcase originally, she is perfect as the princess, judd nelson is perfect casting as the criminal as are the rest of castings in the movie. The story is a good use of stereotypwes to show the idiosynchrisies of hih school and in particular the harsh reality of pressure on teenagers and the complications they face in everyday life. the scenes are realistic and it is worthwhile and entertaining way to spend a couple of hours. whether you want to laugh, cry or dance. the breakfast club is a great showing from start to finish. 100000000000000000000000000000 kudos! "},{"Title":"Five teenagers are forced to stay in a room together and we learn so much about them....","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Placing a small group of characters in a single setting for the entire running time of a movie is clever narrative technique &#x96; it forces them to talk to each other, and through this, we learn more about those people through their speech, mannerisms and interactions with each other. The concept of The Breakfast Club is exactly that. Five teenagers from all walks of society are forced to stay in a room together, and through this they bond and we learn so much about them. And it's also funny, nostalgic and a movie that only John Hughes could have pulled off well.The five characters are high school stereotypes, and I think there's one of them that each of us relate to. There's the jock, the rebel, the psycho, the prom-queen and the geek, and they all think they're so different from each other. At first, they argue and fight during their detention. Eventually, though, they realise that they're not so different, and actually have a shared hatred &#x96; the authority which is keeping them in detention. We see them rebel together, get high and reveal their darkest secrets. It manages to be charming and funny while never reaching cliché. Where Hughes is a master is character development, and he shows us how the characters are bonding and developing without being too preachy.The script and direction is very well managed, with John Hughes tapping into the teenage mentality perfectly. What's odd is how timeless the film is, with little having changed in school character-types over almost 30 years. The acting is also great, with Judd Nelson and Anthony Michael Hall giving especially strong performances. The film's focus on teenagers also gives a message about the problems of adults, and the one major adult character in the film, played by Paul Gleason, is also one of my favourites. He is written really well as the antagonistic vice- principal, and Hughes succeeds well in allowing the teens to usurp him, but not too easily.The one main flaw that the film has is in its single setting. It works for the majority, but there are definitely times where it lags and feels trapped by the confines that it has set itself. There is not much action in some parts, and the dialogue doesn't always carry it through. That said, it's funny and enjoyable, and an important piece of film for any adolescent to see. There's something for all of us to learn in the adventures of The Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the writing for future teenage generations that is John Hughes!","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes was truly a magnificent writer for teenagers of the 80's. Even though a lot of people hated his previous works, it doesn't matter since many people have flaws in their career once in a while. Well, this is one of John Hughes's well-written classics The Breakfast Club. It follows a group of teenage kids who have done something to get them to have detention on Saturday!(Bummer having to stay in that school on a weekend!) Sounds pretty simple huh? Well, later on the characters get to know each other thanks to the brilliant writing from John Hughes! Judd Nelson plays Bender who in the movie is called the Criminal and is a straight up asshole but in a cool way. The lovely Molly Ringwald plays Claire who attempts to hide things from people kinda like bottling her emotions. Plus there are other characters I wont get into. My favorite character is obviously Bender since he throws out the jokes which makes this movie funny. Now, be warned! You may start tearing up because there are a lot of issues covered in this movie that relates to real life. The stories the characters tell are very poignant and moving and riveting. So don't be surprised if you start crying during the movie. This is a brilliant John Hughes movie that launched his career next to Sixteen Candles(which is another good Hughes film). What makes this movie so great you say? The way the characters develop is genius thanks to the magnificent directing! The jokes are CLEVER unlike so many other comedies *cough Meet the Spartans*. However, while this movie is great it does have some flaws. One is its a little too long for my taste and its tone is a little mixed up at times. Like is this supposed to be a comedy or a drama? But thats a minor thing for me since I can relate to this movie as a teenager next to Fast Times at Ridgemont High. Plus, there are so many memorable quotes in this movie! Go see John Hughes's finest written film! Sincerely Yours, The Breakfast Club "},{"Title":"The Breakfast club is a movie from the 1980's about the complicated relationships between teenagers of different social groups.","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I noticed the teenagers had quite a bit in common once they had started to interact during their detention, although they hadn't realized it yet. Once they started sharing the all of their pasts and their pain you feel a sense of sadness and sympathy. If I had to compare The Breakfast Club to another movie I'd compare it to Never Been Kissed and 10 Things I Hate About You. Both of these are great movies as well as The Breakfast Club, and all these movies are based on the same themes. There all movies on teen relationships, fitting in, social identities, and getting made fun of because you're not cool enough. These are all awesome movies that I would highly recommend watching and taking something from them. I think the message people should take from this movie is that everyone has a different social identity, none of them being right or wrong, and maybe students should start being more accepting of others. There are always reasons for why people are the way they are, and maybe if we gave different people a chance we could be more understanding. "}{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Im not going to go into a summary because you already know what its about.  Lets get right to it.  It was just plain unrealistic, all of the characters were.  The actors were over melodramatic and all they did was blame the parents.  I didn't care for any of the characters and it had one of the weakest endings I have ever seen.  The princess and the rebel just... got together at the end for no reason at all, they actually hated each other but the next minute they were together.  Worse than that, the jock and the weirdo hadnt said two words to each other yet they got together, just because she got a make over.  There is no cleverness here, since each character has no development, but are just stereotyped.  Yes the criminal is mean, yes the jock is cocky, yes the princess is stuck up, yes the nerd is nerdy and yes the weirdo is weird.  And that people are your characters, and thats as far as it goes.  There was a subplot between the Teacher and the care taker, but it was left unfinished!! A very bad film.  Don't waste your time. I gave it 4 out of 10 to be fair... for the few weak laughs that it brings. "},{"Title":"It seems okay for its time but it's not worth watching","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film doesn't even represent all the cliques or groups properly. It has no POC or even an equal representative of women. For every female there are almost 3 males; one of the females is considered crazy and one of them is sexualised. Completely misrepresented and every character is two dimensional. The only time we hear about their lives, sad music is played in the background for the male characters but the same is not done for the females. We're meant to feel sorry for the young boys but not the girls? The only time the females speak out is when talking about sex and 'how far' they've progressed in their sexuality. Even when Clair is asked to share what she is good at doing, the only thing she demonstrates is putting a lipstick/lip gloss between her breasts and applying it to her lips without using her hands. Her character is so fickle it makes me want to rip my hair out. Allison is only valued once she is given a make over. Once again, the females in this film are only noticed and accepted for either sex or the way they look. Their personalities or who they are does not matter, they are so poorly written. And of course, by the end of the film both the females leave with a boyfriend. The plot doesn't improve and there is no story, honestly one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. The hype around this film is really not worth listening to. "},{"Title":"I don't like what I see, I really don't.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS. ONLY READ IF YOU'VE SEEN THE FILMThis was one of the ultimate cool to like films in the eighties, a film that had all teens doting on it because, well, it has so much ... meaning... doesn't it? Actually, no. Five students, at least three of them one-dimensional blandies, spend eight hours in detention where they allegedly find themselves. Except only one of them has anything interesting to say.It opens with a written quote from David Bowie, the hallmark of student pretension, which then explodes into shards. Whoo, rock and roll! This is revolutionary filmmaking at its peak. Worst thing about the movie is that it temporarily convinced a significant proportion of society that Simple Minds were actually worth listening to.How old was John Hughes when he wrote this film? Fourteen, and full of angst? Like some awful sixth-form play, The Breakfast Club is filled with clumsily written amateur psychology. Molly Ringwald gets the brunt of it, and all the worst lines. Gems like You know why guys like you knock everything? Cos you're afraid meet I have just as many feelings as you do, and it hurts just as much when someone steps all over them. Other characters get to say things like When you grow up, your heart dies and If you love someone, it's okay.Judd Nelson chiefly carries the film as the only interesting character, and the one with the best lines. Saying eat my shorts four years before The Simpsons, and telling a teacher Does Barry Manilow know that you raid his wardrobe? he's by far the most appealing element of the movie. However, his describing of being beaten at the hands of his father is marred by loud incidental synth music, the hallmark of the eighties. Thankfully, there are no skinny ties or mullet haircuts, meaning it hasn't otherwise dated too badly in that regard.Some ill-advised comedy moments - The Bridge on the River Kwai parody, Anthony Michael Hall being stoned and Emilio Estivez breaking a glass door by shouting at it - work against the piece, and are quite cringingly embarrassing to watch. The film then takes on issues that the characters in the film seem to think are hugely important, but are really just everyday and banal. The group seem desperate to hold on to the secret that three of them are virgins, or that they don't get along with their parents, but such things are hardly Earth-shattering.Where the film really falls down is in the climax, where the group - who are now suddenly inseparable soul mates - turn into a bunch of bleeding hearts, mewling and wailing over what are really pretty much run of the mill problems. Judd Nelson aside, the rest of this crew has no cause for social dysfunction that isn't above the killingly ordinary. Maybe that's the point, but, like Flatliners, where a group of young students had their sins come to haunt them, the fact that people of that age won't have done anything of real note is called into question. Ringwald is cut up about the fact that her parents are so rich, and she has to agree with all her friends. You just don't understand all the pressures they can put on you. Oh, shame. Sporty Estivez, meanwhile, is a high-school jock who once taped a man's buttocks together because he was trying to impress his dominant father. Okay, not nice, but not exactly the skeleton in the closet you'd wait ninety minutes to hear, right? I'm sure most athletic students do a lot worse things, every day of the week.Anthony Michael Hall, the least of the Where Are They Now? entrants, as no-one hires nerds for Hollywood films any more, was contemplating suicide because he couldn't make a ceramic elephant. Ally Sheedy, in the most thankless role, acts weird because her parents ignore her and she just wants people to notice her.All of which would be fine, and, indeed, despite the criticisms I've made, The Breakfast Club is nicely directed, acted and imminently watchable. But what cripples the film is its overreaching pretension, particularly the trite closing monologue, which is cliched and squalid. Like the tagline for the movie - They met only once, but it changed their lives forever - it smacks of corny movie trailer dialogue and is overearnest. Pat resolution has the group coupled off (except for poor Hall), with Estivez clinging on to Sheedy after finding she doesn't look that bad with different makeup. Rather a shallow indictment. Though the weirdest thing is, despite watching this and regarding it as a deeply flawed movie, I still voted it 6/10. "},{"Title":"A group of miscellaneous high school kids are forced to do detention on Saturday","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of those movies that I see as the for-runner to movies like Empire Records and Pump Up the Volume. Here we have a group of teenagers getting together and trying to understand the nature of the lives and the world that they have entered. What we have here are the teenagers of the 80's, a time that had much more promise than the 90's, but we are here standing on the edge of the bleakness that comes out later. What we see here is that there is still a chance for friendship, but I guess the important quote comes from the lips of Brian Johnson will we still be friends on Monday.The Breakfast Club is about five students, all different, who are put onto Saturday detention for certain wrongs that they have done. They are not supposed to talk, but rather write an essay describing who they are. The problem here is that we are dealing with teenagers who really don't know who they are, and this comes out through the lips of John Bender, the school criminal, but essentially far more insightful than the others. They do finally find out who they are, but they do this by talking to each other and coming to understand why they do what they do, and finish off by writing a short piece telling the vice principle that he really has no idea anyway.This movie is about identity and trying to create ones own identity. The one major thing we see here is that the students are trying to break out of the moulds that their parent's have put them in. The jock Andrew Clark is no different to the nerd Brian Johnson. The reason is that both of their parents put lots of pressure on them to succeed, but only in different ways. Clark must not only be successful at sport, but also must muck around like his Dad, but the first time he does it, he feels a huge amount of guilt for the pain of his victim. Though it was fun, he cannot help thinking about the guy who suffered.What this movie does is that it makes us think what the point really is. Is it really worth suiciding simply because you get an F in shop, and is shop really all that stupid when somebody else sees it as his favourite subject. What we see is that five different people are coming together and learning about each other. They are being brought into different worlds, and being forced to accept those who are different. In the end they sort of all become friends, though in some cases, such as Brian, they really aren't willing to break through their prejudices. "},{"Title":"must see 80's movie","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am personally a huge fan of 80's movies to say the very least. The Breakfast Club hits all of the points of being a successfully enjoyable movie for its viewers. It surprisingly touches the viewer in a way that you didn't think was possible. This movie is still relevant even almost 30 years later. The Breakfast Club is a must-see movie, and it will be sure not to disappoint. The movie will make you laugh and it might even jerk a few tears. The characters in the movie will relate to every person that has ventured through the tough and confusing years of high school. The Breakfast Club is a classic for sure, and is simply one of those movies that you can watch over and over again. 10/10 "},{"Title":"An uplifting cult classic","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of five teenagers in detention on a Saturday morning, all with different stereotypical personalities. It tells the tale of their lives and how by the end of the film they all come together to make an uplifting conclusion.The one thing that makes The Breakfast Club so unique is how John Hughes uniquely captured the teenage language and the problems students go through at high school. When the film came out the honestly of the film was praised as it tells all the truths throughout the film. As the film is played various themes are outlined. One of the main themes throughout the film is stereotyping. In the film Stereotyping plays a main part, portraying different styles of life and how people deal and live with them. There is a huge contrast between every character as each one is unique and lives a different lifestyle. By dealing with this main theme of stereotyping Hughes had made a film that had become a cult classic.Another key theme outlined by the film is the maturing or coming of age. At the start of the film all the relationships between the characters are very difficult. As the film gradually goes on the relationships build up and they become friends. At the start of the film the characters are very antagonistic. Another theme outlined by the film is the sympathy towards the characters. Characters start to open up as the film moves along and as some stories of their life spills out. The hero of the film has to be the bender played by Judd Nelson the criminal of the film. Judd Nelson gives a convincing performance of 'Bender' the criminal. He managed to sway from angry to emotional - making you feel for him when he is describing what things are like in his life. The princess in the film is Claire Standish played by Molly Ringwald. In the film she is somewhat reserved and tries her hardest not to reveal too much information about herself. She seems to be insecure during the course of the film until the end, by finally getting together with bender (Judd Nelson). Throughout the film she doesn't like the way her life is and seems to not be able to love herself. Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez) is your typical athlete on the wrestling team. He seems to be happy in his life apart from another of the key themes in the film which is parental pressure. The parental pressure for him mainly coming from his dad. He makes Andrew seem unloved and unwanted in his life and wanting him to do one thing only, wrestle, making his life a misery. A day in detention in the breakfast club helps him to solve this problem over confrontation. Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy) is the final member of The Breakfast Club to be introduced to us. She is certainly the most strangest of all the characters and is quite a content, quite character to start off with. Whenever spoken, it is at her defence of any comment made by the other characters. She suffers from boredom and loneliness, and on top of this is reserved. Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall) is the geek of the group. He is also pressured by parents to do well in life, but in his case to achieve the highest possible grades in his education. Brian is constantly pressured by his parents to do well in school, and this backfires upon receiving a bad grade. The Breakfast Club showed Brian that others have it much worse than him, which built up his confidence.The other two character that star in the movie and are the janitor and the principal. The janitor Carl is played by John Kapelos. He plays the eyes and ear of this institution. The last character in the movie is the head teacher Richard Vernon played by Paul Gleason. He always wants to be the one in power and this is shown where he is squared up against bender making out he wanted to fight. He is also known for his vainness ways and how much that he loves himself.My own personal review on The Breakfast club would be that it is a good eighties flick with many morals and images created by the film. It is famous for its theme coming of age and life captured at a teenagers point of view and still to this day is well known and rated highly. Hughes has created a masterpiece of work. The breakfast club is to this day regarded as one of the best films to be made in the eighties. "},{"Title":"Another Over-rated 80's Feel Good Flick","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't say I hate this work, but I definitely think it's just another over-rated feel-good flick from a lost era. It has its cute elements, some good moments, and an overall entertaining story, but if you weren't in high school in the 1980's, or aren't in high school now with a longing for the 1980's, you'll find this one boring, dated, cliché as all heck, and a bit contrived, trite, and long-winded. It rambles in its sugar-coated sweetness, headed seemingly nowhere, going nowhere, and landing you nowhere for your trouble. It does have its entertaining moments, some sweet moments, and some good elements, but they deliver little pay off for your trouble.I can't say I love it, but I don't totally hate it, either. I WAS a kid in high school in the 1980's.It rates a 6.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Sweet!  One of the best film of the time","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club fits it's generation like a glove.  Today, it is a classic in teenage film-fare that shows a group of 6 who wind up in detention on Saturday and it changes they're lives.  The group- (Emilio Estevez the jock, Judd Nelson the punk, Molly Ringwald the princess, Ally Sheedy the basket case and Anthony Michael Hall the brain).  These 6 talented people bring the best out of John Hughes' script.  This was their breakthrough, and so was it for 80's movies.  A+ "},{"Title":"The quintessential 80s film","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a mark in cinema history? Yes. The so popular genre, the teenager genre, which explores the teenager world through stereotypes, became widely popular in the 80s - and still is- and the vast majority of the films in this particular genre shows Nerds being ridiculed and bullied by the popular guys...the 'bad' teacher....a girl that wants to be popular and date the popular guy...etc etc etc. And the great majority of these teenager films are comedies involving parties and lots of sexual references. Basically this is what the genre is about. But then, we have Breakfast Club. The film is the examination and study of these stereotypes. There isn't one dimensional characters here. Its the anti thesis of the normal Teenager genre, and I say, the end of them all. We still have films about teenagers produced nowadays, but we know that the genre ended when Breakfast Club was released back in 1985. A film that chooses to explain the characters instead of robotizing them.The Breakfast Club is for the teenager films what Once Upon a Time in the West was for the western genre. The definitive end. And what an ending. 9.0/10 "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!!","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is perhaps the best high school drama of all time. With every typical character from high school, jock, princess, loner, nerd, criminal, etc. we're able to see how each high school stereotype affects each other when locked up in one room for a Saturday of detention. John Bender becomes the unlikely leader of the pack, as he's got the most knowledge of the streets. He's also got a big bag of marijuana that they end up smoking together. By the end of the movie all the characters, which were once alienated from each other, become close friends. They feel good about their new friendships and leave their detention sessions with a fresh and optimistic feeling about themselves and their peers. It's amazing how to this day this movie still holds gravity and relevance nearly 25 years later. The darker and heavier themes of alienation and teen apathy give this movie an extra level of importance in comparison to it's contemporaries like Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Sixteen Candles, and Pretty In Pink. An absolute must see for every movie lover! "}{"Title":"Spend not just breakfast, but a day with this club","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is John Hughes other baby. The other one, you may ask is Sixteen Candles. Here, honestly is a movie that's better than you think it is, you could actually beat yourself on the head, when not seeing it at the movies. A score of students are spending a Saturday detention, each character vastly different from the next. By the end of the day, they have bonded together, accepted each other for who they are, faced their fears and truths. That is a what a good movie. Over the course of the day we have a real a..ehole of a take no s..t principal, wonderfully played by Paul Gleeson. Watching him get riled by Bender (Judd Nelson, the standout performance in this, which honestly has you mystified as to why he never received more acting nominations during his career) is just too much fun. The actor's conversations, issues, whatever, become absolutely mesmerizing to the audience, we wanna feel part of the group. By the end of the day, one detentionee, a basket case as you will, has made a total transformation, another great performance here. Even the janitor is made interesting, popping up here and there, one piece of dialogue he delivers to Gleason, regarding these teens, stays with me. Truly this film is an aphrodisiac for movie buffs. Don't up pass this movie. As well as showcasing Judd Nelson's top of the line performance as our wonderful rebellious delinquent, Bender, It will have you cheering or giving cause to re watch. Probably Hughes's best film ever. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club, a perfect display of the shenanigans and relative life stories of kids in an unsupervised detention. This classic 1985 film from director John Hughes shatters social barriers and cliques that still exist in schools today. This film not only teaches life lessons, but also provides a good laugh. From the phenomenal storyline to the top-notch acting, this movie receives a definite thumbs-up.The story begins with five high school teenagers, each coming from a different clique within Shermer High School, spending an entire Saturday in detention together. There is Andy, the jock (Emilio Estevez); Claire, the princess (Molly Ringwald); John, the delinquent (Judd Nelson); Allison, the basket-case (Ally Sheedy); and Brian, the brain (Anthony Michael Hall). They all know nothing about each other, and while in detention are expected to write an essay explaining who they think they are as people. Soon they realize that they are not really sure who they are, and that even though they aren't from the same cliques, they are more alike than they had originally thought.Each actor sells their role perfectly as a high school student. From their body language to their facial expressions, they all suit the role of a teenage adolescent perfectly. Judd Nelson plays a great criminal in school with his extremely laid-back body language, giving even more support to his don't-care attitude. Then there is Emilio Estevez playing the jock, Andy, and his macho man athlete status. Estevez's monotone voice and his ability to show no fear from his facial expressions contributes to his status of the big man on campus, and that is a credit to Estevez as an actor. These are only two small examples, as the entire cast does a wonderful job.Not only do the actors put on a superb performance, but the plot of the film is excellent, basically tearing down all social norms in schools in 1985, norms that are still present today. Stereotypically, jocks don't get along with nerds, and troublemaker-tough-guys like Bender don't really get along with well, anyone. It's interesting in this movie to see how a little turmoil between characters can be solved with just a little conversation, and of course with a little help from some marijuana smoked in the school library.This movie has it all; laughs, crazy antics, and all the drama of high school cliques. With great acting, and an amazing storyline, it's hard to find a reason not to see this movie. It is so easy to relate to since most people already know the experience of high school and the certain social groups, or eventually will know someday. The Breakfast Club is a prime example of how difficult it is to really know everything about someone, and how closely people's lives can be related, no matter where they come from. This film has a funny way of teaching valuable life lessons, and also gives an idea of maybe how tolerance of others can help bring people together. There is no doubt that this movie is a must-see, and is absolutely worth the time. "},{"Title":"Never judge a book by it's cover.","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The main setting of The Breakfast Club is at Shermer High School, specifically in the library on a Saturday morning. The library is an important aspect in the setting of this movie, because it provides a parallel with the dialogue. The script of this movie is heavily laden with dialogue and the spoken story of each character, similar to the books, writing, and words that fill the library shelves. Another important aspect of the library is the quiet nature of the space, putting the focus entirely on the characters and their issues. With no other noise or distractions, the central focus of the film is clear.An important character to consider that is often overlooked is the assistant principal, Richard Vernon. Throughout the film he is portrayed as a villain of sorts, out to get the group of students being punished that particular Saturday. Completely unable to relate to his students or any of their situations, he only sees what is on the surface. It is pointed out by the janitor later on in the plot that while Vernon assumes the students are the problem in his lack of understanding the new generation, he never bothered to look closer and realize it was he who had changed. This plays a major role in the overall theme of the movie, which is the inability to see past the surface of a problem or character and judge solely by a look.A pivotal scene for the five students locked away in detention is the group discussion they have about why they came to Saturday detention. Although it is obvious that it is pivotal because they are opening up, but it is also pivotal in the mood of the film as well. Before this scene, many, if not all, of the interactions between the characters were cold and isolated, making the movie seem tense. As the characters begin to open up, the feel of the movie transitions to an easier, lighthearted feel that pulls the audience in to the escapades that begin to occur. Not only has it changed the relationship between the characters, but it changes the mood of the rest of the movie.The lunches that each character eats are representative of each of their respective parents. Claire eats a fancier meal than the rest, Andy's food is loaded with carbohydrates and calories, Brian's lunch consists of a crust-less peanut butter and jelly sandwich, Allison's bologna (which she discards to replace with candy), and Bender, who has no lunch. Each meal represents the parenting style of each teenager, such as Allison's discarding of part of her sandwich signifies the way they ignore her, giving her the freedom to do whatever she wants. The writing in this movie is realistic and plausible, seeing as it is an everyday occurrence for us to judge others solely by what is on the outside. The slow reveal of the inner struggles and personal demons of each of the characters is realistic, coming slowly and in pieces, each filled with emotion. It is obvious that many of the characters do not wish to open up, which is very typical of someone dealing with their own issues. The inserted lines of dry and sarcastic humor lighten the mood when it is necessary, just as some situations require and easily remind us that they still are, in fact, teenagers. The writing is very symbolic of the things that can happen to every day high school students, although perhaps not as extreme, it serves as a guide for those moments that we all have had some sort of experience with.An aspect of grouping in this movie is shown by the colors of the characters. Red for Bender, blue for Andy, pink for Claire, green for Brian, and black for Allison. These colors play into the stereotypes that they are portraying, further signifying the outer appearance contradiction that the characters struggle with. A smaller grouping is the group of teenagers, and the adults. The stark contrast between the two age groups, both physically separated and emotionally, magnifies the generation gap and the lack of ability to understand one another.The aspect of judgment plays a large role, especially in the beginning where each character has made specific judgments against their peers. Applying that to the whole, judgment becomes the main theme that motivates them as characters, as well as how easily judgments can be changed. In watching this, I see media messages that have changed over the years. The message that this film delivers is one that can be forgotten easily, but this movie is a nostalgic reminder to never judge a book by its cover.John Hughes was the king of successful movies in the 1980's, with this movie being at the forefront of his laundry list of hit films. Seeing as how many movies were based off this movie and others like it, The Breakfast Club is a teen drama that has become the stereotypical teen drama. The storytelling techniques, such as the ability to show the progression of these characters in a single day, and revealing character complexity is something seen even recently, in shows like Community.The storytelling technique used by this movie was a unique choice, one that is not often seen. It is easy to forget that sometimes and entire story can happen in just a matter of hours in your life, not over a long span of time. This technique is adding to my ability to comprehend the realistic nature of cinematic storytelling by proving that you do not need to show weeks or month of passing time to have a story with impact.The Breakfast Club uses its title to emphasize the reason why it is so important not to judge something strictly by what you see. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club is a movie that will always be watched","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is about five kids a jock Andrew, princess Clare, brain Brian, criminal John Bender , and basket case Allison, that were thrown together for Saturday detention. At the beginning of the movie when they all arrive at school they just figure it was going to be a day of sitting there doing nothing; until principal Vernon told them that they need to write an essay about who they are. As the movie start you hear Brains voice giving a brief description of who they are. The theme of the movie is that no matter who you are and what kind of back ground you comes form we all have differences. Bender is always pushing the bottoms of the other to get things out of them on who there are. This brings them all together and they have became friends. The director made his point with different camera angle he would use close up in scene when a point was being made and how the music was tied in is the right point in the movie. The Breakfast Club is a movie that will always be watched. The pressure of being a teen ager will never change. They have become more then when the movie was filmed in 1985. Those pressures of using drugs having sex being forced by your parents to get all A's will never change. Just have to learn how to cope with them and not to judge people until you get to know them and you never know that you might have more then you know in common with that person. It doesn't matter if that person is a jock or a criminal it is just a stereo type of people and those you may think are a criminal might just be just like you and he is being judge by the way he or she acts. I would say that The Breakfast Club is a great movie the points made it the movie will never change in time. That is why people will continue to watch The Breakfast Club. For fifteen year the movie have never died and can be seen on TV this show me that the movie is a classic and the no matter when it is watch people can relate to The Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"A Brat Pack Classic","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In this film five very unlikely students end up becoming friends during a Saturday detention. They end up opening up to one another and learning more about each other in one day than most learn in years of friendships. After the discoveries made throughout the day, they decide to call themselves The Breakfast Club. With all these students learn and go through together, it would be best said that it is a coming of age film with hints of judgment and stereotyping many things in which teenagers go through at this time in their lives.For Clair (Molly Ringwald) and Andrew (Emilio Estevez), they fall under the popular clique so they have had previous interactions. While the nerd of the morning falls on Brian (Anthony Michael Hall). Then, there is always that troubled one in the group whose home life make them the bad-ass they get labeled is that Bender (Judd Nelson). Lastly, what group would be complete without that of the kooky member, which falls to Allison (Ally Sheedy). Without each of these roles the coming together, the group may not have had as large an impact in how they end up by the end of this film. In some small way, they take steps in no longer caring what others may think. Instead, they think for themselves, for the future.Everything occurs for the most part in one room of a school and with this simple setting, using open lighting helps one put more focus on each character and how they change through out the day. Allison and Bender seem to have the most growth during the movie. Sheedy does an amazing job in the beginning showing off the eccentric side of Allison. While Bender keeps his hard edge. It makes it more understandable who he is and what he silently needs. He finds out those things in this group of different kids &#x96; people he never dreamed he could befriend. But in each other, they all find what none of them could find before &#x96; themselves.In some ways, no matter the decade, I think this movie shows that you can find the best things in life in the most unlikely of places; certainly these five students did. Every adolescent has felt or been in a situation where they could relate to one or more of these characters whether it was like the odd one out like Allison, the nerdy geek like Brian, the troubled like Bender or the popular/jock standing like Clair and Andrew. Everyone is being judged by others that are different from them. It's a part of coming of age. "},{"Title":"Enforced socialization","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 80s was the decade of the Brat Pack and the decade of John Hughes who did films that spoke to teens and 20 somethings of the era. His enduring classic was The Breakfast Club a character study of a cross section of teen America of the Reagan years.In my childhood and adolescent years the culture had a great divide on what made the young tick. The model were shows like Leave It To Beaver and The Donna Reed Show. All the kids were wholesome and clean cut. The polar opposite was found on the big screen in Rebel Without A Cause and dozens of pale imitations of hot rodding kids. And the girls for the most part were just orbiting satellites around the males.That's the most radical thing about The Breakfast Club I Found. The teen princess Molly Ringwald and the weird girl Ally Sheedy are most definitely not satellites around the males. Although Ringwald could have shown up on The Donna Reed Show she like the others is a complex character with her own issues regarding school and life. Sheedy was something unique, an oddball who not only doesn't fit in but regards that as a virtue. Not that people weren't like her in real life, but just not shown on the big screen or small.The 'good' kids are jock Emilio Estevez and overachiever scholar Anthony Michael Hall. Superficially both of those could be Donna Reed or Brady Bunch characters. What's revealed is both are just trying to fit into their assigned niches in life and both question why is there so much pressure to succeed. One has suicidal intentions because of it.Judd Nelson is your James Dean character, good but truly the least original of all the charter members of The Breakfast Club. He could truly have been part of the motorcycle clique that Dean belonged to in Rebel Without A Cause. Dean himself bared his soul, Nelson took a bit longer to do it on the screen. For him and Sheedy detention is just part of the day. The other three are new to it and in the normal course of school day they would not be caught dead associating with these two or in fact each other. They all have their cliques except Sheedy who is a total loner. In the end they find they have a lot of the same issues and anxieties. Detention enforced socialization on them.Paul Gleason plays the school principal and in his career he took out a patent on these authority figures who are so alien to the kids. He did the part of the principal in so many films and TV shows his appearance almost became expected like Margaret Dumont in a Marx Brothers comedy. The Breakfast Club became his signature part.The Breakfast Club is a true classic, long and deep on character almost like a Eugene O'Neil play. "},{"Title":"I'm glad they never made the Lunch Bunch Sequel...","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" They were five students with nothing in common, faced with spending a Saturday detention together in their high school library. At 7 a.m. They had nothing to say, but by 4 p.m., they had bared their souls to each other and become good friends. To the outside world they were simply the Jock, the Brain, the Criminal, the Princess and the Basket Case, but to each other, they would always be the Breakfast Club....The first thing is, if you never saw this film between the ages of fifteen and seventeen, you will not get the what the fuss is all about and that's a damn shame. I saw this for the first time in nearly twenty years, and it didn't have the same impact it did when I was fifteen.It's simple, but brilliant, and could be Hughes finest hour. All the cast are great, but Nelson and Gleason are the most memorable. They have a great chemistry when they argue, and give the film it's main point of focus.Ringwald is great too, but this is because she fuses with Judd, and because of his character communicating with her so much, makes her more interesting.The rest of the cast are good, but are just that bit boring compared to the other three.It's funny, heartbreaking and tense all in one go, and when you are fifteen, it's life changing and important.When your thrifty five, it's funny to see the dancing, and how young people look, but not as important as it was.Saying that, it's a phenomenal movie and the epitome of my favourite decade.Please Hollywood, never touch this wonderful movie "},{"Title":"Top five for sure!","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is timeless! I can wait 3 to 4 years, watch it and still enjoy more than the first time i watched it. The whole cast is amazing. I laugh, i cry (when its over), i just flat out love the breakfast club. It brings out the highs and lows of adolecense. No matter what group you belonged to in high school you will find someone to relate to in the movie. Because of this film i always want to cause a Ruckus. This movie is great for teenagers and even better for adults because it truly does bring out the inner high schooler in you! If you haven't seen this movie then you haven't lived!Sincerely, Beast from the Southeast "},{"Title":"Possibly the best high school film ever made","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" During the 1980s there were plenty of films set in US high schools; John Hughes made the best of these and 'The Breakfast Club' is a contender for the best of his films. The film takes place on a Saturday when five pupils have to spend their day in detention; they are 'brain' Brian, 'athlete' Andrew, 'basket case' Allison, 'princess' Claire and 'criminal' John. While there they are told they must write an essay about who they are and even though they are meant to sit in silence they get to know each other as the day progresses. At first they think they have nothing in common but after arguments, discussions and confrontations they discover that they aren't that different. While they are getting to know each other the teacher who is supervising them end up in the basement discussing how children have, or haven't changed over the years.The actors do a great job; with Ally Sheedy as Allison, Molly Ringwald as Claire, Emilio Estevez as Andrew, Judd Nelson as Bender, Anthony Michael Hall as Brian and Paul Gleason as disenchanted teacher Mr. Vernon. Set entirely in school there is little action; the strength of the film relies almost entirely on great dialogue excellently delivered&#x85; it doesn't hurt that there is a great '80s soundtrack either! Considered a comedy there are plenty of laughs to be had but there are also several poignant scenes that are almost tear-jerking in the run up the a great feel good ending. If you have yet to see this film I strongly recommend it; it is a classic of its period and genre; a real must see. "},{"Title":"Typical 80s teen flick.... I love it!","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even though I was born in 1984, The Breakfast Club happens to be one of my most favorite films. I love this movie. It's a typical 80s teen flick, complete with teen dialogue and 80s dance moves. This movie has all the elements. There are scenes of anger, frustration, sadness, comedy, and love. I think all the actors did fine jobs with the material they had. Of course this movie has some of the brat pack members. And I think this is the best of the brat pack films. Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, and Molly Ringwald were all great in this film. And of course you just gotta love Paul Gleason as the strict principal. Yes, it's cheesy to watch now but it is so much fun for me to view. And of course I can relate to this film too. In no way is this film great but it definitely is a classic. I love this film. Thank you for reading my review! "}{"Title":"great performances but a disappointing ending(worth watching except the ending!)","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" BreakFast Club is one of the sweetest movies that I watched by ruling out the stereotypical fallacies. One can understand how parents latently and unwittingly force their kids to adopt their quirky behaviors in the past.Some parents do regard the slightest mistake as being a loser. They are so perfectionist.Some parents see their kids as retarded big mouth know it all asshole jerks. And others just ignore their own kids. Others say win win win but do not care about feelings. Well Breakfast Club is exactly such a movie into the inner-worlds of such kids who are bullied by internal pressure. I liked the performance of Emilio Estevez but impressive performance of Judd Nelson is totally great!!! . The way he says the lines Look, I can see you getting all bunged up for them making you wear these kind of clothes. But face it, you're a neo-maxi-zoom-dweebie. What would you be doing if you weren't out making yourself a better citizen? is totally cool I really liked it. Of course the movie is not a faultless one. Even if the performances and the message are quiet nice the movie itself is pretty stereotypical .Allison renounces her maverick ways and succumbs to the mainstream female image (makeup, pink dress, rather submissive, etc.). nerd, Brian, ends the film without anyone, reaffirming similar mainstream conventions of male stereotypes as well, that a male who isn't either athletic or rebellious, and more so is intelligent and bookish, will be left behind and ignored by the opposite sex. I say a movie which has such a great message could have been ended with a more original ending. "},{"Title":"Finding Our Path The Goal Of Being","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadI know, if you do not understand what is going on, the movie can be a dreadful bore to you. When I watched it, when I was young, it bored me to death. Young people, forgive an old guy in his later years, the cliché is true; you may hate it now, someday you will see it with different eyes. The movie is an existential study of disparate ways of being there or Daseins. These ways of being are trapped together for a whole day, in the library serving detention with the oppressive Vernon supervising them. We see them almost adult here; their paths are not ossified as full adults yet; they are filled with the anxieties of the most painful period in human development adolescence. When the movie begins, considering that what Sartre wrote is painfully true each way of being is a negation of all others; ergo, they are none too fond of each other. This truth is critical to understanding this movie. At this point in time, think back to how unsure you were of your path; see, here, others choices about different ways of being evoked great anxiety in you over the correctness of your choice. That is why each, Bender and the others, feel compelled to attack Daseins that are antithetical to their own. Bender's Dasein The Bad Ass has all its values inverted from Brian's. This is why Bender focuses so much of his hatred upon poor Brian. They are exact ontological opposites from each other. Also, the Bad Ass has to defy authority even unto death; if not, you will be christened the worst thing within this being, a P. As the film progresses, watch for the hostility attenuating as they discover their commonalities as human souls. The crushing weight upon Claire, Andrew, Brian and especially Bender Allison is the exception, she has been abandoned psychologically by her parents. The movie follows these young people finding the existential consanguinity of their lives oppression of expectations, fear of failure, terror of going through the door into adulthood with all its uncertainties. When you watch the movie, look for the changes in the characters from the beginning through the end. Because their Daseins have not solidified yet, indeed, they still have resentment at being funneled into these paths by their parents, their ability to break free and see the human beings trapped in these ontological cages is realistic. Yes, I know, if these were full grown adults the transformation to their honesty with each other would be contrived and unbelievable. Forgive me young people but remember inside of every adolescent a part of the child remains. When you watch it, a great piece of wisdom will be taught to you. However different we may be, whatever our way of being upon this Earth, the burden of existence is what we all share. Our mortality, suffering, disillusionment all bond us together as one. This is the riddle of what Hughes is trying to show you. Underneath these roles Jock, Brain, Criminal, Basket Case, Beauty Queen, we all share what it is to live, suffer, love and ultimately die. The lesson of The Breakfast Club is to see people, however different from you, as people who are trying to find their way; we all share the truth that these young people discover one afternoon in the library.The movie resonates because of its existential power. They learn that underneath the roles they are fragile, fearful human beings trying to walk their path. A Great Movie That Will Teach You Compassion.The For-Itself Is What It Is Not And Is Not What It Is. Jean Paul Sartre From Being And Nothingness "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club was a Success","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a heartfelt, thought-provoking, and emotional film. It is a story of five teenage strangers, who meet in detention and find out there is more to a person than meets the eye. They each embody five different stereotypical persona's; the jock, the basket case, the princess, the nerd, and of course, the rebel. Ironically their teacher, Mr. Vernon, who put them in detention in the first place, asks them to write an essay about who they think they are. Upon further discussion with one another, the students realize their beliefs and stereotypes go much further than expected and they share common problems such as loss of identity and trouble at home. Problems faced by the teenagers may seem insignificant to the viewer but the film does a wonderful job of capturing teenage misconception and loneliness in a world of on-going adaptation and rivalry. They reveal their deepest secrets, and learn about themselves in the process. Mr. Vernon's question of who do you think you are is not taken lightly, the students redefine the stereotype of who they are, and fully understand that it takes a lot more than a simple question to define someone. Mr. Vernon judges them based on who he thinks they are, and his ignorance makes the students look superior to him. The film leaves the viewer hoping the breakfast club will always remain friends, or at least remember the wonderful afternoon they spent, getting to know each other outside of their social cliques. Mr. Vernon is unaware that his punishment turned out to be a blessing in disguise. John Hughes provides a look into the sentimental aspect of high school labels and provides his audience with a light story of sympathetic virtue and contentment. "},{"Title":"Greatly Explores Inner Lives Of Teenagers","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whenever I hear the song,Don't You Forget About Me by Simple Minds,it only reminds me on the 80's teen-age classic film,The Breakfast Club - one of the best films ever made about High School students.I personally feel that John Hughes once again delivers upon making this film.Breakfast Club is a film written and directed by John Hughes. The storyline follows five teenagers that represent different stereotypes namely the princess;the jock;the criminal;the brain; and the basket case as they spend a Saturday in detention together and come to realize that they are all deeper than their respective personalities and nature.The movie stars Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez,Judd Nelson,Anthony Michael Hall and Ally Sheedy. The plot follows five students at Shermer High School in the fictitious Chicago suburb of Shermer, Illinois as they report for Saturday detention on March 24, 1984. While not complete strangers, the five teenagers are each from a different clique or social group.They are Allison Reynolds,Andrew Clark,John Bender,Brian Johnson, and Claire Standish - who seem to have nothing in common at first, come together at the high school library, where they are harangued and ordered not to speak or move from their seats by the antagonistic principal,Richard Vernon.The students pass the hours in a variety of ways. Gradually they open up to each other and reveal their inner secrets.At the end of the day, the students bond together when faced with the villainous principal ,and they realize that they have more in common than they may think, including a contempt for adult society.The Breakfast Club is definitely a warm, insightful, and very funny look into the inner lives of teenagers.Equal parts are funny, smart and sincere.It takes a look a little deeper into the teenage psyche and came back with something more challenging like how to grow up from their fears and anxieties in life. In the end,anyone who happens to be High School or have been in High School could relate to the issues faced by the people involved.The performances of the movie were great especially that of Ally Sheedy as the basket case and Molly Ringwald as the princess.Aside from that,the direction of Hughes is superb that he definitely proves a point that he is the best director when it comes to teen films.And just like what I said,the song attached to the film Don't You Forget About Me by Simple Minds remains a classic song.In the end,this is one great teen movie that even adults would appreciate. "},{"Title":"20 years later, and still a fantastic movie","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A movie that created awareness and controversy, yet still a beautiful adaptation of life for teens in the 80's, and even nowadays. The characters, although stereotypical and strict in their format, display all different aspects and characters that some may remember back in High School.Disregarding that each character is a stereotype, the movie is entirely realistic and is an eye-opening look at the emotions and impact that a social life or a cruel family life has on each student.Another fun aspect of this film is that everyone can relate to it. It is amusing to pick out which character you were, and to compare these characters to people you know.A beautiful movie that is also very funny and at certain points, very dramatic and meaningful.10/10 "},{"Title":"John Hughs at his best","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The storyline of this movie is simple. Five teens spend the day in detention. For various infractions of the rules. As they all get settled in they are told they will be writing an essay explaining who they are. After laying down the rules (no talking, no moving, no sleeping) the teacher leaves them to their assignment. Thus begins a day of debate, revelations, rivalry, confessions, breaking of the rules, tears, alliances, arguments, self-discovery and ultimately the forging of lifelong friendships. Every teenage clique is represented. Athletes by wrestler Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez). Pressured by his father to be number one. Brainy geek Brian Johnson (Michael Anthony Hall). Pressured by his parents to get top grades. Mall princess Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald). Caught in a tug-of-war between her parents. Outsider John Bender (Judd Nelson). Physically and mentally abused by his parents. And loner Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy). Ultimately ignored by her parents. This movie makes detention seem cool. In reality, I don't see anyone being able to get away with these antics (smoking pot, roaming the halls, playing loud music) but it does make a case for seeing beyond labels and preconceived notions. "},{"Title":"Sums up everything bad about 80s teen films","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Inexplicably hailed as a cult classic, when I first saw this atrocious film I was the same age as the main characters (but not the same age as some of the actors playing them. Judd Nelson looks all of his 26 years). It seemed empty and utterly false then and 30 years on it looks even worse. It's on TV right now, the characters are impossible to like or care about and the script is arguably the worst thing John Hughes ever wrote (he never wrote anything good but this garbage screams to be taken seriously without doing anything to earn the right). Some people like this movie because it reminds them of teenage rebellion. I hate it because it has nothing honest or interesting to say about people of any age. No character says or does anything believable, and the hasty boy-girl pairings shoehorned into the final five minutes come out of absolutely nowhere (the prettying up of Ally Sheedy's token weird girl to make her an acceptable make-out target is particularly baffling).This film has no insight, no truth, no entertainment value and no point. Everyone involved should have been given Saturday detention for life. "},{"Title":"I Love It!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILER* I've wanted to see this film for ages and when I watched it today I wasn't disapointed. It joins Pretty In Pink as one of my favourite ever movies. Being sixteen I was born in the year The Breakfast Club was released but I found it just as relevant to me now as it was to teenagers in the eighties. Sure, some of their problems seem a little pathetic but on the whole I think everyone can identify to someone in the film at some point. Judd Nelson and Anthony Michael Hall give especially good performances, I think, though all the acting is good. I thought Breakfast Club was really funny and I was really impressed by it. It's certainly better than most recent teen films such as She's All That. One thing I thought was a bit crap was Ally Sheedys makeover at the end. It seems a bit shallow and like in the end she decided not to be herself and conform. Aside from that though I loved it and gave it a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"And they call this is a 'classic'.","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Somebody actually wrote this? A lot of it seems improvised, and not well. In fact, it almost seems like someone simply transcribed some bad improv and that became the script. Am I supposed to identify with anyone in this '80s Classic'? All of the characters are less than likable and none of them ring true. Is Ally Sheedy's character supposed to be autistic or something? Because otherwise I don't get it. Scenery-chewing Judd Nelson comes off less a troubled tough guy than a slightly flamboyant bitchy queen. And he looks a good ten years too old to be going to high school. Not only do the cast not talk like school students, they mostly don't even look like them. Although billed as a 'comedy', there's not a lot to crack a smile over, although when that nerdy kid dropped the news he'd been caught with a gun at school and the others automatically assumed he intended to kill himself, I had to laugh. These days kids don't bring guns to school to necessarily kill just themselves. Frankly what this dated piece of pointless pontification most closely resembles is one of those 'workshopped' plays in which irredeemably pretentious folk get to indulge themselves and create something truly painful. In this case, it is five cipher-characters who just will not shut up for a couple of hours. In lieu of a proper ending, we get a quick dance montage (note Emilio Estevez' total lack of dancing ability) and everyone is everyone's mate for some reason. And you know what? Turns out the smartest guy is the janitor. I hate this movie. There, I actually typed it. "},{"Title":"That the grass isn't always greener on the other side.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Serving detention on a Saturday morning is a teens absolute worst nightmare, but then also having to do it with your natural born enemies, makes medieval torture seem rather tame. But only when their worlds collide could they find out they have a lot more common than they originally might have thought; whilst also finding out that the grass isn't always greener on the other side. It should come as no surprise to find out that the king of all teen films, had to be helmed by John the king of the 80's Hughes, who with the most seminal of all teen and coming of age films ever in the Breakfast club, single handedly brought a fresh teen view and perspective to the adult masses. Of course he has ventured into the world of teen films before with the likes of sixteen candles and Pretty in Pink, but in The Breakfast Club he takes it t all new conquering heights. The American high school experience is generally always coupled with the notion of clicks, your cheerleaders, nerds, geeks etc. but when you see Breakfast club with its jock, popular girl, rebel, geek and the weird girl, it is plain to see where the archetypes and labels come from. It wasn't just the outstanding pioneering accomplishments Hughes brought to BC, but it was the uncompromising honesty and heart he brought to the film as well, which is its true selling point. Throughout BC 97 minute run, it never once degrades itself into the realm of pandering to cheap stereotypes and gags just to raise a few laughs and fill screen minutes, instead it chooses to explore the painful truth of adolescence; the never being able fitting in, never seeming to be good enough or never being able to comply with your parents ideals and their suffocating high expectations no matter how hard you try. Being a teenager can at times be about struggling to find 'self' when you don't know what 'self' is and being crushed by the weight of endless possibilities. Whilst at the other end of the spectrum it can be about having the world at your feet inviting you desperately to explore it in its entire splendour, as well allowing you to become the very definition of care free. So it was this fine exploration of the paradoxes and delicate balance of adolescence that Breakfast Club was so effectively able delve into, leaving a profound after effect on not only me, not even a whole generation, but on cinema itself. What I loved best about BC, was the verve and energy all the young actors brought to their roles, but trying to choose a favourite amongst the five main characters, is like trying to choose your favourite child, because each of them has found an equal place in my heart. Another aspect of the film I simply adored was the heart wrenching closing scene when despite everyone objections, popular girl Claire bursts everyone bubble by telling the painful truth, that no matter how strong they thought they bonded with each other, the fact remained that because they are all from different clicks at school, come Monday they would go back to being merely passing strangers in the school halls again just to save face in front of each of their friends. I've watched the film 4 times already, but as long as my computer keeps on working and the DVD keeps on playing, then I'm going to keep on watching. "}{"Title":"A Great Teen Film!","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I cannot believe this movie is not rated higher on IMDb! This movie is so funny. The movie is accurate in the way teens are and the groups they belong to in school. The movie's story is excellent and the acting is perfect! You have all the main types in this film 1. The Outcast, Dark (Ally Sheedy) 2. The Princess, Light (Molly Ringwald) 3. The Criminal, Dark (Judd Nelson) 4. The Jock, Light (Emilio Estevez) 5. The Nerd, Neutral (Anthony Michael Hall)I was 13 when this film came out - just started high school - and yes the movie reminded me of a few kids I went to school with. I loved the film then and still love it today!Some the hottest songs of the time period are in this film. Great soundtrack!One question to ask yourself Which of the 5 categories of stereo-types did you fall into? I was a mix of the Outcast and Nerd - the two characters I identified with the most. LOL!9.5/10 "},{"Title":"a classic teen film from 80s","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I gave this old movie a try since my English teacher recommended this movie saying that it's one of the most culturally significant movies in America. it's obvious that 'The Breakfast Club' got such rave reviews; and I just wanted to find out if the movie has been overrated or not.There are only seven characters in the breakfast club. The five students who got stuck in a room for seven hours on Saturday morning, a teacher who asked them to write an essay about themselves, and a cleaning man are the only characters that contribute a verse to the movie. I expected the movie to be far-fetched as the main characters have nothing in common. I, however, was quite fascinated by the plot. Each character has strong individuality, and it makes the story unpredictable. Also, it had such a good cast; the acting is so outstanding that I was actually infatuated with the story. Not to mention the memorable soundtrack. Though the movie is set in believable situation and it was shot only at a school, songs like 'We are not alone' and 'Don't you forget about me' keep you hooked on the breakfast club. Besides the cast and the soundtrack, what I appreciate the most in this movie is the message that's hidden. The Breakfast Club conveys a message Your problem might not be your problem. You may understand what it means if you give this classic teen film a try. You won't believe this film was released 30 years ago. The message still is realistic enough to impress today's teenagers.I highly recommend watching this movie. I promise it won't let you get bored. "},{"Title":"Overview of The Breakfast Club","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the movie The Breakfast Club a group of five different stereotyped students (the princess, the brain, the criminal, the athlete, and the basket case) come in contact of one another due to detention. While attending detention their principal, Mr. Vernon, asks that they write an essay about who do you think you are and the violations committed to end up at detention. Although the students did not get along in the first half of the movie because of their social differences as the movie progressed they soon opened up to one another realizing that aside from their physical attributions they were not too different from each other. As the five sit and hold a conversation, they explained reasons why they were at detention to begin with and talents that they have. They then begin revealing their secrets and eventually they all figure out that they have strained relationships with their parents and have the same fears in life. Along with the fear of making mistakes as their surrounding peers, they also begin to fear that they will return to their cliques and will not speak to each other again outside of detention. The movie ends with the letter written by the students being read which illustrates the changes that the students went through during detention and how their thoughts and views have changed and how it is viewed from a different perspective. I thought the movie did an excellent job thoroughly reflecting the teenage perspective because in reality teens tend to judge one another prior to knowing them personal. I think that this movie gives people, in and out of high school, an opportunity to rethink the negativity that goes through their head about an individual that appears different than what they are used to and keep an open mind towards the possibility of a new friendship. Throughout conversations in the movie the students saw that they went through the same daily struggles and although they had different classifications(similar to ones we have nowadays) they were able to realize that they were no different than one another. This movie is one of my favorites because it allows it's audience to take away a life lesson rather than be viewed as just another movie. Although the movie was based on school, the actors did a good job making the scenario comparable to situations that would be faced whether it be at school, work, or life in general. "},{"Title":"Great movie, a little outdated but worth watching.","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So, The Breakfast Blub... what can i say. The breakfast club was a 1985 film written and directed by John Hughes starry Molly Ringwald as the sensitive yet independent character Claire. Anthony Michael Hall as the stereo typical 80's nerd, Brian. Emillio Estevez as the high school Jock. Ally Sheedy as the weird, eccentric girl Claire. and Judd Nelson as the total asshole, *cough cough* i mean tough bully with a hard life, John bender.So what does The Breakfast Club have to offer as a film. Well aside from the cheesy 80's dance scenes, it has a fair amount to offer. Not only is the breakfast club and entertaining film to watch, it is also one of those films you can watch over, and over again, and not get bored. I'm looking at you, The Good ,The Bad and The Ugly. So the film starts with an interesting opening, depicting all the characters and their possible attributes and personalities. Like just by the way Claire is treated in this situation, the situation being that all the teens are to be kept in solitude on a Saturday in school for their own personal reasons. All of which are revealed later on in the film. The teen 'misfits' are all then greeted by the stuck up school principal, Richard Vernon, played by Paul Gleeson, best known for his role in film, die hard as Police chief Dwayne t. Robinson. The kids are then directed into what i can presume is a library or study hall, and told to write an essay on who they are and why they are there. So then begins the next 1 hour and 20 minutes of the most unforgettable films of all time. Oh wait, you wanted a more in depth look at what happens in the film, well to put it simply...John's a perv, Claire is annoying, Alison likes cereal sandwiches, Andrew has feelings, Brian is a virgin, Carl is well, just Carl... They all get high,a cheesy 80's dance scene, Richard get's annoyed at coffee, John's a bad ass, and they lived happily ever after...and did you know that the joke john tells while in the ceiling has no punch-line and that he just ad-libbed it on the spot.But overall, it's a good movie. Okay, in my opinion, it's no stand by me or Shawshank but it rules pretty high. The characters are relatable and the general atmosphere created by them it truly wonderful. It's as if you want the movie to go on see the characters even more and keep on enjoying it but, you know what they say, all good things must come to an end.My only complaint about the film is the fact that it is outdated a little. In fact, quite a lot outdated. Now i usually stand by a strong rule that true classic movies can never be outdated, like the original King Kong, we have a new one but the old one will, in at least my eyes always remain better. It's an popular opinion, yes but i stand by it. However there is certain trends that usually die out in that certain era, such as happy and innocent rap. I don't think I've seen a rap song that doesn't have swearing in it from around 1999 onward. The breakfast club dwells on it's trendy time period a lot. And i mean a lot... But you could always argue that it was popular then and that's all that matters. But just been warned when going in to this film, there is a lot of it. However, having there will always be a sweet charm in 80's dance music that will never die out. Okay i maybe on my own on that but, i digress, The breakfast club will remain a special place in my heart which only cake and Sporks will fill. one last fact. Did you know that Nicholas Cage was originally cast for the role of John Bender. "},{"Title":"Becoming of a team","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has come out more than 25 years ago. That's even more than I have been around in this world. But still, this movie could be applied to me, my generation or the generations to come.And here comes the little question why?. Well, I believe it's because it's universal. Social groups will always exist. I don't there ever be a time when jocks will be friends with nerds, popular with basket cases or criminals with all of them. Sure, we don't have class or casta system like in India, but it is surely visible when you have different interests. I don't think I ever seen the really popular kids hang out with the artsy ones and I don't think that's going to happen soon. (of course, the change is in our hands, but who am I to lecture anybody)If you are not familiar with this movie, it's about how 5 different young people get detention for completely different reasons on Saturday and their task is to write an essay explaining who they think they are. Well, the movie would be quite boring if they would just jump to the task. Instead how they are reacting to each other is really like a normal group dynamics (if you ever had to work with 4-5 other people, you'll know what I'm talking about).There are four stages of forming a good group ready to work and they go through all of them.Forming &#x96; they get to know each other a little. Who is who, the first impression - how different they are and it seems that they won't be able to do anything together. Storming &#x96; well, does this need to be explained? They quarrel. A lot. Feelings are hurt, people are mad.Norming &#x96; they get used to each other's quirks and how they all are bizarre, but just some of them are better of hiding it. They understand that all of them don't have perfect homes, all of them have some issues and all of them feel alone with those issues.Performing &#x96; they are talking, they are sharing about each other, coming up with solutions together. They are helping each other out, making them see that behind their social differences they are actually the same. They way how they from enemies become friends (of course we're not sure if they'll greet each other in the hallway) is just outstanding. It made me feel that no matter how weird you might be or what troubles you might have at home, you are not alone. And that thought brings comfort. "},{"Title":"An tribute to DETENTION","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This really an awesome movie and i recommend it to all people.the story basis on five high school students making their detention period of one day to know not each other but about them in common. Really an classy movie to watch and the characterization is simply awe full... Thanks to director John Hughes for this master piece .I watched lots and lots of movies but this one makes me feel uneasy on the fact that it revolves around our life story. Excellent performance given by all cast members especially Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall ) and Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy ).overall its a good time to spend to watch this movie and all the modern day parents are recommended to watch. "},{"Title":"Can't help but empathise and attach to these characters","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes, who is known more for his writing rather than his directing. I have not seen everything Hughes has written, or even directed (Planes, Trains and Automobiles) but I have seen some of his popular and memorable work like Sixteen Candles, Home Alone, Weird Science, Pretty In Pink, Some Kind of Wonderful and Ferris Bueller. Something that I have picked up after seeing enough of his work is that he is a writer who creates these characters that are lovable and adored. When I was a child, I always wanted to be as fearless and clever as Kevin McCallister in Home Alone and that is due to his writing. After watching this film, I feel that he has created his magnum opus in directing and writing but though it's his best, it has it's flaws.The plot of The Breakfast Club is a bunch of high schoolers serving detention. This is where I felt that Hughes' writing may not appeal to some people as this film is definitely not like other high school films out there. Hughes was bold to write about 5 people sitting in a library and talk. The film's goal is not very evident from the start but if you invest yourself within these characters then you would understand Hughes' intentions. It is about empathising the problems of others and understanding that teenagers are beyond the stereotypes society has placed upon them and that we all have our uniqueness that define who we are. This film focuses on these teenagers relationships, status and personalities. Hughes has created five very unique individuals who are viewed by each other within their stereotypes. This then takes the film into a dialogue and character driven direction in order to flesh out these characters and explore the emotions and hardships of their position. I personally found this film to be interesting and definitely relatable, which will be the reason why this film is universally adored.I felt that this was a personal film for Hughes and that he really cared for these characters. He achieved in crafting something that is so deep and at the same time entertaining which allows for one to revisit this film time and time again. What make Hughes so clever is creating young characters in his films that does not feel like they have been recycled from his other work. His most personal moment of this film, I assume, is the scene where they all sit down together and share their personal feelings and views. It really felt like Hughes has been in the situation before and just recreated it for this film.John Hughes and Thomas Del Ruth seem to have gone with a low budget feel to its photography and most of the camera's focus is on the actor's and their emotions and reactions. I felt that this style was appropriate and it does not distract us when key moments are taking place. There is very little movement to the camera and it allows us to take in scenes and focuses a little more on the characterization.The pacing, I thought was done well for a plot that takes it's time in moving things along. It takes it's time with these scenes, except for the hallway sequence which was paced a lot faster to induce tension. Some audiences may find this quite boring at times and may want for more things to happen.The music is driven by pop, new wave songs in the time period and fits very nicely with the setting. The music in this film gives people that sense of nostalgia and may not help themselves but to click along with it. I though, am a product of a later generation so it may not give me that heavy sense of nostalgia but it does get me clapping once in a while.This movie would have not worked and fallen apart if casting failed at acquiring actors who can understand the characters they are playing themselves. Thankfully the actors chosen are perfect and irreplaceable. Chemistry between the actors were excellent and all five play off each other well. These actors would end up working together commonly in later films.The Breakfast Club is a film that you may want to go back to, especially if you are a teenager, and relate to. It would make you think about others and understand the uniqueness that make that person an individual rather than a shade that can be identified solely on their surface. "},{"Title":"This film is a classic 80's comedy","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a 1985 comedy directed by John Hughes. It has several well known actors/actresses such as Emilio Estevez (Andrew), Judd Nelson (Bender), Ally Sheedy (Allison), Anthony Michael Hall (Brian) and Mollie Ringwald (Claire). The basics of the story is that five kids from different social circles are stuck together for Saturday detention. Through out the day they have their spats and differences, but in the end they discover they are a lot alike in many ways despite different backgrounds. They are a bunch of kids who are in that transitional point in life where they want to be treated like adults, but they still don't quite act the part.Throughout the film you see the idea of opposites attracting slowly start to take shape. By the end, the stereotypical straight- laced jock, Andrew, finds himself taken by the oddball and emotional basket case Allison. At the same time, the popular girl Claire falls for the bad boy Bender. In the mix Brian emerges with four new friends who don't fit into his normal social circle of highly intelligent nerds. Along with everything else that is going on, you have the assistant principal, Dick Vernon, who is played by Paul Gleason. He plays the roll of the typical assistant principal in that he comes off as a wannabe tough guy who isn't going to take any crap from punk school kids. Hating the idea that he has to spend his Saturday at school watching after them, he is going to go out of his way to make them as miserable as he is. A very obvious aspect of the film was costumes. You knew before the story really got started what kind of personalities the characters were going to have just by the clothes they were wearing. Ally Sheedy with her frumpish look, Emilio Estevez in his letter-man jacket and Mollie Ringwald with her designer outfit. They didn't even have to speak and you knew what kind of people they were going to be. It all added to the different people from different social circles aspect of the film. The film also captured a very good cross section of 80's popular culture in many ways. Some of those included, again, the clothing worn, hairstyles, vocabulary and the music. To this day, if someone who was born in the 90's or later wants to know what the 80's were like, I tell them to watch either the Breakfast club or a another movie that was similar in a lot of ways, Fast Times At Ridgemont High. "},{"Title":"The film The Breakfast Club directed by John Hughes is one of the best 80s movies I have ever seen.","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film The Breakfast Club directed by John Hughes is one of the best 80s movies I have ever seen, with the exception of Ferris Bueller's Day Off. The character and story development was superbly done without sacrificing the pace of the film. The film was centered on a coming of age theme where the young characters become more mature and discover how their actions affect other while trying to break away from the stereotypes that have been placed on them by their peers. The movie centered on the development of five main characters, with each having a different stereotype applied to them, while spending Saturday detection with one another. Emilio Estevez was the athlete Andrew Clark, Anthony Michael Hall was the brain Brian Johnson, Judd Nelson was the criminal John Bender, Molly Ringwald was the princess Claire Standish, and Ally Sheedy was the basket case Allison Reynolds. When the movie starts each of these characters is introduced with these stereotypes and at first they defend these roles that society has determined that they fit into. John the criminal is the main catalyst in the movie for the other characters to start to examine their roles in life and how following these roles effects themselves and others. He acts out and forces the others into conversations and taking action, when they would have just kept to themselves for the entire detention. John forces the characters to rethink the way they act and the reasons for their actions. I love how this mechanic is used to develop the characters in the story.Each character finds that what that the roles they have taken where a result of their parents, and other peers pressure placed upon them and that they are deeply unhappy with their lives. The criminal John finds that he does not happy with hiding his emotions through violence and vandalism and emotionally opens up through the film. Clair the princess comes to the realization that she is not happy with being forced into such a culturally restive life and wants to be a more carefree person. Ally the basket case is tired of being rejected and ignored by her parents and fellow students and learns that she can still have meaningful social relationships with others. Andrew the athlete learns that it is OK to be weak and Brian the brain learns that he does not have to be academically perfect. In the end each of these characters becomes more emotionally mature fitting in with the theme of the movie.However, the best part of the movie for me was that the ending was open to the viewers. Each of the characters went their separate ways after the detention, leaving with the thoughts of Clair's statement that when they get back to school peer pressure will force them back into their roles and they will all cease to be friends. This makes the viewer determine if the he or she think that the characters have become mature enough to overcome this flaw. "},{"Title":"I guess I might have to have lived in the 80's to get this as well as the other people here have.","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, this movie is a decent little movie. Although I personally think it is overrated (I think it's because I wasn't alive in the 80's). I was surprised by it a little bit, especially towards the end.The plot of this movie - 5 stereotypes go to a Saturday detention a jock, a delinquent (who I thought they put a little too much emphasis on him as opposed to the entire group), a geek, a quiet girl that's extremely strange and the popular girl. The teacher supervising them wants them to write a thousand words on who they think they are. However they think it's better to just talk to each other, while doing so they find out they had more in common than they thought.The premise for this is very interesting. It's not my personal favourite of John Hughes (I think that it's Ferris Beuller's Day Off). As I said earlier I think that they should have been focused more as a group and less on Judd Nelson's character (of which I didn't really like - the same with Molly Ringwald's character). This movie is a decent watch but if you want to hear my opinion it isn't as good as what people are saying. "}{"Title":"wonderful John Hughes film","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes wrote and directed this '80s film, The Breakfast Club, starring some young up and comings Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, John Kapelos, and Paul Gleason.The story concerns five high school students who are forced by the principal (Gleason) to serve detention for eight hours on a Saturday and to write an essay on who they think they are. There's the troublemaker/big mouth, John Bender (Nelson) who manages to end up with something like two months of Saturday's worth of detention by the time he's done; the rich, pretty girl, Claire Standish (Ringwald), a strange girl who makes noises but doesn't speak, Allison (Sheedy), a nerd, Brian (Hall), and and the sports star (Estevez).They're not supposed to talk but of course they do, and at first, this takes the form of insults. Then they start sneaking around, smoking dope, talking about their families, their problems, and their secrets, and before you know it, they have all formed some sort of a connection.This is such a wonderful film, about kids who for one reason or another, feel like outcasts and find out that just about everyone does feel like an outcast in high school. The things they hide behind are stripped away and the real people are exposed.The acting is wonderful, with top honors going to Nelson, who without a doubt has the showiest role, and Estevez, who delivers a powerful monologue at the end. You could have knocked me over with a feather when I realized that this young blond kid was Anthony Michael Hall, whom I only knew from Dead Zone - but there was no mistaking that face. Paul Gleason is a riot as the harried principal, who feels totally out of touch with the students.Highly recommended - The Breakfast Club is one of the best youth films of the '80s or ever probably, with the great John Hughes touches that help make it a remarkable experience for the viewer. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club &#x97; High school detention and colliding personalities on a Saturday","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club presents to us the five archetype of high school students. Every kid can find himself in those, if not in true form, by the mix of two of them. Even today, it holds true, if the lingo doesn't. I'm not talking about cliques, I'm talking about personality and acceptability.This is John Hughes' master piece in term of analyzing the teenage mind. You're faced with what makes somebody cool, why you get rejected, the walls that are built between the groups, and how they are built, maintained. You get the different angst they face every day from parental abuse to parental absence, from peer pressure to bullying, from delinquency to suicide.Those very opposite characters are put together and confronted with each other's reality. As they argue, squabble, and fight, they never forget to form common cause against their oppressors.There's nothing negative about this movie, it's just starting to date a bit, but not too much. Hughes did a great job to keep the 80s out of his film as much as possible. The only thing that can irk, is some bits of youth lingo which is now outdated. Fortunately, very little is used, and the rest is still current.You have to see this, but keep in mind the release date and that it's all happening in the library. A single set. "},{"Title":"Best High School Film Ever","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is, in my opinion, the greatest teen movie of all-time. I think what makes it so amazing is that it doesn't try to make high school into this magic place where we make friendships that last forever and experience our first loves, but instead, it presents it as a place where we are all trying to act like everything is OK but we're all equally confused and hurt on the inside. It shows that no matter how different people may look on the outside, we all experience pain. I kind of feel like the world would be a better place if life was more like this movie, where everyone's issues was out in the open . There would be less misunderstandings. Check out my full review http//amandalovesmovies.com/2012/03/20/the-breakfast-club/ "},{"Title":"Cool Movie","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not sure why this is such a good movie because it practically has no story to it, but it is. Couple of teenagers meet in a Saturday morning detention class, and does some crazy things. They are all anti authority, but they all can understand each other in their own ways.The stars of this movie reads like who's who of the teen stars of the '80s. They all went on to have successful careers during the '80s. They did have charisma, and were entertaining to watch. The movie might have not worked well if it wasn't for the stellar acting by Judd Nelson.This is an interesting movie that the whole movie happens within the school. It captures the social mood of the 80s well. Kids back then definitely had more peaceful outlook towards their life than now. The movie is an interesting concept movie that the likes were never made again. If there was a cult movie of the '80s, this one is it. "},{"Title":"Don't Forget About Me","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was 31 years old when I saw The Breakfast Club and remember feeling ripped open and understood all at the same time. The film was so good in so many ways the writing, the directing, the casting, the soundtrack all blended into the perfect recipe for a classic unforgettable portrayal of how savage high school can be. The acting was amazing when you consider the ages of the actors and how sensitively they portrayed their characters. And I cannot imagine a better theme song than the one chosen from Simple Minds for purposes of driving home a valid and many times overlooked part of a teenager's life feeling invisible, unimportant, lost, and alone with the fear that they are the only person it is all happening to and that nobody would understand or care if they knew. It happened to all of us, regardless of whether we were the beauty queen, the geek, the jock, the nut, or the criminal...we dealt with parents, teachers, bullies, self-doubt, triumphs, joys, and first loves in the hallways and corridors of high school. If anyone denies that fact, they are lying to themselves. Thankfully, someone remembered all of it and made their memories into a classic film to let us all know we have not been forgotten. It is in this way that art imitates life, and changes us all. I hope nobody ever tries to re-make this perfect film. "},{"Title":"Breaking down stereotypes","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a new classic that is holding up well to the test of time. The film revolves around five teenagers; Emillio Estevez as a wrestling star, Anthony Michael Hall as Brian Johnson straight A student, Judd Nelson as John Bender the thug with a criminal past, Molly Ringwald as Claire Standish the popular princess, and Ally Sheedy as Allison Reynolds the anti-social basket case. These five teenagers are forced to attend an 8 hour Saturday school for their various crimes against the school. These five individuals, deprived of contact from their normal social groups, are forced to communicate with each other. During this communication they learn that they are not so different after all. They learn that each person is an individual with their own individual struggles and difficulties. The movie tries to break down stereotypes and show the viewer that you can't always judge someone based solely on what group you identify them as belonging to. It strives to show us that you need to past the stereotype to find the individual underneath. Just like his movie Pretty in Pink Director John Hughes tries to teach us about looking past first impressions to find the real person. Hughes uses several key points in the story to show us the friendship developing among this group. The first scene is when Bender removes a screw from the door causing it to slam shut and not remain open. This causes the view of the room to be obstructed allowing the group freedom to move about the room. When the group is confronted about why the door is closed they chose silence and risk getting in trouble instead of telling on bender. One of the most telling scenes is when the group has snuck out of the detention room to retrieve pot from John Benders locker. After one of the most frustrating scenes in the movie, a Scooby doo like chase in the hallways, with rapid shots showing the group trying to escape the principal, Mr. Vernon, played by Paul Gleason. The group realizes that they are trapped and cannot successfully manage to return to the room without getting caught. Bender then decides to take the fall for the whole group and runs down the halls making a huge ruckus in order to distract the Mr. Vernon. Bender, despite his reputation as a bad boy criminal, shows his friendship for this new group of individuals by protecting them from trouble. Hughes also used space to bring the group together in the mind of the audience. In most of the shots he has it lined up so that when one actor is the focus of a particular moment, there is always another actor in frame. The way the group sits in the library for detention. He is always trying to bring them closer together. I think the film itself best describes the theme of the movie. The film itself outright states the theme of the movie at the end You see us as you want to see us, in the simplest terms and most convenient definitions. But what we have found out is that each of us is a brain, and an athlete, and a basket case, a princess, and a criminal  "},{"Title":"High School as we Know","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the story I wish I could write. I was writing a story similar to this but after I watched this movie I gave up because I could never write it as good as this. If Ferris Bueller's Day Off was the lighter side of high school with some of the dark bits, The Breakfast Club (also written by John Hughes) was the darker side of high school with some of the lighter bits. It is so dark at time dwelling into the psyche of the characters but its at the same time so incredibly funny. Each character is done so well and each has their own story arc. Brian gains some friends, Andrew learns to accept other people, Claire learns to love, Allison learns to act in society, Bender gets accepted by other people, and even the principal learns to understand that he is just like the students. My only real problem is the end of the movie for two characters. And without giving away any spoilers, it isn't really fulfilling, especially with the connection the two build in the movie, that's my opinion at least. "},{"Title":"A gem made when the Brat Pack had passion for acting.","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first started watching this movie about five students (each a different type) spending a Saturday in detention, I was thinking this won't be nearly as good as Fast Times at Ridgemont High. It is all taking place in the school library and Fast Times had so many multiple settings. I ended up liking it slightly better (both were very good).This movie starred many members of a group known as the Brat Pack in 1985. It was early in most of their acting careers and you could tell their passion for acting was very high. I think it was Anthony Michael Hall's first film and he delivered a great performance. There were some movies in the late '80's/early 90's that had performances that were not as good by some of these actors. I usually check the date on a Brat Pack movie...early to mid '80's and the odds are it was good. Late '80's to early '90's and it is less likely.The actor that played the disciplinarian that supervised them and made threats to have them spend more Saturdays there was perfect for his role. His conflict with Judd Nelson's character was very well acted by both actors. There was a solid rock music soundtrack as well. It shows how these students clash at first and then slowly realize that it will be a very long day if they do not try to achieve a small measure of civility.The first part of the movie shows a dysfunctional environment that then transforms to at least some respect among the students. It reminded me of the first time I had jury duty(and that was with older adults..albeit 12 people instead of five. Ha!).There is also a romantic connection that perhaps was a bit forced and not plausible, but this was common in the eighties. Most of us knew people that were very similar to some of these students in high school and the performances are very good or better with some good messages provided. It is about 60% drama and 40% comedy. "},{"Title":"Joy of Freedom","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was dilly-dallying for quite a long time in watching this iconic John Hughes film of the eighties. I should not have done that. It's not like we haven't seen this kind of coming of age films, but still this movie is one of the best in that category mainly due to the character development that we hardly see in coming of age teen dramas.The movie starts with a fine Saturday, when five high school students were forced to be in the school as detention. The first impression when I watched the first 10-15 minutes, I thought this could be the '12 Angry Men' of High School movies, at least thematically. It didn't disappoint me and that's saying a lot. Really, a lot. These five kids are quite different from each other, and they were proud of it. But as they began to talk amongst themselves(of course conflict arose at first) slowly, predictably but pleasantly they began to open up; and then we could very well relate to the characters. Each of those kids may be from a different background, from a different class of society, but there is that feeling of hard done-by that is common between all of them. That is where John Hughes was efficacious with this film. The characters are wisely chosen too. A brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess and a criminal; the movie was able to do what it was intended to do because of these polarising characters. The performances of the actors in these characters are also one of the primary reasons of the success of the movie. The young actors, members of the core group of the 'Brat Pack' of the eighties did exceptionally well in depicting the varying range of emotions in their characters. Judd Nelson, especially, as the outcast tough-guy John Bender, managed to sway between being cool and also emotionally vulnerable deftly. All in all, this movie may not be a classic in terms of technical aspects but it has the heart in it that one cannot help but feel a whooping sensation when John Bender punches the air in that iconic end scene. The excitation of freedom, one may call it.P.S. Eightees' music was really cool. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie!","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a huge 80's movies fan, I love them, Ferris Bueller, Back To The Future, lots. But this, this, The Breakfast Club, is one of my favorite movies of all time. It's funny, comedic, cool, awesome, awesome, and even more awesome. It's really good, (Bender's by far the best character) you'll like it, it's super fun! It's really cool, funny, sad at times, really good, in every way. Probably my favorite John Hughes movie. Yeah, it's that awesomely amazing. It's pretty much for everyone. Everyone can find a way to like it. My friend who hardly likes any decent movies, I've been showing him some, and when I showed him this, he said it was his new favorite movie! "}{"Title":"Moments of silliness are offset by moments of truth","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The career of John Hughes has been marked mostly by lots of silliness and a lot of fluff. This is the most truthful and insightful film he has ever made. The Breakfast Club presents different walks of adolescent life in such a way that it respects its subject matter and is not disrespectful toward teenagers or adult authority. Hughes cares about each of his characters and presents his film in an original method. Original and insightful, with a large cult following that it deserves. The only flaws are a bit too much melodrama and some unrealistic dance scenes. Overall, a worthwhile Hughes film with a wholly original craft. "},{"Title":"Dealing with Ones External Perceptions","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a movie based on a group of high school students in detention that would normally not have spoken to each other. They begin their journey of understanding humanity by talking and learning about each other's lives. The movie allows you to feel like you are in the group as an invisible bystander. It shows how each group of teenagers in high school struggle with their abilities.The main actors are the teenagers that are in detention. They are the jock, Andrew, played by Emilio Estevez, the criminal, John Bender, played by Judd Nelson, the princess/prom queen, Claire, played by Molly Ringwald, the brain, Brian, played by Anthony Michael Hall, and the weird one, Alison, played by Ally Sheedy.John Bender's character is the group trouble maker who also portrays himself as having a terrible home life. This makes the other students see him in a different life. He cause them all to communicate with him by making rude remarks, leading them from the detention room, and delving deep into their lives to understand who they are. He leads them into a life they never experience, and are intrigued so they follow. This causes enlightenment to why each character is who they are, and the problems that they have in their young lives.The movie deals with issues that are hot topics, but often not dealt with. There was only one part of the film I don't think should have been filmed, but I will leave that to the viewer to decide as to not give away too much. The film makes the teenagers very real and everyone can relate to one of the characters. It makes you look back at high school and remember all of the issues and groups that existed.They also go deeper and look into some deep issues of a teenager, and how they have coped with their lives. At the beginning of the movie they are each separate entities that have no desire to communicate, and by the end of the movie they have formed bonds, understanding, and heart felt feelings for each member of the group. The film is not a typical teenager movie, but rather a glimpse into what each person undertakes in high school and how they thrive. This movie is a must watch for everyone. Play special attention to the letter at the beginning of the movie and then again at the end. It plays an important role in understanding what the teenagers learned from their detention experience. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I were to tell you to think of an 80's high school movie, you would probably think of this movie. But really even if I took out the 80's part, this movie should still be the film that pops into your head. If you went to high school, then you probably know these kids. It isn't just 1985 teenagers that can relate to this, I was a high school student from 2008-2011, and I knew a each of these kids, and even related to some of them myself.OK first my negatives. The shift from comedy to drama could have been a little smoother. It just seems to go from jokes to talking about suicide. Maybe that's just me. Also the Principal was played a little to over the top. I know this is what we all thought our teachers and principles wanted to say to us, but if they really threatened me, I would be probably think it was a joke. He should have been fired.But overall this movie was really really good. If I had to pick a character I was most like it would be part of Allison and part of Brian. I was just that kid in school who was just there. I wan't a jock, geek, or criminal, I was just there. So I thought I wouldn't relate to this movie, but it turns out I did. The reason the movie works is because of it's characters, because the plot on paper sounds really boring. Really it's hard to explain why the film works so well, you just need to watch it.Sorry this review isn't that great, but really there isn't much to say, it just does a really good job of portraying teenagers. If you haven't seen it yet go watch it, especially if you're still in high school. "},{"Title":"A jock, goth, nerd, princess and a punk all serve Saturday detention while finding out how close they really are.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spending all of their Saturday, Andrew(Emilio Estevez), John(Judd Nelson), Claire(Molly Ringwald), Brian(Anthony Michael Hall) and Allison(Ally Sheedy) come together to serve detention and are assigned the task of writing an essay to explain who they think they are. Throughout the course of the movie the students perspective of each other is altered in a life changing way as the Breakfast Club spill their deep secrets to the person they thought they would never speak to in a lifetime.This movie is a clever movie that is set apart from any other movie that was created in the 1980's. Attempting to cater to the typical stereotype the Breakfast Club consists of your standard clicks. But what makes this film great is the fact that it withdraws special effects and fictional stories. Since most have attended high school, we are able to identify with these characters in one way or another creating a special connection with the viewer from the beginning of the film. As far as techniques go for this film I especially noticed the amount of close up shots of each of the characters, as the film was supposed to show the emotions behind each of the characters so we could feel what they feel and respond in a way that relates to the character and theme.The second technique I want to discuss is motif, this is the primary element considered in the movie. There was a reoccurring theme that was presented as each scene provided some sort of controversy dealing with the stereotypes whether it be the jock vs the punk or the princess vs the nerd or maybe just the goth sitting in the back ignoring everyone was she makes a snowy city of dandruff on her essay. This is a timeless movie, we all have or will deal with these kinds of stereotypes at some point in our life and gets a great rating from me, even as a twenty-four year old. I have found that the theme of this movie is still presented in other forms even today with shows such as Glee and movies such as Cinderella Story. As possibly the first of it's kind, this movie executes exceptionally well and receives a thousand accolades in my book. "},{"Title":"The pressures in teenage lives","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the film 'The Breakfast Club' we see five teenagers that come from different cliques come together for a Saturday detention in high school. The cliques that they come from is the 'Brain' Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), the 'Athlete' Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), a 'Princess' Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), a 'Basket Case' Allsion Reynolds (Ally Sheedy), and a 'Criminal' John Bender (Judd Nelson). Throughout this day they taunt each other, make jokes, and party, this helps them come to an understanding of each other and become friends by the end of the day. This may seem like a typical teen movie except it really hits home not just during 80's but, for every generation that has come after. They did not want to go to the school and on some levels were concerned with being cool and fitting in, not getting along with their parents but wanting to please them at some levels. The pressure they have from their peers, during the scene where they were all sitting on the library floor and Brian asks if they will still all be friends come Monday. Claire said no, that they would say hi to them and then cut them down when they walked away so their friends would not make fun of them for talking to the others.This film touches base with the pressures these teens go through at home. Claire's parents use her to get back at each other. Brian's parents expect perfection, Andrews father expect him to be a winner and put down those who are not. Allison's parents ignore her, and John's parents are physically and mentally abusive to him. Most of us could relate to one if not more of these teens home lives which makes this film feel more personal having that insight into many lives. Staying in the time period of the 80's the film 'Pretty in Pink' you see many of the same teen issues of fitting in and the pressures that come with it. When two teenagers start to like each other and they are from opposite sides of the tracks. When Andy Walsh (Molly Ringwald) and Blane McDonnagh (Andrew McCarthy) want to start dating and their friends put pressure on them about how it is not right due to they are not in the same clique. At the end they decided that they did not care and some of their friends changed their minds and others were still against it.The theme song for this film fits it perfect 'Don't forget about me' by Simple Minds. In this song it talks about telling your troubles, and how love is strange, these two things happen in the film when they all tell each other their problems and when Andrew and Allison and John and Claire have connections with each other from more than a friendship. When the song says 'will you recognize me?' this is told during the scene when Brian asks if they will still be friends on Monday. The song really relates to the fact in the movie that some are worried what will happen when they are in school with their other friends will they say each other's names? Or just walk on by.During the dance part of the film when they were playing the music in the library the camera shows the actors in a long, medium, and close up shots, this shows them dancing alone defining them from different cliques. Then we see them dancing together in long shots this helps to show that even though you can see from their appearance that they are from different worlds in this school, it shows that they are connecting with each other through the music. When they dance together you see John and Allison, then the three guys together, then the two girls. The Breakfast Club depicts what kids go through from the pressures of teen life not just from the 80's but today and generations to come. People can find themselves in one if not more of the characters and relate to the problems and pressures that they are going through. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes always had a way of connecting with teens in his movies. He has a knack for striking the chords of youth and presenting teenage material in a way that anybody can relate to. Sixteen Candles made us relate to a young teenager who just wants to be acknowledged by her busy parents. Weird Science focused on the horny-ness of teenage guys. And Ferris Bueller's Day Off had some of the most interesting characters ever (Ferris and Cameron) and had one of the best adventures and confronted the future of their lives. The Breakfast Club focuses on five students who have Saturday morning detention. The characters are all very interesting and all have their own unique personalities, and you will find a student (or students) like them in every school in the world. They are so realistic that you can't not connect with them. Everyone who went to high school is at least similar to a character. The are some other great powerful scenes (like when they talk about how they got their detention). And there are also some hilarious scenes (mostly from Bender)Basically, if you don't connect with this movie, you either never went to high school or have no soul.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club, directed by John Hughes, touches base on popular stereotypes that can be found in any typical American high school. The film follows five students of very different backgrounds on one day in detention. During a regular school day this particular group of teens would never be seen talking to each other or dare to associate with one another. When they see who they are stuck with for their detention, none of them are pleased, to say the least. The students are John Bender (Judd Nelson), Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy) and Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), who are the bad boy, the jock, the popular rich girl, the emo, and the nerd of the school. The teacher in charge of their detention is Mr. Vernon (Paul Gleason), who is also the principal of their school. The only thing that the students notice they share in common right away is their hatred for Mr. Vernon. Mr. Vernon assigns them to all write a paper about Who you think you are. During the course of the detention and through actually speaking to one another, the students find out that the misconceptions they each had of one another were extremely wrong. I believe the Breakfast Club did a good job introducing all of the characters and began in the right direction allowing the viewer to see each of the students as the other students saw them. We as the audience were introduced to who they really were right along with the other class mates. John Hughes also did the movie Ferris Beulers Day Off. Both of these movies seem similar to me. In one movie it focuses on a larger group of teens and the differences they thought they had in turn to find out how similar they are. Ferris Buelers Day Off focuses more on one student, his sister, and one of his friends. Again there was a hatred for the principal by Ferris and his friend. Ferris' sister was the nerd sucking up to the principal trying to help him bust Ferris for skipping school. Ferris and his friend were the bad boys trying to have a day of fun by skipping school. I think the Breakfast Club was more of a drama for Hughes where Ferris Buelers Day Off was to be more comical. However both films focused on stereotypes of teens. Overall I really enjoyed this film and watching each of the characters take on the real them. It shows how high school can really be for teens and how it is to be okay with displaying who you really are. "},{"Title":"Transcendent 80s comedy","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a film that essentially takes place in one location (the library), it's rather remarkable that The Breakfast Club earns a 7.9 rating on IMDb.This movie succeeds because of the dialogue. The channel of communication between the characters is affable as each progressively divulges in their personal lives.We begin with five disconnected characters originating from a variety of domestic and social conditions. There is the quintessential jock, nerd, bad-boy, pretty girl and weirdo loner -- all serving an 8-hour detention on a Saturday.John Bender, played by the capable Judd Nelson, conquers the spotlight for much of the initial 45 minutes, probing his fellow classmates with a variety of contemptuous verbal thrusts. Bender effectively irritates all-star wrestler Andrew (Emilio Estevez) and prissy rich-girl Claire (Molly Ringwald) to the point where Andrew informs him that if he didn't exist, no one would care. Staying loyal to his boorish reputation, Bender pretends like the comment doesn't bother him, but deep down there appears to be some deep-rooted insecurities bubbling to the surface. His contemporaries aren't the only ones verbally jousting with Bender either as principal Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) frequently clashes with him as well. Dick -- as Bender acerbically calls him -- isn't exactly revered by the rest of the crew though. In fact, it's this universal resentment of their arrogant superior that eventually bands them together. When Bender falls through the ceiling after sneaking back into the library from a locked closet in which he was banished to, Vernon comes storming in demanding who caused the ruckus. With Bender hiding under a desk, each vehemently denies any involvement, effectively covering for their once despised classmate.From that point on, each character gradually begins to destroy the superficial barriers that separated them, allowing the dialogue to transform from almost entirely idle and vindictive to somewhat fruitful, albeit harsh at times.More importantly, though, we learn WHY each character is on detention instead of just WHAT got them their.The ending is somewhat cheesy and clichéd, but not enough to ruin the film. Despite the conspicuous 1980s milieu, The Breakfast Club is a classic that can be enjoyed for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Saturday morning detention was never this funny, moving, or heartfelt","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is arguably the best movie ever made about teenagers that it's no wonder that it's such an essential piece of 1980s teen fanfare/nostalgia. This movie is all of funny (sometimes hilariously so), moving, and heartfelt. The most authentic thing about this film is that regardless of the blatant stereotyping of high school cliques (honestly, not a whole lot has changed since 1985) and melodrama, this movie pulls at the heart-strings in ways you never would have thought were possible for a film such as this. And this heart-string-pulling is sincere and honest, making my assertion that it's authentic correct.For early Saturday morning detention, five suburban Chicago high school students have showed up as punishment, with Principal Richard Vernon (the late Paul Gleason) presiding over the festivities. They've all done something to land here this morning, and they each represent the various cliques in their school Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez) is the stereotypical jock, Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald) is the stereotypical beauty/princess, Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall) is the stereotypical nerd/brain, Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy) is the stereotypical shy-quiet girl/weirdo/outsider, and John Bender (Judd Nelson) is the stereotypical rebel. As an aside, when I was in high school, I fell into three of the five categories here nerd/brain, shy-quiet guy/weirdo/outsider, and rebel - in that order.As I said before, they all have their reasons for being there, and on another day in another world they would have absolutely nothing to do with each other. But this is not the normal world. This is writer-director John Hughes's teen world, and in his teen world, anything goes. Of course these kids don't like each other; Hughes makes sure of that, but as the day goes on, barriers are broken, alliances are made, and each of these kids discovers that they have more in common with each other than they think - of course after having gone through a lot of pain to get there. They have sincere heart-to-hearts with each other that are not like anything seen in another film of this genre. Spliced in with the drama, Hughes's flawless screen-writing does give these kids some time to have some fun and stave off the boredom and mess with Vernon, with well-placed scenes of comedy, even slapstick comedy, that get as much laughs from the comedy as the tears we shed from the heart-string drama.The Breakfast Club is a first-rate teen comedy/drama with some first-rate performances from some of the top Brat Packers from the time. Estevez, Ringwald, Hall, Sheedy, and Nelson are a brave, once-in-a-lifetime cast that do their characters plenty of justice. These kids may be stereotypes, but they're three-dimensional stereotypes, and real people with real feelings and real troubles. (These former Brat Packers, now fully-grown adults, would reunite 20 years later at the 2005 MTV Movie Awards to receive a special honor.)John Hughes never quite repeated the success of The Breakfast Club, and his career began to decline toward the '80s and into the '90s. But The Breakfast Club is unquestionably Hughes's masterstroke of teen comedy/drama. He was able to give teenagers a three-dimensional gloss and show us that these teens are indeed real people with real feelings and real troubles.Saturday morning detention was never this fun.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Way We Were","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are certain works of literature, cinema, and even television that have to be viewed at a certain crucial point to truly engage on the level they were intended. My first viewing of The Breakfast Club came when I was a high-school senior (at the insistence of my then-girlfriend), and while I didn't see the film as an accurate reflection of any experiences I had had, I certainly liked it. I viewed the film several months later as part of a psychology class I was taking. And now, with high school 8 years in the past, The Breakfast Club plays better than ever. While this quintessential John Hughes snapshot of '80s teens can veer into corny, outdated lingo and other dubious asides (the 'whistling' interlude), the overall effect is no less potent or genuinely intended. The premise is simple 5 seemingly disparate teens, identifiable by one distinguishing trait (Athlete, Criminal, Princess, Brain, Basket Case), are stuck in an 8-hour Saturday detention session, during which they reveal themselves as uniquely layered individuals. The performances are the stuff of legend--each actor brings a vulnerable edge to their deceptively cliché titles (and, of course, part of the film's charm is seeing which characters we can most closely relate to). Hughes is as good at staging goofy comic moments (such as a hallway chase set to synthesizer percussion) as he is at the more quietly emotional and raw scenes. The adult characters (represented primarily by Paul Gleason's bitter principal) are somewhat problematic, coming across as short-fused boogeymen...yet still, this seems to be part of Hughes' (mostly accurate) teenage perception, where the notion of 'adult' remains an elusive, mysterious concept. The Breakfast Club is a mix of comedy, drama, and nostalgia that is by turns hilarious, affecting, and wrought with the kind of naive complexity that makes youth at once joyful and painful. "}{"Title":"I won't be forgetting them anytime soon.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the last few weeks, I have been watching all the John Hughes films again, like Sweet Sixteen, Ferris Bueller, Some Kind Of Wonderful (he wrote it) - and it seems that The Breakfast Club provides the most thoughtful insight out of all of them.The story is simple, about 6 kids in detention on a Saturday. What ensues is a film about bonding, the fragile nature of these kids and what it means to be a teenager. In the hands of other directors, this film would have probably focused on comedy too much, to sacrifice for the lack of a house party scene. But Hughes handles the pacing well, and the film never rushes the development.The characters are all stock - at least we think. As the film progresses, the vulnerability of these kids becomes more apparent. I don't wanna ramble on too much, but this film is the best teenage comedy made in the 80's...with Ferris Bueller.Estevez, Nelson, Hall, Sheedy and Ringwald are all wonderful in this film. Sometimes too much emphasis is on Nelson, but who cares when th rest is so good.Watch it, love it. "},{"Title":"Breakfast in Detention","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five very different high school students go to detention on Saturday. There is Brian, the nerd. Claire is the prom queen, Andy is the jock, John is the criminal and Allison is the basket case. So they are all in this Saturday morning detention which is ruled by a swell guy teacher who is also a jerk. All five of them have to write a paper but instead they all screw around, make jokes, argue and fight.I thought that it was a pretty good movie because of the diversity of the students in the detention. There is someone for everyone in the group that people can relate to. Nerds can relate to the nerd and people who were jocks in high school can relate to the jock. It has humor and it has some deep parts too but overall, it is one great movie not to be missed.Instead of going to prison I suggest watching this movie on Saturday morning. "},{"Title":"And each year, these kids get more and more arrogant.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wasn't yet born when this movie came out and so therefore I could hardly say whether or not high school life was portrayed correctly. All the same, it's definitely an enjoyable film. There are five students, each symbolizing a certain stereotype as indicated in the movie (athlete, nerd, princess, criminal, and basket-case) and a supervisor who I would personally hate to have in or around my school. Throughout the film, the characters become more than characters; they become someone you know or have seen in your own classes; which is a great tribute to John Hughes. The development of these characters allowed an insight into the troubles of teenagers (which I think are grossly underestimated nowadays). It shows that although a teenager can seem like a lunatic, or snobby, or as a rebel, it is not entirely their own doing. The Breakfast Club perfectly suits the saying You should never judge a book by its cover.-- Spoiler --The plot is actually debatable among some. Some of my friends think that it's a twisted comedy with a bit of romance thrown in there, others think that it's a teenage drama. I personally believe it to be about the character development and the idea that there is more to someone than just an outer appearance and a label. Some think that there are parts of this movie that are cliché, such as the angelic girl falling for the rough bad boy but these types of clichés probably weren't clichés back then. >.o-- End of Spoiler --In any case, the acting is amazing on everyone's part. Judd Nelson is fantastic as John Bender and Emilio Estavez is equally impressive in his role as Andrew Clark. The movie ends at a point so that you're left wondering what will happen when they meet up again, if they meet up at all. There are a lot of conflicts, some of which are cleverly left to the viewer's imagination and perspective, and overall it's just a well-done, well-acted, insightful, and thought-provoking film. If you haven't seen The Breakfast Club, do so as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece In All Aspects!, John Hughes Is Simply Put A Genius!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a masterpiece in all aspects,John Hughes is simply put a genius!. All The Characters wonderful and you can relate to all of them, and i thought the story was fantastic, plus The cast are all simply amazing in this!.It's brilliantly written,and each character has there own special talents. Let's see you got the Wrestling Jock, The Prom queen,The trouble maker,the brain and the princess, all very 5 unique characters, all put together on a Saturday in a detention hall, in my opinion that is quite a unique premise, and John Hughes pulls it off perfectly, plus Judd Nelson cracked me up throughout the film, the only thing that bugged me was we never did get to hear the rest of his joke!. I found the closet scene quite powerful, as Gleason (Principal Vernon), delivered some harsh words for Judd (John Bender), as it also has some other great emotional moments as well, plus it leaves the viewer thinking a lot after the movie is finished.What i also liked is how all of the 4 characters constantly made Principal Vernon look like a fool (the toilet paper scene for example!), and how they always defied his orders, plus, each character had there own problems, and i really enjoyed hearing the stories all the characters told!. My favorite character had to be Bender, he was just simply put hilarious, and while i didn't agree with some of the things he said and did, more often then not he had me cracking up with laughter, and i always wondered if they would remain friends if this were to be a real story, plus i loved the scene when Bender keeps getting more detentions. This is simply put a masterpiece in all aspects John Hughes is a genius, and if you haven't seen it, i demand you go see it right this instant, you won't regret it!.The Direction is wonderful!.John Hughes does a wonderful job here, with fantastic camera work, and just keeping the film at an extremely fast pace!.The Acting is amazing!. Emilio Estevez is fantastic here, yes he is a jock but a very likable one with feelings, and you really care for his character and feel what he is going through, he also had some classic scenes with Judd Nelson, i loved him! (Estevez Rules!). Judd Nelson is AMAZING here, he is extremely hilarious, and actually very likable in my opinion, while i didn't agree with some of the things he said and did, more often then not he had me cracking up, he also had a really good heart as well, i loved him! (Judd Rules!). Anthony Michael Hall is excellent here as Brian, he is lovable as the genius, and i loved his lines, plus his speech at the end was awesome!, he rocked. Molly Ringwald is awesome as the prom queen, she is beautiful, and had a great personality i liked her lots. Paul Gleason is fantastic as the asshole Principal, while i hated him, he was extremely good at it, he was especially good in the closet scene, and had some powerful lines!.Ally Sheedy is wonderful here, i loved her character, and was my 2nd favorite next to Bender's she is also very fascinating and quite beautiful!, i loved her. John Kapelos is good as the janitor. Rest of the cast do fine.Overall if you haven't seen this Do so immediately it's a true classic!, John Hughes is a genius!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good if you don´t take it seriously","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is pretty unrealistic. The people are stereotypes, the acting is so melodramatic. Also the problem with this film is that the teenagers hate each other so much and then in the end they become these great friends. They hate their parents and blame everything they messed up on them and their life is tormented because their parents were so bad. Also what bothers me as well is that Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez and Ally Sheedy were in their early and mid twenties when they were doing this and Molly Ringwald and Anthony Michael Hall were I think 16. That just does not work out especially when you they are all supposed to be around the same age. However this film was pretty funny and was enjoyable on some level. But John Hughes obviously looked at it with serious eyes and wanted us to take it seriously but you can´t because it is to stupid. If you wan´t to see a good 80´s teen flick watch Fast Times In Ridgemont High or Heathers. They are not exactly realistic but that is not what they are trying to be.  "},{"Title":"Classic Mix of Laughs and Drama","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club (1985) **** (out of 4) Some great movies are works of art that should be studied by all generations. Some examples of this include GONE WITH THE WIND, CITIZEN KANE, PSYCHO and RAGING BULL. Other great movies are simply those that aren't really art but they succeed at being tremendously entertaining and manage to put a smile on your face no matter how many times you see it and that's where something like THE BREAKFAST CLUB falls. The story of five different types of high school students having detention is such a simple idea but writer/director John Hughes managed to make it speak to a generation of people much like REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE spoke to those in the 1950s. Again, this here isn't a piece of art to be studied but there's no question that it's a true gem. A lot of credit has to go to the screenplay because it perfectly shows how different types of people are usually haunted by the same emotions or fears. I really think the film does a very good job at shining a light on teenager's hypocrisy and how most simply don't like others because they don't really know them. There are so many great comedy moments in the film but some of the most memorable stuff comes towards the end as the drama starts to make its way to the center of the story. It also doesn't hurt that the cast was spot on perfection. Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald and Ally Sheedy are simply perfect in their roles as is Paul Gleason as the mean teacher. All of them perfectly nail their characters and there's not a single frame where you don't believe that you're seeing real characters with real emotions and flaws. Add in the now famous main song, the witty dialogue and the overall fun nature and it's easy to see why this film connected with people in 1985 and remains popular nearly thirty years later. "},{"Title":"An insightful comedy into the mind of teenagers","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been on a bit of John Hughes kick, so expect even more reviews of his movies after this one. The Breakfast Club is my second favorite flick of his, a beautiful film that really gets into the mind of the teenager without even an ounce of belittlement. It just is. It displays what they are in a way that shows they are more than just a bunch of kids reflected in the conversations they have and the unfortunate way Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason), the school assistant principal, views them all (which I think shows the way plenty of adults view teenagers). It follows five teenagers who are sitting Saturday detention together and all come from different backgrounds. The criminal, John Bender (Judd Nelson), athlete, Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), brain, Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), basket case, Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy), princess, Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald). At least that's what they are on an extremely superficial level. It follows their time together on that Saturday that changed their lives, from having self-realizations and realizing how similar they truly are regardless of their clichés or stereotypes. To me, this is one of the defining movies about teenagers as were many of Hughes' films and they have remained timeless to this day. He shows that everyone has similarities regardless of what they are labeled as. Everyone has problems and bad things that happen to them especially at a young age where we are nothing but confused as to what we are and want to identify with something. From the opening piece of narration by Anthony Michael Hall's character to the finishing narration that completes said opening and the wonderful final shot as Don't You Forget About Me by Simple Minds plays, this movie is nothing but a delight. It's filled with plenty of comedic moments and in reality, most of the film takes place in one room which really shows the talent in this film. It relied solely on the actors and the writing, and it just works so well. Each actor plays their role to perfection especially Judd Nelson who is always the standout in this film as the stubborn punk/rebel. If anything, this is another prime example of how much Hughes' understands teenagers and wanted to show the world that they are real human beings, not just a bunch of dumb kids. Sure, they may do stupid things but plenty of adults are just as bad as said teenagers. Overall, people are different but that doesn't mean they aren't the same in many ways, that's the true key to this film, everyone has problems even if they are a criminal, athlete, brain, basket case, or a princess, labels just make them seem to be something they aren't. "},{"Title":"The Uncanny Revelations of Saturday Detention The Breakfast Club","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club, written and directed by John Hughes in 1985, has an award-winning cast that will blow any audience away, young or old. The film encompasses all of the different characteristics that compose the never ending clique-oriented aspects of high school including the jock, the emotionally conflicted rebel, the thief, prom queen, and (of course) the brain. Locked in a room together for the majority of their Saturday afternoon in detention they discover that maybe the theories they had about another are actually conceived by false interpretations they have developed based on biased opinions of their own secluded cliques and family backgrounds. They learn they have more in common with another than they had ever imagined.Andy (Emilio Estevez), Brian (Anthony Hall), John (Judd Nelson), Claire (Molly Ringwald), and Allison (Ally Sheedy) are shoved in a room together when their curiosity gets the best of them, questions fester, and fights begin. By isolating them Hughes gives them a chance to understand that everyone faces tribulations that may compare to peers, but each individual has different ways of getting past trials. Some steal, some focus on school, some work hard to impression the hard-headed, and others revert to a shell for safety. By doing this, Hughes shows that every person is different, but everyone has things in common. People cannot find the similarities unless they break free of preconceived notions and open their mind to new possibilities. This movie sparked a specific interest to me because of its barrier-breaking theme. Being the sap I was in high school I reverted to books and movies to understand the trials I was facing. I always saw people as people and never understood the concept of cliques or seclusion, so to see a movie that broke through those perceptions poked at my curiosity. To get an inside look at the idea of relationships based upon individualism and not social stature captured my interest immediately. I love this movie, what it promotes, and stands for. John Hughes picked a great cast and did a phenomenal job making this movie. Movie goers who haven't seen it purchase it now! "},{"Title":"A realistic and intimate portrayal of teen life","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club was a breakthrough movie in the 80's. John Hughes wrote and directed this masterpiece about five completely dissimilar teenagers who are forced to spend 8 hours together in the library for detention. This movie can grab you in, making you laugh, or making you even shed a tear. The Breakfast Club is one of the best movies from the 80's and possibly the best teenage movie of the century.I always find some hilarious lines from John Bender (Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe?), and some great lines from Principal Vernon. The movie manages to make you laugh a lot. However, for these five teens, they may be dissimilar, but they all relate to having parent issues. Somewhere between the arguing with them all, they find friendships in their 8 hour endeavor which is shown in the last 30 minutes of the film. One of the best and funniest scenes from the film, is where they gather to the back of the library and smoke weed. Although a very obviously wrong thing to do, they manage to shield the pain through the drugs supposedly. It portrays how teens live their lives and when they need to get away from the abuse they might have. Emilio Estevez doing back-flips across the library, while the rest are stoned on the couch is an example of the comedic style and energy shown through adolescence. The first hour makes you laugh, makes you root, makes you wish for the 80's, and makes you think. After all the chaos; (Arguing, Smoking, Escaping Vernon, Laughing, Crawling through the air vents.etc), they gather on the top of the library and create one of the best and most wonderfully scripted emotional scenes to date.In the last superb/emotional 30 minutes of the film; They pour their hearts out to each other. Emotional topics such as suicide, abuse, and drugs are brought into the conversation caused by all of their parents. Molly Ringwald's character Claire doesn't believe their friendships will carry on after the Saturday of detention when Brian (Anthony Michael Hall) asks the question. They all eventually break into tears after they all admit the stress of life, school, and popularity.They end a legendary conversation with admitting that they care about each other and a laugh at Brian's expense (although he eventually laughs with them too.) After dancing to 80's pop music in happiness (which i yearn to hear in movies again), giving Allison a makeover, and writing the supposed letter posed to be written to Mr. Vernon in the beginning about who they think they are; They walk out of detention with pride and accomplishment. The film ends with Bender raising his fist to the sky on the school field (as a freeze frame.)Although i didn't describe every detail of the film (Relationships, Locker Scene, Closet Scene, Gym Scene.etc), i summed up what the movie was about, and it is a fun watch. It may bring you nostalgia, but it always manages to bring a smile to your face (at least for me). The Breakfast Club is a classic that will always be one of my favorite movies. Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing! Had me spellbound for the entire 97mins","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think this movie is one hell of an awesome movie. So good that it actually made me write a review about it, which I usually wouldn't feel worth the effort. Specially being a teen, I was able to relate to it and could actually sympathize and not just empathize with their emotions. Respect for the director and writer for making it with a mix of subtle humor and overwhelming emotions and at the same time portraying the plight of the students which I think is what the entire movie revolves around. The entire movie was shot in a couple of rooms and with kids just blabbering about their worthless lives, it could have turned out to be a complete fail had it not been so realistic and fascinating at the same time. "}{"Title":"Life-changing, eye-opening","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club has got to be one of the most beautiful, if not the most beautiful, movies ever created. It's an epic chronicle of the forced meeting among all of the cliques of high school and general life. But even more so, it is the ballad of the merging of personalities, the dissolution of social and mental boundaries, and the siren song of being accepted. In The Breakfast Club, nothing exists for the characters on that Saturday other than what's happening at that school. Parents don't matter for that day. Pressure is powerless, as is guilt, shame, and social hierarchies.Although this resolve often seems impossible in society, this movie possesses a contagious hope for just that. "},{"Title":"Another Timeless Movie - If only such a Club Existed","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A good classic that expresses well about young people and how they live through their lives. Another great film that can relate well to any youth that watches it. It has many whacky moments that all 80's films have but i am impressed with how matured the characters are when they opened serious discussions that even friends nowadays tend to avoid. Although the movie is very old, the issues being brought up are timeless and the message conveyed here is very powerful. If all school kids watch this film and learn from these lessons, differences between people can be resolved, boundaries can be broken, and the world (starting from school level) will be a much friendlier place with lessor pretense. "},{"Title":"A group of unlikely friends come together after a day of detention","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club. This movie has a universal theme in a dated setting. The title clues the viewer in that this group of kids somehow forms a club, but it's not until the movie starts that we find out just what kind of club it is. The movie starts with a group of kids who has ended up with Saturday morning detention for various things. Each student in detention comes from a different background. These kids would not normally be inclined to associate with each other except for they are all in detention. There is the preppy rich girl played by Molly Ringwald, the tough street thug played by Judd Nelson, the smart nerdy kid played by Anthony Michael Hall, the psycho goth girl played by Ally Sheedy, and the jock kid played by Emilio Estevez. Through the course of the day these kids fight and argue, but they also come to some kind of realization that they are really all alike. They all deal with the same issues of insecurity about themselves and coming of age as all teenagers. They realize that just because they come from different backgrounds and have different interests, deep down they are all quite similar. Although the preppy kids don't necessarily want to associate with the nerdy kids once detention is over, but the nerdy kids feel like it would be quite an honor to at least be able to say hi to the popular kids once detention is over. The setting of this movie takes place mostly in one room, over the course of one day. It is interesting how the passing of time goes in this film. The students encounter some adventures throughout the day while trying to avoid the principal who is in charge of keeping them in line. They escape the library for a short bit and almost get caught. The bad guy played by Judd Nelson actually gets kicked out of the library until he breaks out of the closet and goes back to the other students. Every element of this story is used to develop each character, from their parents and the vehicle they are dropped off in, the conversations they have with their parents when they are dropped off, they way they dress, their choice of lunches, and most of all the reasons that they all ended up in detention. Each element gives us a better understanding of their lives and how they are different from each other. In the beginning the student have no intentions of getting along with each other and plan to spend their day keeping to themselves, but in the end they have formed a sort of club with a day filled with stories that they will share together. "},{"Title":"Ultimate Teenager Flick?","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of kids are sent to detention on a Saturday for various reasons. They are all different, from the nerd, the jock, the rebel, the princess and the weirdo. These kids manage to find out things about each other and themselves while serving detention. Even though I was born in 1987, two years after the film was released, I can relate to it. That's what makes The Breakfast Club so damn good, kids generations later can still relate to the characters and their problems. John Hughes is the one person in the film industry who got what teenagers desired, were scared of and felt. The man was/is a legend and the 80's belonged to him. The Breakfast Club is one of my favourites from him. Planes, Trains and Automobiles still takes the top spot, but The Breakfast Club has more of an emotional connection to the viewer. The cast, also known as the Brat Pack, do a wonderful job filling in their high school clichéd roles. Emilio Estevez , the mighty duck man I swear to god, plays the jock. He has an intense and emotional scene that felt like an anthem for millions of teens going through the same problems. The same goes for the other characters, all have problems in their lives that every other teenager can relate to. Whether it's Judd Nelson and his abusive father or Michael Anthony Hall and the pressure to do well in school. Paul Gleason is wonderfully evil as the principal who seems to have a hate for these kids. His speeches are great to listen to and he nails the role. His performance is my favourite the in the film. Look out for that John Hughes cameo at the end as the kids are picked up from detention. That's a little something extra for you folks at home that dig that kind of stuff.The music rocks, the theme is still played today and is immediately associated with the film. There are many memorable scenes, too many to mention and the overall feel of the film has numerous re-watch capabilities. When people think of John Hughes, the one film I think that they will immediately go to is The Breakfast Club. Not only was it the film the teenagers of the 80's could relate to, but it's a film that will live on and touch the hearts of many others. It's funny, depressing and emotionally challenges you. It doesn't treat you like an idiot, Hughes knew his audience and treated the kids with the intelligence he knew they had. "},{"Title":"Bored? Let's Rent Breakfast Club.","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think it was Peter Buck who said, If you were a teenager in the 70's, you listened to Aerosmith. Well, if you were a teenager in the 80's, you watched The Breakfast Club. A lot.Didn't matter if you were cool or dorky or somewhere in between. If you were bored on some dull night in 1986 or 1987, you went to the video store and rented The Breakfast Club. It was almost like a record. You could just put it on and then talk on the phone or read a magazine and it would just play in the background.This movie was just instantly woven into the pop culture fabric of the mid-80's. You didn't love it or hate it...it was just always on at someone's house. And you knew every line.And to this day you still can't hear Don't You Forget About Me on the radio and think of anything else.Thanks, John Hughes. See you next Saturday. "},{"Title":"A Flawed Classic","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While THE BREAKFAST CLUB is a lesson in expert film-making, and a potentially profound statement on the 'substance' gap between social stereotypes and the individuals therein, as well as a critique of the loss of inter-generational communication, the film may not have stood the test of time for every audience member.Breakfast Club is a classic, to be sure, and one cannot deny the film's cultural impact. It was one of those It films I just had to watch when I was younger, but upon viewing this 80s cult hit through adult eyes, I can't help but backlash against its more latent subtexts, some of which are just plain offensive. The 'Brat Pack' pioneers here (Ringwald, Hall, Sheedy, Nelson, Estevez) each represent the classic High School castes; the Princess, the Jock, the square-peg of a basket case, the trouble-making ne'er-do-well, and the brainiac. Does writer-director John Hughes (himself from an affluent Illinois suburb) imply that these stereotypes -- who sit in a ridiculously well-funded library the likes of which few audience members have encountered in their own high schools -- are the only ones in existence, or the only ones who matter?While I am not a proponent in any way of Political Correctness, how can an average kid -- who might be a minority, or from a poor neighborhood -- relate to any of these characters? Even John Bender (The Criminal, Judd Nelson), who seems to be the most economically disadvantaged of the bunch, speaks of an abusive father who beats him for spilling paint in the garage. This makes Bender far more affluent than many of the kids I went to school with, a great deal of whom had lived in apartments their whole lives, sans garage, and sans father figure. The rest of the characters are likewise white and upper-class. Is John Hughes leaving anyone out? I think so.Most shockingly, the purest outcast of the group, Allison, who can quickly be described as eccentric, conforms to her peers' social standards at the end of the film -- she is disrobed of her dark pre-goth Garments by Prom Queen Claire, and made to look pretty, thus becoming acceptable. What sort of a message is this? The true loner of the group gives in to the cliquism of her environment, trading her individualism for some sort of forced happiness that seems a lame contrivance at the film's close.While The Breakfast Club does have a lasting message about the cruel high school caste system, I believe one must look at its content with a critical -- and adult -- eye. "},{"Title":"When I think about this movie today I notice more how Brian (the nerd) is the true 'victim' here","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Breakfast Club is one of the most beloved movies. All the action takes place pretty much in one room. The 'action' consists of kids talking to each other. I've seen the Breakfast Club many times over the years - if the movie were playing right now - I could mouth along and do the lines of each character. I notice completely different things about this movie over time. Maybe we look at the world around us based upon the previous information we've been given. We've been informed that being a victim doesn't make one timid, but the opposite, tough or pious. In a world where everyone 'reaches to grab the lowest rung of the ladder' (the lowest rung of the victim ladder) I think the focus of this movie is on John (stereotyped as the criminal). John's a bad-boy. His family is poor. He's abused at home by his dad. At one point in the movie Claire (the princess) says of John, Just ignore him. John replies, You couldn't ignore me if you tried When I think about this movie today I notice more how Brian (the nerd) is the true 'victim' here (of course the movie is trying to make a point that they are all victims). Brian doesn't get the girl. John and Andy (the jock) often treat Brian as completely irrelevant. Even the school principle, caught up in events, refers to Brian as 'peewee' a couple of times.It only took me 20 years to notice, and, I'm a nerd myself. A society obsessed with victim-hood should at least get right who the victims are.The song that went with the movie was, 'Don't You Forget About Me' by Simple Minds. I think, in the end, I always remember Brian - the other kids asking him to do their assignments; in a sense, asking Brian to speak up for them - Claire saying, 'We trust you'. Guess they need the nerd-guy after all. "},{"Title":"Teens of the 80's","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The plot is very simple.Five teenagers have to spend their Saturday in detention.These high school students come from different backgrounds but find out in the end they're not too different from each other.The characters are known from pretty much every teen movie.There is a jock Andy (Emilio Estevez), a prom queen Claire (Molly Ringwald), a nerd Brian (Anthony Michael Hall), a weirdo Allison (Ally Sheedy) and a criminal John (Judd Nelson).All these people do a lot of growing on that one Saturday in detention.Paul Gleason plays the principal Richard Vernon.I was shocked to read from IMDb site today that this great man has passed away.He was a brilliant actor.You can's imagine any other actor doing the role of the principal in this movie.He shone also in Die Hard, a movie I saw for the first time as a 12 year old kid and was blown away by it.In both of the movies he played a similar kind of a character, a tough guy you don't wan't to mess with.Or you'll get in trouble.Paul Gleason will be missed by many.You did a good job. John Hughes directed The Breakfast Club in 1985 and it became a cult favorite.It still works today because it has a good story.Good stories will never die.The time has passed since that.It has been 21 years.The brat back is gone and all the members are all grown now.The fame they had then doesn't exist anymore.But they all got out of detention and life went on. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen movies","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I admit it. I must have seen the Breakfast Club at least fifty times since i first saw it about ten years ago. But what is the fascination (for me) with this movie? After all my teenage years were spent in Denmark during the mid-nineties, where the whole jock/prom queen (they don't exist here!)/ brain etc. thing isn't that apparent. Still the characters are like people we all know, their parental problems are similar to what most of us have experienced and the boredom of being stuck at school when you'd rather be anywhere else is certainly something i remember. It's a strange period of your life because the real life is waiting right around the corner, and you can't wait to get there.It certainly helps that good part of the cast actually were teenagers, who knew (maybe were like?) their characters. Big credits to John Hughes for having the balls to use a a script that left a lot up it's young performers. Let's face it, if the acting had been any less good than it is, it wouldn't have worked and you'd quickly get bored, since apart from a little running in the halls, Bender crashing through the ceiling and the So 80's dance scene, nothing much happens apart from talking.All in all it's arguably the best of it's genre, and it certainly stands the test of time. It's got it's goofs (like Bender's sneakers changing from black to white in every other scene) and that infamous dance scene is the only reason it doesn't get a ten, but i guess you can chuck it down to being a sign of the times. None of the cast members became big stars after wards, and for some (Nelson and Ringwald mainly) this was their crowning achievement. At least they didn't end up like fellow Brat packer Robert Downey. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the coolest movies of all time. It is very funny and entertaining in general. These five kids are so different. I would suggest this movie to a lot of people. It surprises me that some people think it's either a sandwich or they have just never heard of it. I think almost everyone who sees it will like it. Most people like this movie after they see it. I personally like it so much that I have seen it almost like 8 times. I would suggest this movie to all and I think if I had to rate it on a scale of 1-10, I would give it an 80,000 lol. If you like comedy you will definitely like this movie. It's good for any age and anyone who likes comedy. Hope you like the movie! "}{"Title":"Has passed the test of time....","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I had voted for this the first time I saw it I may not have given it such a high score. But I have seen it a number of times now and it continues to entertain. There is nothing exceptional about the performances by the players, or the setting. But the concept, however, it just simply appeals. Perhaps it appeals to its own generation most and so continues to appeal to them as the get older. It's about a group of white teenagers in Middle America but it still reaches to the viewer wherever they are as it addresses some of the issues all teenagers face to a greater or lesser degree. Perhaps that is why it passes the test of time. It is the sort of film which could be remade every 40 years for a new generation. "},{"Title":"The greatest teen movie of all time","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The ultimate in teen drama and also a well-rounded comedy, The Breakfast Club encompasses everything that is difficult about being a teenager and expresses it in such a way as to be accessible to just about anyone.Not being American, I don't fully identify with the cultural and social markers being employed, but the feel of the film is universal. John Hughes creates an atmosphere by bringing together five students from different cliques within high school and forcing them to interact with each other. At first this treads familiar paths, albeit an excellent standard; however, the conclusion gives an emotional, climactic pay-off which puts it ahead of the rest.Judd Nelson may look a little too old but shines as the main antagonist, striking a perfect balance between rebellion and childish back chat. The other characters too, are well played, and undiluted by a noticeable-by-its-absence supporting cast.If you are, or ever were, a teenager/in school, then you'll enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"excellent, must-see 80s comedy about 5 teens in a detention","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" the plot consists of 5 teenagers with nothing in common put in a Saturday detention with each other, 7 till 4. there's the criminal, the jock, the geek, the 'princess' and the basket case. throughout the day they form unlikely bonds with each other, form some common ground and by the end of the day, seem like different people.although i didn't see the film around the time of its release i nonetheless thoroughly enjoyed it and i could watch it over and over again and never get tired of it. the acting, especially the jock (emilio estevez) and the geeky kid, is very well done indeed.this is a must-see, must-own flick from the 80s and cannot be missed! "},{"Title":"Five strangers become friends, struggling to confront their inner demons.","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After being part of a local On stage production of the breakfast club (or the Brekkie Club as our cast so affectionately calls it) I have a new found respect for this movie. Mostly for John Bender's Character. And for the writing. Ontop of it all, I realize the spectacular acting. It is not easy to portray any of these characters. and the cast of the movie did it well. The cinematography is exquisite, and the music will always hold a little nook in our heart for that cheesy, overplayed eighties pop.This movie is amazing, I will admit it is a niche movie. Intended for us angst filled teenagers. It can still be enjoyed by all. "},{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. The idea that all of us are messed up is great. Suburbia has this pretty picture of normal and functional lives. I've watched this many times, but I'm taking a Youth Deviance class and we watched it in there. Makes you look at this movie a little more analytically. Parents treat their kids like mini-adults and pressure them into being something at all costs just to realize the American Dream. Whatever that is. These kids represent those pressures and isolation. Claire, the popular prom princess who's used as leverage between rivalling parents; John, the punk bad boy with a foul mouth and abusive family; Andrew, the jock with no mind of his own; Allison, the emotionally unstable psycho with no friends and a bit of a compulsive/pathological liar. She's unsatisfied with her home life and wants to run away. And Brian, the geek who would rather commit suicide than face his parents about failing shop class. Each one feel pressure from parents, friends, and themselves to be or act a certain way. We can all relate to that. Yet, I can see why they're called the brat pack. You find it a little annoying that all it takes is some middle class kids to have some problems for people to be aware. What about urban kids who face these issues? Nobody doing a movie about their issues till Dangerous Minds or unknown films. It's sad that this country doesn't care about anything til it hits a certain class. Still, good movie to get some perspective about growing up in the 'burbs. "},{"Title":"bad ending leaves a bad taste","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of John Hughes' stronger efforts -- he does a good job throwing these different characters into a confined area and letting them go at it. The film is frequently tense and hilarious at the same time -- witness the scene where the Judd Nelson character keeps getting more and more detention time.Sadly, the ending is a total sell-out and betrayal. Ally Sheedy's character was more attractive before her makeover. What is Hughes telling us here -- go mainstream and steal a kiss from somebody in the in-crowd? "},{"Title":"Now these are stupid kids","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I suppose this could constitute mild spoilers, so please stop now if you are concerned.I'm sorry. I didn't really like any of the kids that much in this movie and it makes it kind of hard to relate to them. No, my problems are bigger than yours! Are not! My parents suck more than yours! etc. I think the acting is really well played, I just don't want to watch two hours of high school drama.Hey, kids, here's an idea personal responsibility. I guess I'm editorializing more than reviewing. I'll cut to the chase.Pros Pretty well acted all around. Some good lines, as it were.Cons Annoying. Goes nowhere. Emotional outbursts get old, thanks. Kids aren't really any better off after than before, just ready to screw up their lives in a new way. "},{"Title":"John Hughes' Spruce Goose Equivalent","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like anyone with a set of eyes and a video cassette recorder I'm favorably disposed to a great number of John Hughes movies (what's there not to like?) but The Breakfast Club is a bit of a porker.  A bit like Ferris Bueller's Day Off without the humor and the action -- I can only suspect that Hughes got a whiff of the vapors and wanted to do a serious, introspective, sensitive movie for a change and for me it just didn't work out.  Though lots of other commentators obviously think otherwise, but then there's got to be some people who keep Schwarzenegger in office and the Twinkie-makers in business.  The characters are unintentionally, comically overdrawn --  the prospective prom queen with a rich beemer-drivin', divorce-undergoing daddy, the bad-to-the-bones-but-really-quite-sensitive-rebel who rebels so hard as to make Charles Manson look like a pushover, the brainy nerd with an overambitious mom and latin-, math- AND physics-club memberships (and he's a virgin and his mum packs his lunch), the disturbed artist chick with self-harm-, body hygiene- and eating disorder-issues and the jock, who's just a complete jock, OK?  And then there's the evil teacher (why does everyone in this forum think he's the principal?  which principal has to go in on a Saturday to supervise detention?) and the janitor with a heart of gold who's really a philosopher.  Not just a social dropout.  In short, it would have been nice to have at least ONE character who's not from the teen-movie identikit.  Next, the plot is so paper-thin (some kids bond during a really long and tedious detention) that some gratuitous action scenes were thrown in just to get some movement on the screen -- too bad that John Hughes didn't care to think the plot through more thoroughly when he was writing it.  (But to compensate he chose to throw in that totally patronizing and sappy ugly duckling makeover -- goth chick puts on some lippy, a white dress and a hairband and instantly bags a boyf -- bring me a bag, I think I'm going to be sick.)  Then there's the predictable blame-it-all-on-your-parents mumbo jumbo which seems to have been lifted straight from the great book of teenager psychology (in my experience, teenagers may think like that but they never talk this way -- and if they do, I don't care to see a feature-length movie about it).  And finally, at the end everyone acts like they have had this life-changing experience and jump-started a revolution.But I'm being a bit harsh.  The acting is generally very decent (totally unlike today's teen movie fare) and I give Hughes credit for trying to take a compassionate, engaged view on teenagers.  So overall it's a movie that bears watching, even though it consider it to be far removed from it's ascribed cult status.  "},{"Title":"Empty at the end","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is one of those films that gains cult status, and seems to be brought up fondly quite often, so I thought I'd sit down and watch it, just to see what it was like, and I'm afraid to say it left me feeling disappointed at the end.There's great interaction between the cast which adds a lot to the humour of the film, along with some more touching moments later on. Their journey from knowing nothing about each other to becoming great friends seems like a natural progression, as we really get a sense of each character's personalities. However, after a while the film seems to just smash straight through these barriers that the kids have put up and suddenly, almost without warning, the end arrives leaving everyone friends for life. It's a little disorientating, especially as two characters who are screaming and shouting at each other all the way through the film, one even reducing the other to tears, start sharing one of those romantic moments with *absolutely nothing* to lead them to it. It seems completely unnecessary.Much is made of the experience the characters have changing their lives forever, but it's hard to see just why this is from the film, with little more than a five minute talk about themselves to distinguish this from any group of teens hanging out somewhere. Yes, it's good to get your problems off your chest, but I hardly see anything during this as life-changing. It really let down the film for me, because (aside from a completely patronising put on make-up, do your hair and all your problems disappear! makeover) nothing really changes in these kids, while the ending implies something huge.But, having said that, the rest of the film is fun, and the interaction between all the characters works really well. I enjoyed it, but the ending just left me wanting something a little more satisfying. "},{"Title":"Can you say misogynist!?","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The female characters in this film are ridiculous.  What's with all the insecurity?  It seems Hughes hates women.  Why must Ringwald be such a masochist?  Why must Sheedy depend on Estevez's approval?  Why must there be total romantic resolution at all?  My guess to the third question is because Hughes wants his women to be in subservient positions.  Taken individually all characters are plagued with personal problems, largely insecurity. Nelson and Estevez leave with more security and the women leave with false security, they're dependent upon the males.  Hughes women aren't that bad, you don't have to dislike them so much. "}{"Title":"One big cliché made up of lots of little clichés","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just watched this on AMC. At first I was gonna give it 6/10, then later revised that down to 3/10 and by the end of the movie I was at rock bottom - 1/10.Why does this movie suck so badly? Not because it wasn't well made, or badly acted, but rather because the the story itself is just so awful. What we have here are a bunch of smaller clichés that add it to some very big clichés. All the principal characters are clichés, and so are all of the premises of this film. You have five high school kids who are all stock high school characters - the jock, the brain, the popular pretty girl, the long haired greaser Tough guy and, finally, the misfit. They are all stuck in detention for a day, under the supervision of the 6th cliché, the (I think) assistant principal, the perfect personification of (from the teenagers' POV) mindless adult authority. He might as well wear a swastika armband, so one dimensional is his character.Now, I suppose a conceit of this movie is the five kids aren't really clichés at all, but actual, real individuals who are forced into their roles by the neverending forces of social conformity (which is in itself yet another cliché), except, of course, they aren't. The jock really IS a jock, the brain a nerd, the popular girl popular, and so forth. None of them emerge as a true three dimensional character, at best they display a bit of two dimensions before reverting back to their one dimensional selves. And the principal doesn't even get that privilege, his character is a one dimensional authoritarian goon and is never allowed to rise above that basic stereotype.Speaking of adults, virtually every last one of them comes off badly, indeed, very badly. They, as described by the kids, are little more than beasts who demand perfection from their offspring and show an almost total lack of love or even affection. This is one of the movie's biggest clichés, the notion of teenagers as being wise beyond their years while their parents are essentially abusers, if not physically then certainly emotionally. Portraying all adults as rotten is not only completely unrealistic, it also feeds into the worst sort of egotism on the part of the presumed teenage audience for a movie such as this.Okay, so the kids (and their principal) are all a bunch of clichés. That's bad enough, but this film has other flaws as well. One, the misfit character, played by Ally Sheedy, seems to have no basis in reality at all. And nothing about the movie explains why she is who she is. Further, how clichéd (spoiler alert) is it that she ends up with the jock, this, after getting a makeover courtesy of the popular girl? Wouldn't it have been less of a cliché for her to end up with the brain? Also, her character would have been a lot more believable had she been genuinely unattractive, say, 30 lbs overweight, acne, and hair that was greasy looking because she never washed it. Instead, it was like - 5 minutes with a mascara brush and a little work on the hair and, Ta Da! she's beautiful! And a completely different person, too! Still, hers was probably the most likable character of the bunch, and she probably should have ended up with the nerd. By that standard, by FAR the most detestable character was the greaser. The tough guy with a heart of gold is an old staple in American entertainment, such notables include The Fonz and Vinnie Barbarino. But this guy has more like the heart of a sewer rat. That he is rude and defiant of authority is to be expected of this type of character, but his verbal attacks on the others, especially Molly Ringwald's character, border on verbal rape, so cruel and sadistic are his attacks on her. He was the one character whom you wanted to see the principal beat into a bloody pulp, unfortunately, that didn't happen. His is the worst cliché of them all, the sort of person, because he is a self-proclaimed Rebel and non-conformist, is transformed from being a complete A__hole into the conscience of sorts for this film. It is his character, perhaps more than all the others combined, who ruined this movie for me. Cruelty and sadism have their place in the movies (think Apocalypse Now) but they absolutely don't belong in what is supposed to be a light teenage comedy.And that's about it. When I first saw this back in the 1980's (on HBO, probably) I didn't think this movie was particularly good or back. But having now seen it just a couple hours ago, I think it truly sucks.1/10 "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After watching many TV shows that made parodies of the Breakfast Club, I finally watched this movie and understood where all references came from. It was cool to watch this movie and see all of the iconic lines and scenes like when all of students were dancing around room and on top of tables. This movie is not only funny, but also relatable. Each character represents a school clique that anyone can identify with. While each character is different, they realize that they share the common struggle that comes from their parental issues. We can all relate to having disputes with our parents or our parents not understanding our feelings, which makes this movie enticing to watch. This movie is a one that everyone should watch at least once. If you like movies that are funny with serious undertones, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"A classic for all the right reasons.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had heard of the The Breakfast Club before this year, but never got the chance to watch it. And when i did watch it, and finally got what the long-time hype was about.The plot is the really simple to explain,5 kids from a high school have to go to an all day detention. and that's it. But all theses kids are from different places and high school groups and would never talk to each other by choice.The Jock, the Princess, the Nerd, the Basket- case and the future Criminal.But the main focus is all about that their all so much more than that one characteristic. And they all have a lot more in common than they seem. Just because their labelled doesn't mean there not so much more. And as the movie goes on, they do become friends because they have some things in common doesn't mean they also have differences and clash.All the performances are very good, every actor fully understands their character. All the characters are like-able for different reasons, but my personal favourite is Bender. He's honest, doesn't care what people think about him , he knows how everyone works and can figure them out a person just by looking at them and also is a great s**t talker.i was honestly shocked when i found this film had only won 1 award, when it deserves more. Although the story may seen cliché now with things like Glee and Perks of being a wallflower etc. But still is a 80's classic, story telling at it's best and still relate-able to this day. "},{"Title":"Excellent piece - perennial classic","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Youngs are just want to be loved and understood, nothing changed since 30 years ago, in 2016 the film has the same eternal meaning. The film perfectly shows the difference, the gap between the generations and the problems of the young people in their families.John Bender's living in a dysfunctional family with a drunkard aggressive father, we can see that he is a traumatized youngster after he opened himself and told the others about his life at home where he doesn't get much love and tenderness. Andrew Clark and Brian Johnsons life is a disaster because their parents put too much burden on them, which they cannot bear. Claire Standish the spoiled prom queen seems the least overburdened between the others. Allison Reynolds the basket case definitely became ridden because her parents ignore her thats why she needs therapy.Firs when we observe them we see just normal students who got into detention because they deserved it, at least we could draw the conclusion. After we got acquainted with their feelings, their actions and they said why they did those actions we came into the consequence they just suffer from lack of love, need each other to provide support and bolster their emotions. John Bender the criminal and the teacher Richard Vernons case is typically a bad example how bad teachers are ruining the education in the schools and corrupting the integrity of the problematic pupils. The Breakfast Club shows how adamant and strong the children can be and sometimes maybe they are so intransigent because their minds know what they do. These children cannot be vanquished, they can hold each other's back and can survive this life. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast ClubIt's a classic. A jock, a nerd, a prom queen, an outcast, and a rule-breaking tough guy (your basic high school stereotypes clustered into one cast) trapped in detention&#x85; on a Saturday. As with similar movie expositions, its no stretch to the moviegoer's mind that these odds end characters will delve into each other's personal lives and leave their wasted Saturday with a better insight to each other's lives. Although the plot is rather predictable, The Breakfast Club does an exceptional job at portraying realistic high school students. Stuck, for eight grueling hours. All while having nothing in common with one another except for their current location the library. The students are assigned to write an essay for their teacher, Mr. Vernon (Paul Gleason), describing who they are. They instead find a variety of other ways to pass the time talking, dancing, pulling pranks, etc. Eventually, the characters get into a conversation about what got them in to detention in the first place and further discuss the problems associated with being popular or unpopular in a high school setting. With somewhat of an artistic license given to the actors, by director John Hughes, many lines were improvised to enhance their realness. The middle finger, obscene words, demeaning sarcasm, and sexual implications throughout the film are inappropriate. However, few will argue that they are unrealistic within a high school setting. And then there is the character's daily dialogue splattered with the words like, psh, uh, which mimics the real conversations of adolescence. Throughout the production of the film, young Judd Nelson (Bender) embodied his character flawlessly. The swaggering stance, callous sarcasm, and a disregard for any and all rules sets him up initially as the antagonist to all the other characters. With each flip of his long hair, and every object he uses as a footstool, Judd Nelson sears into the viewers mind the familiar image of a rebel. However, as the film progresses, we soon unveil that there is more to his character than his frequent stops in detention and the careless show he puts on for those around him. Judd's performance is complimented by other emerging movie stars at the time Molly Ringwald (Claire), Emilio Estevez (Andrew), Anthony Michael Hall (Brian) and Ally Sheedy (Allison). The other characters develop throughout the film. However, what they disclose comes as no surprise to the audience. Each character For instance, Andrew shares how his parents . If you're looking for a dramatic storyline with twists and turns or shocking discoveries, this film isn't for you. The film can seem long, with a few dry stretches (perhaps this is to draw comparison to actual detention) However, it will have you laughing at lines flooded with sarcasm and the actions of the characters. This feel-good movie will ultimately leave you pondering those John Benders in your life you might think you know. "},{"Title":"Misses its own point, a sadly overrated experience","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It had promise, but it wasted it all. The Breakfast Club is one of those movies that sound beautiful but when I watched it I found it undercooked in almost every way and then the ending was cloying, featured bipolar characters and went completely against the message it was trying to send.I'll give the film props for the five exceptional performances. Estevez and Ringwald inhabit their characters well, but the show is stolen completely by Anthony Michael Hall as Brian the Dork and Ally Sheedy as Allison the Basket Case. Judd Nelson is firmly in control of his character all times and is completely superb at all times. Whatever the characters need to do is handled superbly by the actors. John Hughes also provides key directorial choices, such as the character's lunches and how Hughes' characters completely ignore Brian because despite all their problems he is still the least popular. The dance scene in the film is delightful in isolation and there's something beautiful about watching the three boys in particular dance together.he Breakfast Club has a beautiful message that never gets across. I never bought any of the friendships because large portions of the plot felt rushed. It takes over an hour for the kids to even get on good terms. After that, there's some good stuff, but let me break down why The Breakfast Club craps the bed on its own message.It's meant to be a story about how five people with problems can become friends for one day. How are the relationships at the end of the film- Bender and Andrew Bender antagonises Andrew several times and then this point is abandoned. - Bender and Brian The closest thing to a character arc is that Bender acknowledges Brian's existence. - Bender and Claire The romance with Claire is completely forced because just when they start to kindle positive words, he is horrible to her, then they kiss? It's like there are scenes missing. - Bender and Allison Nothing - Andrew and Brian Andrew is the first to be kind to Brian. There's a hint of something there when it's revealed that Andrew beat up one of Brian's type of kid. Then, nothing. - Andrew and Claire Nothing beyond a scene at the start where the two are established as the only two likely to interact. - Andrew and Allison He finds her very strange until she looks pretty on the outside. Then they kiss. -Brian and Claire Probably the most underrated connection, she responds and says that its okay to be a virgin (as we later find out that she is as well), a huge deal from one of the most popular girls in school. Brian later finds the courage to tell her to shut up when she condescends him. However, this goodwill is all undone when she manipulates him with compliments into doing all of their detention essays for them. Rather than parting as equals, Brian ends up being the bottom of the barrel. - Brian and Allison The two most likely to interact with other members of the Breakfast Club, this is undone by chucking Allison into a romantic interest with the cool Andrew. -Allison and Claire No interaction between the girls until Claire suddenly decides to make Allison look pretty. Honestly, I think she looked better before.The problem here is that all of the relationships are forced, counter-productive and harmful to each other. Rather than feeling touched, I came away feeling sour because now Brian is the fifth wheel for a pair of couples when the film had no business doing that. Brian is in a way the most important character of the film, and likely the one that many identify with the most. However, his character is completely left out in the cold because now we have two couples. Now instead of remembering the day - and Breakfast Club - fondly, both boys will just remember their respective girl. Honestly, I think Brian was better off without The Breakfast Club. I don't agree with a number of directorial and writing choices, notably the emotional manipulation of the audience who are supposed to feel something for Bender distracting Vern so the others can return safely to the library undetected. Are we meant to forget that they left to fetch weed (something I can't see Brian or Claire doing) and only at Bender's urging to begin with? Vern is used inconsistently throughout - he hears raised voices at the beginning of the film and yet cannot smell marijuana smoke or hear a person falling through a roof. His interactions with Bender are also inconsistent, with Bender suddenly affected by his insults even though they only marginally differ from what he's been saying before. Instead of its beautiful message, The Breakfast Club goes forward and imparts the following - Nerds get nothing in life. - The Breakfast Club is about romance not friendship.- Look pretty so boys will like you. - Weed makes everything better. "},{"Title":"I really liked the Breakfast Club","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Breakfast Club Review ByIona McAllen I think that this film has stood the test of time because so many people are able to relate to the characters, the issues the characters are going through; their parents, peer pressure, pressure to succeed and more. I really like this film and can relate to it because as a teenager I have lots of stress and pressures to do well in school, sports, and maintain a social life. In the film every character had something they had to deal with; Andy his dad and not being able to think for himself, Claire her parents and having to do what her friends say, Alison being alone, Brian his grades and pressure from his family, and John his parents. This film portrays the lives of teenagers very accurate; because of this many people can relate to the characters and the issues they have. The mood the director was trying to set was that no matter who you are, what social group you belong to, who your family is, and no matter how different you are, everyone has pressures and issues they have to deal with. This movie is directed to mainly teens, but because so many people are able to relate to the movie anyone from teenagers to adults are able to watch the movie and relate to the characters and their situations. I think that the Breakfast club is a movie because it is for leisure entertainment. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I liked the movie because as being a teenager, I identified myself in some parts of it. My favorite character was John Bender because he was the most funny and I like to laugh.Also, because in the beginning he is the bad boy who doesn't care about anyone and disrespect all of other people but he turned out to be different in the end and showed he cared about things. What I found interesting was that they seemed to have nothing in common and in the end, they found out they share many feelings and it is something that happens a lot in real high schools. For me, the mood was comedy and the director was very successful at it because it is a really fun movie to watch "},{"Title":"Weird, unexpected, depressing and romantic!","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just can't think of the words properly to describe this movie. Firstly, they all didn't get along by saying nasty things to each other and John Bender being such a complete dope to them all especially that teacher who was supervising them. Then the five of them were getting high and dancing all over the place with 80's songs playing in the background like lunatics! Finally at the end, they get all lovey dovey with this order emo girl/jock and prep girl/bad boy. Good mix but it was very unexpected from a teenage film like this! I wouldn't call this film 'The Breakfast Club', I would call it the 'Bad Teen Club'. I'm serious, the name sounds cheesy but I suppose interesting at the same time. I did enjoy it but I felt a lot of mixed vibes while watching this movie! "},{"Title":"Breakfast club is a pretty good movie for teenagers","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First,I really liked The Breakfast club,it describes successfully the several kind of people you can find in High school,it contains as well a lot of stereotypes,for example, the sporty guy or the girl with who nobody speak,but more the film goes, more you begin to know better each character. Unfortunately,the fact they had to say all the Saturday at school did not change nothing about the director authority,but it allowed them to meet different kind of people. Moreover, this movie is more for young people. As far as I am concerned,the movie wants to have as message, do not judge when you do not know well the people. It allows as well to understand the different genre of people . "}{"Title":"You should watch this movie","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by John Hughes,The Breakfast Club is a movie about five high school teenagers forced to spend Saturday in detention for something they did wrong. Also the school's principal, Mr. Vernon, gives them all an assignment they will write an essay about who you think you are and the violations they committed .The five are all from different cliques or social groups.Eventually they start to know each other better even being very different. I really like this movie because first of all even being a '80s movie the thematic and speeches still very young so it is possible that several teenagers of today still identify with the film. It's also a movie that tries to analyze each of the characters carefully ,what makes you identify with at least one of five students. The Breakfast Club proves for us that is not necessary many scenarios, characters and special effects to make a good movie. My favorite part of the movie is when the students are setting in the library talking with each other in a circle because the director allowed the the actors to speak whatever they want,so they needed not follow the script. "},{"Title":"The breakfast club.","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What would you think if your school punishes for bad behaviour and makes you go to an extra- time school? That is what happened to 5 teenagers, 3 boys and 2 girls. When they are in the school, looking each other, they did't want to be there. Every character are different. Some of them are looking for their personality, others are there because of their previous behaviour. I think the setting of the film is very boring. They are always in the same place (school) and at the beginning specifically, the movie has very large scenes that makes you fall asleep. At the middle of the film, it starts to have a little more action, when they dance and smoke some bad things. When they start talking each other and telling themselves their private thing, that is the point of the movie when you actually get a little bit of fun. They finished being friends after telling all their secrets and why were they there. At the end of the movie some of them get in love with another, and that is something really cool and different from another movies. First hate and then love. "},{"Title":"Sharply reflects current issues that are currently happening today","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A handful of students, supposedly with lots of problems, gather together on a nice Saturday morning at the school library for detention. But is it entirely their fault they are in detention? This film explored deeply into this matter- how it is not all the children's fault that they trailing off in life, no matter if you are delinquent, rich, or an all-A student. It also showed how important family plays a role on us, and moreover, teachers- who we spend the most of our time with at school. In this case, I thought this film was well-made and meaningful because they expressed the scars of the students and how they get to kind of resolve them by sharing their problems, and how they feel compassion and unity upon themselves by doing so. I would greatly recommend this excellent film to everybody of all ages D "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club, a film that proves we are more than what we appear to be","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You see us as you want to see us...in the simplest terms and the most convenient definitions. You see us as a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess and a criminal. Correct?'The Breakfast club,' a wonderful film that perfectly depicts the five main social groups. The brainiacs, the sporty kids, the weird outsiders, the popular kids, and the troublemakers. In the 80's, this was all there was. You were part of one of these groups and that was it. The year is now 2015, 30 years since the release of the film, and yet it is still regarded as a film that accurately depicts what high school is like. But how can that be? Can high school really be the same now as it was in 1985? The answer is yes. School cliques and social statuses do still exists, they're just not exactly the same as they used to be. But although these cliques may have changed and people may belong to more than one of them, they're still around and that's why the breakfast club is still regarded as a realistic portrayal of high school.I've always been a huge fan of the film. I'm not sure what it is about it that I love so much. Maybe it's the dynamic and relatable characters, the simplicity, or maybe it's the message. This film does more than just entertain, it gives us a glimpse into the lives teenagers and shows us what lies behind all of our conventional exteriors. It shows us that there is so much depth and meaning beneath our surfaces and that our true selves can be a lot harder to discover than we may think. The director, John Hughes, does this in such a beautifully simple and casual manner too. The entire film takes place in the one setting that revolves around all of the main characters, school. Sometimes as I watch, I feel as though I'm in the library with them, learning about their lives outside of school and the hardships they face on a day to day basis. One constant that I've found lies within the film is the fact that all of the adults in it have something in common they've grown up; and just like Allison said, When you grow up your heart dies. All of the adults except for one, Carl, the school's janitor, who seems to be the saving grace of the film and living proof that not all adults have to be so clueless and cruel. Probably because being the janitor means being  the eyes and ears of this institution. He's the only one who understands what they go through and how they truly feel for he is a constant first-hand witness of what their lives are really like, unlike Vernon. Vernon is the Principal of the school and is made out to be the antagonist of the film. He is a character who is grumpy, tired, and fed up with idle teenagers that every year seem to become more and more nettlesome and unwilling to behave and treat him with the respect that he feels he deserves. The person who knocks some sense into him is our favourite janitor, Carl. He enlightens him and tells him that the students aren't the ones who are changing, he is. But is Vernon really the bad guy he's made out to be? Well if you think about it, it's not his fault that the students did what they did to get into detention. In fact, instead of just letting the students off with a warning, he threw away an entire Saturday so that they could sit in school and think about what they had done and why they were there; and remember that essay he wanted them all to write? He told them all to write one thousand words describing who they thought they were, something that I thought sounded absolutely ridiculous when I first saw the film. But the entire story is about them discovering who they really are. So really it's because of Vernon that they were all there together on that Saturday and it's because of him that they spent the day attaining a deep understanding of who they are. If you really think about it, without principal Vernon, there would be no breakfast club. I've yet to hear of someone who has disliked the movie. It really is a film that is enjoyable for any and all audience members. A film that reminds us all that we are so much more than our appearances and the cliques we belong to. A timeless classic that has been enjoyed by many and will be enjoyed by many more. It's fun to watch and yet also contains a deep and beautiful meaning; and it even has a catchy and memorable song to play over the final scene, which is always a nice touch. "},{"Title":"review of breakfast club","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie. K, first of all, the cast and characters are all solid, and do a good job. The clichés are all well rounded, the general amount of teen types commonly seen on TV, the principal, and the almighty janitor. A high point of praise for this film, to this person at least, was its ability to paint a clear picture of the teen's background and family life without ever showing it once, the actors do a very good job expressing when they tell the stories of their family troubles. The principal is sympathetic, yet remains a somewhat effective opposite force to the teens. He is understandable in his actions, in that he's just doing his job, but is not so understandable or likable that we take his side over the kid's, as he also misuses his authority a few times during the movie.It's a great movie that does so much with just a little. It does away with complicated visuals or the like, and instead opts for a great narrative told by its wonderful characters, yet has enough movement and visual to it that it's not a bore. The stories entertaining, the comedy funny, and the characters lovable, it's a great piece of film, and something I wouldn't mind watching again sometime. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Awesome...","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My review on The Breakfast Club is an adorable classic of the '80s that still feels fresh, showing five teenage kids opening up about their personal problems with a great dialogue and inspired actions and it is Judd Nelson who is unforgettable as the rebel youngster that acts as the catalyst of everyone's emotions. The Breakfast club, gleefully, may just be the only movie I have ever seen that has absolutely no flaws. There is always a way of picking out things from a film, but to me, it seems impossible here. The backstories of the characters are so charismatic, that when taking them seriously. I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw this film, but having five completely different people, mixed together to become friends, is something that moved me in many ways, and I will grasp onto this story forever. "},{"Title":"I overall enjoyed this film and I would watch it over and over again.","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Breakfast ClubThe breakfast Club is by far one of my favourite films. I really enjoy this film because the director puts so much emotion into the dialog. I love the twist that John Hughes puts at the end, when the jock ends up with the basketcase and the criminal ends up with the princess. I think the film was good because it was very relatable and mature. I think each actor played their roles to the finest. Everyone in the film has a specific problem or situation they face either in school or outside of school. One of my favourite things about the film is the lessons you learn. No matter who you are, you are no better, or not worse than anyone else. The director was trying to set a realistic storyline with problems that anyone can relate to, but a happy ending. I think that the director did a successful job at doing this. This movie is targeting people the around younger teenager up. I think you have to be a certain age to understand the story. I think that the breakfast club is a film not a movie. "},{"Title":"Be the best of yourself!","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie begin in a Saturday, when a few students, break the rules and they have to go to spend the Saturday at detention. All day long,in the school library. These kids have nothing in common. And this bring a lot of discussion and problems. I love this movie! And the reason for that, is because we learn a lot with this movie. You learn to see things in a different way. This movie show you that you need to look to the other people different. Everyone do things for their own reasons, and this movie, shows that a lot. This movie show how your attitude can be responsible for the others attitudes. So all the time you have to do things in the best way you can do that. Because everything that you do, can, and probably will, come back to you. "},{"Title":"pretty good movie","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a 1985 American coming-of-age comedy-drama film written, produced, and directed by John Hughes, the same filmmaker of home lost. the famous film of 1990. Critics consider it one of the greatest high school films of all time. the film plot is pretty easy, the story take place on a normal spring Saturday in America, at 8.00 am when five pour guys are forced to join in a special high school detention for students who didn't follow the rules. Detention consist in stay into the school library writing a 1000 words essay speaking about the reason of their detention. hours passing and the library starts to be boring and oppressive as Vernon, the teacher who have fun in molesting the students, so, finally the tough kid can't resist picking on the prom queen, and then there is a series of exchanges. they discovered that, in their self difference they are so similar,and only put away every prejudice they can show to others their real behavior.It begins so an original story where the most difference guys create a strong relation with each others during the whole period of their detention. i think that this movie probably was so innovative for the '80s period when nobody cared about teenager mentality and their behavior, with this film the filmmaker create a original and addictive plot for young guys. With this movie i think the filmmaker'd represent the short period of childhood that will be destroyed by overcome of adulthood. Why? You will discover your own by watching this pretty nice film! enjoy yourself "},{"Title":"The Breakfast club is a great Movie about unlikely bonds","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast club is more then just a movie about some kids in detention we start off with our high school stereotypes the jock the nerd the prom queen the criminal and the weird kid no one knows, but where this movie shines is how it displays that no one is what they seem and how people can come together in strange situations. We get to see our characters slowly become more comfortable with one another and watch as they realize for them selves their own flaws and that they may have misjudged each other. Even the principal our antagonist is a sympathetic character, as all he wants is to teach the kids a lesson and break through to them. Overall It tells a compelling story with laughs drama and great music. I found the jhon bender really salvaged the film for me as he was the most interesting character and i liked how he started off cocky and confident but as the film progressed showed a bit of worriedness and anger. I found that claire impeded the film as i don't feel like she changed enough as a character and really learned any lessons. I think the mood was supposed to be a light hearted film with elements of drama and i found it to be very successful. This Film primarily targets youths as they are the most likely to relate to the events in this film and would probably enjoy it the most. I believe this is a film as it conveys a message about how not everyone is what they seem. "}{"Title":"Ode To Teen Spirit","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember hearing about The Breakfast Club for years before I actually got around to watching it. As soon as I graduated from elementary school and started on my way to high school, I had people constantly telling to watch The Breakfast Club because it's amazing. They would then tell me they love the movie and I could never seem to get a word out of them past that. No one would tell me what the plot was or why it was so amazing, until one day I straight up asked my mom what this amazing movie is about. She replied with, It's about a bunch of teenagers. I wasn't sure what to do with all of this new information, so I finally sat myself down and watched it. I have to say, I can certainly see why everyone recommended this movie for my then excited soon-to-be eighth grade self. Despite the fact that this movie is set around 30 years ago, the ideas and issues they cover in this movie are timeless. While the focus is teens' issues, they also give us a glimpse into the world of those who are growing older. They show us how alarming it can be to watch as the younger generations stumble in, seemingly destroying everything they can, while the adults change unknowingly into the people they'd hoped they'd never be. There isn't anything I really dislike about this movie. Normally, I would have a whole list of things that I think could be tweaked in a movie. There's something about this movie that feels different. Every time I find something that could be considered a flaw, I consider the context and I realize that it is not in fact a flaw, it is simply something that adds to the story and tone of the film. This film almost feels untouchable; it is still so famous and well-loved so many years later. Despite the fact that it's set in a sketchy, nearly unoccupied high school, this movie somehow contributes to the romanticized fantasy all eighth graders have about high school. High school is a place for the big kids it's where you find your clique and look cool. No matter what is happening in your life, there's always going to be at least one more person who knows what you're going through, which is an idea that is relevant for people of all ages. I really love the fact that John Hughes took characters that you can see in everyday aspects of high school life and broke them down to show that they are multifaceted and more than the image they project. All of the adults in this movie are shown as stubborn, insensitive fools who refuse to bother listening or paying attention to the kids who's live they're messing up. One of the most memorable adults in this film is the looming presence of authority, Principal Vernon. The students seem to view him as a bad guy and I can certainly see why. When I look at him as a character, I see an unhappy, afraid, old man who feels like he's tripping over his feet trying to keep up with the rest of the world. He believes that he is a victim of injustice the kids are just getting brattier and brattier and he's just a guy trying to knock some sense back into them. He receives a strong, cold glass of reality when Carl (the janitor) tells him bluntly and without malice that it's not the kids who are changing, it's him. Yes, I do agree that a lot of young people are brats it's what we do. We're too inexperienced and new to the world to see beyond our problems. What Vernon needs to understand is that he is the one who is changing. Yes, parents can't get away with the same punishment they did a few decades ago and yes, there is a surplus of new technology that is changing the way people experience their lives. But Vernon is changing himself. Nothing seems bright and shiny and new anymore. He's seen every kind of kid you could see, he knows the tricks, and his life has fallen into a sad routine. He expects respect for his experience in the world, while all he does is throw his weight around and pretend that he understands every kid he meets because he's probably met at least three others like them. He can't remember why he chose to do this. He watches bright eyed kids graduate every year to experience new adventures and start their lives. All of these kids are passionate and ready to live and learn new things, but he has no more adventures left.This movie is a cult classic because it has aspects that appeal to both the young and old. Both sides are provided with an insight into the other. We learn about each other's struggles and find that appearances can indeed be misleading. Despite all of the images and airs people may put on, we are all complex humans with valid feelings and thoughts. All we want is to find empathy and belonging. Decades may pass, but we all still have basic, common struggles. I think one of the reasons this movie is so loved is because it's so easy to connect with no matter who you are, if you're a human, you'll probably be able to relate to at least one aspect of this move. This movie helps remind the audience that it's okay if you don't have everything figured out, no matter what age you are. It's hard when you don't know who you are or can't remember. "},{"Title":"High School pupils have to spend a Saturday to think about themselves and become close friends while having a lot of deep conversations","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being a high school student in the same age as the characters I can really relay to the plot of the movie  The Breakfast Club, even it was filmed in the mid 80's. At the beginning the different groups of high school teenagers are well presented. Nowadays these groups, like sportive people, nerds and Bad Boys, can still be found while walking trough a hallway. In the course of the movie these borders break, because the characters are starting to have a deeper conversation about their families, background and school life. A main reason for the ongoing conversation is Mr Vernon, being the perfect cliché of a principal, by forcing the teenagers to stick together. This team is being developed trough the whole film and is been shown off in Benders run to the gym to save the group. A main reason why I consider this film to be real is the perfect presentation of development of deep friendship. My own experience in school has shown me the same kind of getting together. This development is perfectly illustrated with music and the shots. A lot of repetition can be found in the filming, however it is perfectly used to show similarities in the characters lives. Breakfast Club is showing off a lot of stereotypes and sticks to these perfect role models, regarding the five teenagers. This could be seen as a critic point because it is a little bit to perfect, but it really makes it easier to develop the message. From my point of view the film really wants the viewer to think about role models and stereotypes and if we could break those borders from time to time. Choosing the classic American High School to present this makes a lot of sense and I think it fits perfectly. Regarding filming and screenplay I absolutely love the fact that this scene is filmed in one straight location and has a very low time span. Some might say that this makes the film boring but it is amazing to see that such an easy and cheap production can develop a huge message without using a lot of Special Effects and money. Being able to keep the viewers attention on a film without changing locations or give a lot of impressive shots really shows the value of plot and dialogue. All in all I think this film is amazing in showing off how a cheap production can still deliver a huge message concerning a main topic of human nature. Regarding film and music the film is not that impressive but its simplify is a clear advantage to highlight story and characters. "},{"Title":"Best Old Movie after a long time.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 5 students with different personalities and backgrounds are sentenced to a Saturday in detention and confined to their school's library for the whole day.First the students thought they are all completely different, but then they started to talk about their parents. A thing they all had problems with. For me personally the movie was very attractive, because the main actors were only a little bit older than me. Another reason why i really enjoyed watching the movie is, that pretty much every teenager has some problems with his parents. For me personally it was the best old movie (behind Star Wars) I've seen so far with my 16 years. I think the best part of the movie was the end and the conclusion. It was really nice to see, that everyone at the end was in a good friendship/relationship to each other. So I think the author made a very good movie, which shows that people have completely different problems and families, but at the end they are all very much the same. Moritz Sprick "},{"Title":"The Best HIgh School Film of All Time","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is an all time classic, and in my eyes, one of the greatest films ever made. It has managed to stay on top as one of the best, iconic high school films of all time to this day, tackling the rebellion of youth, and social problems still faced today. Why? Because it so accurately portrays the life of teenagers. Capturing the classic stereotypes of the brain, the athlete, the basket case, the princess and the criminal. But through this film, you see who they really are, that they are not just stereotypes, they all have problems in their lives and hardships. It proves that we all hide behind these masks, or personas, we feel that's all we can be, and we can't step out of that box, and be with other, different people or who we really are. Anyone who has made it through high school and lived to tell the tale, can relate to this movie, feel their pain, laugh, cry; cause really, aren't we all hiding behind these masks placed on us by society. One of my favourite lines of all time, is when you grow up, your heart dies, from Allison (the basket case), as the group frets about turning out like their parents, which by the end of the film, the group reluctantly defies that fate. Their principle, Vernon, is also portrayed as the classic, hard-ass authority figure. But is he really a bad guy? It is revealed half way through the film during a conversation between Vernon, and the janitor (the eyes and ears of the school), that it's not the kids who have changed, it's him. Abuse of authority comes as no surprise, and you can see clearly through Vernon's character that's exactly what's happened. Personally I think, he isn't a bad guy, underneath his hard exterior, but that is in fact what he has become, and perceived as by the students. In conclusion, the Breakfast Club will live on in our hearts for a long long time. "},{"Title":"It's excellent !!!","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm so glad I watched this movie. Definitely gonna watch this again. I expected the good teen/school drama movie and at the end results I got one of the best teen school drama movies ever !! Everything about this film is great The characters, the performances, the story behind every character, the fantastically-put stereotype in every character, the music, the place the movie is set in... Everything about is film is a masterpiece !! If you're into school teen drama- you have to watch this film. As a movie lover, this film got me almost crying and speechless many times. This film proves perfectly the background and story behind every type of student. This film can be great whether you just finished school, you're currently a student or a person that matches one of the following stereotypes in the film. "},{"Title":"The classic that started to elaborate on modern social classes in high school","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a shame that I just watched this movie so long after its release. Then again, it was release at my birth year. All the teen movies where we see all those social classes like the jocks, the nerds, the goths, the band-mates and the popular girls, all get first exposed in this movie. But maybe the audience nowadays will find many of the words and idioms used rather strange. Saying sporto instead of jock and saying dweeb instead of nerd sounds very far off even though the audience will catch the meaning quickly via the context. The movie also has real nice and natural flow portraying high school teens where they can be shouting in conflict in one time and be in discussion in a civil way the next few minutes later. The acting overall is kind of a mixed point. Emilio Estevez did well in portraying the cool and determined character while Judd Nelson did well in grabbing all the attention for his character. Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy and Anthony Michael Hall did also well in portraying the stereotypes of they respective characters. "},{"Title":"Best John Hughes Movie","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are many John Hughes masterpieces. In many ways, he is the definitive filmmaker of the 1980s. In fact, he is often the first name that comes up when people think of the eighties in movies. But like some other great filmmakers (Soderbergh comes , his filmography is composed of some bad movies, some good movies, some great movies (including Ferris Bueller) and one masterpiece. This film is that masterpiece. I say way too often that a film takes a basic premise and makes it work. But for a film like this, such cannot go unmentioned. The first sentence of the Wikipedia recap is this Five high school students from different walks of life endure a Saturday detention under a power-hungry principal. That right there describes the basic premise of the movie perfectly. There are only a handful of films that you can describe in just one sentence. This is one of them. You could hardly think of a simpler movie if you tried. But it works because of the characters.All five of them are, on the surface, your basic high school stereotypes, ones that films had played on a lot, but particularly over the preceding decade. But as they are thrown in a room and forced to interact, we discover that they are more than what they appear to be, that they are complex human beings that are often unfairly divided by our culture, including by many movies. It's kinda meta when you think about it.Anyways, it is a simple theme, yet a powerful one. That is probably why so many high school movies of the last few decades have tried (mostly unsuccessfully) to copy it. So many have done it, in fact, that is hard to remember that when this came out, it was the subversion of many movie clichés and patterns It was fresh and new and innovative.But that is not why this movie worked then and it is not why it works now. The characters this film runs through have humanity. Many of the failed rip-offs of this movie have just had a character prove that they are not a trait without giving off the feeling that they are not a character, that they are at least similar to a real person. Hughes didn't just understand what he was doing, he understood why. And that, with an assist from some truly impressive acting from the Brat Pack, is why this film endures. That is why this film is still watched and remembered today when so many other movies have been forgotten. This is why there are people my age who say that this is their favorite film of all time.This is not a heavyhanded film. It does not often shout. But when it does, you can almost hear it saying 'Don't you forget about me.' "},{"Title":"American teen comedy.","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an American teen comedy film shown in 1985. There are five main characters and they all come to school on a holiday for the sake of a penalty. They think each of them is labeled as an athlete, genius, delinquent boy, mysterious girl and rich girl by their teacher and they are dissatisfied with it. Having completely different characters, they have never talked to each other before and of course they do not known about each other even though they are in the same school. However, they all have troubles which is not understood by their parents. Through communicating each other, they gradually open up to and try to get over their troubles. The director if the film is John Hughes, who is well known in the field of teen-age films and comedies. He is a producer and scriptwriter of Home Alone which was a big hit and still now it is watched by many people. "},{"Title":"Makes us think","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One day, five students are gathered in holiday school, and are forced to write essays about what they are. A teacher told them not to talk, and not to go somewhere. However they started to know each other like who you are, and why you are here in the limited classroom. By being together all day long, they are coming to know about themselves. I couldn't think of how it will end, and what message the movie wants to tell us, but I finally got the idea, so I would like to recommend you to watch it!! It makes me think who I am, and how I should be. I like the way to describe characters's mind, especially the expression of each characters. This movie makes us think about ourselves so deeply that I would like to recommend this. "},{"Title":"Often imitated, never duplicated","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the secrets to John Hughes' success was that he never talked down to his young audience, but at the same time he never put words in the mouths that felt forced or inauthentic (I'm looking at you Kevin Williamson). He had a unique ability to hone in on their hopes and fears, and he was never more on point than he was with his seminal teen dramedy 'The Breakfast Club'.It really feels more like a stage play than a movie at times, and it's easy to forget just how phenomenal its young cast is here. Each one is so good, and their chemistry so perfect, that it's impossible to imagine anyone else playing their roles.This remains the definitive movie of its genre 30 years later. It has proved itself timeless, and a classic. "}{"Title":"A Strong, Dialogue Based Masterpiece,","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a brilliant movie with a really well developed storyline and an outstanding cast. It's very deep, meaningful, emotional and even quite fun, it manages to fit all of this in to ninety minutes, the characters are realistic and all of them are very relatable, which is the main thing that makes this movie so appealing, no matter what group you were part of in school, this reminds us that no matter how different certain people may seem, we are all one, I think this message is perfectly conveyed here. It could have jumped in to dark territories more, it comes around every now and again, such as John talking about his issues with his father, or Brian telling us about nearly committing suicide, but it glosses over these dramatic moments very quickly, I would have liked to see it developed further, it would have added an extra layer to the characters. The cast is fantastic, this is the type of movie that couldn't have possibly worked without good actors, and they thankfully they got great ones here, the chemistry better them all is perfect and they convey each school pupil-type, such as jock, outsider and nerd, perfectly, but it's also very real, most eighties movies, like Revenge of the Nerds or Porky's, exaggerate these personas, but John Hughes always made it very life like, and Judd Nelson, who I think is the highlight of this movie , is easily one of the greatest characters he's ever created. Funny, charming and also quite emotional, there really is no other movie quite like the Breakfast Club, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy drama. A group of high school students are forced to serve detention on a Saturday. Best Performance Judd Nelson "},{"Title":"Hughes is Beethoven, this is his Ninth Symphony","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I find it very hard not to give this movie a 10/10. I stand by a strong belief not no film or show ever in existence has been completely flawless, but aside from 'Lost', this is the first I've seen in all my life that seems as if nothing went wrong. Hughes is a master, and there's no better way to describe him. An adult screenwriter and director whose mind must have never left his high school days, or else he never would have made films so mind-numbingly accurate. 'The Breakfast Club' in particular has been considered a classic, I think mainly because he does an excellent job in uncovering the mysteries and truth behind a single teen from each of the more common popularity cliques, which were very real back in 1985 and are still just as real today. The performances are excellent, and I think that Judd Nelson is probably the best in the film. His scenes with Paul Gleason are great and often funny. But despite the movie being a comedy/drama, I don't think humor is the reason all of us see Hughes' films. I think we are attracted, especially as teens of that age group, to his movies because we know how real they are, and we like to watch ourselves from outside our own reality. I don't know if you were a brain, an athlete, a princess, etc., but I know you can find yourself somehow somewhere in one of these characters. Hughes' movies are entertainment because we know they are as close to real life as you can get, and we recognize that they aren't just exploding or hilarious or terrifying entertainment, but they are in fact, us, hidden inside the characters that are already on the screen. Each of Hughes' films captures us in this way, and if Hughes were Beethoven, 'The Breakfast Club' is undoubtedly his best work, his ninth symphony. "},{"Title":"your youth","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is American high school story including comedy and drama. High school students have many problemstheir friends, families and themselves. Characters of this movie are individual, for example an athlete and a cranky girl, but all of them have problems. Everyone experiences it, so this movie can strike a chord with everyone. I enjoyed this movie, and want to watch another American high school movie. Also, this is a love story. I laughed very much because developments of their loves are so fast and I couldn't follow them. However, I had g good feeling very much because it is simple and they are meek and mild. It is just like young people, adults can't imitate it because they reflect on many things such as their jobs or families. Therefore, watching this movie, you can recall your youth. Is is important very much. "},{"Title":"We can remember our good old memory","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five high school students go to school on a holiday as a punishment. They have a different characteristic such as a sportsman, a genius, a bad boy, a princess and a mysterious girl. They don't have a common point but they talk and complain about their parents with each other. They gradually open up to each other and each students think about who am I. When I was a high school student, I belonged to a basketball club. There are various kinds of player in the club. As a result, a conflict among the players sometimes happened and each time we talked to each other for a long time and we could open up to each other. Finally, our team got a strong union. When I watched this movie, I remembered a frame of my youth. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club is a true 80s classic","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My cousin introduced me to this film last year as I told him I have never seen this movie in my life. To be fair I thought it was a pretty good flick. The story is as follows. A group of misfits have to spend one Saturday afternoon in detention as they all done bad things. So they all start befriending each other and they all come up with a brainwave to try and escape detention. But will the 5 high schoolers escape?The acting was very good(from Emilo Estevez who is Charlie Sheen's brother who was in The Mighty Ducks,to Molly Ringwald to Anthony Micheal Hall)down to the soundtrack(Don't You Forget About Me),this 80s movie is timeless. If they ever thought about remaking it I wouldn't think it would work. One scene I remember was the misfits escaping and they spotted a janitor and hid so that the janitor wouldn't find them.I did a review of this a while back but for some strange reason it got deleted. If you haven't seen it then be sure and check it out the next time its playing on TV. From the man that brought you Home Alone 2 I give this movie a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Nice Film","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like this film. In this film, there are five main characters and they are based on stereo types of American high school students. When I watched this film, I remembered my high school time. This film takes place in the library. It is easy to understand about characters growth for audiences because the place doesn't change,I can compare with character's mind easily in this film's start and end. In addition, I like this story. Most of the audience had some trouble when they were in high school. I thought a lot of people who watch this film sympathize with the character. I remembered my high school time and my friend situation. My friend and I were in similar situation in this film. I could sympathize all characters. "},{"Title":"Good students","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I am a high school student now, would I sympathize with this film's characters? I think every person is worried about something like those characters when they are young. I saw many people who are older than those characters, but I felt difficulty to prove they remember teenage thought. If people remember completely and think as teenagers, they would fail to grow up. I think this story is about young people who start to grow up. I considered these five student characters are too clever, but I didn't dislike their trying to save themselves. On the other hand I returned to myself. I couldn't think just only myself in those year age. They are too far from me, so I felt that I watched completely fiction in somewhere of my head. But I like this atmosphere like in cold morning, at school not on a weekday and 80s. I recommend it to you. "},{"Title":"Nice Comedy","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a story about protagonists who must go to school to take a lecture for problem children on Saturday. In the film, first, their teacher tells them to write an essay about what you are. Then, in spite of the instruction, the protagonists don't follow and try to probe into their secret each other. Finally, although they have a quarrel, they can understand each other and finish the lecture on Saturday. There are five protagonists in the film. I think all these actors and actresses act very well. Especially, an actress who acts a mysterious character is great. This is because she plays a difficult character to act well and succeeds in expressing the atmosphere which the mysterious character has. While I watched the film, I was never bored because the story of the film developed at a quick pace. Sometimes we don't like such a film, but I think most people are never bored while they watch this film. "},{"Title":"Children and adults can enjoy this film in different way","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Three boys and two girls come to their high school, even though it's Saturday because of some reasons. They are shut in the library and must write an essay. They are not friends and start fighting. However, through the communication in which they talk about their difficulties, they understand each other. This is about just one day. However, they grow up and confront their problems. It's really simple, but we don't get bored as their changes are described in good rhythm. Also I love its 80's atmosphere. I want to watch it again when I have a child. Maybe I can enjoy this film in different way. I'm looking forward to it. "},{"Title":"School and students","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five main characters appear in this movie. They are high school students in USA. Their nicknames are Princess, Athlete, Brain, Criminal and Basket Case. Their nicknames reflect their personality and characteristics. Everyone has each kind of troubles and problems. One day, a teacher gathers them at the library because he gives them the work. The work is that boys and girls write the essay. The essay's theme is what they think about themselves. At first, they are loath to be gathered and get the works; however, they begin to gradually talk to each other. Moreover, they think about their friends and themselves, then, they change themselves. This film is made in USA. The location of story are in USA too. However, what teenager has many problems maybe be not different around the world. All around the worlds, most junior high school students and high school students have many troubles and problems each other, though the kind of problems are different each students. Of course, the kinds are different from characters of this film too. However, it is not different that students of this age have a lot of troubles. I recommend the film to people who have problems. "}{"Title":"There's honestly too much positive to say about it.","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've hinted and put it out there many times before but I can say I never got much out of high school. Sure, it wasn't unbearable but it was unlikable for me anyway I look at it. When your main hobbies are film studies, writing and attending as many hockey sporting events as possible, I came to expect to being alone on most nights. Sure, I had my fair share of friends but once my friends turned to drugs, I told myself I wasn't going down that road. Still, being that these friends were always close to me through junior high, I wasn't able to totally let them go. Basically my entire high school days were spent with drugs even though I never did drugs and alcohol during those four years.I was a straight C student with my GPA always somewhere in the 2.5 range. Considering my high school was always top in the state of Michigan and too much focused on excellence, my grades were probably below average compared to others. That could be because I do have a learning disability but at the same time, school was just not my thing. Being at a place for seven hours every day and just not being a people person made school difficult for me. It was me usually sitting in classrooms for six periods where my interest level was pretty low.I can say that I found most of my senior year this past year to be kind of useless. I had achieved most of my credits for graduation years prior and I was stuck in an art class and material processing class because I needed classes to round out my schedule. I found it very ironic that I liked my business law class so much even though it was pretty hard and I even got an A in the class. Sure, my grades weren't hot for my senior year at times because I was really had no experience in drawing or doing woodwork but my grades were also low because was just at an end. I also think having a girlfriend my senior year helped with me lot. It helped from an emotional standpoint and it was nice having a person who was willing to support me when a lot of people weren't. From my first car accident, midnight drives wandering around town and to the poor matinée movies we sat through, it seemed like my best times of high school were with her in an odd way.The point I am trying to make is that everyone has high school memories and I could go much more in depth and give you a dozen more stories but this is enough. To fit into more my point about high school, if there's genre in film that's more cliché and without so many deep issues, it's the high school genre. Yes, you have your classics from it like any other genre but you also see so much of the same thing. Still you can find a charm in a movie like The Breakfast Club which is really like no other.Jonathan Bender (Judd Nelson), Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), Andy Clark (Emilio Estevez) and Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy) have all been served detention on a Saturday morning at Shermer High School. This film is a character study which goes into depth of many characters having deep conversations about the meaning of life and high school ideas in general, all set in a school library. Why this is such an accomplishment is because of the characters. Every one of these characters are given a background and thoughts. Andy is on the wrestling team and you can just tell at times he's just tired of being a jock. Andy wants to put himself in and talk about issues even though he shouldn't. Claire is the princess and let's her mouth get her into trouble most times. Brian is the brain who is facing too much pressure and more than he should. Bender is the rebel and who seems to find himself in Saturday dentition quite a bit. Ally is awkward, quirky and a wacko who's really all over the place. It's the Judd Nelson character who really leads this film in it's first acts but his cast-mates eventually step up near the close this film. These are characters that fit the role of people in high school. These are characters that are able to talk about things that have deep meaning for them. These are characters that are not normally in high school films or films in general. This is a plot that's as different now as it was back then. A high school film that is set in one day and one setting. The Breakfast Club is brave and I don't see it ever being topped as the best high school film around. There's honestly too much positive to say about it. "},{"Title":"interesting communication","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The main characterｓ are five students. They have their own problem in their life. Through communicating, their relationships become better. Almost all scenes of this movie are set in school. The student's characters are all different. A group with so different people is rare. So there are many conflicts with each other. But it is interesting for me because I can see the scene I can't experience in my daily life. Their conflict is so hard and I can't understand some of the cases. However, if they conflict, they make up somehow. The more they express something honestly, the more their relationship seems close. If we have something shameful, we are reluctant to say it. But in the movie they say about themselves honestly and they got along with each other. I thought trying to express ourselves without being shy is important in order to have good relationship with others. Whatever you have trouble, having friends you can talk honestly with is important for you. I enjoyed this interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Let It Be","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On Saturday, five students go to school because their teacher told them to do so. He instructs the students to write compositions about what they are. Since then their friendships start and they review the reasons why they are there and themselves. What is myself? The question is so hard to answer that we need some triggers to make us notice what is us. In this film, one of the triggers is new friends who they have never seen. Each of them is an intelligence, princess, athlete, bad boy and a basket case. They tell stories about their own worries to each other and realize that there is nothing wrong with them. While I watched this process that the characters grow up, felt impressed. In addition I remembered my difficult days as in the story. I have also been worried about myself. Then my temper was not steady and I tended to get irritated for anything. The film made me so nostalgic and it is so nice that it shows problems children in real life have. The movie expresses such a complicated situation of students in adolescence very well. I felt sympathy with each character while watching it. I recommend to you that you should watch this film. "},{"Title":"Like a middle-finger to adults","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was an adult when I first watched The Breakfast Club, and it spoke to the high-schooler in me. A real head-turner, this one. What makes it so resonant is the authentic depiction of high school teenagers - five disparate archetypes brought together during detention. I say archetypes, but I think everyone in the audience can relate to (at least) one of the characters. Hughes' writing is the blood that courses through the movie's veins, but it's got a cast that really makes the whole thing work (especially Paul Gleason). Also a pretty good soundtrack (not just for Don't You Forget About Me, but also Fire in the Twilight, easily my favorite). And there's something about the locations in a John Hughes movie. His choice of high school is both something that feels close to where I went, and a place I want to visit one of these days (his forte wasn't just writing and soundtracks; the man really knew where to shoot).This is a movie with real staying power. And the only thing I have to say against(?) this movie is Ally Sheedy's makeover near the end. It never sat well with me, and it's an unnecessary perpetuation of the importance of looks (just before we hear Anthony Michael Hall reading their rebellious letter to the principal, at that). I dunno, that's just me.7/10 "},{"Title":"best high school drama","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five high school students are made to come to school on Saturday morning. They are all different types of students, and seem to have nothing in common. They are an athlete, a princess, a bookish type, a weirdo, and a rogue. They are in library and told to write an essay about what they are. I think this film depicts various aspects of high school. That is school caste, problem of their family, conflict with teacher, and that all of them have their own distress. At first, they conflict with each other, but they gradually reveal themselves. It is interesting that their characters are shown up by what they say and what they do. I think it is also interesting to imagine adult's (teacher and school janitor) life compared with the five students. This film is changed depending on the age, so I want to see this film again and again after I get old. "},{"Title":"In The Simplest Terms The Best","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is without a doubt the best high school movie of all time and one of the best of 80s. John Hughes presents high school stereotypes, takes of their masks and expands them to the point of opening everyone's eyes. Real performances from real teenagers and emotions run wild over the course of Saturday detention. It's a shame this hasn't officially been turned into a stage play. The music is fantastic. This deserves to be watched by anyone who is, was, or ever will be a teenager. It's a time capsule that takes us right into the 1985 with the perms and fashions of a different universe. I feel like not enough credit is given to the wonderful Paul Gleason as principal Richard Vernon. He's seriously good, you guys. "},{"Title":"deep story","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film describes individual concerns. However, concerns can understand both defect and individuality. Usually, everyone tends to think about overcoming their own defect. But this film makes us realize that we don't need to interfere with anyone and we have to have our own personality. In addition, this film describes importance of communication. We can't look at our own character. So we talk with partners and we can know ourselves and notice our own good and bad points. Therefore, it is necessary for us to have friends who can talk about the real intension. I think if we discuss our opinions with a person, we can develop mind and advance to next step. So adolescent boys and girls should watch this movie because contents of this film are true for us. "},{"Title":"The pinnacle of the 1980s high school comedy?","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE BREAKFAST CLUB is certainly a well-regarded and well-remembered film from prolific director John Hughes, but I'm guessing it's a film where you had to be there at the time to get the full impact. I've only seen it for the first time 30 years after it was made, and after that time it feels a little dated and not particularly funny. Certainly not on par with a film like PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES, which I saw as a kid and still love today.There isn't much story here, as this is a single location drama involving a group of high school kids spending time together in detention. Each character is a stereotype on the outside the prom queen, the jock, the geek, the outsider, even a prototype emo. As the dialogue and the situations progress, we get to know these characters inside out and find out what makes them tick.You can't fault the acting here, as it's all rather good, particularly from Judd Nelson as the outsider. Paul Gleason is a real hoot as the antagonist teacher. But it's fair to say that all of the characters, outside of Nelson's, are rather dull, and their various problems seem either trivial or rather weak compared to most people's. It's a good idea for a film and I can see why it was a success due to people identifying with it, but I think it's a case where the reputation is better than the actual movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly classic 80's","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an all time brilliant classic cult movie. It was great in the 80's and its great today. Teenagers of whatever era are able to watch it and relate to it. And there's always one character we can all relate to and that's what makes it such a wonderful movie. The script is witty . The actors brilliant. The music legendary. In fact the entire movie is filled with classic scenes and hilarious dialog. This is the story of a group of kids from opposite ends of the social field being forced to be together in detention. Despite the problems these kids all have you can't help but like each and every one of them and despite the fact they can't stand each other in the beginning by the end friendships blossom as all have united and become a team. Judd Nelson is of course utterly brilliant in his famous role as Bender. He's rebellious, sexy . Just the kind of guy you always wanted to date as a teenager. Hope this movie continues to be shown across generations. An unforgettable movie! "},{"Title":"Happy (late) 30th Birthday of THE BREAKFAST CLUB!","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh my god! This movie in-f**king-credible! The style, the pacing, the subtle things, and ESPECIALLY the characters and their development are just a few of the many things this movie does absolutely perfectly! Quintessential 80's movie? Yes, but after awhile you don't see it as one. It works like Pulp Fiction (which by the way I'm watching right now) in the way where it's just drowning in it's decade's music and style, but you are so wrapped in in it's magnificent skill of story telling and character execution. This movie easily gets into my Top 50 favorite movie of ALL time and due to it's brilliant atmosphere and scenes that hit me like a harpoon! I also saw L.A. Confidential earlier today and that's good too, but THIS is something else. There's truly nothing like it! R.I.P. John Hughes. "}{"Title":"Detention Generation.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club (1985) Dir John Hughes / Cast Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estivez, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy Title regards making the best of a bad situation as five students spend an entire Saturday in detention and the stereotypes are only a surface coating concealing real emotions. Judd Nelson plays a trouble making rebel. Molly Ringwald plays the prom queen with the wealthy parents. Emilio Estivez plays the wrestling jock. Anthony Michael Hall is the class nerd. Ally Sheedy is the outcast. They elevate beyond stereotypes with broad characters and genuine emotion that viewers can relate to. Director John Hughes understands teenagers and their confused role in society, which is perhaps why he is celebrated within this class of film. He previously directed Ringwald and Hall in Sixteen Candles as well as produce and write several other projects. The library detention room gives a appropriate claustrophobic feel as the students weigh out the time. It begins with aggressive introduction until Hughes reveals the pressures that these students face and how they are effected. Some claim that this is the best of teen movies. It is stagy but it does create a worldview likely to provoke a response from the number of viewers who know the drama of detention. What Hughes establishes is the differences in upbringing and the promise of adjustment as they enter society. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"When Hughes still knew what he was doing","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ahh, The Breakfast Club. As I'm sure many will agree, watching this in your teens is a pretty interesting experience as few films you watch at that age deal with high school life and all its pressures with a lot of empathy. Because I saw it as a teen and liked it, I have a lot of strong, positive feelings toward it. Though as time goes on and because of the generational gap, you start to dislike certain things with some scenes becoming pretty cringe worthy. But it probably resides at the top of the mountain of films in this particular category.Right off the bat, we're introduced to our merry band of misfits Andrew (Emilio Estevez), the athlete; Brian (Anthony Michael Hall), the brain; Claire, the princess (Molly Ringwald); Bender (Judd Nelson), the criminal and Allison (Ally Sheedy), the basket case. They have only one thing in common they've all in their own way broken the school's rules and must spend the entire Saturday afternoon in the school library and write an essay on 'who they think they are', basically reflecting on their misbehavior. This essay is assigned to them by tough-as-nails assistant principal Richard Vernon, who symbolizes the 'villain' of this film, the school system and society in general (the parents, etc.) who are unable to invest the time and effort required to truly communicate with these children. As time goes on, our five characters begin to communicate and grow closer through a combination of humor and confrontational dialogue through which they all start to see each other not as their stereotype, but as a complex person and they realize they're not so different after all.This might sound horribly clichéd, but there are a couple of things to keep in mind one, with The Breakfast Club, director/writer John Hughes basically popularized this type of film aimed squarely at teenagers and quickly became known as the voice of the teens who felt deeply misunderstood by everyone around them. (Hughes would expand on this theme with Pretty in Pink and Ferris Bueller's Day Off.) In other words, you can't simply judge this film with the mindset of today's world. On the other hand, as exemplified by the film's continued success, the film has attained a timeless quality. It's empathy for high school students with all its associated pressures has remained popular and thus relevant, even today. Two, what's crucial to this film's success are the actors. It's not often a film features mainly a group of actors the age of students who never act in a way that feels cheap or unrealistic. Despite any grievances one might have with Hughes' screenplay, the cast delivers it honestly from beginning to end. Also, there's the quite realistic way the group starts to communicate&#x85;ever so slowly. They don't start talking immediately, but remain silent at first, get bored, start picking on each other, etc. All these little interactions contribute to the end of the film when they're openly talking about and confronting each other with their thoughts, fears, doubts, lifestyles, etc.Going back to the grievances with the screenplay, there are a few things that have aged about as well as Hughes' career for one thing, the film exudes the 80s out of its every pore, for better or worse. Seen today, it's likely some people would find the inclusion of a montage clip with rock music to be unnecessary and over-the-top. There's also the character of Vernon who exudes so much anger and has it in for these kids in such a way that it becomes hard to really take him seriously. He's the one-note adult who symbolizes all adults that fail to take these kids seriously and listen to them.Also, Hughes' comedy occasionally falls flat and feels inauthentic for a film claiming to speak for misunderstood teens. The scene where Andrew comes walking out of a room as high as a kite and starts to run around, 'raging against the machine' as it were, until he breaks a glass pane with his screams, all backed up by 80s rock feels clichéd nowadays despite its honest attempt at instilling the same, heartfelt enthusiasm in the viewer. There are a few scenes where the comedy is played solely for laughs and doesn't feel real, for instance the one where the group falls asleep and Vernon walks in, telling them to wake up. They of course remain fast asleep that is until Vernon asks who has to go to the bathroom upon which they all quickly &#x96; and in unison &#x96; raise their arms. It's this type of humor that in retrospect signals the trash Hughes would eventually write for films like Home Alone 3.But in the end, the good way outstrips the bad. With its cross-generational appeal, positive message and great acting, it's easy to see why this film has remained &#x96; and most likely will remain &#x96; so popular and appealing. When, despite the 80s clichés, your film still remains popular with teens even today, you know you've done something right. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first watched this movie with my friend and her dad. They were able to quote almost every line from the movie. After watching it one time, I was able to quote some of the lines, too. The Characters are so dynamic. They fit well into any high school whether it be in the 80's or the present day. There is not one character in the movie that a person cannot relate, too. I find it neat how the movie has a very basic setting. Most of the movie is in the library. There are the few scenes where they aren't but most of it they remain the one spot. I think the best scene is when they all start whistling. It is such a simple beginning to a scene and brings more humor to the movie. The change in the characters through the movie is a drastic change. They start as students who don't know each other or even care about one another. Then in the end, they all talk about one another. They learn things about the other people that if they hadn't been stuck in detention together, they would never know about each other. It is how people in school still interact with one another. You never really know your fellow student until you are sitting next to them in class, or stuck with them for a project or in detention. The movie accurately portrays high school students in a timeless way. "},{"Title":"Released 3 decades ago, still fresh","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The last review is from 2003. And I am writing one in 2015. So 12 years. I just felt like watching it because had nothing to. Last year, I watched Rocky and didn't love it, 6/10. So was wondering if I should bother watching an old movie again but gave it a try.The story is of 5 teen students who end up getting a detention of 9 hours on a weekend. Each person has his/her own story. And they just mean that no person is free of problems and that they all make mistakes and move on. I think that every teen who thinks that his life sucks, watch it, you will know that it's been the same for decades if not for centuries.Other than that, at one point, you feel like not completing at all but the last 30 minutes pay it off. At first, it just feels boring but you will learn to understand it.If you are from the too much new generation, listening to rappers, smoking weed, and love teen movies like Twilight, and stuff like Teen Wolf, you won't understand it totally.The movie is about how, given time, the 5 students learn to respect each other's problems and to respect the perspective of the other students.It's pretty weird though how I first wrote the review ASAP after completing the movie and gave it a 7. A few hours later, after reading some stuff, I came back and gave a thought to it and felt that it surely needed a 9 if not a 10 (like many have given it). It may seem completely messed up at one point where the kids are doing stuff while being high but everything you watch in the movie, will have an impact on how you think. "},{"Title":"Classic dramady with great relateable characters and some of John Hughes' best comedy.","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite the constant changes in high school culture, this movie will remain a classic for a very long time. Anyone who has been through or is going through high school can relate to it, and you don't even have to be familiar with each stereotype to do it either. The way the characters are written is unparalleled. Everything each of them says is completely believable in context of them as a character and as a person. One of the really incredible things about the characters is the way that their exposition is mostly covered in the moments where they aren't speaking. While not everyone has been in Saturday detention, especially since it's kind of phasing out of use, there are many scenarios that current and former high-schoolers have first hand experience with.We all kind of understand how the characters can talk freely with each other as complete strangers, but don't feel comfortable discussing their problems with their friends. This complies with the growing tendency of friends not to be there to discuss each others' problems as really good friends should. I think this is mostly accounted for by teenagers, and I feel fine saying this because I am one, not wanting to look soft in front of each other, especially not their friends. But that's kind of beside the point. Anyway, as strangers, the five students can talk to each other without being judged as they would among friends.Even before they start opening up to each other, the students unite, mostly in reaction to the actions of Vernon. Those scenes are kind of cool because it's great to be able to rebel against the one in charge, even if you'd love to see the guy next to you get in big trouble. Through this, they all realize that they are a collective force against Vernon. Vernon is pretty good as villains go since he's kind of the traditional martinet that we've all encountered at some point along the way. His treatment of Bender also adds to the audience's hatred for him, even though Bender is constantly asking for Vernon to punish him. Basically the only other character is the janitor, who is also kind of interesting in how he knows all of the kids secrets, which I'm sure a lot of janitors do.The most moving scenes of the movie come when the students discuss their lives with each other, and this is really where they start to recognize the similarities they all have. All of them have problems with their parents, which everyone can relate to to a certain extent. All of them get defensive whenever their sexual orientation is put into question, also something that contributes to their characters. Some of them discuss why they were put in detention, which also brings out a lot of emotion. And they all talk about the difficulty of being their particular stereotype, though it's true that none of them fall under any physical stereotypes which can be a point of controversy. I've noticed that some other reviews don't like how the characters end up together at the end, but I would refute this. I think the point is that they *aren't* together and never can be. They leave indelible marks on each other, but probably will never even speak again, as so well explained by the Simple Minds song at the end.The comedy is mostly verbal, and even the situational gags are overshadowed by the classic lines that they generate. The silent moments can be pretty funny too, like the one or two times where they're all just shown sitting around trying to pass the time. Bender contributes most of the comedy since he has by far the most lines and tries to be sarcastically funny anyway. Allison's quirkiness also contributes some more subtle humor. Brain can be funny in his reactions to Bender (e.g. You're mom marry Mr. Rogers? No Mr. Johnson.). Claire and Andrew don't have as many good lines, but they compensate by having more depth than the other three.I don't want to call this a must-see, but I would still strongly recommend it to anyone in high-school who hasn't yet seen it. It's good to watch on your own or with a small group, but make sure you can hear the entire time. Unlike most films, I would actually recommend that you buy it right off since its a film that you'll likely want to see many times. I wouldn't pick it if your'e seeking strictly comedy since, while it has lots of funny scenes, it also has a lot of emotion. Overall Rating 8.6/10 "},{"Title":"John Hughes' Classic Tale of Teen Angst","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Writer-director John Hughes continued his foray into teen angst comedy with the 1985 winner The Breakfast Club, a warm and winning look at five high school students trapped together in detention on a Saturday. We watch as these students get to know each other and eventually bond because during regular school hours, they pretty much navigate in separate orbits.Hughes' cinematic muse, Molly Ringwald plays Claire, a spoiled and popular princess who is in detention because she ditched class to go shopping. Claire spends the majority of detention fighting an attraction to John Bender (Judd Nelson), a thug who spends every Saturday in detention. Emilio Estevez plays Andy, a jock with father issues and Anthony Michael Hall plays Brian, a straight-A geek who seems to think being in detention is kind of cool. Ally Sheedy completes the quintet as Allison, a space cadet whose reason for being in detention is the funniest of them all.Despite a sort of music video directorial approach, Hughes screenplay compliments as we get to watch a bonding between these students occur, but not too quickly and pretty realistically.The performances are first rate, with standout work from Nelson and Hall. Mention should also be made of Paul Gleason, appropriately slimy as Mr. Vernon, the teacher supervising detention, who apparently has his own issues.This film was a box office smash and was pretty much an instant classic upon release. Teen angst has rarely been this much fun. "},{"Title":"sincerely yours","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is considered a classic and normally, I find interest in classics but this movie is just flat out amazing. Not only is The Breakfast Club amazing, but it is also timeless. It is honestly empathetic to just about anyone who has gone through high school, no matter the circumstances and I think that is one reason why many people connect with this movie. Most people who have gone through high school have experienced the several clichés and cliques that circulate around the school. The Breakfast Club just mainly focuses on the nerds, the jocks, the lost causes, the preppy girls and the future criminals. Going to a big high school myself, I happened to experience all of these stereotypical groups head on. Not only that, but I was also subject to detention on several occasions for various reasons. Right off the bat, I was hooked right there. The movie revolves around five teenagers that were all given a Saturday detention for whatever punishment they did while in school earlier that week. Each of them briefly knowing one another from seeing each other out and about inside the school but none of them really knew how similar they really were. Throughout the movie, each of them tends to get a little closer with one another. They laugh, they cry, they share stories, they dance, they smoke a little marijuana, and they come out with an open mind at the end. At the end, they all come out learning more about where each other came from and how they grew up and come out learning a huge lesson. There were also little lessons jam packed throughout the movie that many people seem to overlook but after watching it several times, I began to pick each out one by one. One of the smaller lessons taught in the movie was when Andy said, We're all pretty bizarre. Some of us are just better at hiding it, that's all. This is true. Everyone is weird and everyone has different things that separate him or her from one another. The thing is that some people tend to show their true colors more than some other people. Some people are more comfortable in their own skin than the next so they tend to bring out those bizarre colors. Another small lesson that seems overlooked in the movie is when Brian and John get in a small altercation and Brian said, Do you know without trigonometry, there'd be no engineering? and Bender follows up with Without lamps, there'd be no light. Both of the boys are right but what Bender is saying is that you can't enjoy the intricate things in life without the simpler things. The biggest lesson The Breakfast Club taught viewers that labels are not for people; they are more suitable for things like food or clothing. In simple terms, each of them learned that you should never judge a book by its cover or its stereotype. Just because a person hangs out with a certain group does not mean they think just like that person or come from the same background as that person. In Andy's case, the jocks at school were not also dumb and senseless and in Brian's case, the nerds weren't always up in the library studying for every single thing. We are all different in many ways and we should all own who we are. Though that is easier said than done, it can be pulled off. Not only was this movie easy to connect with and had many lessons that can be carried all throughout one's lifetime, but it was also packed with humorous scenes such as the iconic dancing scene, the marijuana smoking and a few more. It may be because I'm a bit biased towards comedy movies, but I love to have a good laugh, especially from a witty, sarcastic comment, which this movie was full of. All in all, The Breakfast Club is a timeless classic. Just about anyone who has been through high school, especially a bigger one can connect to this movie. Honestly, I think anyone who watches this movie will take away a life long lesson and have a good laugh as well. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"I won't forget about this film.","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A few years ago, I sat down to watch this film on New Years Eve. As I got towards the end of the film fireworks started to go off as the morning of the new year approached. Ever since that date, I have made it a personal tradition to sit and watch this film every New Years Eve. I love this film. I think the very first time I watched this film, I found myself so overwhelmed; not just by the incredible message, but by the beautiful character development and bond the characters share during the film. I think everyone who watches this film can relate to the majority of the five main characters of the film. The first time I watched this movie I couldn't help but identify traits from all five stereotypes in the film in retrospect to my own high school self. The film takes place in a High School on a Saturday, where three very different students are acquainted with one other to undergo a weekend detention. The five are each individually categorised as certain stereotypes; Jock, Basketcase, Princess, Brain and Criminal. Each of these stereotypes are common in the vast majority of High Schools and I think the whole development of these character-types is genius for that specific reason. The five characters initially appear to hate one another (though some share unlikely bonds throughout the movie) and eventually open up to one another towards the end of the film. I love how the characters sympathise with one another and eventually gain empathy for one another, even though they are completely different and lead completely different lives. It is almost like their meeting changed each and every one of them for the better and they each take away a specific quality from each other by the end of the film. I especially love the many different messages relating to morality and individualism within the film, these include; Everybody is equal. Respect one another. Treat others how you would like to be treated, and most Importantly Everybody is different. This film has had a lasting effect on me since the day I put the DVD in my player. This film will almost certainly be in my heart due to the love I have for it. And, I think it is more than safe to say; I won't forget about this film. Ever! Sincerely, yours -The Breakfast Club "},{"Title":"All different, yet so similar.","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was a great example of how people can set their differences aside, despite their backgrounds, everyone can find a way to relate to each other in one way or another.The movie depicted 5 very different people with a lot of free time on their hands, that made them interact with each other no matter what. Even the biggest asshole can become your friend at the end, and despite his inappropriate and obnoxious behaviour.A great glimpse of the 80's, nothing too fancy, just a good movie about life and how important it is to be an individual, yet have the ability to express your opinions and feelings to others, maybe people not so close to you, because the people close to you can put too much pressure on you and maybe sometimes it is just easier to share your troubles with strangers, than to keep it to yourself. "},{"Title":"Movie Review","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dondra Drake English 111 Carly Smith 29 November 2014 The Breakfast ClubI have such a deep admiration for guys that roll around on the floor with other guys is said by John Bender in the 1985 classic movie The Breakfast Club, directed by John Hughes. This inspirational film gives examples of hardships teenagers go through on a daily basis and it consists of six characters of whom only five are the main objective. These characters play roles from being popular to being a criminal and shows a great perspective on the true aspects of lives for teenagers. The demographics of the film gives a realistic point of view expressing each character's home life as being unsatisfying and emotionally undetached, creating a way for teenagers to cry out for help.The setting of the movie takes place in a high school library where the characters are being punished with Saturday detention for not following school rules, each having different situations. Each character plays a role that some might say fits the teenage image and is described as the brain, the athlete, the basket case, the princess, and the criminal. This film gives the audience an inside view of adolescents with different aspects of themselves; however, they come together with a common issue of emotional neglect from their parents. They start off enemies and by the end of the movie are bonded on an emotional level that surpasses the anger and insecurities they had in the beginning.Brian, played by Michael Anthony Hall, shows an example of what life is like as the brain, but is completely withdrawn from himself as his parents push him for perfection. Perfection is expected from the Athlete in Andy, played by Emilio Estevez. His father beats into him the macho, narcissistic world of high school sports, and Andy is lacking in constant approval. Parents fighting against one another puts Claire, played by Molly Ringwald, the princess, who is constantly seeking her parent's approval as they pin her against one another due to their anger towards each other. John, played by Judd Nelson, is criminalized in school as the delinquent to get attention other than the anger and physical abuse of his parents. The void and despair of feeling alone of being forgotten about by her parents, Allison, played by Ally Sheedy, is a basket case trying to fill the absence of acknowledgement by creating her own world where she is recognized and spoken to.Seeking approval from the parental role model is the main issue in this movie that each teenager is facing. However having a principal that is an antagonistic role model towards these teenagers shows the true reasoning on why teenagers react the way they do and seek the approval they desire to show their importance in life. Mr. Richard Vernon, played by Paul Gleason, was the hardcore shell of a principal that made it obvious that he expected more out of the popular teenagers of the group and bullied the criminal. Many teenagers today experience the same aspect of this movie by feeling it to be close to heart facing the many difficulties in their own lives. This film shows people that bullying and finding approval for themselves has always been an issue in today's world; however, teenagers are less likely to reach out to others to find the help they deserve and consider committing suicide to be the only way out. Bullying is a huge issue today not just by other children but from adults as well.The true inspiration of this movie is to not see the funny side of it or the fact that cliques do exist, but to see that all people including teenagers seek approval for being who they want to be. Each character of the film shows a different type of person who does play a real role in humanity and who feels the everyday pressure of wanting to feel accepted by anyone. My personal experience as a teenager is expressed very highly through this movie. I had constant worries about being considered in the clique that I so desired to be a part of. I lived with fear daily of letting down my teammates on the cheer squad I worked hard towards to be a part of to an extinct of being someone that I really was not. In my teen years, suicide was not mentioned nor an option, and I learned to stop seeking approval by becoming the person I am today. Being proud of who I am will be the true inspiration I give to all children that I teach in the future and the guidance this movie gives will help children and teenagers to see the realization that what they feel does not make them alone. "}{"Title":"The Breakfast Club should have won an armful of Oscars, but the Academy failed to see it for the triumph it was","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The brilliance of The Breakfast Club is largely lost on those who think of it as a teen movie about high school archetypes. It's not a movie about a rebel, a princess, a jock, a freak, and a nerd; there are no such people. It is, apologetically, a high-concept play about people trapped in a room until they realize that their similarities are greater than their differences. It rips up Moliere&#x97;literally&#x97;and adorns itself with the clothes and music and fresh faces of the era's key movie-going demographic, but preserves the close character work, human insight, and polished bon mots of a serious work for stuffy theater-goers. Among the people who didn't notice the script's incredible energy and sophistication were the voters of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, who failed to nominate the script for Best Original Screenplay though it is worthy of favorable comparison with the likes of 12 Angry Men and Jean-Paul Sartre's No Exit. Similarly, the Academy failed to recognize the accomplishment of Ally Sheedy, who completely transformed herself from the sunny girlfriend of WarGames (1983) into the impish, shocking, hilarious Allison of The Breakfast Club. Audiences focused more on Molly Ringwold's girl-next-door appeal, but she is slightly miscast as an alpha female and her screen presence pales next to Sheedy's show-stealing talent. Perhaps most damning of the Academy's ability to recognize quality when it comes in the guise of a popcorn movie is the lack of an acting nomination for Judd Nelson, who shows incredible range and depth as Bender. Nelson underplays and overplays in exactly the right places as Bender's determination to speak painful truths drives the film and sets off chain reactions within the ensemble. More snubs at Oscar time included the film's tense, cerebral score, and the songs that make up its now-iconic soundtrack of 80s pop picked to play during the beginning, end, and the choreographed montages that break what could be a one-act play into a traditional three-part structure. Some might criticize the montages for being silly, dated, and disconnected from the plot, and they would be right, but the segments are fun and they let each character reveal his or her nature in a non-verbal context by the particular way that they dance on banisters and slide down hallways. The only really indefensible missteps in The Breakfast Club come near the end, and the timing sours the experience. The makeover scene is hokey and regressive, a too-easy climax that was perhaps meant to suggest the mutability of image and the multiplicity of the individual, but that comes across as a defense of conformity. A related impulse to pair the characters off is unearned in at least one case and arguably both. The Anthony Michael Hall character's arc is too derivative of Billy Bibbit's in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, though the stakes are already high enough without being raised to life and death. After all, the really interesting question presented by the film is not whether these kids will live, but how they will live. That said, The Breakfast Club is not the only work of genius to botch an ending. Oscar voters, like Assistant Principle Vernon, saw only what they wanted to see and missed the chance to enshrine it in the canon. Popular opinion and critical consensus have been less blind. "},{"Title":"Everything","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" And these children that you spit on as they try to change their worlds are immune to your consultations, they're quite aware of what they are going through- David Bowie. This being said is what you get out of this movie when all is said and done but there is much more you may gain because between the rebel who stands out and leaves a first impression to the anti social weird girl who loves captain crunch and wanting others to know she would rather face the streets of Chicago then go back to her home life but the life changing event called the breakfast club is the group each and every kind of person can relate too or find themselves in. so enjoy yourself and have fun "},{"Title":"The Teen Perspective","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One thing every teen struggles to find is them self. This movie is in the heart of every lost teenage soul, who's just trying to fit in with the others, refusing to conform to the social norms, being relentlessly judged by adults (as if they were never teens once in their lives), having a hard time making their parents understand them, and just trying to figure out what it is they want. The Breakfast Club shows that all teens may have different personalities, sense of style, friends,interests and hobbies, but in the end, we stand by one another, facing the same hard realities of our everyday lives. We fight with our parents, study hard enough to pass in school, do things with our friends to be accepted by others, and many more. Being a teenager is not as easy as an adult would think. Because we are young, we tend to do things that sound good at the moment, and sure enough regret doing it later. We have big hearts with empty spaces that need to be filled, so we try to find a guy or a girl to help fill that empty space for us, later on inevitably getting our hearts broken, but never irreparably damaged. The adults loathe us because they can never be this young again. This movie shows how 5 diverse teenage people, each unique in their own way, can relate to one another in terms of family problems, school situations, maintaining your social status and finding yourself. Praise for this incredible movie. My perspective on life has changed after watching this remarkable film, and I am very sure that so will yours. "},{"Title":"there are 3 general problems with the breakfast club and i don't care","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw it twice all the way through once in 2010 in a dorm room and once in 2012 at a midnight screening. I feel like I'll probably watch it again this year as another biannual keyframe of the formative years. That or I will put the VHS I bought in my dad's garage sale this month and not feel anything.My grandma died at 72 in July. Five months later, my grandpa found his soulmate, some lady who plays the bongos and does yoga. I ended a 3-year relationship last spring, still in love & happy with him but I got confused about who I was, where I lived and how I wanted to be kissed. My grandma seemed supernal and soft. My grandpa seems brash. They were married somewhere like 50 years. I am coping with confusion concerning loyalty, commitment, fidelity and the permanence of love. I did not see my grandpa cry at my grandma's funeral.1. People talk along with this movie because they know the words and it feels good like it's sentimental and they laugh at the outdated dialogue that isn't funny and they decide who mirrors which character in real life. All the teen girls said I was Allison the first time I watched this movie. I hate college. But it's all part of the experience (so is college).2. Everyone is upset that Andrew only likes Allison once she is wearing makeup. I think there's too much hate and cold in everyone. If love exists then let it, don't infringe on it.3. It's about you. And everybody. Your heart will die when it gets old, but it's not for lack of trying and it has nothing to do with listlessness.I saw the person who used to be my boyfriend on Saturday to go see The National, who have been as formative as John Hughes (at least to my heart) (I don't know how you felt from the start). I tucked my chin around my shoulder to cry because the chords and transitions sounded so nice in the bottom of my skull but for some reason not because of the emotional weight of the lyrics (it's sort of like not eating even when you're still hungry, or not looking out the window in a window seat on the train, or taking a shower when you don't need one). He left his ticket on the floor of my car but not his empty pop can, expressing only negativity for the past which mocked the nostalgia that used to grow without check. I guess I believed (thanks a lot John Hughes) that we had a spark unique to each other. The only word I can offer to that spark today is whatever. And I can see how he got icy. You can pour enough cement on your heart and it dies. There are a billion feelings to address in a hundred different slowcore songs but you know from the place in your stomach that you shouldn't go back there, so you pour cement on your heart and it dies. Nobody is ever going to crack the concrete and that's what makes your first love superlative.On Saturday I felt half-dead, hating rain and lightning while it got all over my window screen in the dark in my room in the corner of my bed with my nose between my knees & I didn't have the drugs to sort it out. It looked just like heaven when I got up to leave. And late last night I slept so easy. I woke up smiling and even danced while I brushed my teeth. I bought orchids for my desk at work. I realized I'm allowed to fall half-in-love with someone I've been half-in-love with all along. I deleted 20 gb of music from my iTunes library and added 30 more. The cement around my heart is concrete and I respect every dead-hearted old person, particularly my ex-boyfriend and my grandfather. If all 600 muscles in your body pulled in one direction, you could lift 25 tons. I think the heart lifts like 24 of those.The priest, at my grandmother's funeral, with my two aunts and uncles and my parents and 2 sisters and my brother and my 5 cousins and my grandpa and I standing in a circle in the back of the church, prayed like a little anchor for all the people inside. He looked right in my eyes and I was shaking a little bit from holding in some sobs and he said just cry. He said we have to mourn right now and confront the fear of feeling (and cry, live in salt) or else it would all come back in a more haunting way. I did let my heart die for my grandma. I guess this morning the blood is all gone from my face and if I were to crack I would collapse but I feel so comfortable in my old dead heart. In 2010 we were driving in the dark by the soccer field & the library and you said if we ever broke up then you wouldn't know what love meant and used Say Anything as evidence. On Saturday you weren't thinking of that drive but you said, I don't know what love is anymore. I was pent up then but I get it now, I've seen the way that bodies lock and bodies tend to break, and I don't care if I never feel a strong feeling again whether it's good or bad. I would dance to Future Islands even with hollow limbs rather than bleed to Red House Painters forever. "},{"Title":"A day of figuring oneself out!","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The breakfast club is a buildungsroman of five high school stereotypes who figure themselves out that dull Saturday when they meet each other in detention. Brilliant acting by the star cast; the last scene where they are sitting on the floor and discussing what they did to get in here is pretty interesting. Good work in showing how family and parental influence affects children; the peer and parental pressure and image that directs their lives, and others'. Sexuality, grades, friends, fighting parents- everyone's life juggles between these and they come out of the detention room with an essay telling 'who they are'. It is not an emotional or nostalgic movie, and is a fine watch, but won't make you reaching out for tissues, reminding you of your school times. Written and directed by John Hughes, it is a clichéd story, but a good critical reading into the mindset of children. My favourite line from the movie, with which I cannot agree more We're all pretty bizarre. Some of us are just better at hiding it. One-time watch, for being a movie produced in 1985, and still gaining new viewers like mep "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Picture it, the quarterback and the captain of the cheerleading squad, the ideal high school couple or maybe the Student Council President and the Valedictorian. There are preconceived notions in high school that have to be maintained. Now let's throw in a plot twist; welcome to The Breakfast Club, it consists of a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess, and a criminal. Not your clichéd friends by any means, but this is who find themselves spending much unwanted time together. The Breakfast Club is a must-see movie that will send you back to the glory days of high school. We all lived it. We all knew these people. We all can relate. Five very different high school students, each representing their own typical group of the 80's, spend their Saturday in detention. With the common high school cliques being broken, the jock, the nerd, the glamour girl, the loner and the druggy are forced to coexist. As the movie progresses, the changes in plot demonstrate the typical stereotypes becoming broken. It is emphasized that the students aren't as different as they seem. They all have pressures from their home life and stressors at school. Throughout the day as they try to avoid their overbearing principal, the student's bonds strengthen due to the disintegrating stereotypes, to the point that they all end up leaving detention as one. Strong relationships are made and the people who are least likely to remain friends find relationships, as the students realize each other's personal problems tie them all together. The excellent acting in the movie allows the changes in stereotypes to reach full potential. Judd Nelson embodies Carl, the bad boy druggy, and owns the part. One moment he has you laughing, the next crying, and the next making you want to knock him square in the face. His mysterious trickery allows him to pull information out of his fellow classmates that most would, by no means, even consider asking. He encompasses the attitude associated with his character, haggling all of the other students and pushing the exact buttons to set them off. His physicality is superb; he becomes up close and personal, breaking respected bubbles. Whether he is arguing with the demanding principal or jamming out on the top of the sculpture in the library, he leaves you wanting more, discovering sides to him that you never knew existed. With many of the roles being very credible including parts played by Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Molly Ringwald and Ally Sheedy, the principal, Paul Gleason, seemed to fall short in some scenes, especially during his argument with Nelson. When Nelson was questioning authority Gleason states, I'm begging you, take a shot. Just one hit. This is a phrase that could be very intimidating, but the acting did not hold up to the line. The phrase could have been said with much more gusto and anger behind it, making the principal sound threatening; unfortunately there was no acting there to assist in his cause. Regardless, the stellar acting by the five students help make up for the principal, who only plays a supporting role in the movie. The leads did a fabulous job portraying their characters and owning their parts, stepping up to the plate and hitting a home run. With its fantastic plot line and characters, The Breakfast Club is a movie set apart from the rest. Yes, it is different, but different is good. It is a much needed change from your usual high-school aged movie. Due to its contradicting plot line of character portrayal, you won't want to stop watching. You will want to discover their story and how the students changed in their day-long adventure. Don't you forget about The Breakfast Club! "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club Review","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club- **1/2 (out of 4) John Hughes tried a deadly experiment putting five very different teenagers into a room and seeing what would happen. As feel good as this is, it has its shortcomings and its shortcomings are its undoing. For a filmmaker so concentrated on discovering the truth behind adolescence through realistic depictions, he certainly has a lot of contrived plot lines here. It contrasts itself, the intentions go against the style. Of course that does not mean that it cannot be enjoyed, it is a wonderful picture in an emotional way and anybody who has had the teenage growing pains will definitely relate. From a critical perspective, this is not the best of motion pictures, but from a perspective of a viewer, I would be more than delighted to watch this. It's certainly human. "},{"Title":"Friends After This","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a movie of the visions all of the guidance counselors have when the put on the student mixers in hopes of having everyone bond together. They want them all to reveal their stories, let their cliques go, and have everyone sit together in the cafeteria. It's got all the contents; a jock, the popular girl, outcast girl, nerd, and the bad boy. The students get put into a situation that causes them all to communicate and bond and live happily ever after. Of course, it can't be that easy. They the students have to get over conversation obstacles before they realize they have a lot in common. They pull together and survive their Saturday in detention. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five strangers with nothing in common, except each other. Located on the front cover of The Breakfast Club, this quote is a good summary of the movie. Five high school students the Jock, the Criminal, the Princess, the Brain, and the Basket Case, with no similarities are stuck with each other during a Saturday detention. As the day starts out they do not associate with one another at all, but by the end of the day they all became friends. And to us they became known as The Breakfast Club, a must see classic film that I would recommend to anyone. The entire movie setting took place all in one Saturday morning detention being almost completely dialogue-driven. John Hughes, the writer and director, does a great job of making it stand out as one of the classics. The Breakfast Club takes on two of the most critical of teen dilemmas stereotypes and personal identity. Hughes had a number of other high school age movie successes in the 80s such as Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink, and Ferris Bueller's Day Off. The Breakfast Club, however, has been deemed one of the best high school movies of all time by critics and also one of Hughes' greatest works. The movie has an all-star cast with five members of the famous Brat Pack. Molly Ringwald (the Princess), Ally Sheedy (the Basket Case), Judd Nelson (the Criminal), Anthony Michael Hall (the Brain), and Emilio Estevez (the Jock) star in this motion picture and made it one of the most memorable movies with their outstanding performances. The actors did a wonderful job of taking on their very specific roles by portraying the stereotypical students that every high school in America can identify with. One of the most intriguing parts of the movie was when the students asked each other why they were in detention the audience learned a lot about each character and teens in general. The film also has one of the most memorable soundtracks from the 1980's with such songs as Don't You (Forget About Me). It plays at the end of the movie and delivers the message of this film about being able to be friends with each other despite our differences or our backgrounds. The Breakfast Club had a major influence on pop culture in the 80s and still continues to influence films today such as Easy A and Pitch Perfect almost thirty years later. The Breakfast Club has one of the most memorable endings a film can have as well. It gives the audience a new perspective on teen dilemmas. In the end, the characters are faced with a tough reality and ultimately the audience is left to assume the future of the students. This film influences the viewers (mainly teens) to step away from the status quo like the Breakfast Club proved was possible. "},{"Title":"John Hughes' The Breakfast Club is mellow but memorable","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" America's 1980s film scene witnessed the teenage comedy fever spread faster than the plague, each director fighting to find the new best cure; and when America asked for a miracle doctor, John Hughes was there with Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Sixteen Candles, and possibly the most memorable teen comedy of all with the birth of the 'Brat pack', The Breakfast Club. In his 1985 film, The Breakfast Club, John Hughes uses a humdrum plot as a backdrop for the most memorable character development and enduring life lessons in cinematic history. I remember once someone explaining to me that The Breakfast Club is one of those movies where nothing really happens, but somehow at the end, everything is different. The film begins with a collection of stereotyped teenagers sharing a Saturday in detention at their suburban Chicago high school. Though the kids find ways to break as many of Principal Vernon's rules as possible, nothing else really happens. Still, it's hard to walk away from this film without feeling the emotional change the five main characters (labeled throughout the movie as the brain, the princess, the athlete, the criminal and the basket case), experience by prodding at each others' personal lives and stumbling upon surprising similarities. From the start, Bender (actor Judd Nelson) plays the criminal, antagonizing his co-stars with mean jabs and persuading them to join him in outlandish misbehaviors. Several times throughout the movie, Bender and his detention mates Brian the brain (Anthony Michael Hall), Claire the princess (Molly Ringwald), Andrew the athlete (Emilio Estevez) and Allison the basket case (Ally Sheedy), take turns in shouting matches and conflict ridden discussion only to find that they come from similar backgrounds and situations. Hughes' intense emotional scenes engage the audience and encourage a reconsideration of how we view those around us. The Breakfast Club is a gripping insight on high school stereotypes and how the expectations and pressure from the outside world can keep one from being who they really want to be. I hate it. I hate having to go along with everything my friends say, Claire, the princess, declares after the group discusses how everything will just go back to normal on Monday. But by the end of the day, Hughes has used everything from new relationships to the students' clothing to show how the group has broken the stereotypes they held in the morning when they walked into detention. Unlike many teen comedies of the decade, The Breakfast Club takes no risks with an ambitious plot. However, such a basic plot line is the perfect setting for the strong development undergone by these not-so-basic teenage characters, who find comfort in crossing the lines that have been drawn for them. John Hughes finds huge success in this 'Brat Pack' classic whose lessons are still relevant more than two decades later. "}{"Title":"Being honest","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of teenagers, each from a different school social strata, end up on Saturday at detention for various shenanigans. Fitting seamlessly into certain stereotypes the five misfits consist of meek geek Brian (Anthony Michael Hall), the jock-type wrestler Andrew (Emilio Estevez), the rebellious nihilist Bender (Judd Nelson), the popular in-girl Claire (Molly Ringwald) and the reclusive loner Allison (Ally Sheedy). Captivated by their societal roles the separate individuals initially feed off everyday school structures copying the relations and attitudes carried around classrooms. However through conflict and subsequent revelations the group starts taking on a different dynamic, revealing that the roles attached to each person does not exclude mutual understanding.Arguably John Hughes most artistically accomplished film, The Breakfast Club ventures through well-tread territory to bring a still omnipresent feeling of purpose. Although the frisky dialogues don't achieve boundless heights, they carry enough wit and substance to make for a cognitive piece, still however troubled by oversimplification. What however comes off worst in the movie is the forced humour, which blends sourly with the more cerebral plotting and interaction of characters. So hopelessly out of sync the impact is severely deflated leaving several confrontational scenes still relevant, while the rest fails to be as brisk and influential, as back when the movie was first released. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Teen Flick!","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, Judd Nelson and Paul Gleason star in John Hughes' 1985 comedy-drama. This focuses on a group of Chicago teens, Andrew (Estevez), a jock, Claire (Ringwald), a popular beauty, Brian (Hall), a geek, Allison (Sheedy), a basket case and John (Nelson), an outcast who spend a Saturday in detention supervised by their principal, Richard Vernon (Gleason). They're intimidated by Vernon at first, but goof around when he's away and get to know each other. They're also assigned to write an essay for him, but decide to write what they've learned about themselves. This is a good 80's teen flick with a great cast I recommend. "},{"Title":"We are different, but yet we are alike!","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is based on 5 students that have to attend Saturday school detention in the library of their high school. The students, John the criminal, played by Judd Nelson, Allison the basket case, played by Ally Sheedy, Brian the brain, played by Anthony Michael Hall, Clair the princess, played by Molly Ringwald and Andrew the athlete, played by Emilio Estevez, all come from different backgrounds. At the beginning of the movie, they appear to have nothing in common. However, by the end of the movie they have more in common than they thought. Many movies that deal with stereotyping, such as The Breakfast Club and Can't Buy Me Love, show that although, the belief that one group is better, or different than other groups, we still have common elements. The movies portray what it is like to come from different backgrounds and how stereotypes are formed. Whether the groups are jocks, nerds, or outcasts, if one takes the time to get to know the other by simply listening and opening ones heart, maybe they will see that we are all alike in some manner. We all have feelings. We are all out to find friends, love and happiness.In the beginning, the students are put in the library as told to write an essay about who they think they are as a person. Andrew is a jock who is trying to please his father. Claire comes from a wealthy background and is in with the popular group, but feels as if her parents don't care about her and just use her to get back at one another. Brian is very smart, but his parents always expect more from him. John has a criminal history and comes from an abusive home. Allison is just very odd and feels that her parents ignore her and simply do not care about her. Mr. Vernon, played by Paul Gleason has formed opinions on the students. He speaks about how John will never amount to anything and how he expects more from Andrew. John immediately lashes out at the others. Although his opinions are not taken well by the others, he may be the most honest among the group. John seems to know how to push their buttons and make them defensive. They begin by arguing and coming close to fighting. They all have negativity towards the each other based on friends, clothing and actions. The producer shows this by the simple shots of their shoes. It shows the designer boots, the tennis shows, the nerdy shoes, and the worn shoes, showing the different social classes. Soon the social classes come together and form a unity. They begin to defend one another and after John introduces marijuana, they form a circle and begin to open up and share their feelings about life, parents, love and pain. While sharing their personal stories, the producer plays music to show the vulnerability of each student. The camera scans around the person and the circle. It draws the viewer in and helps pull at heartstrings. Although there is still arguing, a friendship is forming. Feelings never shared before with others are revealed with this new group. Even though individual groups and separation still exists, a new club is formed. These 5 different students from different backgrounds and different cliques now become a part of a new club. They may not be friends outside of the library, but they will always be connected and known as The Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"An amazing Classic.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the movie The Breakfast Club, the story takes place on a Saturday morning at a High School in dentition. Five very different students each where in dentition that morning for all very different reasons. You had the Jock, Andrew Clark played by actor Emilio Esteves, the Nerd, Brian Johnson played by actor Anthony Michael Hall, the Criminal John Bender, played by actor Judd Nelson, the Princess, Claire Standish played by actress Molly Ringwald and last but not least the Basket Case, Allison Reynolds played by Ally Sheedy. As the story continues the five young students began to realize their life is not as different as they might have imagined. The film does a beautiful job, displaying the typical problems many teenagers go through. For example, the pressure Andrew has put on him by his Dad to be the best wrestler he could be, and to follow in the giant shadow that his Dad has already created for him. Another example, John Bender is a young man who makes crazy decisions and acts out during school do to his abusive home life. As the Saturday continues, the young five students begin to develop a friendship with one another, however are confronted with the difficult decision on whether to continue to be friends and take the chance of being rejected by their status quo , or breaking their newly developed friendship in order to still be accepted into their group. The Breakfast club shines light on the theme of everyone's desire to be accepted by their peers, as well as the idea that you are never alone. Another movie which relates to the theme of the Breakfast club would be Sixteen Candles. In Sixteen Candles two of the main characters Samantha Baker played by actress Molly Ringwald and the Geek played by Anthony Michael Hall are not a member of the popular crowd, however, both desperately want to be accepted by them. The theme of Sixteen Candles relates to the theme of Breakfast Club, everyone's desire to be accepted. Both movies portrayed the theme in different ways however, both very successful. A few techniques in the Breakfast Club that added emphasis on the theme of the movie were music and close up shots. Music added to the theme, because the music became another form of expression in the film in the sense, you could understand the emotion of the screen by the music in the background. The music choose for this movie, also helped relate to the time period in which the film was set in. The close up shots help add to the theme because it supported the importance of the scene by zooming in on one character, as well it helped connect the viewer and the character, by making their emotional level more relatable. Between the music and the close up views, the Breakfast club did a beautiful job of connecting the viewer to each character. The Breakfast Club was an overall outstanding movie, and shined light on the troubles younger individuals go through every day , but as stated in the classic by Karla DeVito  We are not alone. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club is about five totally different strangers becoming friends with each other after realizing that their stereotypes shouldn't define who they are.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club has the theme that stereotyping is wrong and should be avoided even with one's self. The film starts out by introducing the five different teens as their label; the princess played by Molly Ringwald, the brain played by Anthony Hall, the criminal played by Judd Nelson, the basket case played by Ally Sheedy, and the athlete played by Emilio Estevez. As the movie progresses the viewer gets to know them as Allison (previously the basket case), Claire (beforehand the princess), Andrew (was the athlete), Brian (who was the brain), and John (which was the criminal).The theme is shown by the changes made in the letter from the beginning of the movie to the one at the end of the movie. The first version just admits what was done to get them there was wrong, they thought the he was crazy to tell them to write an essay about themselves, and that he wouldn't care to read the essays anyways since he sees them as their stereotyped labels. The corrected version at the end doesn't have them admitting to having done anything wrong just that they deserve the detention and accept it, writing an essay about themselves is crazy, and he'll see them as he wants to under the simplest terms and the most convenient definitions which they each sign off as under their own label.The other way it is shown is as each individual explains their home life. Each of them have the same problem, their parents don't understand them as their selves but as their labels. They further their realization of that as they realize they are just different is all. They each had something different as their lunch; with one of the having nothing, one having sushi, one having sugar on bread, one having a regular nutritious lunch, and one having tons to eat. Then they understand that in totality after seeing what each person carries around in either their purse or wallet.This same theme is covered in a different way in the movie The Pregnancy Project. That film focused more on pregnant teens being stereotyped as having no future any more. However at the end the girl conduction the project realized the problem wasn't that the pregnant teens were treated different the problem was stereotyping and happened to more than just pregnant teens. She gives a presentation at the end to explain this, while this is explained only in the letter and their new friendships in The Breakfast Club.Film elements and techniques added to the film to help get the theme across. One main way was the music and in specific the song ''Don't You (Forget About Me) by Simple Minds. The song's lyrics are very similar to the plot of the movie while the song is played at the beginning and picked up at the part that has the word la repeated in beat by John as he helps the others avoid getting in trouble by getting himself in trouble, the song then is repeated at the end of the film. Another way is how the film goes back and forth between the principal, Mr. Vernon played by Paul Gleason, and the 5 teenagers.Overall the film covers how labels shouldn't be put on people. Everyone is different but their differences aren't given justice by labeling them. Stereotyping just causes problems. I feel that the movie was excellent and the acting was done excellent as well especially with the actress Ally Sheedy's playing Allison who at the beginning of the film was a funny character by the way she acted entirely different than the rest but over time starts talking and at the end changes her look all together with help of Claire. Definitely a movie worth watching again for either the theme or comedy it presents in the way they manage to aggravate Mr. Vernon. "},{"Title":"Thematic Points and Supporting Film Elements Used","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes has written and directed several good movies dating back to Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club in 1984 and 1985. Both movies feature high school student life. As we all know, the main characters were the jock Andrew Clark played by Emilio Estevez; the brain Brian Johnson played by Anthony Michael Hall, the criminal John Bender played by Judd Nelson, the princess Clare Standish played by Molly Ringwald; and the basket case Claire Standish played by Ally Sheedy. Let us not forget principal Richard Dick Vernon played by Paul Gleason either. The Breakfast Club is a movie about five kids that thought they lived completely different lives and wouldn't have had anything to do with each other if they weren't in a Saturday detention. At the beginning of the dentition all the kids were quiet expect for Bender who annoyed everyone by being so critical. However, by the end of the detention they had become close friends with open discussions around their life problems, realizing that they all had more in common than their initial stereotypical thoughts. This leads to the main theme of the movie don't pass judgment on someone or something based off stereotypes. In simpler terms you can't judge a book by its cover. John Hughes' Sixteen Candles is similar in the fact that stereotypical judgment is passed and it revolves around the problems of teenage life. The themes can somewhat be linked in the two films around not passing stereotypical judgment. The teenage girl in Sixteen Candles crushed on the popular guy in school while a nerd crushed on her. In the end after getting to know the nerd, the girl likes him. Essentially, people have to give others a chance before deciding to write them off in life. This is also portrayed through principal Vernon throughout The Breakfast Club. Dick didn't give those kids, especially Bender, a fighting chance at success. All he cared about was his career and making the lives of those kids difficult. Dick was passing stereotypical judgment on the kids without even trying to get to know them or help them through their teenage struggles. John Hughes used dialogue and motif to support the theme of sixteen candles. The entire film revolved around the kids getting to know each other through conversation or dialogue. There were blurbs or action in the film, but most of the time it was nothing short of a round table discussion. Motif plays into the theme of the film through doubt. The kids would just start to settle in and have good conversation and somebody would say something to upset someone else or the entire group. Everyone would go back to passing stereotypical judgment at these parts in the film. In the end, everyone realized that they could no longer relate everyone to the standard stereotype. They had all become friends through dialogue; the breakfast club. "},{"Title":"The teenage struggles of growing up","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie, The Breakfast Club, is a movie about five high school students, from totally different social backgrounds, forced to spend a Saturday together in detention. At the start of the detention they dislike each other and argue. They felt they had nothing in common but once they begin to open up to each other that changes. There are a couple of themes in this movie. One is the stereotyping of the usual cliques or social groups that exist in high school, the jock, the hood, the nerd, the weirdo and the homecoming queen. Another theme in the movie is the struggles that teenagers face as they try break away from their parents' control to gain their independence. Two other movies with similar themes about teenagers dealing with the struggles growing up are The Wonder Years and American Teen. Bender (Judd Nelson) the criminal, is just an all around hood who is a regular attendee of the Saturday detention. He is in detention because he pulled the fire drill. Andy (Emilio Estevez) the athlete, is in detention because he wanted to break away from the straight and narrow and do something bad just once. He taped together the buns of a fellow student. Claire (Molly Ringwald) the princess is a little rich girl who gets everything she wants. She is in detention because she skipped school to go shopping. Brian (Anthony Michael Hall) the brain is in detention because he brought a flair gun to school and it went off in his locker. Allison (Ally Sheedy) the basket case came to detention because she had nothing better to do. While in detention they begin to bond. Their first bonding moment happens when Bender removes a screw from the detention room door and the door no longer will stayed opened. The principal walks into the room and wants to know which one of them removed the screw but no one admits to knowing. Another bonding moment comes when they are sitting around after smoking pot. This is where they begin to open up and tell each other about their home lives. Bender grew up in an abusive home with alcoholic parents. Andrew is consistently being hounded by his father to always win and not to do anything bad that will ruin his chances of getting an athletic scholarship. Claire feels that her parents do not care about her and use her just to get back at each other. Brian is pressured by his parents to always excel academically. Allison says her home life is unsatisfactory because her parents ignore her. The camera angles used during the scene where they begin to open up to each other had close ups of each of their faces as they each talked about their home life. Viewers could see their eyes well up with tears as they talked about how sad they were about the relationships they had with their parents. Motifs which are repetitive images, patterns or ideas that relate to the theme existed throughout different scenes in The Breakfast Club. Motifs were show through the many stereotypical social group conflicts that occurred between the criminal, the athlete, the princess, the brain and the basket case. Although all five came from different social background but they still had a connection. "},{"Title":"Breakfast Club Review","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film takes place in a school library with five very different personalities brought together for a punishment that each deserved for bad behavior during school. Andrew is the film's athlete, in detention for beating a fellow student and taping his buttocks together. Andrew, like Claire, is ashamed of being in detention and is used to the better end of social life at school. Andrew hates his father for pushing him so hard to succeed and even wants his knee to give so his father could not drive him to be the best athlete. He shares a kiss with Allison, after she is made up by Claire. The criminal of the group, is in detention for pulling a false fire alarm. John Bender starts many of the events throughout the film. While he is hostile at first towards the others in the room with him, he defends Allison against Mr. Vernon (She doesn't talk, sir.). Despite Bender's constant needling of the others in detention, they lie to Vernon to protect John after he escaped his solitary confinement (exacted when he allowed himself to get caught in the gymnasium while the others ran for it) and snuck back into the library through a ceiling vent. At home, John is a victim of child abuse, particularly by his father, who administered a cigar burn to his arm for spilling paint in the garage. His antics and smart mouth wind up earning him an extra eight weeks of detention. The basket case of the group, she is in detention apparently because she had nothing better to do. She is the most socially isolated and claims to have no friends. She hides her face under her hair and the hood of her parka when frightened, and amuses herself by using her flakes of dandruff as snow on a picture she draws. For the first half of the film she is quiet, save for occasional squeaks of fear and a few random outbursts, but later on she opens up, particularly to Andrew. Allison's lunch consists of a sandwich made with Pixy Sticks powder and Cap'n Crunch cereal. She disgusts the others while making and eating it. Throughout the film, you can spot her stealing various objects. She is the least hesitant to talk openly about her home life and is not afraid of being different. At home, Allison is a victim of child neglect by her parents, and as a result carries a large bag with her to school every day in case she feels like running away. She claims to be in therapy, but because of her compulsive lying it is unknown if her claim is true (considering that she had previously convinced Claire that she was a nymphomaniac who was sleeping with said therapist). She shares a kiss with Andrew after Claire gives her a makeover. The princess of the group, she is in detention for skipping class to go to the mall. She is used to being sheltered by her group of friends and doting parents who only pamper her in order to spite each other, a fact of which she is painfully aware. Claire is caught between her parents who seem to use her to get back at each other. Claire eats sushi for lunch. She and Bender kiss at the end of the film, after much conflict between the two. The five discover after spending all day in school on a Saturday they have much in common. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment from the 80s","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a film about teens searching for their identities during a Saturday detention. The cast represents stereotypical characters from all the major high school cliques. Andrew Clark is the athlete portrayed by Emilio Estevez, Claire Standish is the princess as portrayed by Molly Ringwald and Anthony Michael Hall plays the brain Brian Johnson. The Club is rounded out with Judd Nelson as the criminal John Bender, and Ally Sheedy as basket case Allison Reynolds. The Club's chief rival and on-screen antagonist is Principal Richard Vernon played by Paul Gleason.The Breakfast Club is the name the group gives themselves in a thesis written by Johnson. The film is primarily a comedy, but differs from other teen comedies of the1980s such as Ferris Bueller's Day Off, in the depth that the film delves into the teenager's perceived angst. Ferris Bueller was sure of himself and the only angst he suffered was the fear of getting caught in one of his schemes. As mentioned before the Club's on screen adversary is Principal Vernon, but as the Club members get to know one another and search for common ground they all point their fingers toward their parents as the source of all their maladies. I interpreted their revelation as a mechanism to show that no matter how different we appear, we are all the same in fundamental ways, and what teen doesn't blame their parents for their problems? The movie opens with all the Club members arriving at the school on Saturday morning and interacting with their parents as is the case with Andrew, Claire, and Brian, however Allison is ditched at school while John comes wandering in on his own. Detention starts with Principal Vernon laying down the rules; you will not talk, you will not move from these seats, and you will not sleep, the last command being aimed at John in a way that shows Vernon's familiarity with John's tactics then the students are left on their own.All of the club members try to do their own thing to while away the time but John is at unease with the peace. He initiates confrontation with all of the others except Allison, whom he identifies as a fellow misfit, and ultimately has a showdown with Vernon. It is through John's persistent annoyances that the Club eventually come together to find common ground.The film constantly reaffirms each Club member's stereotypical persona, through dialogue, dress, and actions. The film also uses popular music of the era to help set the tone. There is even an impromptu music video with each member letting their hair down in a manner that fits their individual persona.The film succeeds as a comedy, but it also brings a little something extra to the table as the teens reveal their angst to one another and find common ground despite their differences. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club was directed and written by John Hughes","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club was directed and written by John Hughes. The movie is completely shot in the high school setting with five students who are facing detention. The students are Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), John Bender (Judd Nelson), Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald) and Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy). The other two actors portrayed in the film were Principal Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) and Carl (John Kapelos). I found the actors that John Hughes selected for this film was perfect. The location for the film was a high school and this worked great for the film. The lighting that was used throughout the movie seemed good as a school is lit well, but not too bright. The sounds reflected each scene the way it needed too. One example of that would be the scene in the basketball court. You could hear the echoes just as you would in a real basketball court. The only example movie I can think that might have some resemblance to the plot and setting would be Fast Times at Ridgemont High.This movie could have focused on a number of themes, but I feel that the theme that stood out was peer pressure. The movie was all about five students from different lifestyle backgrounds. There was the jock, geek, rich girl, criminal and the crazy girl. At first, you would not think this movie would be any good, but the use of the school setting created the atmosphere that we have all faced. Also, the theme was based on peer pressure that everyone goes through during their school years. The costumes all reflected each student's background and this allows the viewer to identify each character by looking at the costume alone. The movie was shot at a school and it truly brings back memories of high school as you watch them run the halls and you can see all of the doors leading to class rooms.I found that Bender was the main character in the film because he would be the one causing the peer pressure. Bender would start the fights with not only the students, but with Principal Vernon as well. He had dark secrets about his home life and he let it control his life. Each character in the film had secrets and in the end, well you need to watch the film to see what happens.I did feel that the film will allow any person to relate to how things were in school and the film might have been for the 80's, but it is still relevant today. The same pressure that we faced back in school still exists and this film has a great way of showing how people face it and how we can change. I found this movie to be rewarding and I was satisfied with the outcome of the film and how it kept my attention during the whole film. "}{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film's theme relates to an array of issues that revolves around the development of the characters; influence, acceptance, diversity, prejudice, tolerance, family issues and how to just survive high school. The Breakfast Club is about a group of five teenagers who have very little in common and don't care much for each other. They come from different walks of life and are reluctant to accept each other. But when sentenced to serve a detention in the high school library on a Saturday morning for eight hours, they end up revealing their inner secrets (with the help of a little pot session) and realize they have more things in common than they first thought; by the end of the day they become friends. Somewhat supervised by the Principal Richard Vernon played by Paul Gleason who ironically is also doing detention in his office and knocking back a few beers. The outcome is very predictable, which could be an understatement, but the cast was very effective as their characters opened up to their emotions. The main characters were the typical students in most high schools in the 1980's and to some extent are still the same today; Andrew the jock played by Emillo Estevez, Brian the brain played by Anthony Michael Hall, Bender the jerk played by Judd Nelson, Claire the popular princess played by Molly Ringwald, and Allison the introverted basket case played by Ally Sheedy. Written and directed by John Hughes (Ferris Bueller's Day Off; Sixteen Candles) has the ability to tap into the minds of teenagers and show them as adolescents trying to find a place in a culture that is sometimes hardened and unsympathetic or unable to understand the dilemma of survival in high school and society. The sound track used in the film was typical 1980's music which had various artists including Simple Minds Don't You (Forget about me) and a main feature point in the film, without the sound track this movie would have been lifeless. Brian played by Anthony Michael Hall opens and ends the movie with a short voice-over narration. The inside/out editing technique is apparent in the very first shot where the scene breaks away (looks like glass shattering) and the focus moves on to the beginning of the movie. Overall this movie was dead on in the 80's; influential and controversial at the same time and although I preferred John Hughes' movie Ferris Bueller's Day Off much better this movie was Hughes' most successful. "},{"Title":"Eat My Shorts","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You see us as you want to see us. In the simplest terms, in the most convenient definitions. &#x96; Brian (The Breakfast Club) In an Illinois high school, five dissimilar students are sentenced to spend a Saturday detention session together. In attendance are an athlete (Andrew), a princess (Clare), a nerd (Brian), a criminal (Bender), and an artist (Allison), titles which identify the roles the students play during the school week.Of course, because of the various status levels and stereotypes associated with these roles, the five students initially want nothing to do with one other. It is only gradually, through conversation and self-disclosure, that they learn that they are more similar than different, each wrestling with alienation, self-acceptance, longing for parental approval and at the mercy of bullies and peer pressure. The film thus prescribes an ideology of intimacy, in which acceptance and understanding is simply the result of getting to know someone. It is from this process which the film's title is derived though the film begins with the students all existing in separate clubs (science club, art club, sports club etc), they eventually learn to overcome their divisions and develop an all-inclusive group identity which they dub The Breakfast Club. Stylistically, the film is simple but affecting. Hughes likes uncluttered, stark compositions, well-lit modernist buildings, deadpan wide shots and the occasional musical montage. Mostly, though, this is filmed theatre, Hughes' visuals in service of his clever pen. Watch, for example, how Hughes' script flirts with our preconceptions Bender strikes us as being a delinquent, and yet he not only leads the group but willingly sacrifices himself for the others. Then there's Andrew, who abandons his macho athlete role when he cries in front of the others, and the seemingly feeble Brian, who asks courageous questions and ends up sounding more secure and functional than his new detention friends. Likewise the two girls, Clare and Allison. Clare at first seems stuck up and conformist but reveals that she wishes she could be more free (and hits on bad boy Bender at the end of the film), while Allison, the artist figure, steps out of her silent, unsociable role to provide wise observations and uses lies and deviant behaviour to get others to confess or confront themselves.Yes, the film is highly contrived, and there is a sense that the kid's are suffering from trite, even silly hang-ups. But kids are fragile creatures, are prone to self-centeredness, and the short time frame which the film spans demands that writer-director John Hughes insert some highly illogical dramaturgical fireworks to keep the plot moving. The result is a film which not only dives a little deeper into the teenage psyche than the teen genre typically delves, but manages to pull off a kind of poignant (but never sappy) emotional discharge quite alien to the genre, we the audience forced to watch as stereotypes dissolve and re-form before our eyes.8.5/10 - One of the few teen movies (see Lumet's excellent Running on Empty) which treats teenagers with dignity and not as a vehicle for sex jokes and gross-out gags. Like Hughes' Ferris Bueller's Day Off, the film ends on a bittersweet note, lessons learnt destined to fade once the new school day dawns.Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"A classic, but maybe not a particularly great one","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The one thing I truly respect about this movie is that it's never boring, despite the fact that's it's pretty much all set in one room and with the same five characters over and over and over again. There aren't really any events to speak of, these guys just talk to each other for the entire movie and somehow it stays interesting. Not that any of the characters is even all that compelling, I think this movie is mainly saved by the acting and the fact that it's so delightfully 80s. I mean, just check out the cast they've got Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald AND Anthony Michael Hall. John Hughes did not like half work. Also the music our standard cool guy (Judd Nelson) listens to is the kind of stuff that anyone who's not in 1985 would instantly laugh at. The Breakfast Club is truly a product of its time but then again, what the hell is wrong with that? Apart from the stilted ending, this movie is simply very entertaining. "},{"Title":"I thought The Breakfast Club was a great insight into teenage lives!","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched the film The Breakfast Club which was made in the year 1985. This movie really revolves around the typical stereotypes that we are all aware are created during those tough high school years. There are five teenagers that are the main characters in this film who all end up in detention together and there they actually learn more about themselves and the others around them than they ever learned before. Some major characters in this film that are worth mention were Emilio Estevez who played Andy Clark, Molly Ringwald who played Claire Standish, Ally Sheedy who played Allison Reynolds and Judd Nelson who played John Bender. I think the theme of this movie revolved greatly around the letter that was written instead of the essay. The letter changed in many ways, yet by the end of the movie it showed to all involved and to the principal that each person is viewed differently, by all involved and by the principal himself. The theme also involved no matter what they found out about each other or revealed to each other, most of the time, teenagers will revert back to their old ways that they are comfortable with, which is what some or most did and do. I think if I had to compare the theme of stereotyping to another movie I could do that easily to the movie Crash that I viewed a little while back. I think the same type of stereotyping of people is used in that film to portray what people truly think of each other and how their thoughts and feelings change as they go back to their normal lives. I believe the angle and lighting were both very important and portrayed very well in this film. The most important scenes took place in detention in the school library where the lighting truly showed how the room was bright and vibrant and even let the sun shine in so that they could all see what they were missing outside by being in trouble that day. It is not at all gloomy which I think is the way it should be due to the nature of what the students are discussing and trying to unravel about each other. I think that the lighting and angle helped to make the theme more believable where most people viewing the movie would begin to think what it might be like in that library on a Saturday when they should be out having fun. "},{"Title":"Want Some Strange to Go With That?","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We all know school could either be a time of fun or pure hell. IT's especially hell if you're a victim of a stereotype which what all five of these kids are by their nicknames listed above. The only thing all five have in common is that they share a room for an entire Saturday because of some bad thing they did. It's eight hours with people that go to the same school, but simultaneously are completely different because of their social standing in school. But they come out with a life changing experience. Its absolutely a feel good movie and a movie that no one can hate.It's Saturday March 24, 1984 at Shermer High School in Shermer, IL which is where five teens need to spend their entire day. Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), John Bender (Judd Nelson), Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), and Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy) are the victims and although go to the same school, they are all from different cliques or groups in the school. They are secluded in the school library from 700 AM to 400 PM, they can't talk, they can only sit and think about what they've done, and write their 1,000 word essay. They are occasionally visited by Principal Vernon (Paul Gleason). Though when he isn't in the room, they do the exact opposite of what they are supposed to.As time passes the kids learn about one another and know they each have a struggle to overcome and they need to rise above their stereotype. By looking at these kids you can tell who is who. Stereotypes have been around forever and though most are true can be hurtful and humorous. This film focuses and says to look past your stereotype and be who you can be. Let people see you as they want to see you. In my opinion the most deepest and heartfelt John Hughes film to date.Some kids my age would think it's a boring, lackluster film that isn't funny. I find it extremely fun and it only gets funnier every time you watch it. The movie is more than half dialogue which is why kids would be bored by it. But what else is there to do in detention on a Saturday? A kids moral to the film is be yourself, look past your bad quality, pick out the positives, and be who you are. A teacher's moral should be when you place five high school students in a room and expect them to keep quiet for eight hours, they will talk eventually.Starring Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, and Paul Gleason. Directed by John Hughes. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When the movie came out, I was about 20 years old and lived in Germany. Never knew the film existed.. and for sure I wouldn't have been interested in a film with such a strange title and at that time of age. I was interested in my studies and sports and movies were only there to distract, like action films or so. Well,some movies are sometimes seen wrong or reach wrong clientèle that they were intended to. Or at some part of life that is too young, from my point of view at that time. I saw it more today on German TV and would not only recommend it but certainly make it a must see in all schools and families as well. Great actors that give a lot of thinking... and you still can have fun. Parents and kids, authorities as well, watch this movie! It will entertain you as much as you can still learn... "},{"Title":"Film questions for Craven's class!","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1.)Do you agree or disagree with the statement The kids haven't changed. You have, that Carl the janitor says to Vernon the principal when he is complaining about the teenagers behavior? Why or Why not?2.)Which character do you relate to the most and how? Use examples. *Andrew, the Athlete *Brian, the Brain *Claire, the Princess *Allison, the Basket Case *Bender, the Criminal3.)Why was Carl the janitor's character important in the film? Use examples.4.)Is the message of this film still relatable and true today or is it outdated?5.)Was it important to have only one setting in this film or would it have been better to see these teenagers in their daily lives?6.)Does it matter that we don't know why some of the teens were in detention? Why or Why not? "},{"Title":"An Unforgettable Saturday Detention","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes has created something unique. 'The Breakfast Club' is some kind of wonderful little film. Yes, there have been hundreds of teen movies made since but this film is on a league of its own. To those who have been to highschool, tell me that you don't see yourself in one of the five principle characters. At first glance these kids seem to be going through the regular teen insecurities and struggle but as you watch further Hughes peels the characters to reveal that there's much more to their struggles than the usual teen angst. The cast includes part of the famous brat pack Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Molly Ringwald and Ally Sheedy, all of whom perform terrifically. Today teen movies have morphed into horny kids whining and constantly swearing and they lack the authenticity that John Hughes memorable piece so brilliantly achieved. The director also manages to capture the 80s atmosphere with its eccentric fashion and music. Among its genre, 'The Breakfast Club' is a landmark. "},{"Title":"You'll get the horns &#x85; The Breakfast Club","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It may not be the funniest film that John Hughes crafted, but The Breakfast Club is the one that I think made the biggest impression on me. Revisiting it&#x97;so many years after its creation, as well as many since I last sat down to watch its entirety&#x97;gave me an interesting experience. How the three friends with me had never seen it is beyond me, but that fact caused something I never expected. Each moment of weight, those moments when the kids explain the pressures of each high school social class and why they are spending their Saturday in detention, still hit me as they did when I first watched it. However, my friends just laughed straight through, seeing the cheesiness and the way Andrew's buns-taping incident played out in a homosexual-like nature, amongst other reasons. As a result, I began to wonder if the film only holds up to me because I had seen it when I was younger; it holds a place in my memory and heart. Maybe watching it for the first time today just can never have the same impact; it's time capsule sensibilities just too much for the contemporary young adult to relate to. Either way, I could never discount its poignancy or subtle humor and I'm sure it will still be my favorite Hughes film when I'm fifty.John Hughes is an enigma. The decade from 1980-1990 was as good as you can have in Hollywood for him. With films like Uncle Buck, Planes, Trains and Automobiles, and Vacation, this guy was the end all be all for comedy. After Home Alone, though, his golden touch disappeared and he's never been able to rekindle that magic. It's gotten so bad that he's resorted to a penname, giving his writing credit for Drillbit Taylor to a fictional Edmond Dantes, (Dumas is rolling in his grave with that one). But those early films are classics. I completely understand my friends' experience of The Breakfast Club, I could see those homoerotic connections and the idiocy of some lines and events, but I couldn't bring myself to laugh at them. If they weren't there, I might not have noticed at all, that is how high an affinity I have of the movie. Until someone points out the shortcomings, (if they even are, I mean this is almost 25 years old), I see it only as how it is.What really wowed me upon watching again was how effective this film is with just dialogue. Besides a couple journeys outside in the halls or Dick Vernon's escapades, the entire film takes place in the library, much of which includes the five stars sitting on the floor. When Estevez tells his story, it is made even more impressive by the fact that it was a single take. The camera moves horizontally as he speaks, allowing those in the foreground and desk legs to obstruct your view until the pan moves further. Yet he continues his monologue, voice breaking and tears streaking &#x85; it really is a powerful scene. Every kid that goes to high school experiences the trauma and drama and messed up social structures created, every kid can see a little bit of themselves in one, if not all, of the group. Call them clichés, call them stereotypes&#x97;these five kids are you and I.I think we should also acknowledge the accomplishment of Hughes with this film, more than others, and what it has done to Hollywood. Many of his successes came with buddy comedies or family oriented vacations, all of which had multiple environments and bigger budgets. However, The Breakfast Club was so much more with so much less. Without this film becoming a hit based on dialogue and character interaction, we may never have seen the likes of Kevin Smith's Clerks, (a self-proclaimed fan who references Hughes often in his films), or the independent insurgence that was a result. This was one of the films that showed people a smartly told story that is relevant to its audience could be better than one in the moneymaking system. You could have young upstarts like the Brat Pack raking in the money. Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, and Molly Ringwald got their start here along with other 80s fare. You could argue that Judd Nelson's peak was as John Bender, that scared criminally inclined kid acting out on the weak and naïve to have some semblance of power and worth, something all but absent in his home life. And my favorite, Ally Sheedy, shows that being an individual&#x97;being yourself&#x97;is all that matters. Everyone here caters to their friends and their clique except for her. She transcends it all and becomes an island to herself. By far the shining light of the film in what she represents, I am still almost hurt that she lets Ringwald doll her up at the end. She is so much cuter when disheveled.I can't not mention Paul Gleason's stellar schoolteacher, who has seen the kids get cockier and himself more serious, or John Kapelos' Carl, the Man of the Year turned janitor. They just go to show how well fleshed out every character is here. Sure they all embody those aspects we single out, distilled into one host for the purposes of showing us a projection of high school, but I don't care. There is just something about The Breakfast Club that can never be changed in my eyes, no matter how much I understand new viewers' trepidations on its quality. A nostalgia pick for sure, I'll still recommend it to everyone I meet. If they can't get past the datedness, it's their loss. "},{"Title":"Brilliant. Absolutely and utterly brilliant.","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite this film being an interpretation of the sub-cultures within High School in 1985 (24 Years ago as of the time of writing this), the basic fundamentals of High School life in present-day have not change a bit, even if fashions and social groups have.The characters themselves portray, in an excellent manner, five stereotypical students of a typical American High School (a jock, basket-case, princess, nerd, and a criminal - though now this could be interpreted as a stoner/gangster). Each character is very believable in the role in which they've been given, and by the end of the film, with the aid of the character development, we, the audience, are positioned to see the characters not as the stereotypes in which they're portrayed as, but as unique individuals.Emilio Estevez, despite pulling off his character as Andy Clark in a passable manner was cringe-worthy during the famous ad-libbed scene. I found myself growing impatient of his turd-flinging-ape style deliverance of lines whilst at the same time feeling a very real sense of nostalgia as the way he spoke and his sentence structure was very accurate to some of the jocks during my time in High School.This is a brilliant film in which all teenagers, regardless of what year it may be, can relate to. I strongly recommend that, should you not have seen it, hire/purchase a copy of this film immediately. "}{"Title":"What every movie should try to be.","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To be honest, I went into this movie with the distinct thought that there was no way that this movie could live up to the hype, and that there was no way it couldn't be overrated. I was wrong. It's an amazing film. It's simple, it's witty, and it's subtle. I don't recall ever leaving a film with a sense of feeling better. I don't mean to say this is a feel good movie, but after watching it, I just felt better about everything. I didn't go into this movie depressed, angry, or sad, but in watching this movie something about me was lifted up. (In re- reading this, I realize I sound ridiculous, but I really can't explain it). Regardless of what you think you know about this movie, what pre-determined opinions you may have, or no matter how much you may hate the 80's, watch this movie. It'll get ya. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the 80's Hand's Down!","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The king of 1980's family comedy movies John Hughes bring you this coming of age classic from 1985. The movie begins with 5 teenagers who have to spend a fun-filled Saturday in detention in the school library. The character's in this film are all cliché high school types that you can find in every high school in America. There's Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall)-the Nerdy smart guy; The Jock-Andy Clark(Emilio Estavez), the wastoid smart Aleck-John Bender(Judd Nelson), Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald) the rich, stuck up snob, and Allison Reynolds(Ally Sheedy)-the psycho girl with indifference issues. After wasting a good part of the morning goofing off and making a fool out of the intolerant teacher Richard Vernon, who is supposed to be supervising our youngsters, instead he makes them write an essay about who think they are and why their in detention. As the day progresses they learn important lessons about themselves and each other. The major point of this film is that everyone is so busy judging other people by their outward appearances that we don't really know the person underneath the wrapping. This movie dabbles where teenagers fear to tread, in the good old heart of hearts! The actors in this film all play their parts to the hilt, you will think you actually know them and I guarantee you will love them! "},{"Title":"A Summary Of Every By-gone Era","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While 'The Breakfast Club' appears on the outside to be a one-dimensional high school comedy about five misfits who are each spectacularly different, the truth is actually far deeper and much more intriguing...Each person in 'The Club' represents each group in schools across the board. We have 'The Athlete', 'The Basket-Case', 'The Princess', 'The Brain' and not forgetting 'The Criminal'. Each of these students believe that they are simply there to be disciplined, but the truth is an eye-opener seeing as detention is possibly the best thing to happen to them in their educational lives. It helps them garner an understanding of each individual and, while some of them don't exactly see eye-to-eye on their first meeting, they grow and crawl out of their typecast shells and see the characters for what they really are Individual.This may be an obvious insight, but rarely have we witnessed a movie so spectacularly spellbinding and riveting as this one. Another point of note is that the viewers and the characters and confined to merely a few rooms in this, at times, claustrophobic school which is characterised as some sort of prison for these no-hopers. Thus leaving the movie hinging on it's dialogue and acting (a la '12 Angry Men', 'Dial M For Murder', 'Rope', etc.), which, for a group of young thespians is spectacular... One to be seen to be believed. Thoroughly recommended. Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"We're all pretty bizarre. Some of us are just better at hiding it, that's all.","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah&#133; the eighties &#150; a simpler time. A time when James Cameron was the greatest Sci-fi director out there (he had not even begun his obsession with the Titanic). A time when bright, almost neon, colours and big hair were in. A time when Ferris Bueller had made cutting school into an art form and Judd Nelson was the coolest guy on the planet! The Breakfast Club is not just another teenage movie, it is the teenage movie! (Even though the average age of the actors in the movie would have been about 25). I think you have to see it when you're a teenager to really appreciate it. Anyone who sees it when they are in their thirties or later, like Richard Vernon, (the teacher in charge of the unruly group of teenagers) has already forgotten what it was like to have raging hormones and bad hair.You could argue that it is a movie by numbers, giving you all the elements and characters that teenagers can relate to. You have in the simplest terms and most convenient definitions a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess, and a criminal. Everyone one of us can relate to one of these characters (personally, I was the basket case). You have snappy dialogue, a very uncool and intolerant authority figure, in the guise of Paul Gleason, demonstrating the generation gap perfectly. Lots of pretty people to satisfy those raging hormones. You also have all the major topics that teenagers are most concerned about discussing, losing your virginity, parental oppression, and school status to name but a few.The Breakfast Club is a film that I will make sure that my children watch when they are teenagers, and hopefully they will appreciate it as much as I did. (My kids are going to hate me!) "},{"Title":"5 kids who come together in detention! Who find out all they need is each other!","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is one of the best movies of all time! If you have never seen it you are missing out on a lot! I have seen the movie 10 times now! I can never get tired of the movie i can watch it again and again! Every time i watch it i understand something a little better or notice something I didn't before! It is like a real high school you have your Jock,Princess,Brain,Basketcase,and Crimnal! What would high school be with out them! Each Actor for this movie were great! You actually believed them! And this movie got me really thinking! If these 5 totally different people could come together for real what would happen! Every time i watch The Breakfast Club I always wanted to know what happened to them on Monday and i'm sure you do to! "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was one of the most definitive films of the 80's and one of the first to really address the growing teen anarchy yet The Breakfast Club still rings true today. It is the story of five teenagers each from a different social group who are trapped together in Saturday detention from seven am till four. By the end of the day they begin to realise they have more in common than they once thought and that judging a book by it's cover can be deeply deceiving.Sometimes called contrived, The Breakfast Club should not be taken at face value. In reality these five students probably would not relate in the deep and meaningful way in which they do, but it's symbolic and that should be remembered. It's a film about understanding why people are the way they are and realising that we are all human in the end.Molly Ringwald is the daddy's plastic popular princess. Everybody loves her, looks up to her, worships her, or so it's thought. The Breakfast club unveils her unhappiness with her image and the pressure she suffers, but still her own vanity and excuse less cruelty. She's a more realistic version of the stereotype too often presented as a dumb cheer leading blonde. She happens to infuriate the class clown and bad boy John Bender, portrayed by Judd Nelson who's anger is fuelled both by his oppressed affection for her and own sad home life which contrasts greatly with Claire (Ringwald) in her diamond earrings. Next is the jock, Andy (Emilio Estevez), secretly hating his father for forcing to him to constantly compete and hating himself for the cruelty he's shown in the past in order to impress his father. If there's a jock there inevitably has to be a geek, played by Anthony Michael Hall. Brain box Brian might get teased for his interest in chemistry, maths or physics and weedy nature but is secretly envied by the rest of the breakfast club who automatically assume his parents must lavish him with affection for his academic success and good behaviour, however, his very reason for being in detention makes it crystal clear that this isn't the case. And of course there is the one who doesn't fit any title or social group, the quirk. Allison (Ally Sheady) claims she considers fleeing her home because her parents simply ignore her. It is proved that how we are raised effects us so greatly, in that none of the rest have heard her talk before today. When she talks she talks a lot, adding that she is a compulsive liar.Confined to one room for the majority of the film The Breakfast Club relies on strong characters and intelligent dialogue. It's unpredictable, funny and often moving. Within it's 97 minute running time it manages to say a lot about society; family life, school life, authority and the notion of happiness. Is anyone truly happy? Can happiness in all aspects of life at once ever be achieved? The film also breathes hope in stating what can be achieved when we begin to understand each other more.The Breakfast Club addresses a fear of young people worldwide Do we really turn into our parents when we grow up? It's unavoidable says Allison, When you grow up, your heart dies. It is the sincerity and sadness with which such lines are delivered that make this film so believable and special. In a decade of American Pie type teen comedies, which, despite being somewhat entertaining, preach fairly hollow messages, it's been a long time since a gem such as The Breakfast Club has graced our screens. It is a more realistic image of teen life, not so warped by Hollywood glamour and refreshingly, although it is raised as an issue, not focusing on sex drugs and rock and roll. Seeing this film more than twenty years after it's release, baring in mind the amount of hype and discussion it received and constant references in other films and television shows I expected to be disappointed on finally viewing it. I certainly wasn't. The Breakfast Club will change how you think if you let it. At the very least, the next time you see somebody you think you've got sussed out, you'll find your mind wandering back to the jock, the beauty, the brain, the criminal and the kook and you'll wonder if what you see is really what you get. "},{"Title":"A perfectly captured snapshot of teen awareness","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having recently written a review for John Hughes' Sixteen Candles, I now write about the film that many consider his best work, The Breakfast Club.Although I feel Hughes' best teen film is Ferris Bueller's Day Off, TBC comes in as a close second. Its certainly his most dramatic teen film. Indeed its a seminal 80s classic.TBC comes with a very simple conceit. Five teenagers are stuck in Saturday detention. All different kids from different walks of life. And they're all in detention for wildly different reasons. At first glance, they have nothing in common except being in detention on Saturday. But appearances can be deceiving.Our teen quintet includes Andy Clark (Emilio Estevez), the Jock. Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), the Nerd. John Bender (Judd Nelson), the Rebel. Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), the Prom Princess. And Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy), the Misfit.You've probably noticed each one of them represents a various stereotype. Each individual teen is a mouthpiece for a different clique or minority. And each actor does a superb job inhabiting the character Hughes has written for them.You'd almost swear Hughes had each actor in mind when he was still writing the screenplay. TBC is one of John Hughes' most aptly cast films. At least until Planes, Trains & Automobiles.TBC is also very stagebound. It begins and ends in this Chicago (well where else!) high school. Once the teens arrive there, they never leave it. In fact the majority of the story is told within the confines of the school library. We seldom see anything else.Hughes was wise not to include any extraneous subplots outside of school. He knew the crux and focus should be these five disparate souls. That's where our interest lies. And its why the film works so well.All Hughes has to do is put the five of them in a room together, and sit back and wait for things to happen. Although they're quite different people, they all react to they're situation with the same response, frustration. Some of them are just better at concealing it than others. (A quote from the film actually!).With almost astonishing smoothness, wondrous things begin to happen right before our very eyes. We see Bender act out his sheer contempt for the high school system by picking on the nearest convenient targets. Either the teens he's sharing detention with. Or Principal Vernon (Paul Gleason), the man who's brought them together.Claire feels someone at the top of the high school tree shouldn't be stuck in detention. And I suspect the same of Andrew. Brian may be a straight A student but I'll bet he can't figure out how he ended up here. And Allison is a passive observer. She hardly ever speaks. Her reasons for being here are as much a mystery to her co-conspirators as it is to us.You wouldn't think a story centred around five teens sharing detention would be so involving. But it is. And more. Its rewarding, fascinating, moving and even surprisingly funny. Each actor carefully and astutely engages in self-analysis, before cautiously sharing that knowledge with each other.Its hard to say who gives the best performance. Most people single out Judd Nelson's powerhouse acting for high praise, and while he's certainly impressive, he's not the standout. Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez and Anthony Michael Hall all work wonders with roles that tend to get bogged down in clichés. But for me, its Ally Sheedy who steals the show.Ally Sheedy is sometimes difficult to like. She often projects an aloof quality that very easily keeps you at a distance. And its for that reason why she inhabits Allison so well. For the first half of the film, Allison isn't allowed to say anything. Only sit and watch. But in an impeccably controlled bit of acting, Sheedy carefully sheds the layers she's built up around herself. And does it in the subtlest of ways.Like chipping in to defend Bender from Vernon along with everyone else. You can almost sense her growing weary with being the outside observer. She wants to learn more about these people who have been forced together by circumstance. And when she finally engages in conversation, its a real shock moment. Surely the finest bit of acting Ally Sheedy has ever done.But everyone else each has their individual moments to shine. Molly Ringwald brings the same keen intuition to Claire that she brought to Samantha in Sixteen Candles. In fact all of them sharply play their roles against all expectations.John Hughes has a real knack for matching the perfect actors to the characters he creates. He refuses to work with generics. He makes sure there is always some truth to be found in everyone. I'm not sure how much of this film was improvised, but I sense Hughes allowed the actors to discover each other in they're own time. The jewel in the crown is the scene where they share they're reasons for being here. A scene of equal heart, humour and poignant truth.The way dialogue flows is extraordinary. The five of them absorb you into the story without barely making a point of it. And although some of the revelations are not unexpected, like putting on an aggressive front to hide insecurities, the characters feel so fleshed out you'll barely notice.Hughes' keen ear for teenspeak is particularly astute here. The film is so compelling you never want it to end. But sadly it must. And when they part company, there's an unshakable feeling of poignance. These five innocents shared everything on this fateful Saturday. Come Monday morning, they may only know each other as just another face in the halls. And that's sad.The Breakfast Club is one of the defining teen films of its genre. A haunting, knowing and often devastating portrait of teen angst and aggression. "},{"Title":"One of the best and memorable coming of ages films of the 1980's.","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five students are in detention on a Saturday for different reasonsAndrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), who's a football jock. Brain Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), who's grade A nerd. John Bender (Judd Nelson), who's a metal head and a trouble maker. Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), who's a popular student. Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy), who's a oddball. This detention for this unusual day on the weekend, which the Principal Richard Vernon (The late Paul Gleason) wants the students to write an essay to explain themselves why they are here and write a little about themselves. These five students hangs out each of them with a different crowd and they barely know each other expect probably seeing each other in the hall, every once in a while. Since they are there from 7am to 5pm to write this essay. These teenagers hate each other guts at first but they started to talk to each other. They become loose and they talk about their personal feelings about home, life, friendship and why they are there on detention on a Saturday.Written and Directed by John Hughes (Ferris Bueller's Day Off, She's Having a Baby, Uncle Buck) made an strong dramatic comedy that is also coming of age film. Hughes is certainly clever with his dialogue and his character that could be heavy at times. But his characters are fascinating, funny, sad, truthful and real. The latest DVD from Universal is great. DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1). DVD has an documentary with interviews with the cast, the crew and fans of the feature. DVD also includes an lively audio commentary by fan of the film Jason Hillhouse and actorsNelson & Hall. This film was an box office success, it was well received by the critics, the audiences loved it (especially preteen and teenagers) and it has an fairly good soundtrack as well. This movie went on over the years to be a classic picture of the 1980's and it's still pretty up there to being a coming of age film. This is certainly one of Hughes best films (also Planes, Trains & Automobiles is other instant comedy classic from the director). This is the movie not to be missed. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"As you walk on by.. will you call my name..","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's all been said already, but on the umpteenth time I've been back over this movie how brilliant Ally Sheedy is as the basket case hits home on me more and more. Judd Nelson gets all the best lines and in Bender fleshes out the embodiment of dysfunctional teen anger, but Sheedy is a slow burning flame who's just fascinating to watch. It's depressing to see modern teen films like American Pie and how little they have to offer their audience about the power of imagination and open-mindedness to change lives. It's not without flaws, but few films have taken the subject of teenage tribalism and disaffection and delivered a blueprint for what's possible when prejudice and immaturity are replaced with intelligence, understanding and dialog. Long may it reign. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like Emilo Estavez as Andrew Carson and Ali Shady as Alisons comment in their character it feels like their expressing towards each other like how they feel Andrew asks Alison a question if she drinks vodka and Alisonsays tons. in way thats like saying do you smoke a cigarette. everyday or hey do you drink symbolic, the thing I like about this Movie, is when Andrew get's into Alison's business about her purse.then she get's away with it, and he says to her so what is it your parents she goes (yeah) and he goes what did they do you she goes they ignore me. in someway a parent is not going to give crap abouttheir kid.from Christa "}{"Title":"You see us as you want to see us","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So says Brian in the twenty two year old yet still relative breakfast club. A must see for any eighties fan, this movie written by JOhn Hughes in two days is charming in its simplicity. Five kids with nothing in common, or at least thats what the society of high school tells them. One day without the restraints placed on them by their peers and uniting against an antagonist played perfectly by the late Paul Gleason (Van Wilder Nice place, decorated in early f#ck), John Kapelos as the scene stealing janitor with witty lines. Definitely a career high light for its young stars; Molly Ringwald, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, Judd Nelson and Emilio Estevez. The cast obviously had chemistry with future projects combining several of the cast members once more. Definitely a great movie for any occasion. Watch it! "},{"Title":"One of the best roles I've ever seen Judd Nelson play","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is the best I think I've ever seen Judd Nelson play as a criminal. It's no wonder they decided to have Mr. Nelson play the role as John Bender. Now I won't lie to you this movie does have some bad spots. But then again all movies in the 1980's did. I can really relate to this movie someway. I wasn't like Bender or anything. But the principal Richard Vernon had a bad attitude I'd say. I didn't understand the scene where Carl the janitor catches Richard Vernon in the basement going through the files. Principal Vernon asks Carl for $50.00 in exchange for a secret. Also, I watch this movie and wonder what life for high school students was like then compared to now. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Hughes' finest","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never understood why John Hughes was so lauded as an 80s teen movie master. To me, Sixteen Candles was unrealistic, Pretty in Pink was unsatisfying and Ferris Bueller was totally over the top. But fluke or not, I have to give him credit for writing the best high school movie (for once I do agree with Entertainment Weekly).What makes The Breakfast Club so special then? I'd like to think it's the characterisation. Despite being such stereotypical brain/athlete/basket case/princess/criminals, the cast somehow makes it all work and adds so many distinct dimensions to the characters that you can relate to everyone. Never have I met someone who has said they couldn't identify with anyone from The Breakfast Club. The entire cast is simply outstanding, with my personal favourite being Ally Sheedy who manages to steal scenes without even speaking! Judd Nelson of course has to carry most of the movie on his shoulders, but I can't imagine a better actor to lead this fine film. Even the supporting cast is brilliant, John Kapelos always possessing that devious twinkle in his eye.Like all of Hughes' Brat Pack films, this one deals with a theme one that does not involve the Molly Ringwald character trying to get a boyfriend. Well, almost. The film talks about subjects that matter to a teenager, and one of the most problematic ones is the parents. Whether it's pressure for success, going through a divorce, or simply ignoring your child, Hughes shows us all the ways how parental influence can screw up a kid for life. And he does this without falling into the trap of being condescending, which in itself is mighty impressive. And of course, there's the topic eternally plaguing all teenagers sex. The end result is a hilarious script, witty yet still heartfelt.Of course, the film is not perfect. The pace ground down to a halt when they did the typical share our problems in a circle thing, but soon conflict arose and it became interesting again. Pairing Alison with Andy always felt a little forced to me, especially after she is made over by Claire. But I guess that epitomises the teenage years &#150; even at the sweetest times (and oh how sweet they are) there will never be a lack of issues.I wasn't even born yet on March 24, 1984, but somehow Hughes manages to make me reminisce about the good old times. Because really, are our teenage generations all that different? "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best teenage movie to date. (spoilers throughout)","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Saturday, March 24, 1884. Shermer High School. Shermer, Illinois, 60062.Most people would give an exasperated sigh at that monotonous voice-over, but not in this case, since preceding it was a David Bowie lyric from Changes on a black screen smashed like a glass window, the pieces falling to reveal Shermer High. Such an opening visual wakes up the audience to the sleepy town of Shermer, Illinois--sleepy like the monotone of the voice-over.What you get from the voice-over is that five people have detention from 700 a.m. to dinnertime (I believe it's 600 p.m.), and each person is a typical high school teenage stereotype the brain, the athlete, the basket case, the princess, and the criminal. Following the voice-over, you witness each student arrive at school.The princess skipped class to go shopping, but her father clearly spoils her and doesn't seem to care much about her offense. Because we know so early what Claire (the princess) did to get the detention, we assume that her character is easy to read. But after a while, you find out that her parents use her for leverage in a crumbling and loveless marriage; that she's no promiscuous little-miss-popular, but rather a naive virgin; and she actually hates being the popular person she is, and hates her material world and the pressures in it.The athlete's father seems to be genuinely concerned about his son. He says that guys screw around and that's customary, except this time Andy (the jock) got caught, and he has to suffer the consequences now. His father tells him to basically get his act together, because no school will give scholarships to discipline cases--which is true, and he's right. But throughout the movie it's revealed that Andy has no desire to be a varsity wrestler; he only does it because it makes his father proud. And then you find out that the reason Andy is in detention is because he beat up a much weaker kid in the locker room. Why? Because his father dislikes weakness, and Andy wanted to please his father. Once Andy's heartbreaking story is told, you look back on the conversation between Andy and his father in the truck and realize what a douche-bag his father really is.The brain's case is possibly the most surprising of all of them. Brian (brain, with the a and the i reversed) is a straight-A student who seems to be picked on a lot by people like Claire, Andy, and the criminal. He always tries to fit in, and you wonder what got such a nice kid in detention in the first place? A gun in his locker, because he failed wood-shop (a class he thought would be easy and give him a chance to mingle with more average and popular kids) and ruined his 4.0 GPA. It's not really his family that pressures him so much (although you can see in the beginning that his mother isn't happy with him AT ALL), but rather himself, because school smarts are the only smarts that people like him really know, and they are afraid to fail at the one thing they are good at. (Take it from someone who was almost exactly like him in junior high--minus the gun.) Although the gun was only a flare, it showed everyone else at detention that Brian needed to break out of his shell and become their friend.The criminal, John Bender (they just call him Bender), doesn't come to school with a parent, he walks. When he gets inside the library (where the detention is held), he takes the phone off the hook and does a couple of other kooky things. He seems to take pride in being able to annoy people, especially Claire and Principal Vernon, the guy who basically represents the rest of Society to the five students. He pulled a false fire alarm to get into detention, and he earns another eight during this detention. But he's not really heartless, despite several arguments where he practically crucifies Claire (his crush). During the course of the movie, you find that his father is physically abusive (proven by the cigar burn on his arm), and he has just as many feelings as any other kid at school, though his are well-hidden.The last student is the basket case, Allison. She didn't do anything to earn the detention, but lied to her parents because she actually had nothing better to do on a Saturday. When she gets out of the car in the beginning (the back seat, actually), she tries to talk to her mother, but her mother rolls up the window and drives off. Apparently, she is always ignored at home, and she reaches out to the unsuspecting students at detention, actually finding out most of their stories through careful insight before they admit anything (especially Andy).So, what happened on Monday? This is a popular question for Breakfast Club fans. Do Andy and Allison stay together? What about Bender and Claire? When Brian walks up to one of them, will they shun him (as usual) or accept him? Will Andy apologize to Larry Lester for beating him up? Will all of the students resolve their problems with the parental units? And finally, will Principal Vernon find a way to actually reach out to students in need instead of always putting them down? The fact that the Breakfast Club is open-ended, and the way it makes the viewers' imaginations take off, is one of the many things that make it a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Not just a good '80s movie, but a good movie period","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is always seen as the quintessential 80s teen film but actually its good enough that it would work at any time, the only thing that would change would be the outfits, the music and a few of the sayings. Basically it's a film about people coming out of their stereotypes, in this case five typical high school examples, the jock, the criminal, the nerd, the princess and the basketcase. All the actors do extremely well in their roles while John Hughes' direction adds brilliantly to the changing mood of the film.The film is more like a stage play, for the most part it takes place in one room and allows the actors to explore their roles and expand on them. Unlike most teenage films where everyone is clearly labelled, here you realise that no one is one thing. "},{"Title":"Incredible acting","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Breakfast Club turned out way better than expected with the exception of the over the top language and profanity.I love the ending with their hidden motives exposed. Emilio's and Judd's characters rocked.This movie has an incredible cast! Seriously, everyone does an absolutely amazing job. It all fits together so well because of how well each personality is shown! From nerds to self- proclaimed cool people, students, the wonderful Detention Teacher have their personalities developed deeply. It is amazing how much storyline the movie covers, considering how much in detail each personality is shown.Oh yeah, and it's really funny too! There's funny scenes all throughout the movie, of course, and, of course, depending on your personality, you might find some more funny than others, but this is especially true in this movie. The actors do a great job and everything turns out really funny! This isn't just another silly movie; there's a lot of really good stuff with heart. "},{"Title":"Such a Great Timeless Film","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a massive 9/10 on my personal voting system, The Breakfast Club gets a big thumbs up from me.The cast are absolutely fantastic, each bringing their own personality into the general performance.As Five kids meet for the first time, you quickly understand their differences, with casual character building, the director really does impress viewers with a cocktail of of miss-match.I call this piece a timeless film. Each of the issues raised in the movie truly reflect the opinions of teenagers everywhere. My Parents Ignore Me, My Parents Expect Too Much From me...My parents Don't Care. Every teenager on the planet has similar thoughts.Not to mention the high-school need to have had sex, and the reality that most who say they have, actually have not.The filming is basic, and as a result, the emotions of the characters become more identifiable.A basic film, with basic messages, no fancy this, no fancy that. A True Credit to the film industry.If you have not seen it yet, shame on you. "},{"Title":"The ups and downs of being a teenager perfectly displayed.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm glad I watched The Breakfast Club before highschool ended (years ago). This is the perfect movie that displays (without marked comedic events) how difficult a teenager's life can be.Sure, Ferris Bueller's Day Off displays the comedic part and how happy a teenager's life can be; but The Breakfast Club displays the truth and the burdens about it. We're all confused as teenagers because we don't know what to expect of life, we don't know how to fight against our inner fears, and we don't know in resume what the heck is going on.Through characters with strong personalities, we learn about how can different personalities be well, very different and that's why it's impossible to have never chemistry with many different social groups from highschool. We have the nerdy guy, the rich spoiled girl, the sports stud, the bad guy with an attitude, and the Gothic chick. All of them have great chemistry between each other but they know that if it wasn't for detention, they wouldn't even talk to each other.The greatness of the movie is that it shows how different and equal we are at the same time as teenagers. I mean, we all have problems that deal with family, friends, society, etc. But we can also share our experiences and find solutions. Also, it displays that students aren't always the problem because there are some teachers that will make the road to growing up very difficult.The situations are comedic and dramatic. A perfect mix. This is an essential teen comedy-drama that should be watched by everyone who is about to end high school. The ending is satisfying. "},{"Title":"The Greatest High School Film of All Time!","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is an emotional powerhouse of high school life! Five people from many different diverse backgrounds are forced to share a Saturday detention together. After almost nine hours, they bare their souls to each other and actually become friends. (Well, to varying degrees.) This is a movie that you feel, because it portrays the cliques characters associated with high school life with such passion and power that you the viewer believe after watching this unforgettable film that you have known these people all your life! The Breakfast Club IS Andy, Claire, Brian, Alison, and John.The late Paul Gleason is chillingly realistic as the principle and disciplinarian. The tension that exists in his many verbal confrontations with John Bender (the most troubled and rebellious) is so dramatic, and captivating that it represents some of the finest moments that you will ever see in a movie! These kids and Mr. Gleason should have won Oscars for their performances because they were all THAT good! One may wonder, why haven't I rated this gem a full perfect 10/10? The Breakfast Club is SOOOOOOO good on so many levels that it hurts to find flaws with it, but here goes1.) Carl The Janitor The one guy that just doesn't work in this otherwise landmark film. He doesn't seem to have all that much to say except react differently to how Mr. Vernon and he feel about kids. It's not like he's a bad guy to have in the movie, just unnecessary. Bender makes a few snide remarks about him, and than we have a few lines of dialog when he and Vernon are in Vernon's office, and that's it. It's like Hughes said, Well, the setting is a Saturday School detention, so we can throw in a janitor. He simply didn't need to be there and did practically nothing for plot or character development.2.) SPOILER! Bender being nice to Claire at the end NO!!! NO!!!! Sorry!!! I don't buy it!The movie builds up with such friction where it is the worst between Mr. Vernon and John Bender. (Two people that would want to KILL one another because they hate each other so much.) Second worst friction is Bender's thoughtless and vindictive comments to Claire throughout the film. Remember this gem Bender (To Claire) Don't you EVER TALK ABOUT MY FRIENDS!!! YOU DON'T KNOW ANY OF MY FRIENDS, YOU DON'T LOOK AT ANY OF MY FRIENDS, AND YOU CERTAINLY WOULDN'T STOOP SO LOW AS TO SPEAK TO ANY OF MY FRIENDS!!!! AS FAR AS YOU AND I WAKING DOWN THE HALL TOGETHER YOU CAN FORGET IT!!!!! CUZ IT'S NEVER GONNA HAPPEN!!! JUST GO BURY YOUR HEAD IN THE SAND, AND WAIT FOR YOUR F***ING PROM!!!Claire (Crying and sobbing) I hate you, you know! Bender Yea??? GOOD!!!!! But toward the end of the film, we see Claire GIVING John one of her earrings and a goodbye kiss!!!???? Are you kidding me??!! Than he tries to initiate closer contact but she stops him. I can't believe that they would do that. He'd walk up to her, give Claire and extended middle finger and spit in her face. That IS John Bender. Some of the physical make-overs seem to reflect the writers/or directors beliefs that emotional personalities can change when a woman changes her appearance with make-up and lipstick. Hughes take a too-easy and simple way out here. Let's make John nice to Claire so that we can have at least two of the group give us this, And some lived happily ever after. This movie would be a perfect 10 if Claire and John would have hated each other throughout. At least take out the exchange of the earring for a kiss. It brings down the whole friction and tension that existed so well between these two characters.I also believe that you need to be 40 or under to see The Breakfast Club and experience its most dramatic effects and inner-messages about group cliques and high school life. Adults older than that may not care enough about the characters the way the 70's-80's generation does. For people in that 70-80's cohort, many LIVED THE LIVES of these kids. Be 40 or below and take yourself back to many changing times and difficulties associated with high-school acceptance. If you can empathize with the 40 and under age, or couldn't fit in at your high school other than already established social cliques, this is a shattering and powerful movie that will never be forgotten.Score 9/10 "},{"Title":"loves it","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you graduated from high school in the 1980s and haven't seen this film, you must have been locked in a cave. John Hughes delivers the definitive nostalgic teen movie of the Generation X crowd. The cast made up the '80s brat pack with Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, Ally Sheedy, Molly Ringwald and Anthony Michael Hall. It's hard to believe while seeing this film that Ringwald and Hall were the only real high school aged performers... the others were in their mid to late 20s during filming.While modern teens may not find this as sophisticated as over-sexed comedies like American Pie, anyone can appreciate true feelings, teen angst, self doubt and relationships with parents portrayed in this film.A group of kids sitting for 8 hours in detention on a Saturday none of them will ever forget. While there is foul language, it's about the same speed as what you can hear on NYPD Blue on TV. There is no nudity or sex, just raw, in your face teen angst.You see this group of losers, warts and all, and become friends with all of them before the film is over. The DVD doesn't offer anything other than cast bios and subtitles... which is a disappointment. It would have been great to have had some interviews with the cast and behind the scenes footage. Nonetheless, DVD is much better than tape and definitely worth the extra $ for a non volitile format. "}{"Title":"A must see blast from the past","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a movie I missed somehow. Well, I was five went it was released so, I guess that explains it. But, a friend said it was a crime that I hadn't seen it and they were right! The Breakfast Club is really a detention club. A group of kids that has to go to school on Saturday as punishment for their crimes. A group of kids that are no where close to running in the same cliques and never would have said three words to each other if they weren't stuck in the same room together. But, they are stuck and therein lies the brilliance. In the same way that you end up befriending people you work with because you're stuck with them 40 hours a week, this group of kids get to know each other whether they like it or not. But, it turns out they do like it and they come to realize they have more in common than just being in The Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie ever","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie shows you the true values of teenage life in the 80's. Many people don't understand the concept behind this powerful John Huges film. I agree with many people that this is a deep and powerful movie. This is a classic. It was my first R rated movie. Judd Nelson was astonishingly good looking. I had the biggest crush on him. He was like the perfect bad guy. I cant imagine a better guy for the part. He just made me want to do something really bad.Ally Sheedy had the weirdest buy coolest character in the whole movie. All you can say when you watch her is she may be weird but she is so cool. The magic and longing for someone to listen was played wonderfully by Sheedy. I am such a Molly Ringwald girl. I have seen Pretty in Pink, For Keeps and 16 Candles. What i really love is her ability to be a conceded rich girl in one movie and a nerd from the other side of the tracks in another. She is the best teen star. Ask VH1. Emilo Esteves was never my favorite. I love him no doubt abut it but i just never thought he was a doll like my friend. As i said i was a Judd nelson, bad girl. I loved his character and his sad story (in the movie) about his dad made me cry. He has his fun side and his touching side which is what i love about him. The Geek, Anthony Micheal Hall was Super Geek. I don't think anyone can play a geek better. I mean that in a nice way. I love him in weird science, 16 candles and of corse Breakfest club. Who doesn't love a geek. He is the funniest man aliveI never did understand the janitor? What did he mean when he talked to th principal? Was he really Brian's dad?I have seen this movie over 10 times and i still never get that part. Anyway this is one of a few movies you can see over and over again. You need to watch this movie if you haven't yet. Get off the computer and go rent it cause you will love it. I know i did "},{"Title":"greatest movie ever my all time favorite movie","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is the best movie ever. even though there were many changes in the cast there couldn't of have been a better choice for the movie. they all fit their part perfectly. i love this movie so much. it is so true how they all show their points of views on themselves and others. i can watch it over and over again.john Hughes could have not have written a better movie. the whole thing was perfect. he really shows what its like to be a teenager and the challenges people go through. i give it two thumbs up 5 out of 5 stars and all that other great stuff. this movie is a must see.the cast was perfect. Their were changes and problems but they all played their role perfect. whenever i think of a basket case or criminal i will always think of John Bender(Judd Nelson) and Allison Reynolds(Ally Sheedy). they really display a perfect replica of what those kind of people are like. i hope this was helpful and enjoy the movie "},{"Title":"the 80's were brilliant","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" unfortunately i didn't get to live through the fully because i was born in 1989 but all my favourite films are products of the 1980's, things like stand by me, the lost boys, pretty in pink, sixteen candles, St Elmo's fire and of course the breakfast club. the rat pack were so cool and John Hughs wrote and directed the most probably age defying teen films there have been. I don't know a single person who hasn't seen the breakfast club and on the rare occasions i have i have made them watch it and even they have said it has become one of their favourite films. never ever do a remake of this film otherwise it will spoil it!LONG LIVE THE BRAT PACK!!!! "},{"Title":"a must-see for teens and adults alike!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" well i think this is one of the best movies of all time. my favorite part is the marijuana scene. its just so hilarious when Brian's laughing and says chicks cannot hold their smoke. thats what it is! that just cracked me up. bender's definitely my favorite character. i guess its because hes so cynical and sarcastic. another one of my favorite parts of the movie is when Mr. Vernon asks them why the door closed and Allison squeaks and throws her head down. then bender says she doesn't talk, sir! its just a very funny and entertaining movie to watch.cautionprofanity! don't allow children to watch!! there are many curse words and inappropriate gestures and comments throughout the entire movie. it doesn't make the movie any less enjoyable though. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of the 1980s","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I work with teenagers. I remember when I saw the Breakfast Club. It was on television, cable or regular, maybe both. I grew up in the 1980s and I can relate to this group of teens. This film was serious and funny, dark and light comedy all at the same time. John Hughes is one of my favorite directors of all time. Maybe it's because to the kids of the 1980s, we grew up knowing his films and the lines and the characters and everything in between. I lived in the suburbs. The characters here in this film are casted excellently. Molly Ringwald owes her career to John Hughes' films, so does Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy, and Emilio Estevez. We can't forget Paul Gleason and John Kapelos who play the principal and the janitor who worked a Saturday to remember. We all grew up with the lines from the film especially Johnny's. THe film touches a lot of issues like teen suicide, depression, child abuse, emotional and psychological abuse, and running away. We love the music and we remember the ending. We will always wonder what happened on Monday morning after their detention. What a school library, they make some public libraries to shame. "},{"Title":"the best hi-school drama!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I heard about this movie from a friend and saw on cable about a year ago. i think it is one of the best hi-school movies done ever, if not, the best. It represents teenage life very well from different points of view. but this is not the best thing about this movie, what i liked most about this film is that it criticizes each of the five characters. the jock and the princess are criticized for their completely unauthentic behavior, they can't think for themselves, everything they do is because someone tells them to do it or because of peer pressure. then the brainy one is told that his whole life should not be the grades at school and that he shouldn't be obsessed with them. the basket case is told that she shouldn't shut herself out of the world and socialize a little more, and finally the criminal is told that he can't rebel against everything CZ he'll just lose of he does. i think a combination of these five types of people makes out an almost perfect person, but this movie does not tell us to be perfect, it tells us to be who we really are, to be ourselves no matter what defects we have. IT is a fantastic movie and it has great moral for every teenager around the world. "},{"Title":"thank god for john  hughes","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" the older i get the more accurate i realize 'the breakfast club' truly was. the depiction of high school as an evil cess-pool of social hierarchy with a caste system more rigid then colonial India is dead-on. i felt like i knew each one of these characters, and not because of the acting, which was done well, but because of how well writing this movie is. i don't think enough people recognize it for it's insight and wisdom because it deals with issues much more commonly discussed then they were in 1985. today with every adolescents sex/drugs/self-mutilating secret broadcast on four different networks each afternoon, it's hard to make a statement about this issues facing youth. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was so good i was waiting for a part two. I can sit and watch this movie over and over again. I really enjoyed how they became friends even though they were so different. It mad me cry and laugh my ass off. It may seem boring cause there's no action but it was really good. I thought they all played their parts real good it almost made me believe they were the characters they portrayed. It made me think that no matter who u are or where u come from everyone has problems and u shouldn't do what your friends say If u like someone regardless if ur friends don't u should be their friend or even their lover. I also learned that no matter what people look like they are still human. This movie will always b one of my favorites i cant wait till my daughter is old enough to sit and watch this movie with me. "},{"Title":"I can see why people thought it was great, but I didn't like that much of it","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This may contain spoilers.Five high school students confined to the school library all day on a Saturday, told not to move or talk, and to write an essay, while a teacher kept the door open and listened from across the hall.  Sounds boring.  Fortunately, the students didn't obey.  First Bender started misbehaving, and I thought his ranting and  clowning around were going to be the best part.  Then the other students joined in.  One has to wonder where that teacher was during all of this and why he couldn't hear so much of what was going on.  Eventually, he couldn't hear because he was in the basement looking through files trying to find dirt. I didn't think Ally Sheedy was going to talk through the entire movie, or when she did talk, that she was going to be conservative with her words.  Not so.  But she was quite effective when she didn't talk.  Judd Nelson was very good but some of his behavior went over the edge.  I liked the funny parts, especially when the students managed to escape and run around the school.  Even though I didn't care for the music, I liked watching them dance--especially Molly Ringwald. And I liked seeing them become friends when they were getting along. I could see why this movie was regarded so highly once the students started having deep discussions, though that didn't mean I liked that part. Overall, the movie focused too much on the unpleasantness in the students' lives that led to their behavior which got them punished.  I didn't care for that.  At least one good thing  I didn't have to hear the movie with all the bad language left in, and it appeared there was a lot of it.    "}{"Title":"One word, different","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is a decent movie, however, it is not the groundbreaker you think it is. Its circumstances, impossible, its dialogue, cringeworthy at times, its characters, stereotypical. Why do people say its so good then?, I hear you cry, WellI say as I sip my tea, When a lot of people read the same thing and hear it over and over, they tend to agree, not disagree, thats why you are being told the truth now, that it is in fact only 5 out of 10 material. Not quiet down there with Class and not quiet up there with Secret Admirer (DVD out 7th January, YESSSS, and its about time), its somewhere in between, but, hey make your own decision Billy, Ok mister, can I ahve my ball back now?, No, now bugger off. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Mixed Review!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If there was ever a genre AND generation defining flick, this is the one! It was actually on cable TV 15 years after its release, that I finally saw this film.  In many ways it has grown more powerful and gut-wrenching over the years, with the feuding between Judd Nelson's metalhead outsider and Emilio Estevez' all-American jock eerily precedes Columbine by over a decade.  The movie's realistic handling of teen angst and clliquishness is as fresh today as it was in the '80s.  And it takes on an almost claustrophobic feel over time, with most of the movie being filmed in one room.  But the film has many glaring flaws.  The Bowie quote at the intro defines pretentiousness and a seemingly tacked-on dance scene looks absurd. Ally Sheedy's character never really develops and feels more like a punchline, and Molly Ringwald - wonderful in her portrayal of awkward brainy outsiders - is miscast as a princess here.  The school's guidance counselor's scheming as he digs through the files looking for dirt on his students also reaks of TV cop show villanry. Most movies that spawned sequels in the '80s were barely worth the trouble to begin with.  Here was a case of a movie that left you hanging on the edge of your seat as it closed, and dreaming of a sequel that was never to be. "},{"Title":"All new! Teen Angst!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A totally flawed, sophomoric, shallow, immature, naive film.  But, totally revolutionary so I gave it a ten.  Why the **** not?  When I was a teen, watching this movie was great therapy.  I thought, hey someone gets what I'm about.  We are all the same.  I weight was lifted from my shoulders briefly.  No other film has had that effect on me.  Watching it now I can see it's faults.  But then,  I wouldn't trust a teenager who didn't have 'em. "},{"Title":"Classic Teen Movie","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you look at this movie and Ferris Bueller's Day Off and then watch some teen comedies now like American Pie or Van Wilder or practically any Freddie Prinze Jr. Movie, you just see how worse teen comedies have gotten. They used to be funny.The Breakfast Club cares about its characters and embraces them. There aren't scenes that make you want to puke from disgust like in some comedies now a days, instead you learn from the characters through what they say- the way it was supposed to be.  Also- this movie doesn't require a lot of special effects, none at all, but is still more entertaining than some movies that are filled with it. The Breakfast Club is a great comedy, but it isn't filled with raunch. All characters are well defined and they fit stereotypes, but they all work. Its hard to say who my favorite is, but Allison definately steals the show! =A Classic= "},{"Title":"This film if for kids only","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was not just a ceramic elephant, it was a lamp that would not light. Nelson most appealing character??  No.  Far too old and unbelievable in the role of a teenager. Clumsily-written psychology?  That's teenage psychology. Issues that are unimportant and banal?  Most issues important to teenagers are just that. This film is not worth further analysis. "},{"Title":"This is a very good movie to watch when your in the right age range.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would just like to start out that if you are not a teen-ager then you should probably not watch this.  Being a teen-ager myself I have noticed that almost all adults have had nothing but bad things to say about this film.  I find it very compelling, it makes me feel that i always have someone to relate to.  Being The Basket Case of my school, makes me a loner, but watching Allison makes me feel like I'm not the only one.  I admit that some parts are over acted by the actors, but isn't that what being a teen-ager is being all about ;) Over re-acting to such things that don't even matter?  Yeah thats what i think to.  I would recomend this movie to all people who are under the age of 25. "},{"Title":"80's Teen drama at it's best!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is the essential movie to represent teen 80's movies. It is a slap in the face of high school reality.  How the social labels are placed on each kid is very poignant.  The movie makes me laugh and makes me cry.  It takes me back to those painful and beautiful high school years.  "},{"Title":"it's outta my hands","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  over and over i have seen this movie.  i can say the lines right along with the movie.  bender is total hunk.  check out the bandana around the pants...ohh and how he takes one for the team.  how can you go wrong with this movie?  anyone who doesn't like this..forget that whoever doesn't LOVE this movie needs help.  what are you stupid?...perfection.  and if you say the dancing is dumb..well...it was a magical 80's moment and you need to realize it is a relevent part of our society.  i'm so into this movie that every time bender is telling the joke, i always wait for the punchline like maybe this time it will come...it never does though...denied. "},{"Title":"A fun flick with some silly flaws","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember first seeing this film late one night and just happened upon it. It was for me at that tender age a life shaping film and I remember spending a time dressing like John Bender for a while because he was the character which I identified with the most. I still love it in a way but I know that the some of the characters are a little stereotypical and Emilio Estevez's jumping around when he is high is just laughable (everyone who has ever smoked dope will tell you this kind of energetic outburst will never happen). But all in all this is a superficial film but can really get you crying if you are a teenager who feels the whole world's against them.  Watch because it did indeed shape a generation. It should also be noted that Ally Sheedy Looked much better before she is made over into a bland American highschool sweetie. "},{"Title":"A great teen movie","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is one of the great teen movies of the movies.  John Hughes is an underrated director.  His films all seem to have their own followings.  This film however is one of his best.  It explores the relationship and lives of five stereotypical high school students spending Saturday school together in the school's library.  Molly Ringwald is well cast here in an early role as well as her co-star from Sixteen Candles, Anthony Michael Hall.  They are both good.  Judd Nelson shines as John Bender, the rebel of the group and Ally Sheedy is excellent as the shy girl. Emilio Estevez is also believeable in his role as well.  Overall this movie is full of wit and humor.  Overall Grade B+ "}{"Title":"Nice 80's style 'teen' movie.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hughes masterpiece about 5 teens in turmoil doesn't bore at all however the whole movie finds place in the school library. Nelson is good as the criminal, Sheedy is credible as the shy 'weird' girl. Ringwald ( in '85 a very promising actress, is today wrongful an very underestimated actress ) is in her second big role very good as the rich, spoiled girl. The film is a combination of humour, drama and a little bit of 'action', sometimes too sentimental but the film is far above the average of the 80's teen movies.  "},{"Title":"A Grand Slam","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before degenerating into a hack of the teen-comedy genre he helped create in the 80's, director/writer John Hughes crafted this hilarious and surprisingly thoughtful tale.  Five teenagers, each representing a different clique in their high school, are forced to spend an entire Saturday in detention together for various infractions each has committed--some of which become central to the plot, as the characters gradually become aware that they share more in common with each other than their stereotypes and preconceived notions would ever allow.There's a minimalistic feel to the movie that helps maintain its focus on the characters; there are essentially only two other speaking parts of any significance outside of the five teens--the antagonistic school principal, Mr. Vernon, as well as a small part played by the school's janitor (who, if you look quickly, can be seen in the movie's opening sequence in an old photograph, presumably taken years ago when he was a student, hung on the school's wall declaring him Man of the Year).  Adults over 30 might cringe at the unsympathetic and incomplete portrayal of Mr. Vernon, but it's a movie about the teen experience and rarely has it been captured so accurately on film.The acting is uniformly excellent.  Judd Nelson gives a brilliant performance as the criminal, John Bender.  He's clearly the star of the movie, baiting the others to react to his crude behavior and acidic wit. This role put Nelson on the Hollywood map, but his subsequent roles never approached the heights he acheives here.  Molly Ringwald, the darling of John Hughes' 80's work, is solid as the princess, Emilio Estevez shows more depth than the rest of his movies combined as the jock, Anthony Michael Hall is eminently believable as the brain (and the only one that really looks like a teenager), and Ally Sheedy is okay as the basketcase, although she has the most under-written role in the movie--which, as it turns out, is in keeping with the character.  This movie still holds up well 13 years after its release, and after meeting these characters for one fateful Saturday it will leave you wondering...what are they doing now?  It's perhaps better not to know, it's enough just to enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"John Hughes rules.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would lie, cheat, steal, and other stuff for a John Hughes of the 90's. All us teenagers are stuck with cheap slasher films and comedies written by people who obviously don't remember what it was like to be a teenager. Although, Empire Records is very close to the John Hughes films of back then. I even wish I was born 15 years earlier just to have been alive when John's films were released theatrically. The Breakfast Club is about 5 teenagers, who are completely different, in the same Saturday Detention one day. We have the jock, the brain, the 'thug', the prom queen, and the one who dresses in black everyday. At first, they totally hate each other, then, they become sorta friends. What I like most is how we can all find a part of ourselves in each character, and how everybody in the film found themselves in each other. If more people watched it, I feel that maybe.....JUST MAYBE.....the clique population might go down. As for John Hughes, if I see that he is at work on the latest Home Alone, I will be very upset! "},{"Title":"Coming of Age Classic!!!!!!","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a coming of classic for all high school students. Weather you were a high school student in the 80s or you're a high school student today, everyone can somehow relate to what went on that day spent in detention.The film follows five very different high school students who need to spend the day in together in detention. Over the course of the day they slowly become closer and realize that none of them are that different to one another. It makes us notice how we are the same in a way during our high school days.The film was brilliantly directed by John Hughes. It was amazingly scored and had all round great acting.I would recommend this movie to anybody who wants to give it a go. 9/10 "},{"Title":"iconic 80s John Hughes movie","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five students have Saturday detention in Shermer High School. Teacher Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) is tasked to monitor the kids and orders them to write an essay. They would call themselves the Breakfast Club consisting of the Brain Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), an Athlete Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez) , Basket Case Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy), Princess Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), and the Criminal John Bender (Judd Nelson).They would talk, fight and become friends. It's got all of the John Hughes moves. It's got a song and dance. It's got his teen dialog which was unlike most teen movies, and so real. Many that followed would be heavily influenced by his style and it would become the new standard for a teen movie. It's arguable that he created his own category of films that would become a main staples of movies. John Hughes plus Fast Times at Ridgemont High would usher in the 80s teen movies. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In John Hughes' 1985 film, The Breakfast Club, several teens at their local high school have been subjected to a Saturday detention in the school's library. From all different walks of life, the film continues to come back to the idea that being an individual is okay as each student is forced to spend the day with each other in this detention setting. The kids all have the typical high school stereotypes, such as the bully (Judd Nelson), the cheerleader (Molly Ringwold) and the jock (Emilio Estevez). These kids all spend the day exploring the different things and characteristics in each other that all make them different and all make them alike. In the end, even though they all have their misconceptions, stereotypes and disagreements with each other, they all gain a better understanding of the next going forward from their time together. This film in a lot of ways can be compared to the X-Men film series from the standpoint of the characters in each movie take turns understanding what makes them the same and what makes them different. The X-Men, while all mutants, take a lot of time understanding what makes each mutant different from the next, including powers, geography and age. The Breakfast Club, while not nearly as fictional as the X- men films, takes the same kind of perspective with these high school kids without the action and violence. Angles are particularly important in this movie, because there are certain scenes that have to catch a facial expression without dialogue and without soundtrack. The expression may be in relationship to an action being performed by another character(s) and is most prevalent in Nelson's character. He spends a lot of time in the beginning scenes making the facial expression and following it up with criticism of the character that he is making the facial expression at. Lighting in this movie is not nearly as detailed but is equally important. Because the film's setting is a school, there has to be very bright lighting throughout the movie, because that is the way that most schools are lit. The bright lighting helps give the viewer the feel that they are truly in that setting with the film's characters. In the end, the characters learn more than they had ever imagined about each other, experiencing their quirks and hearing their stories. The turn those misconceptions, stereotypes and disagreements, and turn them in to understanding. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Film of the 1980s","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five high school students, all different stereotypes, meet in detention, where they pour their hearts out to each other, and discover how they have a lot more in common than they thought.Typically when you have this sort of plot, it is going to fail miserably because it is so contrived and stretches the bounds of the imagination. I mean, really, even if these kids had detention together, would they strike up a conversation or just sit silently for eight hours? But in the 1980s and in the hands of John Hughes, it works. This film, more than any other, defined the 1980s for a generation and really crystallized what it meant to be in the Brat Pack. Sure, we might not say all these people are in the BP and not all the BP is in this movie (it is a a very fluid, malleable category), but this is a must-see and one that most of us can watch again and again.And of John Hughes' films, only one (Ferris Bueller's Day Off) has debatably had a longer-lasting impact. "},{"Title":"Absolute greatest movie ever made about the high school experience","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With 5 key characters, a simple space, and a simple story, John Hughes captured forever, with complete perfection, what high school is really like for the average teenager in the United States.All of the archetypes are here - the Jock, the Freak, the Rebel, the Pretty Girl, and the Nerdy kid. Even the clueless, burned out educator is represented. And the film throws a not so subtle hint that life after high school glory might not be so great (ahem, Mr. Janitor?) The dialogue in this film is utterly and completely authentic. It's not what the kids are saying, so much as what they're feeling at the time. The mish-mash of emotions, feelings, and general mania that constitute high school life. All of it is perfectly captured by this film.There are funny moments, sad moments, and everything in between. Just like high school. In the end, we're left with the hope that these people will grow to understand each other just a bit better, and maybe that we will too.How perfect is this movie? - so perfect that all these years later the current generation still sees themselves in these characters. I bet in 50 years this will not change.10 out of 10 - a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this film on recommendation by my 17 year old cousin and by references to the movie in recent hit, 'Pitch Perfect' a couple of days ago. It was a bit slow going at first, and some bits made me cringe, but in overall, I was enticed by it. I liked it so much, I went out the next day to get a copy, and forced my friend to watch it with me so I could see it again. She seemed to like some of it, but not as much as I did. Although the movie is a bit outdated, I thoroughly enjoyed it, even though I'm only 14. I would recommend it to anyone, it's thought provoking and really makes you think about the concepts of pressure, and how it effects different people. It's definitely been added to my favorite movies list. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Teen Film Of All Time And John Hughes' (RIP)Greatest Film. A Landmark Classic.","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is the greatest Teen film of all time and is not only a Teen classic of the 80s,but a film Classic for all times. With a great balance of Comedy,Drama,Great Direction,excellent performances and an well-written screenplay,The Breakfast Club is John Hughes' greatest film and is a landmark in Teen Films,High School Films and Coming Of Age films.Set on March 24,1984 in Shermer High School in Shermer,Illinois,The Breakfast Club tells the story of five High School students Brian Johnson,The Brain(Anthony Michael Hall),Andrew Clark,The Athlete(Emilio Estevez),Allison Reynolds,The Basketcase(Ally Sheedy),Claire Standish,The Princess(Molly Ringwald)and John Bender,The Criminal(Judd Nelson)who are from different social backgrounds and have to serve detention on a Saturday under the watchful eye of teacher Richard Vernon(Paul Gleason). While there in detention,the five students talk to each other and realize they have a lot in common beyond their stereotypes and social classes and the experience changes their lives forever making them known forever as...The Breakfast Club.What can be said about The Breakfast Club that hasn't been said already,it's a classic that revolutionized Teen films at the time and has a style and influence that has been imitated,but never duplicated. The reason,I think TBC works do well is because of the five teen characters and how we can relate to each of them in different ways discussing their fears,desires and problems with their parents. The Teenage years can be a funny,strange and confusing time for many people and Hughes puts it on full display with this film giving us three dimensional characters that are lifted beyond their stereotypes and showing true emotions and feelings and no matter what race,color or class you are you'll identify with each character. While the fashions and music are of the 80s,the feelings and emotions are truly timeless and heartfelt and one of the reasons TBC has stood the test of time. The screenplay by John Hughes(which Hughes wrote in 2 days)is excellent and well-written balancing Comedy and Drama and giving the characters memorable dialog,while they're laughs and funny moments,they're moments of great drama and truth in some of the scenes. Hughes was a true master of the teenage language and the dialog in TBC feels real and authentic almost like you're next to the characters hearing the dialog. I don't think that Hughes was trying reinvent or revolutionize the Teen genre,but unintentionally he did with this film and his other films as well bringing a depth and excellence that hadn't been seen in Teen films since Rebel Without A Cause and American Graffiti. The only 80s Teen films that can match TBC's honesty and truth is Hughes' other films and Fast Times At Ridgemont High. While Hughes' other films Ferris Bueller's Day Off,Sixteen Candles,Pretty In Pink,Some Kind Of Wonderful and Weird Science are also classics of the Teen film genre,TBC in my opinion will remain his most enduring and most powerful. What I also love about the film is the setting being in one location which is a High School library which is used to great effect and adds to the film. Making a Teen movie set in one location with no sex,nudity,parties or drinking(although the characters do use drugs in the film)seemed like a risky gamble at the time,but Hughes makes use of his one location and still keeps the film entertaining and interesting. The one location gives the film a feeling or style of stage play or an small independent film and Hughes in his own way made a film like 12 Angry Men or Glengarry Glen Ross,where instead of 12 jurors and real estate office workers,it's teenagers in High School. Despite the film being set in one location Hughes keeps the film moving at a quick pace and a lot of energy and as a viewer you are glued to the screen. The ending of the film is a great ending and makes the viewers asks a lot of questions and gives us no answers. It's a masterful ending that will make us the viewers put together the dots and answers and have us wondering what happened to the characters and is one of the reasons TBC is brilliant.The whole cast does a great job. Emilio Estevez is excellent as Andrew,the Wrestling jock who's pressured to succeed and win. Judd Nelson is brilliant in his career defining performance as John Bender,a rebel who is cynical,irritating,yet likable. Anthony Michael Hall is great as Brian,the smart kid who has to have high grades or will fail in life. Molly Ringwald is wonderful as Claire,the popular girl who is the target of Bender's irritation. Ally Sheedy is effective as Allison,the outcast who doesn't say much,but talks as times rolls on. Paul Gleason(RIP)is great as John Vernon,cynical teacher who hates the students at the school,especially Bender. John Kapelos does a fine and funny job as Carl The Janitor who offers words of wisdom to the kids and Vernon.The direction by John Hughes is simple,but great,with Hughes bringing a lot of energy to the film with his writing and direction. Great Job,John. Thank you John Hughes for giving viewers great Teen films that are timeless classics that will live on and be loved and cherished forever. RIP,John.Keith Forsey's score in the film is seldom used,but works and fits with film's tone. The film has a great soundtrack as well,especially with the film iconic theme song Don't You(Forget About Me)by Simple Minds and other great songs Fire In The Twilight(Wang Chung)and We Are Not Alone(Karla DeVito). Hughes' films always had great soundtracks and TBC is no exception.In final word,if you love John Hughes,Teen Films,High School Films,Coming Of Age films or films in general,I suggest you see The Breakfast Club,a true classic that will stand the test of time and will live forever in cinema and with audiences. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"The must watch movie for all","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a movie for all(dreamers) as it portrays characters of all type of student Life, We might not agree with what John Hughes has tried to show here but it surely will win you over. All of the movie of drama some how lack the spirit of youth, However this movie ticks all the right signs. I was blown away by the music the songs especially the song in climax of movie.The Movie is basically played out by five students who are gathered in library to serve there detention for various reasons. Each of these characters has individual tone, story, losses and struggles.All We have lost, thought was wrong in our life during our teenage life is laid out amazingly in right manner by john Hughes, This is his best work ever. I would recommend this movie to all because even if it portrays some negative image of Life it would surely make you appreciate your Life and the friends whom you thought were different and would respect them.A Classic to have. "},{"Title":"Good Film for Teens!","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a very good teen film but is it a classic as most people make it out to be? I do not think so. All what happens in this film is people talking to each other. That, in my opinion, does not make this an instant classic. However, this movie is amusing for the most parts. The dialog is very addictive despite that is what all there is.This film is about five teenagers who have Saturday detention. They use this detention time to open up and bond with each other.The acting is pretty solid. I really like Judd Nelson as John Bender. He provides lots of the fun of this movie. I also liked the late Paul Gleason as the principal. He is really funny in this movie.Overall, this is a good film that explores the inner dimensions of a teenager. John Hughes directed a good if somewhat talkative film. I rate this film 8/10 "},{"Title":"Five strangers with nothing in common, except each other","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm finally reviewing one of my favorite films, The Breakfast Club. Now I've always been a fan of John Hughes films. He has created heartwarming teenage-comedies that are fortunately not really teenage at all, and it actually hits you without being contrived. So the story starts when I got done finished Ferris Bueller's Day Off. I liked the movie, but found it a bit overrated. So I started researching more of Hughes movies, finding out that the fan favorite was Breakfast Club. I started to watch it, and when it finally finished, I didn't really like it at all. I was only ten at the time, and I'm sure that comes into the equation, but the movie didn't come off as it was all cracked up to be. The characters were so stereotypical it was painful, and when I was ten I found it to be completely boring as most of the film is dialog-heavy. So I passed the film off all these years, looking back and saying I would give it another chance, but never really happened. Yesterday night, I saw it playing on HBO. This was the perfect chance, as I was in the mood for a movie and there was nothing really else to do. So I watched it.. And here's the truthIt became one of my favorite films. I finally realized the characters were set up to be stereotypical because, by the end, you realize that each of these characters are hiding something. And that was really nice. The movie never even came across boring because the dialog was real and sometimes even a bit funny. You're never even going to think of it being boring, it was possibly one of the greatest dialog-heavy movies ever. And then the message contained was seriously grateful and miraculous. And the acting was really great. My favorite scene is where the group sits in a circle, and tells each other how they got into detention. It became one of my favorite scenes in cinematic history. It was real, truthful, and uplifting. I recommend this film for all people looking for something new and different. If you can't take more than five minutes of dialog, this film will bore you to death. But this movie always reserves itself a special place in my heart while watching it. It is a classic 80's film that dismembers clichés and then becomes one of the greatest films of all time. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic.","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I decided to review this film mainly as an excuse to see the film again (although it's only a few months since I last saw it).The description of the film sounds awful. Five students get a detention! Seriously what kind of film is that and what strings did the director, producer and writer, the late John Hughes, have to pull the get it made? Most of the cast were relative unknowns, up and coming stars including Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy and Paul Gleason. The film is set almost in one location over the course of one Saturday. It is hardly the formula for a great movie. But for some reason the film turns out to be amazing. It went on to become the 16th highest grossing film of 1985 (the top film that year was Back to the Future). It is a true master class in film making. It shows what you can accomplish with the right script and the actors who can bring the characters to life. The cast is perfect, every one of them brings something great to the film from the teacher in charge of the detention, to the janitor. But for me the stand out performance is from Judd Nelson's performance as John Bender. At the time Judd Nelson was 25 playing a 17/18 year old, but it took the maturity of age to play such a troubled and messed up character. A character who's tough exterior hides the anguish of abuse. His is the most interesting journey in the film.The performances in it are so good because of the rest of the cast. Each actor feeds off the other actors performances and every one of them is better for it. This is what many films are missing, a great young talented cast putting it all out there. Other films that use this include The Outsiders, Young Guns, Red Dawn and St. Elmo's Fire (coincidentally all apart from Red Dawn star Emilio Estevez but it does star his brother Charlie Sheen so I guess it must be in their genes!).I absolutely love this film. It is in my top movies of all time and I never get bored watching it.If you haven't seen this film please give it a go. It is a true love it or hate it film. A film that can be watched over and over. A timeless classic. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club does a good and realistic job of capturing what it was like in high school","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club does a good and realistic job of capturing what it was like in high school for the average American teenager. The movie revolves around the theme that teenagers often succumb to the pressures of society to group off into their own social classes with no tolerance for those who are different, whether that is from peer pressure or family values, but if we look past those social boundaries, we may find that we like what's on the outside.The movie starts off showing all the parents dropping off the teens at their high school for Saturday detention. The main characters and stars are the jock, Andrew, played by Emilio Estevez; the geek, Brian, played by Anthony Michael Hall; the trouble maker, John, played by Judd Nelson; the preppy girl, Claire, played by Molly Ringwald; the freak, Allison, played by Ally Sheedy; and the principle, Richard, played by Paul Gleason.The movie really is a movie of clichés, as the plot revolves around the central theme that the geeks, preps, trouble makers, and weirdo's all tend to stick to their own groups and really don't fully understand the other groups, but if they took the time to understand each other, they would realize that most of them are alike in a lot of ways. Motif is continuously used to drive home the theme of the movie, because we are constantly reminded through the dialog between characters, that they are all from different social groups and they don't understand each other.Throughout the movie we continuously learn of each characters life story and what makes them who they are and we quickly find out the common theme is that they all think there home life is a drag so to speak. Andrew is constantly pressured by his father to be a winner and to win at all costs, Brian is pressured by his parent to make sure he always does perfect academically, John isn't pressured at all by his parents, he just has a bad home life where he is mentally and physically abused, Claire feels that her parents don't care about her, they just use her to get back at one-another, and Allison is just completely ignored by her parents.The home troubles are really what brought the kids together throughout the course of the film. In the beginning there were often clashes between John and Andrew because of the way he talked to the other kids in detention. John spends most of the movie making fun of the others and causing trouble with the principle Richard, which eventually leads to John being banished to a closet. But as is predictable from the very beginning, the more the kids talk to each other the more they begin to get along, and like typical teenagers, what really brings them together is there dislike of their parents, and overall home life. Dialogue is the main way the director gets across the theme, by continuously showing scenes where the kids are interacting socially with each other and getting to know each other's stories.The ending of the movie is ridiculous, but doesn't detract from the movie overall, as we observe John and Claire hooking up and Andrew and Allison pairing up. Those scenarios are highly unlikely in the real world over the course of one Saturday morning, but I think the purpose of the ending was to drive home the theme, that if we take the time to understand one another, that we might find out we like someone who we perceive as different. "},{"Title":"Great lesson for all ages!","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a story that almost everyone that has made it through high school can relate to. Whether you're the jock, the princess, the nerd, the loner, the delinquent or another stereotype there is a familiar scene in this movie for you.Saturday detention is full of likely and unlikely participants that morning. Andrew (Emilio Estevez), the jock, we learn is in detention for taping a boy's behind together in gym class. Clair (Molly Ringwald), the princess, has skipped class to go shopping. Brian (Anthony Michael Hall), the nerd, has been caught with a flare gun in his locker because it went off! Allison (Ally Sheedy), the loner, showed up Saturday because she literally didn't have anything better to do! Lastly, Bender (Judd Nelson), the delinquent, pulled the fire alarm as a prank to earn him a seat there that Saturday morning. The theme of the movie deals with social problems. It portrays five vastly different people thrown together who discover their similarities and become friends.The lighting on the film was primarily high-key lighting. This lighting created powerful images especially when the angles were close up on the characters faces. This effect is best displayed during one of the final scenes when all the characters are revealing why they are in detention. The angles and lighting used are able to showcase their emotions. The final scene with Principle Vernon (Paul Gleason) reading the letter written by Brian on behalf of the entire club also demonstrates the use of angles and lighting. The elements used create a dramatic, yet emotional impact. The frame starts tight and gradually widens out as Principal Vernon is reading the letter. The letter states what all five detention participates had learned about themselves and the world, not how they actually saw themselves when they left the library that day. They entered in separate worlds as the jock, the princess, the nerd, the loner and the delinquent. The left as five teenagers who discovered who they could be-whatever they wanted not who they were expected to be. "},{"Title":"For a movie that has like one location it is really good.","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I actually enjoyed this movie though it is definitely a movie I would usually not care all that much for. Most of the time movies about people in high school or have such a limited amount of locations are not my thing. I like a movie that goes all over the place as a movie for me is an escape and the more locations the more locales I escape to. This film takes place in a library at a high school and focuses on five teens who are stuck with detention on a Saturday. Four of the five are not used to this type of situation, but one is quite used to it. I don't know, for some reason it works, it is by far the only Brat Pack movie that I really enjoy and I think it works for a lot of reasons. The humor is pretty good, the serious situations are realistic and the movie does a nice job of turning this five virtual strangers into friends. Granted, I still hate the fact the one person ended up with no gal at the end, but it is only a minor complaint to be sure. The cast does a very good job with their roles as they have to for this movie to be a success because it is sort of a character study. They only leave from the library briefly, so yes the movie does for the most part takes place entirely in that place so that scenery can be a bit boring. The guy playing the principal does a rather good job here too and like I said a lot of funny exchanges occur between him and the more delinquent student played wonderfully by Judd Nelson. I also really enjoy Ally Sheedy's performance as the shy, kind of weird girl. Molly Ringwald can do the character she played in her sleep and Emilio is rather good as the football player. Anthony Michael Hall plays the nerd and rounds out the cast very nicely. Good movie if not really heavy on the locations, heck it could be a stage play. "},{"Title":"The Number 1 Movie of All Time - 'The Breakfast Club'","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ratings  10/10 stars There's this movie which i would gladly concur as the best movie of all time in my list. This movie is entitled 'The Breakfast Club'. I had the chance to stumble on this movie on a hallmark channel, and I was astounded on how perfect this movie is. The storyline, the characters and most importantly the script or dialogue that was perfectly written to make this a great movie.This movie is basically, about 5 people who comes from different cliché' in school. One is a criminal, another is a sporty-kid, the other is a basketcase, one is a miss popular and the last is the brain. The story line goes where these 5 people who spend detention on a Saturday. That is it, the simplicity of the story goes as simple as that. 5 people in the library spending detention on a Saturday.So here it gets really really interesting, amidst all their differences, they start learning about each other, bit by bit and becoming friends on that single day. Who can't relate to this movie? I believe every single person could relate to this movie because of almost everyone been to school before.My words won't be enough to describe this great movie. However, I never get bored watching this from time to time because the feelings and expressions that these people make, all leads to one thing. Their parents.Hope you guys will watch this movie. "},{"Title":"An 80's classic that I know by heart. It proves growing up is tough as your judged by your peers.","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1985's The Breakfast Club is a classic I now know by heart having seen many times it's a classic 80's film that never gets old and it captures the times of youth so well as many people remember people they went to high school with that are just like the film's characters. It's a memorable classic from John Hughes as it was nice to see he really showed what teens went thru.Anyway four high school kids spend a Saturday afternoon of detention together at an area Chicago high school for their apparent misdeeds and misunderstandings among peers. It began at 7AM and was to last until 4PM in which they were to write an essay telling who they think they are. Yet none of them had anything to say, at least nothing to say on paper! Interesting and very thought provoking along the way is how they find out facts and info about one another by communication and it turns out to be quite different from each one's perceived stereotype about one or the other.The performances are stellar and memorable you have your typical cast of characters that you come to know in any high school first the prom queen sweetheart Claire(Molly Ringwald), the odd basket case(Ally Sheedy), the brain Brian(Anthony Michael Hall), the jock(Emilio Estevez)and the criminal and most memorable performance was from the delinquent John(Judd Nelson). Each deal with the typical teen problems of peer pressure, acceptance, drugs, sex, and parent issues yet each along the way learn they are a special person as they were meant to be the way they were. A notable performance that was standout was the now late Paul Gleason who was tough and cocky as the school principal who monitored the afternoon stay.Overall great film one of the best and most remembered from the 80's that really showed what growing up in high school was like as each character of the film could be memorable to someone that you probably remembered in school. As the film ends each go their separate ways leaving you as the viewer to form your own take of how each one's life turned out. One thing was learned without writing an essay their was a princess, a jock, a basket case, brain, and criminal and each accepted their stereotype. One thing to remember and one message to take from this film is everyone is different, everyone was meant to be different, and everyone will be different always remember that. As you will cheer for The Breakfast Club time and time again. "},{"Title":"An excellent dramatic film that dives deep inside the teenage spirit","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one of John Hughes' most critically acclaimed films, 5 teenagers are in detention on a Saturday and are forced to interact under the watchful eye of Principal Vernon.After seeing Ferris Bueller's day Off and hearing friends discuss this 1985 drama, I was very eager to give it a watch, and was spoilt in one, if not the, best teenage dramas ever made.Estevez, Hall, Nelson, Ringwald and Sheedy are today big stars in Hollywood and it's fair to say that this film pushed them towards that status in a marvellous display of teenage emotions and antics in a great enjoyable and interesting drama.John Hughes has done it again with sharp writing, jokes and a great character driven plot that justifies the ideology of how parents can have bad effects on children.And this ideology of being brought up is very interesting to watch, and is portrayed well by all actors, and how the characters are all effected in different ways by their parents attitudes towards them.Though not designed to be funny, there are a few quirks in the plot that adds a delightful depth to the narrative and keeps the interest alive, and an ideology of what detention is like, and how it can affect your own mood.Though taking a while to get into, once the characters start interacting more does the plot really come together and capture the true essence of what goes on inside a teenage mind.Having an open question to the story will keep you watching to the very end, why is everyone in detention on a Saturday? This technique is well used and the final scenes are very dramatic and are worth hanging on for.The Breakfast Club is a sharply written, intense and intriguing drama that questions the whole concept of how children and teenagers should be raised. Hughes has brought this ideology to a dramatic light to create one of the best teenage dramas ever, not over doing it with unnecessary jokes and focusing on the characters and heir personalities which makes it an essential watch. "}{"Title":"a film that every parent and teen should see","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are films that tell you nothing. There are films that will make you laugh but have no real meaning, and there are films that have meaning but will leave you somewhat depressed afterwards. The Breakfast Club is different. This is a film that will make you laugh, think, cry, and laugh some more. I only saw this film for the first time last year and kicked myself for not seeing it sooner. It is a fantastic film about the pressures that every teenager will have to face in their lifetime, a film that will bring up a problem that anyone watching can relate to one way or the other.I for one like a film with a simple storyline, and this one has a pretty simple one. Five teenagers are forced to spend a Saturday in detention. Simple as that. But these five youngsters are very different from one another. Andrew Clark- The tough guy who thrives to be the best; Brian Johnson- The Grade A student. John Bender- The loud mouth nuisance. Molly Ringwald- The Prom Queen, and Ally Sheedy- the weirdo.5 very different people. One classroom, and a hard nosed teacher to deal with. They begin the day clearly frustrated at the thought of spending a Saturday with one another, but by the end their lives will have changed forever and they will realise that they are not so different.Overall, this is a funny and touching movie that you will be happy to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, observant teen flick","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For all the critical flack John Hughes has received for his many teen films which have raked in the dollars, he showed us in The Breakfast Club that he has a certain understanding of modern day youth.Writer-director Hughes gives us an incisive look at five young students who spend a Saturday detention together in their school library. Complete strangers when the day begins, they gradually open up and form an unlikely but strong bond by the day's end.Hughes' well written and passionate characters are convincingly given voice by the impressive young cast. Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald and Emilio Estevez are particularly sharp, while Ally Sheedy and Anthony Michael Hall both lend decent support.The main message of the film, to take our youth more seriously and give them an even break, is well handled by Hughes as each very different teenager is portrayed as a real human being with feelings and attitudes relative to their own situations. Hughes covers each topic of adolescence well, and with due seriousness, while still keeping the humour rolling and maintaining the very strong 'teen' feel about the whole thing.Unfortunately the love tie-ins and romantic ending are a little too soft and probably unnecessary too, but that and Paul Gleeson's 'teacher with an attitude' character are the only disappointments in a very enjoyable, semi-cult teen film.Backed up by a great rock soundtrack penned for the movie by Keith Forsey.Monday, January 17, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Love It ! ! ! ! !","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great, Great, GREAT! movie, I would also recommend The Craft, Well anyways the movie is the s*** i love it, and i know u'll love it! LOL definitely get it you wont be sorry!!!! You will like the movie if you like teen movies, your a 80's fan and if your not you'll still LOVE IT and i honestly believe that everyone should own this moviereasons to get it  its fun, it makes u feel happy, its funny, great characters, good directer, actors fit every character, amazing actors/actresses, brilliant movie, entertaining, could watch over and over again, enjoyable, FUN, and great to watch with friendsi don't know what else to say, the movie just says it itself, so go GET IT NOW ! ! ! ! "},{"Title":"very deep","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really can't say very much about this movie. only that it is wonderful, fantastic, deep, interesting, and sad all at the very same time. i really loved this movie because, as many people have pointed out, i love to analyze things. This movie gave me many things to analyze where the plot was going, what the plot meant, what the characters were trying to express beneath what they were saying and doing. the thing that everybody should know when watching The Breakfast Club is that all of the students are from different cliques, so of course they don't know each other, trust each other, and have never spoken a word to each other. The best actor in this movie is probably Judd Nelson. Follows next are  Molly Ringwald, Anthony Micheal Hall, Emilio Estevez, Aly Sheedy. Nelson plays a bully who we then find out has a 'troubled life' that he never talks about until he gets detention with 4 other teenagers who, after getting stoned with them, he feels are the only people he can talk to, even though he has just met them. He first comes off as well, a jackass, but as the story unravels, and the feelings get heavier, you start to see the insecure, scared and unhappy abused child within. While watching, some may see that it is a story about a group of 5 high school students stuck in a detention together that get high together and spill their guts. I did not see this side of the movie. I noticed that every single child in there seemed like a rec-loose, a criminal, a spoiled brat, or a nerd, (very different things), but they all had one very important thing in common they hated their parents. That is the heart of the story; that the children do not want to end up like their parents, a problem that every person deals with at some time or another. It's inevitable, becoming like you're parents, which comes to the sad side. Not all parents are abusers, some ignore their child, the other's push them, and then they last pair of parents spoil their kid while being spoiled and pushed to do your best may seem great, it scares the child, no matter how old. The movie ends with a kiss, and you turn off the television and think to yourself wow. "},{"Title":"Correction.....","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie, and because of that, I have a correction to make. The quote is not, Oh yeah? How much vodka do you drink? It is in fact, Andy Vodka.... when do you drink vodka? And Allison replies snidely, Whenever. And then Andy says, A lot? Allison Tons. And so on and so forth...... I came to this page and was saddened by this mistake. It was a correction that I felt needed to be made. The Breakfast Club has been my favorite movie for some years now, even though I am only 20. I almost have every line that Judd Nelson says memorized. I drive my friends absolutely crazy when they watch this amazing flick with me. John Hughes is awesome. Judd Nelson is one of my heroes. And I am totally in love with Molly Ringwald now. "},{"Title":"A Brat Pack classic","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are those of you who have a hard time understanding this movie, and I can't really understand how that is when this is a film that many have a hard time switching off.You see, it's not only a great drama; a tale of teen angst if you will... this is also a classic 80's cult film.Now, according to my knowledge, cult films have withstood the test of time very well. The reason this one in particular is up there with the likes of 16 Candles, Weird Science, and Say Anything (by the way, I'm aware that Say Anything was not a Brat Pack movie) is because it shows that those perceived as one type of person are really just trying to find their real self... that's the basis of this movie finding oneself.I know I said that this was a drama, but all great dramas have humor in them... this is one of them.Everybody has their favorite scene or line. Mine just happens to be a bunch of separate scenes... when everyone reveals why they're in detention.All who have never seen this movie, please do yourself a favor and see it.9/10 "},{"Title":"80s in a nutshell","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I truly don't believe there ever has been a better-made movie that captures so precisely what high school in the 80s (and now, probably) was like. The perfect representatives of each group, the struggle for popularity if not acceptance, finding the painful things that make us common, and the striking differences that drive us apart.Hughes gets a bad rap for many of his movies, but this really is his finest work, IMO. It has everything - humor, drama, fight scenes, conflict, and resolution. More to the point, it has characters that everyone over 17 can identify with. If not, they at least recognize what makes up and drives the other characters since we basically grew up with all of them at our own high schools.I'm certainly not going to say this was Emmy-worthy, but on a personal level this movie has been and will always be in my top 5 of all time. If you haven't ever seen it (or have only seen the watered-down version on broadcast TV) do yourself a favor and rent it tonight. "},{"Title":"An Unmissable Film that typifies 80's Teen America","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say that I much preferred this film to others like it, such as the Pretty in Pink style amongst others of the time. I superb cast, who clearly gelled on film and each brought a certain something to the film. Setting the film in Chicago, as opposed to New York (although who would notice as it's all indoors) was, in my opinion a good idea. Having a representative from all the groups of typical school life (even those in Britain)is pure genius - the jock, the pretty princess, the geek/boff, the guy-from-the-wrong-side-of-the-tracks, and the loner (the one who never seemed to have any friends and always seemed odd). What made this particularly good to watch is that everyone knows that these people would never engage in conversation outside of the Saturday detention, and it gave each of them a chance to see each others' lives from a different perspective. Who knew that a Jock would actually admit that they hated the Jock Life??? An all round great film, that can be watched again and again, without getting boring. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies of All Time","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hadn't seen the breakfast club until I was twelve, and I fell in love with every aspect of it! It was introduced when there was no 'typical' stereotype movie, and it exploded into it's own unique theme and plot. I found it funny, and it's moral very true, especially in my own school life.I can't believe that this got only a seven, every person I've ever seen it with has loved it and proclaimed it one of the best movie's they had ever seen, along with me. I own it on DVD, and I never hesitate to put it in and fall in love all over again.The characters that you meet seem like real people, that you can compare to some of your friends or enemies alike. It doesn't jump into the plot too quick, and the ending is completely heartwarming to me. If you don't like this movie, I refuse to believe it.You must see and own this movie. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club is the Best!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well I'm not an old man I'm 18 but I'm sorry to say so but this is the best film i have ever seen. This movie just sums up how a teenagers life is. This is a must see film before you die definitely. I would go and watch it now or even better buy the film. Its all about a group of five teenagers stuck in a Saturday detention which all have different personalities and lives. It has a sport who is the best athlete in the school, a beauty queen who is the most popular girl in the school, a hard rock badboy who doesn't care less about anyone but himself, not forgetting a silent girl who never speaks and who is just strange and mysterious. And finally a geek because you have to have a geek. The mixture of all the teens make the group perfect. This one day they spent together changed their life forever! Enjoy !MJ "}{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Though this movie came out the same year that I was born, I remember watching it a lot while I was growing up. As a teenager it was one of my absolute favorites and it still is. I love how each character seems so different at the beginning of the movie, but later on you come to realize that they are all very similar in many ways. I love all 5 of the members of the Breakfast Club and I think the actors/actresses all did very well portraying them. This movie is such an 80's classic and I really hope that one day John Hughes will release the other 2 hours that go with it. I would loooove to see what else happens to the characters!!! "},{"Title":"Great high school flick of the '80's!!!!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came out in 1985, the year that I started kindergarten at the age of five. I did not see this movie when it first came out. I had first seen this movie on TV (I assume on the Encore channel) in the early 90's, when it was a fairly recent movie and not quite ten years old. After my first seeing of this movie, I really liked it. The characters were quite remarkable. It's about five high school students who end up having to sacrifice a Saturday of their weekend to serve a detention in the school library. These characters come from different backgrounds and have their own differences in life like most other high schoolers. When they got together at the beginning of their detention, they hardly knew each other, but hours later, they get to know one another and touch each other's lives in a very special way. These characters range from a prom princess, a basket case, a jock (athlete), a nerd, and a criminal. Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, and Judd Nelson play these roles (in this respective order). Paul Gleason (who passed away a few days ago; God bless him) played the principal of the school supervising the students in detention. This could be a comedy in some respects depending on how you see the characters (I say it is in my opinion). The dialog is funny, even though it is graphic and descriptive on certain occasions. My favorite character is John Bender. He is funny, even though he was the type of person who lived a demeaning life with a lack of love and respect. I like the other characters a lot as well, especially Mr. Vernon (Paul Gleason's character). He was the one who would not take or tolerate any inappropriate kind of nonsense from anyone (obviously, no principal should, of course). I liked the scene where Vernon tells off Bender in the storage room for acting like such a smart a** in front of the other students. The next scene where John falls through the ceiling after telling the explicit blonde joke was a riot. The scene at the beginning of the movie where he spits up in the air and catches it back in his mouth was so gross. I can't stand seeing some people doing that; it makes me cringe and almost gag. I never ever spat when I was in high school. Totally inappropriate!! The characters were funny to some extent. I also loved the soundtrack music to this movie, especially the Simple Minds track, Don't You (Forget About Me), which is heard in a slightly different way in here than the regular radio version on the soundtrack album. This is the kind of movie that you can watch remembering your days (good and bad) as a high schooler. "},{"Title":"Here's one for the memory books!","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Meeting total strangers for the first time will not only make an impact for themselves, but for the rest of their lives. The Breakfast Club is a movie where five teens from different worlds meet in weekend detention, and what a difference it makes for each and single one. You got Brian(Anthony Michael Hall); a brainiac, Andy(Emilio Estevez); a jock, Claire(Molly Ringwald); a beauty, Allison(Ally Sheedy); a shy girl, and there's John(Judd Nelson) a rebel. Each one has their way of life, how things run in the house, and furthermore, they build a bond. At first, everyone except Allison are getting to know one another, however John always being the bad seed, seems to love trouble. I like the part where he tried to escape, only to fall through the ceiling and into the men's room. Then I liked the part where John looked up Claire's skirt while he was trying to hide from Principal Vernon(Paul Gleason). When Allison is made over, she gets the jock, and John gets Claire, too bad for Brian, however, I bet he's too busy for girls. When John gets one of Claire's earrings, the question is, Will he change his ways? I love this movie and the Brat Pack put an impact in the 80's. The music is the tops in my opinion. 5 stars. RIP Paul Gleason. "},{"Title":"Saturday is det time!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching this seminal 1980s movie certainly stirs feelings of nostalgia I'm roughly the same age as the film's central characters, and my school also had Saturday detention (although not quite in the form depicted here). With its archetypal characters, essentially static, dialogue-driven scenes, and internal dance routines, 'The Breakfast Club' is actually quite theatrical; but not without merit. On the downside, there's a dreadful period soundtrack (Simple Minds, anyone?) and some of the incidents are a bit obvious and ploddingly handled. But offsetting this, there are also plenty of genuinely funny and true to life moments. What is a pity the film is somewhat overbalanced by Judd Nelson's character; for sure, he's meant to be an attention seeker, but Nelson just seems too old for the part, more like a man pretending to be a boy than a real angsty teen. In the movie's second half, the character is quieter and the benefits are clear. The film has a crowd-pleasing bias towards the pupils in detention (as opposed to their teacher), and it ends with one of those make-overs beloved of Hollywood teen-movies, where the plain girl becomes beautiful (but only if you have a certain aesthetic preference). However, there's still more to think about about than in the average movie of this genre, not least the idea that the power of one human over another is always (in some sense) applied through consent. And compared to the likes of modern successors like 'American Pie', there's a sweetness here lost in the last 20 years. "},{"Title":"Amazing Concept. Amazing Cast. Amazing Movie.","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Amazing Concept. Amazing Cast. Amazing Movie. The Breakfast Club captures pretty much every social group in High School when one teen from just about every group is required to serve a Saturday detention. Whether you grew up in the 1980's or not, this movie is timeless and can probably apply to school's for the rest of time. Outstanding performances all around, excellent storyline and has the ability to hold almost anyone's attention. A very easy movie to relate to no matter what social group you were/are in. Not just focusing on the jocks, the preps, etc. This is one of those movies I could see over and over again without getting sick of it. Excellent Classic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Classic 80's teen movie by John Hughes.  The Breakfast Club appeals to almost every body in its target audience","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a movie that most teens hold deep inside their hearts. Why? Simple. The Breakfast Club deals with some problems teens hold within themselves Insecurity, hormones, trouble with parents, trying to be popular, bullies, etc. This allows the target audience to relate to it very well. The Breakfast Club takes these problems and sets them in each and every one of our characters. Andy Clark is a jock dealing with parents. Brian Johnson is a nerd dealing with bullies. John Bender is one of those bullies who spend every weekend in detention. Clare is an insecure girl trying to be popular. Allison&#133; she's just weird. (She has a sandwich with sugar from pixie sticks and Captain Crunch cereal. Yum.) These five students unite during one detention; each one of them did something wrong or broke a rule. This is how the film starts out. John Bender (the bully) starts up a conversation, and pretty soon secrets are revealed, and character development takes place. That is pretty much what happens during one day in detention.This movie is not only a well-made drama, but also makes a decent comedy. This film, of course is by John Hughes, who has made many comedies, such as Home Alone, National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation and Planes, Trains & Automobiles. There are many scenes of humor. One of them is when the principal emerges quickly from the bathroom and tells the students I will not be made a fool of and leaves with some toilet paper hanging from the back of his pants. So much for not being a fool.The Breakfast Club isn't complex or too inventive It's just a drama made for teens; a drama with acting, comedy and fair realism; a drama that you will love, especially if you're a teenager.In short The Breakfast Club's target audience is teenagers, and works well for them. Ask any teenager who has seen this movie, and they will most likely tell you that they love it. (Well, probably) Note The film doesn't deserve the R rating. It's rated R for language, but the characters don't cuss as much as they would nowadays. They just use a couple of hells and damns. Well, that goes for the version I saw on AMC.9/10Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"the clothes are dated, the message is timeless","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie recently and absolutely loved it. It had such a perfect blend of romance, comedy, drama, and great characterization. Every character was so well developed, I felt like I knew each one personally when the movie was over. Each performance is amazing, but I really enjoyed Ally Sheedy's portrayal of Allison. She managed to be the comic relief and give a highly convincing dramatic performance all in the same movie. I think that every teen should see this movie because it shows high school in such a raw and real way without being melodramatic. Although it is unlikely that a princess, brain, jock, criminal, and basket case would really put aside their differences and become friends, it looks very convincing on screen. The Breakfast Club really isn't just another teen movie because it is one that everyone can relate to and is so raw and real without being melodramatic. "},{"Title":"A great message, and great comedy","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dear Mr. Vernon We accept the fact that we had to sacrifice a whole Saturday in detention for whatever it is we did wrong, but we think you're crazy for making us write an essay telling you who we think we are. You see us as you want to see us in the simplest terms, in the most convenient definitions. You see us as a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess, and a criminal. Thats the way we saw ourselves at 700 this morning. We were brainwashed.Not Just For Nerds. I was recommended this movie by my drama teacher so I checked it out here and found that most of the reviews said For loners and stuff like that. I my self having friends thought that I wouldn't like it but rented it anyway. It is excellent and funny. So all I have to say is that it is for teenagers, and everyone will most likely like it. The film has a good message and gets it across well. My only complaint is how most people reviewed it. Just because you are anti-social and like the movie doesn't mean that everyone who likes it is also anti-social. This is a great movie and possibly the best teen film I've seen.10/10 "},{"Title":"Any teenager should watch this at some point","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This came on the TV just as I was writing my review of Little Nicky, right after aforementioned title had ended. The title seemed familiar, so I decided to give it a chance. I hadn't expected the great film that I got out of it. This should be viewed by any teenager, at least once, at some point. The premise is as simple as this put five typical but very different high school kids in detention the same day at the same place. The film follows them, as they spend the whole day at the school, and eventually warm up to each other, open up to each other and finally, grow to like and accept each other. This is one of the only John Hughes films(of the ones he directed himself, at least) that I've seen, so I'm not entirely familiar with his directing style, but I like what I've seen so far. The plot is very good, and a lot less pretentious than most teen comedies. It doesn't try too hard to be funny... it just is. The acting performances are all top-notch. The characters are well-written, credible and most importantly, interesting. The film keeps your interest better than most teen flicks. The humor is very good, not overly crude or offensive, but still teen-oriented. The dialog is well-written and equally well-delivered. A great film which should be seen by any teenager. I recommend it to anyone that is or has been a teenager. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding and timeless.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie includes one of my favorite songs (Don't you -Simple minds) and my absolute all time high favorite actor, Judd Nelson.The first time I can remember seeing this movie was when I was about 14 years old. It had me astonished from the very start. The first 15 minutes or so I was wondering if they would ever get their asses out of that school and go hit the streets, doing some rebellious stuff and living as this was their last day on earth. Clearly I had no idea. I soon forgot all about that and instead I was completely blown away with these young actors amazing performances. They had me glued to the screen, almost in cramp, devouring every move and word they expressed. Never once did I doubt them or in any way was I reminded that this was just a flick, not real people sitting in front of me. They were real! Of course they were. They are! Especially Bender and Alison cause I was able to identify myself by them. I was as weird, rebellious and left out as they were. In a lot of ways, I still am.Still to this day (I'm almost 22 now) this is my absolute favorite movie. Sorry to say, they don't make movies like this one any more. Containing everything essential about life, growing up and being a little different (as I think we all are) this is The One Movie that I'm gonna take with me where ever I go. This is my bible. "}{"Title":"The Best 80's Movie","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the best 80's movie that I have seen. It is my favorite movie, I cant even count how many times I have seen it. Definitely a 10. If there was a number higher it would get it!! John Bender is Hilarious. If you like movies by John Hughes this is a must see.  "},{"Title":"Good teen movie","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TBC is a great film for young adults and adults who saw it as young adults. It has such great moments and really in the end makes you leave the theater with a smile on your face. This movie was all of these actors best movie. But only one had a good enough carrer for people to still talk about him and not mention TBC.   "},{"Title":"Judd Nelson & Molly Ringwald Made this A Classic Film !","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"                   Happened to be in the neighborhood of Glenbrook H.S. in Illinois where the high school filming location was being completed and it sort of made me want to see this film over and over again.  We all know that such events in high school are quite mild and not very realistic compared to the high school killings throughout the country.   Judd Nelson (John Bender) The Cabin By the Lake 2000 gave an outstanding performance which launched his great acting career, I was always amazed by his great style of acting, he can do almost anything he is given to perform.   Molly Ringwald (Claire Standish) Cut 2000, gave a great supporting role, with all kinds of sexual abuse being directed to her by John Bender, even looking up her skirt and making demeaning slander to her character for being a Virgin.   This is truly a classic film by today's standards and should never be put under a microscope and picked apart. Just sit back, lighten UP and enjoy an old time High School tale about a bunch of BRATS! "},{"Title":"My little Obsession","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie 61 times and counting, I have it compleatly memorized and to say the least, I love it. I first discovered the film in eighth grade and I have watched it non-stop ever since (I am currently entering 12th grade). It truly is a coming of age film and is a movie that I believe every teen must watch at least once. The teen years are the most confusing, and John Hughes and his masterpiece give a sence of identification to all those who watch it.....As the song says in the movie....We are not alone  "},{"Title":"Brilliant,","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just now came back from watching it in the theater and I loved it again. Very funny and touching at times as well. When I first saw this movie as a teenager from about Anthony Michael Hall's age, it gave me the feeling that I wasn't the only one who was misunderstood by his parents (even though my parent's are great, unlike the parents from the characters in the movie). After just coming home from this film, I started remembering what it was like in school, what I loved and loathed about it and what it was like being a teenager, making friends and belonging (or not..) to a certain crowd.There were a few people commenting that the movie was bad and it was too simple, with the parents being blamed for all the problems. As far as I can see they missed the point entirely. Yes, the parents get a bad rep, but that is not the main point. The very obvious point is that despite their differences in background/social circles, their problems (and teenagers problems anywhere) and more importantly themselves are more alike than they imagined... (Can't we all just get along..? o)o) "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Personally, I don't think enough wonderful things can be said about this movie.  It's absolutely outstanding.  Each and every actor in this movie did an excellent job.  The two standouts for me were Judd Nelson as John Bender and Molly Ringwald as Claire Standish.  In a movie where every character was compelling, they actually managed to steal the show.  Definitely a must see for anyone that appreciates a fine script and spectacular acting.  "},{"Title":"Being a teenager Really Sucks!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warning REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS, BUT, IF YOU ARE HERE, YOU'VE PROBABLY SEEN THIS FILM ANYWAY.Right after I saw this film I thought it was brilliant. Then I came here and read the comment by MR. RICHARD CALLAGHAN, which was not really nice about this film. In many ways, most of what he said was correct, but that doesn´t make the film any bad. The opening quote by David Bowie really is the hallmark of student pretension, but anyone who can´t see beyond it falls under another meaning for the quote which is Adults don´t know s*** about how hard it is to be a teenager.When the film begins, we see five young people coming to school, where they are going to spend a Saturday in detention. Each one of them represents one of the five main High School Archetypes The o-so-perfect-and-pretty princess, the cool-among-the-cool athlete, the brain, the bully/criminal, and the freak. Anyone and I do mean ANYONE who comes to watch this film will connect to at least one, maybe two, of these characters. The teacher leaves them in the library and tells them to write an essay on how they view themselves. They sit and wait bored to their bones.Mr. Callaghan says that three of them are unidemensional and only one of them has anything interesting to say. He failed to realise that what Hughes created was the Microcosmos of any Highschool, anywhere, in any given time. The Characters get as much attention and relevance as their Archetypes would (and do) in a real-life highschool. At first, they sit in silence, loathing the possibility to speak with each other, but Bender won´t let that happen.He comes from a violent home and really has, from an objective point of view, the worst problems. He thinks it gives him the right to be violent and pick on everyone else. He thinks he is better because he is a survivor. His favourite targets are the ones he envies Claire and AndyClaire has a rich father and is pretty, she is a spoiled Barbie girl. But she is haunted by her perfection. It comes up when she avoids the topic of her virginity and when she is sincere about their friendships.Andy is a strong and handsome wrestler, and also very popular. His problems come from living up to his father´s expectations, which include a college scholarship achieved through wrestling.Brian is the typical nerd who wants to be accepted, but in failing to achieve that goal, wants to excel in all his school subjects. His world crumbles when he gets an F because he is not very good with hand craft, he also gets a lot of pressure from his parentsAllison is a freak with great artistic talent. She is just wants to be loved, but is ignored by everyone, even her parents. That is reflected in the film by her trying to draw attention to herself all throughout the film, but nobody gives her any. The character is supposed to be ignored, that´s something I find brilliant.The film goes on in pretty much the way it would happen in real life. They get to know each other and find out that the others aren´t the monsters they thought. They are now friends. In this climax, everything crumbles when Brian asks them if they will still be friends on Monday. Claire says that probably not. And even though Andy and Bender deny it and scorn her for saying that. Even though the final moments suggest otherwise with two very unlikely couples, I think she is right. On Monday they will be strangers again just like in real life. Or not, who knows?All of this happens while their teacher is in school, totally oblivious to the world of the teenagers, just like in real life. Adults normally dismiss the problems of adolescents regarding them as some minor typical facts of teen life. Yes, they are right but any typical fact of teen life can leave a pretty ugly scar in a time one´s personality is still very fragile and in formation process. Adults should never forget that, and that´s what this film is about. "},{"Title":"Damn Good Movie!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a teen, I love this movie. It isn't your typical falling love kind of story. It is at times dark and depicts teen life extremely well, as opposed to other teen movies. This is a great movie to watch for anyone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Best After School Special","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE BREAKFAST CLUB (1985) *** Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, Paul Gleason. Excellent comedy from writer/director John Hughes about a group of high school kids held on a Saturday detention ordered to write an essay about themselves.  Instead they get a life lesson in finding out about each other and not as their clique/classification  a jock, nerd, rebel, princess and basket case.  Fine acting and some very funny moments between the vulnerability of teen angst.  **Personal note I fell in love with Sheedy in this film.  Oh momma when she gets her makeover!! "},{"Title":"A 'Brat Pack' movie from just before 'Brat Pack' became an insult.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't separate this film from how I first saw it - in a cinema in San Francisco in 1985, after a 14 hour flight from Sydney. I mainly went there to keep myself awake and get over jet lag. Well, it kept me awake all right I liked it so much that 4 weeks later, the night before flying back to Australia, I saw it again in the same cinema.I was 23 when I saw it no longer a teen (though the same age as some of the stars!) but my  memories of being a teen were still fresh. Few teenagers are that articulate, but so what? It's true to what teenagers experience.Apparently Ally Sheedy was originally going to play the Molly Ringwald role. The one thing that could have improved TBC would have been Judd Nelson and Emilio Estevez swapping roles. "}{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I began watching I had no idea how much I'd love it. It's about your typical teenagers with all their craziness, passion, obstinacy, individuality, need to fit in and need to stand out. You'll laugh and cry and won't remember which one started the other. "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable 80s high school films...","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was one year from graduation when this film came out. I don't remember seeing it at the movies but I did watch it on cable numerous times. It is probably the best John Hughes film. The premise of the film was a group of students in detention on Saturday. The Breakfast Club was comprised of the full spectrum of high school going species. There was the jock, the popular girl, the stoner, the nerd and that weird girl that kept to herself and nobody talked to. These kids from different walks of life who should never be friends bonded and became friends at least for that day. It was moving to see them talk to each other about their problems and bond. It was cool the way they all banded together against the biggest ass of a teacher in the school. One of the most memorable things about the movie was the song. Simple Mind's `Don't You Forget About Me' was perfect and I can't hear that song without thinking of `The Breakfast Club'. Though I totally like the movie they did leave it somewhat incomplete. The question of whether they would still be friends on Monday or would they just stick to their own group. I wish they had made a sequel or just answered that question.`The Breakfast Club' is truly an American classic. I'm buying the DVD.Rayvyn  "},{"Title":"The film that started The Brat Pack craz.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film started it, St, Elmo's Fire made it higher. Out of all of John Hughes movies, this one really stands out. It's a teen classic. Great performances by Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, Judd Nelson, Anthony Michael Hall, and Emilo Estevez. The story is about five different teenagers are forced to spend an all day Saturday detention. For some you may think it's about kids in detention, dive deeper into the story, you'll see a story of abuse, neglect, and the pressure to be perfect. What you see is what everyday teens go through. Thats what made the movie a hit. Although it was well acted by everyone, it's clearly Judd Nelson steals the picture, has the bad boy John Bender. Paul Gleason is also good has Richard Vernon, the not so likeable principal. He later went on to play characters we love to hate. This movie is funny and touching. It's my John Hughes favorite. "},{"Title":"Excellent, enduring movie that represents an era/age","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Note Recommended to have seen filmThe Breakfast Club, a movie about 5 dissimilar teenagers who get stuck together on a saturday because of detention, was just not about some inner-discovery-developing-plot or even necessarily the humor (though I found that a very vital part of the film). But before I display my perspective, I'd like to address those of a few other people. For those of you who criticize The Breakfast Club, you're obviously not looking at it for the right reasons. If you see the characters as flat and the plot and its issues as mundane, you're analyzing the movie in an incorrect way. Maybe in viewing the movie you seem to have lapsed over the fact that the movie was a Teen movie dealing with Teen issues. (For the few who might suddenly think that this label turns all the characters into Alicia Silverstone look-a-likes talking about their hair, think of such movies as Rebel Without a Cause or even Cameron Crowe's older films, for example). The Breakfast Club manages to combine all it's character's into one setting (Shermer High School/Shermer High School Library), without any major change in setting, character addition, or sudden abrupt plot twist and yet still manages to stay interesting. In such situation, one must assume the dialogue would hold the movie together, and for the most part, I'd say this is the case in The Breakfast Club. The steady humor (usually good) was very important for leveling out the (countering) occasional seriousness of the film. Some of the dialogue was filled with some rough phrasing; however, in my opinion, it could almost be considered intentional. When a group of teenagers, seemingly cast in completely different molds, are thrown together and suddenly find themselves talking about their own appropriate, deepest problems to these (formerly) strangers, would it honestly come out in the most articulate of speech? This is why I feel you shouldn't blame The Breakfast Club for its amateur psychology (as some have phrased it), or more more appropriately, I think it should be awarded for managing to deal with some issues of high school and teenage life that it did without creating some ludicrous, unbelievable situation inorder to achieve it. Even so, one should not dissect and scrutinize every single line; you can only appreciate the movie by absorbing it as a whole of its parts. To me, the gift of the The Breakfast Club is not one certain thing, but surely through it all we can find positive. The movie was very well acted by everyone of its characters and if one of them had gone astray it easily could have failed. However it was teenagers addressing their issues on their own terms, supplemented by laughs, that made The Breakfast Club into a great 80s movie, a great teen movie, and just a plain, great movie as well. "},{"Title":"awesome 80's flick!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   This drama/comedy/semi-romantic teen coming-of-age movie is one of my ALL time favorites. Hands down. Starring a majority of the Brat Packers, this is one of the most unforgetable movies of the 80s decade.  The Breakfast Club is a fairly short movie about 5 seniors at a small town high school stuck in Saturday detention for 9 hours in a huge library. You've got all your different students the prom queen(Molly Ringwald), the jock(Emilio Estevez), the brain(Anthony Michael Hall, the outcast(Ally Sheedy), & the criminal(Judd Nelson). At 7 a.m. they barely said a word, by 4 p.m. they had bared there souls to one another. With a very satisfying ending with a nice little prologue/epilogue by the great Anthony Michael Hall, The Breakfast Club is a movie I will never forget.  "},{"Title":"Smoke up, Johnny","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any gen-x kid will claim this movie as the essential icon of their adolescence. Around the time Courtney Love was giving interviews likening Kurt Cobain to John Bender, I turned off on this movie--a re-viewing four or five years ago made me gag. But seeing it again now, in the light of the current teen pap (all of which, AMERICAN PIE excepted, might have been co-signed by Tipper Gore), John Hughes' insistence on the pain of class differences (of many shapes and sizes) seems forthright and refreshing. Cheesy and pandering as it is (remember Ally Sheedy intoning, When you grow up...your heart dies?), the movie touches, in a crude, pop way, on the varieties of pain of adolescence. (Middle-aged folk wondering why in the aftermath of the Colorado shooting might look sooner to this movie than gun-toting video games.) If someone tapped the group-therapy catharsis of this movie in 1999, they'd have to buy new land to store the cash.The saddest part of this story? Not Judd Nelson's descent into nostril-flaring as a mass murderer in RELENTLESS; it's what happened to John Hughes. The next time you tune in to a few minutes of this on cable, remember these words BABY'S DAY OUT.  "},{"Title":"Unequalled","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Hughes The Breakfast Club remains by far the best of his films. It is unique in that it is the quintessential 80's teen movie but it's way more than that - it remains every bit as relevant for today.There's so much to comment on that I'll keep it short - the film is extremely funny, thought-provoking, poignant, touching. Dialogue throughout is snappy and realistic - Hughes gets the very best out of the cast. What's most impressive is that the whole film revolves 99% of the time around just 5 characters and one location, and yet not for one second does it drag. Who needs special effects or bazillion dollar budgets when characterisation and character interplay are this good?So if you want to know what's a neo maxi zoom dweebie, go check this movie out - you will not regret it.   Watch it. Trust me. Then I bet you 50 bucks you'll be watching it again... and again... "},{"Title":"Great Film For All Juveniles To See!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is educational in a way. It tells real well, how life is for some people. It really makes one realize how lucky they may be to have wonderful parents! One also see what happens when  parents don't care. It's also a good example of Small Group Discussion. Becoming friends, etc. It's also funny. Anybody in their teens will love it! "},{"Title":"A forgotten gem of a teen movie","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This teen movie actually comes across more like a theatrical play, which is no bad thing. It is a purely dialogue driven film, and in the hands of a lesser writer, could have turned out to be utter drivel, but luckily it didn't and this is an intriguing character drama.The Breakfast Club is simply a comical study of the 5 different stereotypes that are present in most high schools, and while this doesn't call for any major plot, the setting of the library as the detention hall fits in perfectly. The writing is really out of the top drawer, and the young cast pull it off remarkably well, in particular Judd Nelson, who really should have carved a career for himself; he has a rare knack for knowing how to deliver one liners.At times the film does drag on a bit; the scene where Estevez gets high and dances about is pretty embarrassing, and the overlong 20 minute chat towards the end could have been trimmed down a bit. However, this is one of the few teen comedies that manages to hit the mark more often than it misses. Oh, and it contains that great song by Simple Minds as the perfect bookend Don't you, forget about me ...7/10. "},{"Title":"Stereotypes get broken... great film.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You know, it's funny, I went to a Catholic all-girls high school, and the stereotypes still held true.  There were the jocks, the basket cases, the brains, the prom queens, and the bullies.   Hughes gets to the heart of all the high-school stereotypes in The Breakfast Club, and creates an environment where they can be broken.  I loved this film when it came out, and I still love it 15 years later.Interesting side note about breaking out of stereotypes... Ally Sheedy tended to play the prom queen types, and was originally cast to play the part of Claire, as opposed to Molly Ringwald.  But they couldn't find anyone for the role of Allison, so they switched Ally over and put Molly in.  Can you imagine Ally Sheedy as Claire????  "}{"Title":"still rocks after 450 times","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is my all-time favorite.  Surprisingly enough it still doesn't bore me, though I have seen it over 450 times. Anthony-Michael Hall as the brain, showing why most brains in school are brains - mostly because of parental pressure. Emilio Estevez as the athlete shows us much the same thing. Most of us still excel in something because we're afraid of being a disappointment to our parents. Ally Sheedy not only looks her cutest (well, wargames excepted here), but portrays a basket case if I ever saw one.  She reminds me so much of a girl in my high school classroom it's unbelievable. Molly Ringwald as the stuck-up, self-righteous princess torn between her basically gentle character and her stuck-up friends and last, but certainly not least, Judd Nelson as the criminal. Abusive parents and all.This movie is a classic from beginning to end.  Dump 5 kids in a school library for a day and they WILL end up friends, even if it is just for that day.  In that lies the realism. Take a person away from his environment (be that the 'popular clique' or the 'bad kids' and they set all prejudice aside. This movie shows that no matter in what layer of society you are) everyone is essentially the same with the same problems. Sadly enough the truth is that although they end up friends, they will only be friends for that one day.Personally I think it's a shame that John Hughes went on to make crap like home alone.. He should have stuck with what he knows best. brain, athlete, basket case, princess and criminal. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very good. Whenever any  teenagers have a problem, refer to the breakfast club. It is a text book concerning teenage relationships in high school. At times brutally honest but always entertaining. One of Judd Nelson's greatest roles. From Emilio Estevez's charming yet troubled existence to Anthony Michael Hall's isolated good guy to Ally Sheedy's hysterically real freak, this movie was all-around excellent. Oh, yeah Molly Ringwald was for once an effective actress, a bright spot in an otherwise lackluster career.  "},{"Title":"Ahhhh, it spoke to a generation....whatever.","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing Breakfast Club when it first came when I was in the 11th grade. Many people hail this as the quintessential Generation X flick of the 1980's. What was John Hughes up to? He obviously had this penchant for blaming authority figures for teenage angst and problems in society. If that was his primary goal he definitely espoused it in all his other films as well. I think there were moments in this film that had sheer poignance when spotting the inner sadness in its characters. Several of the characters go through a sort of transformation and epiphany of how they see themselves in relation to others. The shame, the isolation and despair can be seen especially in Ally Sheedy's character.My biggest peeve about this movie is how it treats the characters and boxes them into these oversimplified stereotypes. If John Hughes wants to explore individualism and self-identity wouldn't he want to focus on how these stereotypes are often based on preconceived notions by others in that teenagers are more complex than he presents them? But the movie uses these stereotypes and wants to embroil them in a milieu to exploit discomfort as if this were one of those EST seminars for youngsters. Why can't a prom queen be a braniac as well as a popular social butterfly? Why can't a brainiac be a jock? Why can't a jock be a rebellious troublemaker? And why can't the oddball Goth-chick be a rebel as well? The movie intends to show very different characters in how they are all alike. But they aren't. In the beginning to the end they are still masked in their confined personas.I was also turned off by how the prom queen decided to make a pass toward the sullen Bender character after all that transpired between them. This was cinematic manipulation by making viewers believe that an insolent wild child can get the girl of any guy's dreams. What was even more disturbing is that he stated his intention to her that he wanted to be used to upset her uppity parents. It seems very out of character for her to suddenly just kiss him and offer him her diamond earring. Someothing tells me that this was a subtle way of displaying role reversals. The girl gives a guy a diamond earring instead of the reverse. The bender character, who is the strongest character doesn't change at all. He is still the hapless jerk he was from the beginning. I thought the most interesting character was the principal. Having worked in education I can understand his frustrations. He saw an institution he built his whole life's work around to crumble in a world of anarchy, disorder and uncertainty.What we see here is a generational gap between the older generation and the kids of Generation X and how much has changed in such a short period of time. Breakfast Club does have a message even though the scenes are contrived such as the corny dance nuances and silly pranks, but that's to be accepted in High School comedies.But the problems in public education today are far more egregious and worrisome than Breakfast club can even begin to convey. "},{"Title":"This Movie teaches us all something and makes us go want to go back to our high school years for just a little.","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely LOVE this movie! I think anyone of any age or style can relate to this film and take something out of watching it. We all can learn that no matter how opposite you are that doesn't matter. This is John Hughes best film from the 80's and brat pack days. Weather you grew up when this film came out or am seeing it for the first time today, you will love it. It has a little bit of everything; the stoner, the princess, the athlete, the brain, and the basket case. You will be laughing and wondering what is going to happen next while watching. The ending is a great surprise. John Hughes makes detention look fun and gives everyone a little bit of hope for acceptance in the world. "},{"Title":"The White 80's Personified","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are white and went to junior-high or highschool during the 80's, this movie is for you.The reason I mention being white is that the 80's were different for people of color (which I am not, and therefore, cannot identify with the challenges). But to the average white American, The Breakfast Club was truly a coming-of-age movie.The late John Hughes served up a masterpiece film about what it was like to be in junior-high and high school during the 80's in a way that nearly everyone could identify with.At my school there were the Freaks, the Soshes, the Jocks, the Losers, and the Nerds. Each of Hughes' characters represent one of the group at my school Esteves (Andrew Clark) for the Jocks. Ringwald (Claire Standish) for the Soches. Sheddy (Alison Reynolds) for the Freaks. Nelson (John Bender) for the Losers. Hall (Brian Johnson) for the Nerds.I saw the movie in the theater when it came out, and later on VHS at several social functions with my peers. Each time, the result was the same some people embarrassed by being exposed as the frauds they were, some people lionized by vindication, some people weeping by acknowledging the unpopular roles they played.The Breakfast Club is a perfect representation of the microcosm of 80's students, the utter BS of 80's school administrators, and the very real issues of saving face within social class distinction.The issues presented in The Breakfast Club are as relevant today as they were in the 80's. "},{"Title":"Average movie, brilliant sociology","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is about five wildly different teenagers who, over the course of a day in detention, learn about themselves and each other. One of these teens is played by Judd Nelson. If you've gotten through those first two sentences without barfing, you might get a kick out of The Breakfast Club. It's not a bad movie, despite the absence of plot and presence of Nelson. However, it's trying to be a portrait of a generation, and it fails miserably. If you want to know what high school was like for most of us in the 80s, try Fast Times at Ridgemont High or Heathers. But if you want to know what high school was like for .02% of the American teenaged population, i.e. those who attended high school in a North Shore suburb of Chicago, then Breakfast Club is practically a documentary. Having dated (and married) a succession of women from this area, I can assure you that the students at New Trier, Glenbrook North, etc etc were just like Andy, Brian, Claire, etc etc -- self-absorbed, status-conscious and (back then at least) whiter than Arm & Hammer baking soda.For an iconic 80s movie, it sure has a stereotypical 60s perspective -- kids good, adults bad. There's also a trace of 70s smarm inasmuch as this movie posits that everything will be fine if you get stoned and talk about your problems. Whatever -- no one ever accused John Hughes of having great depth or insight, he's just a hack who turned his case of arrested development into a string of highly profitable schmaltz-fests. But in the mid-1980s there was so little of importance happening in popular culture that Hughes was heralded as some kind of artist. Furthermore, his young actors were proclaimed The Stars Of Tomorrow. They weren't. That's actually kind of a shame in the case of Molly Ringwald, who is genuinely attractive and talented but has been a punch line since 1988 after playing the same whiny brat in, like, 300 movies. In Breakfast Club, she portrays the whiniest brat of them all Claire, the Princess character. Claire is pretty, popular and stuck up, but as you can probably guess, her polished facade masks almost unbearable pain, and she's more than willing to tell you about it. (Sad to say, I knew people in the 80s who said they could identify with Claire. Sadder to say, most of them were guys.) Anthony Michael Hall was never going to do Hamlet, but at this point in his non-career he showed some comic ability and as Brian, the Nerd character, he gets more mileage out of his terminally dumbfounded facial expression than he ever would again. Emilio Estevez probably wouldn't have risen above community theater without his family connections, but at least he's a better actor than his brother Charlie (faint praise, of course) and he seems to grasp the intended complexity of Andy, the Jock character, even if he can't convey any of it. Ally Sheedy isn't bad as Allison, the Crazy character, but she's probably there because Jennifer Jason Leigh wanted too much money and Winona Ryder was too young. (It should also be noted that if Breakfast Club was set in 1995, Winona would have played Allison as a Goth, been the heroine of the picture and walked off with an Oscar, bad joke intended.) As for Judd Nelson as Bender the burnout, well . . . someone should have told him that angry does not always mean yelling, intense does not mean creepy unblinking bug-eyed stare, and chewing the scenery is a metaphor for overacting, not a way to prepare for a role. (Seriously, he waddles on screen in his first scene like he's just swallowed the entire set of Risky Business. Maybe he did. Has anyone seen that Porsche?) Still, every young man who dreams of a career on the silver screen should be made to watch Nelson's performance in Breakfast Club. It's the thespian version of Scared Straight. "},{"Title":"Okay movie","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I linked onto other reviews that the people who thought this was a horrible movie wrote. I am surprised by the number of people who hated this movie. My buddy Mike thinks this is the worst movie of all time. And that dork thought porkys was awesome.Back to my review of TBC. Some of the acting was not the greatest, the development of the characters seriously lacked in parts, and at other times I would cringe with embarrassment when every character attempted humor or a dramatic moment. Critical moments of the movie seemed forced, lazy, or stilted. But besides those faults I moderately enjoyed this movie. I just saw it on USA for the first time in about 15 years. I could go another 15 years before seeing it again but I don't feel that my time watching it would be wasted.P.S. Molly Ringwald may be boring, but I always had a huge crush on her. "},{"Title":"A societal horror commentary","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of students have been put in Saturday detention for breaking the laws of their school. Foolishly the school principal puts them together in the library and each is to write a paper about why they think they are here. Naturally they rebel and break even more laws of their superiors. This leads to the establishment of a cult run by powerful mysterious entity.Once again, this is a much misperceived film. The liberal hugging audience thought it is about kids maturing and even teaching their adult superiors a few things, but upon closer inspection you can see the evil axis that is at hand. The students do learn something, but it is that they can exploit the weaknesses of their adult superiors for furthering the Devil's work. The principal just puts them into a room and expects them to listen to him! Fool! He should have done something himself, because idle hands do the devil's work. The students proceed to indulge in drugs, profanities, and sexual fantasies as they are guided into a deep inner corruption. This is powerful message that good people can never truly rest in their mission of ridding the world of evil. The principal in the end recognizes this as he reads one paper that the students wrote and is an excuse for what he ordered them to do in the beginning.The final images are particularly shocking as the students even display their inner corruption in front of their parents who do nothing. Nothing! Is it out of shame? No, it is because they didn't do enough before and now the, just like the snowball that rolls down hill and gets bigger and heavier with each revolution, the evil is impossible to stop. The students have been recruited by the devil to further his plan of liberal take over. The final image of one of the newly recruited hellspawns as he salutes the evil force that has now the town under its umbrella is one of the most disturbing. But only if the film is understood correctly. "},{"Title":"A classic...in spite of itself","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'll fess up I enjoy this movie. Or rather I should say, I enjoy the first half or so of this movie. As is typical of John Hughes 2-3 year golden period in the 80s, this movie kind of peters out for me about midway through, probably around the time they all get high. That said, I am under no illusions about the quality of this film. The cast, all young actors who became bastions of the decade's films but struggled outside of the eighties, are as laboured as ever in these stereotyped roles. Each one is, admittedly, being expected to play up to their 'title' in the movie to a certain degree. However, when given an emotional range to portray, each one of these kids flubs it (does anyone buy for a second the 'tender side' of Judd Nelson's character?). The direction is typical Hughes, for the time and beyond. It's hard to imagine he does much more than set up the camera and say 'Action!' most of the time, because those rare occasions he tries anything inventive it goes awry (e.g., the pan shot around the stoned circle that gets obscured for several seconds by the rail). But he's never needed to stretch his directorial muscle and nobody's ever wanted him to we see his movies to be entertained by quirky, endearing characters, not to be stunned by his camera work. And that's what he does here. This is, likewise, a typical Hughes story. A group of kids are thrust together in an unlikely circumstance (in-school suspension is typical to teenhood, sure, but at least three of these kids effectively chose to be there). They find a little bit of themselves in each other, and vice versa. All come out (perhaps) changed by the experience. This is what Hughes does...or did, anyway he designs likable characters, in spite of their flaws, who you want to see pull it together by the end of the film. We do, and they kind of do. I'd like to believe that it's just that this movie came out when I was their age that makes this a more poignant and precise picture of teenage mentality. I don't think, however, that there has been another movie that attempts to draw a broadly outlined picture of the teenage personality and does it sympathetically. Most teen pictures within the past 15 years do, of course, specialise in the broadly drawn characters...but you as a viewer are rarely expected to sympathise with any but the 'hero.' Unfortunately, this movie has grown extremely dated in the time since its release, and I'd be surprised if most teenagers today could find any reason to watch it. A shame, truly, because a film like this becomes a significant pop-cultural milestone for its generation, and every generation should have one. "},{"Title":"80s staple and then some","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'd have to say this movie, speaking in terms of just atmosphere, embodies why one would miss the 80s. There is something about it that juxtaposes how phony and gimmick-laden modern cinema has gotten, as if the women not made of silicone and solid shea butter aren't enough.One would have to be a rather immense movie snob in order to dislike this film, especially if you're young. It shows different perspectives of very well-written characters, and reminds you that there's usually an explanation when you judge someone. It assumes nothing, and levels the field for adults and kids. Not only does it strike at popularity and age discrimination, but also has a humanistic charm which instills a little more faith in people in general.There is also an aura of idealism from the characters, and it's that sort of mentality that keeps people productive and optimistic. If for no other reason, watch something like this every once in a while to keep from getting old. "}{"Title":"love it love it","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh my god, i could just watch it over and over again. A very simple, but powerful movie.The first time i watched it, i caught the last 30mins, and thought it was pretty good. And when i noticed it was on again, i knew that i had to watch it from the start.It reminds me so much of the popularity contest, that was a permanent fixture of everyday school life. No matter how jealous you were of the Princess, you still wanted to be her. And no matter how hard you tried you couldn't help but fall in love with the Jock. And it manages to express everything that happens at school. People keep themselves to themselves, people just get on with there work for an easy life, and some manage to aggravate the teachers (much to the humour of the other classmates) These actors have managed to express, that popularity is nothing!! Which is what some people need to realise before they head into the real word.The only criticism is the ending. You cant help but feel at loss. I want to know what happened after. Did they continue to be friends? And are the miss matched couples still together?? All i can do is wonder... "},{"Title":"Breakfast Club is THE teen movie that nobody has ever manage to beat.","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is THE teen movie that nobody has ever manage to beat. It's simply the best. It's a movie that everyone can relate to. John Hughes stereotyped the kind of persons you have to deal with in high school and it's impossible for you to not identify to one of them. This movie helps us realizing that everyone is more than just what they look like. Unlike other teens movie, this one has a message, something to say, something to teach us... this movie is not about and they live happily ever after it's about this is life, it's not always fun, but that's the way it is. The Breakfast Club is one of the movies that make me say, John Hughes is genius. "},{"Title":"a film every teenager should see","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Personally i absolutely love this film. It challenges a lot of issues teenagers go through such as peer pressure from both friends and family and although the film is quite dated now people can still relate to it. but then again i really think someone should look into making an updated remake that includes some of the stereotypes now found in college and it totally needs a sequel to properly finish of the story, you become so interested and connected to the characters you want to see more! Judd Nielson was perfect for the role of Bender, i heard that Emilio Estevan was first offered this part and i am so so pleased he was switched to become the jock. Molly Ringwald was also brilliantly cast as she plays the spoilt rich girls to perfection! Plus her clothes are wicked and scarily still in fashion now! love it! i strongly recommend this film to anyone! go see this film! "},{"Title":"loved","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK i like totally loved this movie i mean I've only watched it twice cause i was walking down the aisles in blockbuster and i saw it and i was like this is it the movie i want but i don't know where they sell it i cant wait to buy it i loved the whole bender Claire thing i cant believe they didn't get along although i would've wished that the movie would've been longer like show them on school on Monday to see what would've happened would've they talked or not who knows? well if you loved it we have something in common but can somebody tell me what happened to bender he was like totally hot and know may i quote summer ewww but still when i was born they had pass 3 years from the premiere of the breakfast club so go figure. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club!!!","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hello, everybody!!!How are you? My name is Caroline and was born in the same year that The Breakfast Club was made however it isn't why i love this excellent movie.I love this movie 'cause a lot of the things that the characters have been through with their family it's what a lot of teenagers get through with their family in real life too. With the mix between what the characters get through in their life and the actors who play them so well done this movie it's unforgettable for more 20 years ahead when i'll 40.Thank you,The Breakfast Club!!!!!Hugs and Kisses,Caroline Harboe. "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK...I'm a punk rocker who like slasher movies and all the stuff...but i still love this movie!!! my best friend and i stumbled across it one night on TV...and its awesome! it has the criminal sexy and speaks him mind, the physco enough said, the jock annoying but a good guy basically, the brain geeks will inherit the earth, and the princess annoying but perfect in the story... they all annoy each other to no end, but in a good way....they're just a bunch of people, hanging out cause they have to (detention)..its funny and i loved it...lol....go watch this movie and have ur brains melting outta ur ears...but in an awesome way!!! "},{"Title":"Will entertain for ages","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You know, I really miss films that bring such deliverance and connection. This movie will be a classic until humans are extinct.The Brat Pack (Judd Nelson,Molly Ringwald, Emilio Esteves, Ally Sheedy and Anthony Hall) made this film very believable. I loved the plot, the characters and the humor of this film. The performances were unforgotten as well as the movie. The Breakfast Club is about students who have really never interacted with each other and find themselves learning about each other's lives on a Saturday they will never forget. Their words are memorizing and each individual has touched my heart. The relationships that were created in the movie were dazzling. My eyes were glued to the TV screen.I most definitely will recommend you see this if you have not already, because you are really missing out on what is really called remarkable. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie indeed!!!!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I was surprised to find out no one that I knew heard of it. It starts out when 5 students get a Saturday detention. There's Brian a nerd, Allison a freak, John the criminal, Andy the jock, and Claire the princess. They start out by hating and annoying each other to becoming the best of fiends. What makes this story great is they have totally different backrounds and totally different personalities it is amazing how they go from hating each other and having nothing in common to liking each other and having everything in common. This is a very good film for a lot of adults I would not recommend this to children under 12 because of some language used. I give this movie*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Stands up as just a genuinely GOOD movie.","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like all types of movies but growing up of coarse I loved the teen movies that all kids my age watched. As I got older many of these movies remained timeless and this is one of them. A must see for any kid though I would really say a must see for ANYBODY.What kid growing up didn't identify with this movie, this movie was for any type of kid because that was the movie's central theme-all types coming together. I'd go so far as to call Breakfast Club a classic, it's heartwarming, funny, and completely original. The movie differs from teen comedies (that are just as good)in one major way, it manages to be witty, create unforgettable characters while still getting a message across, somehow through all this completely avoiding falling into cheeziness.There will always be those teen classics that stand proud as being truly just GOOD movies-and Breakfast Club is about as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"A flawed, but often entertaining and insightful film","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, so I've said it many times, I'm tired of high school movies sticking with the stereotypical characters of the jock, the geek and so on and so on.  That's why I appreciate a movie like Ghost World, which breaks free from the stereotypes, concentrating on two social outcasts and portrays them as INTELLIGENT people who don't say like and you know in every sentence.  But the characters of The Breakfast Club, though forming from those stereotypes, aren't one-dimensional.  Eventually, we all arrive at the truths of why the characters are the way they are.    Some of the efforts are heavy-handed (I doubt Judd Nelson's character would get so ticked off at someone's alleged insult that he climbs onto the spiral staircase like a monkey and curls up in a ball), but few films even attempt at getting to those truths.  Each character is flawed in their own ways.  Even the super-smart nice guy, played by Anthony Michael Hall, says a few things that shouldn't be said.  Even the tough-as-nails, by-the-book teacher, played beautifully by Paul Gleason, has a few screws loose.  At first I felt total sympathy for his character, but then I realized how condescending he was towards each of them and I said to myself, Hey, two wrongs don't make a right.  He'd bark at every one of the students, using a condescending nickname.  There are teachers out there who feel their kids are so unruly that they have access to torcher them however they please.  If I were in his position, I'd probably twist Judd Nelson's head off, but then again...I'm not planning on being a teacher.  If you don't have patience for kids like that, you should consider a career change.Nelson's character is disrespectful to everyone, but how is he supposed to be respectful to others, but when he himself was never given any respect?  I was still very annoyed by his callous remarks, but to criticize someone's unruly behavior, you must first realize where that behavior stemmed from.  The character who I didn't quite understand was Ally Sheedy's.  I think hers was written with a little too heavy of a hand.  How can she go from not saying a word (and I mean that literally) to being brave enough to look Molly Ringwald in the eye and ask if she's a virgin (as well bringing up many other provocative questions)?  If you look at the transition from her in the beginning of the movie to her at the end, you think to yourself, How did this happen?  What brought upon this change in character?  She's walking down the hallway with Emilio Estevez to get some sodas, he asks her, What's your poison? and she just spontaneously blurts out, Vodka, and explains how much she loves to drink?  I was the quiet person in high school and I never went through a drastic change like that through the course of a day, though I certainly dreamed to.     The Breakfast Club has some dull moments and some that are downright silly, but altogether it's a funny and moving film.  It may not be the deepest high school movie ever made, but it's certainly deeper than recent fluff flicks like She's All That and Never Been Kissed.  It's definitely worth a look.  Plus, you gotta love that theme song...Don't you...forget about me.My score  7 (out of 10)      "}{"Title":"Simply the best!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember hiring this film in 1987 when I was 17. I read the back cover and said to myself This looks like my sort of film. When I watched it I thought it was the best film ever. The only thing that annoys me is that I missed it at the cinema in 1985. I must have had my head in the clouds. Why they didnt make a sequel I will never understand!. "},{"Title":"dated, but likable","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies I think I would have loved in high school. But being half way done with college, I think I watched it way too late in life to fully enjoy it. The film itself is fairly boring. High school kids in detention discovering there is more to people than stereotypes. But the message of the movie is accurate. In high school you are a prisoner to your cliche. Even if you like someone as a person if they're in a different cliche high school won't let you 'hang out' more or less. I admire John Hughes for hitting the nail on the head about what high school is really like. I wish Hollywood made more movies about high school that were this honest. Great 80's music as well, I might add. "},{"Title":"Rebel without a cause for the 80's generation","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is for the 80's generation of teenagers that were just as misunderstood as they were in the 50's and in today's society.The film is about teens with problems who are not understood by the adults or by their own peers and it shows how hard it is for kids to survive in that environment. 5 stereotypes come to school on Saturday for detention, not knowing one another and by the end, realising there is more to them then the labels people have give them. Emilio Estevez(Andrew) is a jock who beat up a kid and stuck his bum cheeks together to impress his father. We learn that his father doesn't like weakness and berates his son if he doesn't win and doesn't care how hard his son tries. Molly Ringwald is (claire), the princess who ditched class to go shopping. Her parents battle over her and she feels like she is being torn apart, that her parents don't really care about her and use her to win points against the other. Ally Sheedy is Allison a kook who lies and steals things. She hides herself behind a false persona and makeup so no-one can see the real her. Her family ignore her and the only thing better than staying at home on at Saturday was to come into school for detention to get away from her family. Judd Nelson (Bender) is a wise ass who is judged as a criminal and he is beaten up by his father. He is rude and shows no respect to the teachers. Anthony Michael Hall is Brian who is the brain. He feels like his family pressure him to get high grades and doesn't like himself as a person. He is troubled because his teacher found a gun in his locker. He thought about killing himself with it before the gun was found.John Hughes is good at showing teenagers in his films as not bad kids but kids that are just trying to survive teenage problems till they can leave school and their families. People who were teenagers can relate to that time when it felt like they wouldn't get through it and Hughes shows that there is more to people then labels and you have to talk to them to find out how they really tick as you never know who they are and can judge them too harshly.The actors work well together and I was brought to tears when they were talking about their experiences because I was thinking of my own teenage years.One of the scenes I absolutely love is when Allison is given a make over by Claire and the stare Andrew gives her when he sees her is so tender and he looks bowled over by her new look, like he is seeing her for the first time. I wish a cute guy like Emilio had done that in my teens.One of the best teen movies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"An intelligent look beyond high school stereotypes","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah, high school. The best of times? Or the worst? This film gives you a picture of a little bit of both as it intelligently explores five of the people behind the stereotypes.Five students - Andy (Emilio Estevez), the jock; Brian (Anthony Michael Hall), the brain; Bender (Judd Nelson), the hood; Claire (Molly Ringwald), the princess; and Allison (Ally Sheedy), the basket case - are assigned an all day detention on a Saturday. We are given a glimpse of their relationships with their parents as they are dropped off, and then they are greeted by their principal (Paul Gleason), a somewhat belligerent man who occasionally crosses the line into abuse. Their assignment for the day is to write an essay for the principal, who comes back periodically with the intent to do little else other than abuse them some more. While the five distinctive personalities clash in the beginning, with almost violent results, eventually, boredom and a little pot get them talking with each other, and we see how each of them feels the pressure of their assigned role, and what it's doing to them.It's a talky movie, so there's little action, although there is a rather amusing - and exciting - chase scene. The high school it's set in looks depressing enough to suck the life out of anyone, which helps add to the feelings of being trapped that everyone in the movie seems to have. This is used very effectively to tell the story.What is interesting about this movie is the character portrayal. The characters are distinctive, moving beyond the stereotype to the real person underneath. While these students are perhaps more self aware than we would expect of students that age at that time, they do articulate their angst about life in a believable way. With them, we come to see the similarities in the pressures that their peers and parents put on them, and that they put on themselves. We see how much they dislike the inauthenticity of their lives, and how powerless they feel to stop it. Their powerlessness even relates to their new friendships, as Claire articulates just how hard it would be for them to move beyond their defined boundaries to maintain their friendships with each other. This lack of sugar coating makes for a much more powerful message in the end.The acting in the film is generally quite good. John Kapelos gives a scene stealing performance as the worldly wise janitor, while Paul Gleason goes way over the top as the principal (to the occasional detriment of the scenes he's in). The leads all give solid performances. Anthony Michael Hall plays the high school nerd to perfection, unable to comprehend that things are not necessarily how he thinks they should be. Molly Ringwald gives enough depth to her performance that you like Claire even though she is spoiled. Emilio Estevez gives us a sense of the anger of someone who has been pushed to bring misery to someone else in order to cover his own insecurities. Ally Sheedy plays her character's strangeness to perfection. But Judd Nelson arguably gives the strongest performance as a disadvantaged teen who knows a lot more than he lets on.If you don't like psycho babble, this film may not be for you. On the other hand, if you're intrigued by a portrait of teens just beginning to realize who they really are, you will probably enjoy this movie immensely, and you may even learn a little about yourself in the process. "},{"Title":"Breakfast Club (Maybe overrated but still worth it)","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film has always been trashed ever since it was made which really is a shame since it's obvious that those who trash it must have skimmed through their teen years with little to no problems.This film starts with a few teens who for whatever reasons (which you learn as you go through the film)have been put in Saturday detention , It is basically about learning to deal with yourself and whatever problems that present themselves throughout your teen years (learning to deal with peoples differences being the main target here) It is basically set in the school library as they serve their time (do their detention) , I loved the idea of a teen film with just the one set and with them dealing with problems that are only associated with teens , Lets face it it's too easy to make a film like American Pie and Road Trip where there is no real need to concentrate on the dialogue or the characters it takes real genius to make a teen movie where the characters and the dialogue is all there is. "},{"Title":"Pass the bucket !","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mild Spoiler Alert !!!I'll be brief - I did not enjoy this film at all, I found it quite offensive. One decent character - John Bender - is not enough to keep a film afloat. The characters are paper thin stereotypes, each conveniently relegated to their own demographic. There are two quotable lines of dialogue in the entire film, Eat my shorts, and Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe? The Bridge On The River Quai parody is ill - advised, as is the very '80s dance routine. The dialogue is 5th rate psycho babble, and the whole film, in my opinion, is absoloute crap. It is amusing to see now, when none of the actors maintain any sort of stature in Hollywood, and the frankly appalling conclusion is unintentionally hilarious. Overall, one to avoid. Grossly, conveniently sappy crap. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Not all it's cracked up to be","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember when this movie came out and everyone thought it was the greatest thing...it just spoke to our generation so much.  I never understood all that.  Rather than appealing to audiences because it was interesting and made sense, it just seemed to me like it capitalized on every teenager's hidden fantasies about fitting in.  Girls liked it because it let them imagine for a minute that they too could suddenly get the star quarterback or the standoffish rebel.  And guys must have liked it because it let them think that dating them was the ultimate goal for every teenage girl, and girls would be willing to fundamentally change themselves to be with them. The message of this film is terrible for teenagers.  It shows one guy who doesn't even notice the girl until she radically changes her appearance to fit into his own model of beauty, and another guy who shows his affection by being verbally insulting and abusive until the very end.  I just don't understand what's so great about this movie. "},{"Title":"Definitely not a classic","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How do people get off calling this movie a classic?  First off it involves a bunch of kids sitting around in a library during an 8 hour detention crying about how mommy and daddy don't hug them enough.  The only redeeming value is Emilio Estevez jumping around stoned which is just plain nuts.  I hope the writing isn't serious, because it is cheesy as hell!DON'T BE FOOLED THIS MOVIE IS NO GOOD!   5/10 "},{"Title":"High school fantasy...","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Group of cynical teenagers spend a day's detention together in their high school library. When The Breakfast Club hit theaters in 1985, I was just a few years older than these kids and I still didn't relate to them... Their slang is meant to get laughs (it's on a broad scale), but most of the regular dialogue is over-the-top as well--such as Emilio Estevez's embarrassing monologue about covering some nerdy, naked kid with tape. The students are extremely bitter (even Molly Ringwald's girl from the popular clique, whom we never get to know); writer-director John Hughes hopes to fill in the gaps with shock-laughs, some of which register and some don't (Ally Sheedy's loner at one point says she wants vodka, but never again gives any hint that she's an alkie; Hughes tries to cover by making her a compulsive liar). There's a laughable built-in apologia for the kids' problems (blame it on their folks), and a romantic wrap-up that smacks of commercialism. The young cast is colorful and wiseass funny (with the exception of Judd Nelson, over-doing the schoolyard bully shtick); they make the sketchy material seem better than it is, for The Breakfast Club is just a high school fantasy that only pretends to be based in a recognizable reality. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many people would say that the breakfast club is the greatest movie of all time, although it is a fantastic movie, I would disagree that it is the best movie of all time. In every movie there are always positives and,negatives, but in the movie the breakfast club I would say that there are definitely more ups than downs. I enjoyed this movie to the maximum, some of the things I enjoyed about the movie was the audio, it was very clear and didn't seem fake, but when you look at other movies from that time era they have very unrealistic audio, like the movie Death Wish II. As I said in the former text that I really enjoyed it, there were only a few reasons why I didn't find this movie perfect because it was slow and got really boring throughout the core of the movie. I think that if John was not in the movie the director would not of been able to salvage the film, although many people love (wanna be her) Claire Sinclaire/Molly Ringwald, I really did not like her she seemed like she held no part in the movie and was impeding the movie the whole time throughout the movie. I think that the mood of the movie was dramatic and a little bit of a comedy. I believe that the age group for this movie is targeted from 15-50 because there are some crude jokes, and I believe that anyone older than 50 would find this movie not very funny and overall dumb. I believe that this is a movie not a film because in my opinion I don't find that there is a lesson in this movie. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have always heard people say that the breakfast club is a great movie and now is considered a classic, and I would have to agree with them. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie because of the plot seemed seemed somewhat believable and the characters seemed real. I really enjoyed the characters Bender and the Janitor. I liked the character of the janitor because he was a good guy in the movie and seemed like one of the most reasonable people and Bender because he was entertaining int he way he talked and acted, he sort of began to break down the awkwardness in the beginning and started people talking. I didn't like the principal in this movie, Im sure many didn't because he was the antagonist and not designed to be liked. I found his manner rude and unkind. I think that Bender salvaged the film and Allison kind of impeded it because she in my opinion made everything awkward and hard to listen to, but she was also necessary in getting stuff moving along. I would say that the mood is kind of dramatic and a little bit of a comedy and seems to be targeted at people fro ages 15-35. I would consider this a movie rather than a film. But all in all i really enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"high school movie","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a high school movie. Five students receive supplementary tution on Saturday. They don't understand why they got a summons. The reasons are all different and gradually clarify. Their problems are not unrelated to our society. All five protagonists face one antagonist. The way they overcome is one main point in this movie. Other important person is their teacher. He gather five students to supplementary tution. He don't tell them why they must take this tution. He only says Write a composition about What is onself?. He is also a mystery person and at first, his purpose is unclear. Almost all matters are hard to understand its opening, so you can enjoy watching this movie to the very end. All students and teacher display their originality in the one lecture room. It is really worth seeing what occurs in this space and how they spend this time. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was looking forward to this movie ever since I watched Pitch perfect movie, and to tell you the truth, movie is fine, it's OK, but that's it - it's just OK, nothing more. It's classy teenage film where characters have some heartbreaking stories and problems and in the end, people from different clique, who seem to have nothing in common, end up hanging out together. I expected more from cult film like Breakfast Club is, and ended up disappointed. But I kind of understand why it was so popular when it came out, 'cause it was probably one of the first films of this kind that revolved around classic teenage problems and teenagers could identify themselves with character. Still, there's one thing I sure did like about it, and that's definitely title song Don't You (Forget About Me). "},{"Title":"An instant classic","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A timeless classic, The Breakfast Club is well renowned and cherished, even by today's audience, and I'm sure it will remain as such for a very long time; it's nice to see teens of this generation praising what's now considered an older movie.Unlike many of it's kind, The Breakfast Club bravely stares the prejudices of high school right in the face and makes a mockery of their false pretences. Just as the ending line of the movie perfectly states; each one of us is a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess and a criminal. To cram one person into a single category would be ludicrous. Yes, we see the typical clichés of a school environment, and even get an inkling into how these facades can easily impact on how these people behave and treat those around them, but we're also able to delve deeper into their problems and see who they truly are. Each and every sequence in which we learn more about these characters' home lives is perfectly done, if not quite emotional, and reminds us how children fall victim to the pressures of high school every day.All in all, this movie kicks stereotypes where it hurts and shows us a deeper side to the most shallow of people, a softer side to the cruelest, and a more complex side to the seemingly predictable. The Breakfast Club is honest, iconic, and truly memorable. I give it a solid 9/10, simply because nothing is perfect. "},{"Title":"Dentention Has A New Definition !!","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quite possibly, this may be the best teen-focused movie in history. The plot is extremely original and the tempo and storyline are just fantastic. Disregarding useless Hollywood monikers (such as the brat pack), each cast member creates a memorable character perception while, at the same time, contributing to a wonderful ensemble effort. Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Allie Sheedy, and Mollie Ringwald each turn in what may be the best performances of their respective career. The story centers on a Saturday morning detention session in a Chicago high school involving 5 radically different students each suffering from a unique form of peer pressure. Paul Gleeson turns in a very convincing performance as the detention dean. This film has depth, emotion, humor and a soundtrack that fits to perfection. A must see !!! "},{"Title":"The Must-See Film for 80's Youth Is More a Character Study than a Story Good But Not Great","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If there was ever a Hollywood-backed film personifying the anxiety of Generation X, it was The Breakfast Club. If you were a teen in suburban America in the 1980's (as I was), this was your film, or at least it was supposed to be. The Boomers had The Graduate and Easy Rider, the Silent Generation had Rebel Without a Cause and American Graffiti. We have The Breakfast Club. Or do we? Is it a cinematic masterpiece or overrated? Let's take a second look at this cult classic because as of this writing, the 30th anniversary of its release is coming up in 2015 with theatrical viewings scheduled around the country. Generation X'ers will be lining up to relive their teenage years. While in his 30's, John Hughes had a brief directing career making films targeted to Generation X'ers. Hughes offerings were considered the fresh new voice speaking both to and from the point of view of Generation X, offspring of the sons and daughters of those who were children during and just after World War II, a.k.a the Silent and Baby Boom Generations. Hughes also directed Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Sixteen Candles, and Pretty in Pink. Many of Hughes' films used the same talent. These youthful upstarts of our generation were fondly known as The Brat Pack. (Some of the brat actors transitioned into adult careers while others fell off the radar.) Among Hughes' favorite talent were Molly Ringwold, Anthony Michael Hall, and Ally Sheedy, all present and accounted for in Breakfast Club. By 1991, the Generation X'ers were becoming young adults, graduating from college and beginning careers and families. The voice of 80's teen angst was becoming passé. Hughes directed his last film in 1991, Curly Sue, which paired a Boomer and a Millennial with disastrous results. It ultimately bombed at the box office. So does Breakfast Club uphold today? Well sort of yes sort of no. There is no plot per se, only a setting. The setting is the high school library where five teenagers are being held in a day-long detention on a Saturday for wrong-doings which are never made completely clear. The real story is about each character and how they get to know one another. The film's strength is also its weakness, depending upon your point of view. Each student comes from a different aspect of the student body of the fictional high school. They are in essence, prototypes, maybe even stereotypes, of each of the different faces of the school. Molly Ringwold is from the popular and chic crowd of girls who wear makeup and nice clothes. Judd Nelson is the rule-breaker, who we imagine never does his homework and goofs off at the back of the classes he takes if he's not cutting school altogether. Even from the get-go, we predict that this is not Nelson's first time in detention. Emilio Estevez is the jock, probably a football player and wrestler. Ally Sheedy is the loser loner female, who at first grosses out Ringwold. Anthony Michael Hall plays the brain, a kid who gets straight A's, especially in science classes, but who is otherwise not part of the popular crowd.The idea is that these kids would never have even said hello to one another during a typical school day because they are all worlds apart. However, because they're in detention for various infractions, they are forced to meet and interact with one another. The main crux of the story is how the kids learn about each other and how they both fit and don't fit into their own stereotypes. They also begin engaging in behavior of their opposite counterparts, such as when Estevez smokes and does cart wheels on the upper floor of the library, similar to what Nelson's character usually does. This aspect of the film succeeds in spades. As a character study, it works very well. It could almost be a play.Where the story lags slightly is in its lack of a storyline. When I first saw it, I had high-expectations because it was already becoming the must-see film for my generation. After viewing, I found I generally enjoyed it, but seeing kids simply talking and having some fun for 90 minutes is not exactly why I want to see a film. Near the end, is the famous dance scene where the characters let loose and let it all hang out. Hall being the brain is the DJ. Dance scenes like this were very popular with Generation X films of this sort, but now they seem rather dated. I want to see characters deal with and overcome dilemmas, not just talk about themselves and dance around. Of course the subtlety is to see the characters change slightly by interacting with kids they never otherwise would have. While I believe it's a nice beginning of an idea, I don't think it's enough to carry through an entire film.The Breakfast Club may be more important in terms of what it represents, the angst of Generation X, rather than it being a masterpiece of filmmaking and storytelling in its own right. The mark of a great film is when it speaks to later generations. I have seen The Graduate, American Graffiti, and Rebel Without a Cause many times, and they never seem dated, even though these were targeted to previous generations. Does The Breakfast Club do this for me? Not quite. It may have spoken more to me during that time, but it says less to me now. Maybe I wanted the cast to rip away the ridiculous sculpture in the middle of the library in the way that Dustin Hoffman steals away the bride at the end of the Graduate. Or for the kids to engage in something together, like the race at the end of American Graffiti. For all its honesty, even by the end of their detention, the Breakfast Clubbers were still in their own prison, the 1980's. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club Synopsis and Review","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a Saturday at Sherman High School and five students have earned the privilege of an all-day session of detention. The group consists of five differing, yet common, high school stereotypes. There is the jock (Emilio Estevez), the nerd (Anthony Michael Hall), the rich girl (Molly Ringwald), the troublemaker (Judd Nelson), and the weird girl. (Ally Sheedy). The teens have all earned themselves a full day of detention by means of their different personalities. The day begins with Principal Vernon (Paul Gleason) harshly laying down the laws of the day, one of which involves the students writing an essay about who the students think they are. The rest of the day revolves around the group's boredom which leads to personality clashes along with mischief. The personality clashes lead to verbal altercations between members of the group while the mischief includes an array of activities from theft to recreational drug use and everything in between. No one in the group is spared the bullying brought on by his or her high school clique. The arguments are largely instigated by the troublemaker who initially targets the rich girl. When the jock comes to her defense, he too is added to the verbal assault. The nerd initially attempts to keep the peace which, in turn, earns him his share of the bullying. The weird girl says nothing for the first half of the movie but baffles the rest of the group by her gross habits and actions. As the movie progresses the altercations between the students begin to make them realize that perhaps they are not as different as they think. As the movie comes toward its end, the students begin to have more constructive conversations that allow them to better understand each other. By the end of the day, the group has not only overcome their differences, but also has put a unique twist on their essay assignment. ReviewThe jocks, the nerds, the popular kids, the troublemakers, and the outcasts are groups that everyone is familiar with if they spent a day in high school. We all belonged to one or more of these cliques in one way or the other. Stereotypes separate these groups while in high school and long after. In John Hughes's The Breakfast Club, a long day in detention brings a group of five students together while overcoming the social barriers that separate them. The 1985 dramatic comedy has a character that everyone can relate to. Whether one sees him or herself in a character or can identify the qualities of an acquaintance, there is character in the movie that can be identified with. The acting quality is excellent and what makes this practical in the movie. The acting quality is crucial to The Breakfast Club's success not only in Judd Nelson's role as a central figure in plot development, but also in the entire casts ability to keep the movie interesting despite a lack of setting change throughout. The cast as a whole keeps the movie interesting despite an abundance of dialog paired with a lack of action. Approximately ninety percent of the movie takes place in the library. There is seldom a change of setting making the acting all the more impressive. Five characters in one room keep an audience's attention for well over an hour. This is a result of the intensity the actors provide throughout the course of the film. From Miss Ringwald's screaming and crying in retaliation to Nelson's genuinely angry assaults to the whole cast sitting in tears as each learns more about the other's problems intensity is maintained throughout the film. Janet Maslim shares in her review, Personalities are dissected; tears are shed. The kids, each representing a different teen stereotype, come to understand each other. They strike up friendships. They denounce their parents. They decide that 'when you grow up, your heart dies' (Maslim 1). As Maslim describes, much goes on over the span of the movie. Keep in mind, as aforementioned, all these different events take place in one room of a library. The cast does a great job of keeping the attention of the audience while only having limited working space. With a lack of working props, their dialog is one the few tools they have at their expense to keep the movie interesting. It would be misplaced not to bestow a notable mention upon Ally Sheely for her role as the psycho outcast. To her credit, she keeps her character interesting while not uttering a line of speech for almost half of the movie. She uses body language and facial expressions with great success making her character an equally important force in the movie despite an initial lack of verbal communication. This is not to take away from the performance of the other members of the cast. They all dramatize their characters appropriately for the situation of the film. It is easy to come to the conclusion that characters like Nelson's and Ringwald's are overly dramatic when all the screaming and crying they contribute is first observed. However, it is important to remember if the cast sat down and talked civilly for an hour and a half without raising a voice or shedding a tear, saying the movie would be boring would be an overstatement. "},{"Title":"30 years on still a great film","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club (review) To coincide with the 30th anniversary The Breakfast Club i am going to be doing a review of this timeless film (kinda?) The Breakfast Club- Rating M (1985) directed by John Hughes and starring Molly Ringwald (Claire), Emilio Estevez (Andrew), Judd Nelson (Bender) Anthony Michael Hall (Brian), Ally Sheedy (Alison) and Paul Gleason (Richard Vernon ) is a Drama/Comedy about five high school stereotypes who have to be together in the result of a Saturday detention but later find out that their's a lot more to each other then they realized.First of all the acting more specifically the chemistry between the 5 leads they work effortlessly together developing and also demeaning each other until they come to like each other. My favorite is Bender one of the most funniest teen or maybe film characters of all time he constantly got a laugh out of me and really he is a good take of the criminal character despite at times how stereotypical he is.The writing (script) if you can believe it was written in just two days, now that's astonishing. Despite how much little time it took to write the script to is just as good as the acting is. The writing feels very natural and relate able and accessible (although some of it was improvised) still relating to teen problems today. The writing although using stereotypes redeems itself when the characters come to get to know each other more.The directing is just as good as the acting and writing. John Hughes got good performances out of the actors and does a good job in making the story cohesive.The cinematography is not stunning or have big CGI special effects but its not supposed to. The location in which it's set makes good use for the lack of cinematography.The music is decent apart from the Simple Minds track Don't You Forget About Me which is one of the signature song of the 80's. The song's are somewhat forgettable and really belong to the corniness of the 80's.If there are flaws with the movie it would have to be it's corniness at least in the Dance scene which is not really necessary but it's fun nether less but it does ruin this movie's chances of being truly timeless.The only other flaws have is the Principal he very one dimensional and doesn't have much of a character aside from being the oppressive teacher. While the main five leads start off like that at least they were developed at least that's my opinion.Overall this movie is a 80's hallmark that introduced the teen hallmarks without this movie we probably wouldn't have movies like ''Mean Girls or 10 Things i hate about you. Definitely check it out. Film Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"High School Blues","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In high school I've always passed by a lot of people and even some of the clichés there in. I've always wondered even to this day, who was that person that passed by, what were they thinking, or what did that person think about when she looked at me.This film is one of my favorite movies in general and it's my favorite teen film from one of my favorite script writers John Hughes. John Hughes just always knew how to mix both humor and humanity very well, most of it from the dialog they delivered which felt like something any everyday person would say. Or even the amount of depth each of the characters had and that they were all in some amount of pain that most of use everyday deal with.Watching this film as a teenager it really blew me away because it really talked to me. Looking at this film now as an adult it's like reading a journal passage, I'm able to say yeah that happened to me.The whole film is pretty much like one big bottle episode, this film I feel executes it well, despite it being a film where nothing really happens it has an energy that just keeps things moving so you don't feel like you've been in there too long. And due to the dialog, depth and what each of the characters due in their time in a confined space, it keeps itself interesting.I even like how they use the school library which I'll admit is probably the most impressive library I've ever seen, it looks more like a collage library. But I like how spacious it is and really induces a positive atmosphere and freedom of movement which works to the characters advantage because here they have total freedom to do and be whatever they want. The humor is great from the suttle to big jokes. One of my favorite jokes no down is seeing Andrew as he is a bit stoned he is dancing and doing some gymnastics to some rock music on the second floor of the library and we see that moment when he breaks the glass door by just screaming at it. That always cracked me up, this guy has superhuman vocals. But also that's just something I'd love to do if I ever had the library or a mall to myself.The characters are all great, because their all three dimensional their not the steriotyipcial teen you might see in one crappy TV teen drama too many, but in a way actually feel like people that actually can exist.Bender played well by Judd Nelson is a lot of fun. He's a so called rebel that is a blow hole that you love to dislike or like depending on the time. Yes the guy is a bit guilty of anti social behavior, there are times he can really be antagonizing from his attention getting complex and comes really close to pressing that wrong button with everyone.However my favorite character is Alison played by Ally Sheedy. I'll admit when I was a kid I actually did have a crush on this actress, yeah I know there was Molly Ringwold but I was just attracted to Ally more. This is my favorite role from her as she plays a shy girl, her character literally doesn't say a whole lot in the film but to me she doesn't need to, sometimes you say a lot by not saying anything at all.This character in a way is a lot like myself in real life, OK not entirely but there are some thing about her I can relate to. The fact that she doesn't talk much, and it's not always because she's shy it's just that she doesn't feel a need to talk and when she talks she feels like it or there actually is something to talk about.Other things I like is the fact that she's an introvert, this girl is just constantly full of surprises from her quaky need to take random things for no particular reason but we also see that she's an talented artist as she was able to draw a really detailed landscape sketch. Even like some of her chemistry with Andrew, despite there being not many interaction scenes between the two I really felt both made a connection.I really love it when we finally get down to the really serious stuff when finally everyone just opens up. One issue I can really relate to is Brian's when he talks about the pressure he has to go though everyday to maintain being a A student and to never get an F because his family can't have it. This really made me feel for Brian not just the fact I was also like him but that it really gets an issue about our education system how they've set the bar too high. I know there is such a think as challenging intelligent minds but there is such a thing as being too challenging, which to me always messes me up and depletes morale. I do believe in success but you also have to let people be people.The ending is interesting because it's open ended and sort of left to your interpretation because after their time is over you can't help but wonder what's going to happen Monday morning, or if all or any of them will remain friends. But so it goes with life itself, they all got though today but tomorrow is a new day. However it also has a sense of hope as each of them in that short span of time have all grown a little and because what they all truly are people.The real education is outside the classroom.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie, but very poorly delivered","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Breakfast' starts of very promising, especially as it is centered around John Bender the Criminal who is probably the most interesting and well done character in the movie, if he wasn't in the movie i think it would be fair to say this 80's classic would never have had its iconic status. I remember giggling at his antiques and smart-alec comments very much at the beginning of the movie and was genuinely interested in seeing more of him.However after all the introductions are done and the movie settles down everything turns to let me put it bluntly, crap, even after all the tormenting and hatred between each other the detained teens somehow take to liking each other it could be because of a common dislike of the psychotic principal but years of contempt boils down to them befriending each other in the space of a few hours is kinda absurd if you think about it. I mean imagine having to spend a Saturday at school with 4 people you barely know i would have just wrote the paper and went to sleep.The movie is very unrealistic and at times you wonder if these kids really are teenagers and I'm far from being a feminist but the only time a female opens their mouth in this movie is to talk about something sexual, i mean did you see The Princess only talent, it was her putting on lipstick with her chest if that can be called a talent not to mention how this movie supports giving in to the masses and succumbing to superficiality i mean why would a chronically depressed and outcast girl The Basket Case be willing to get a makeover done its like the movie is screaming hey you will only fit in if you look appealing and Yes people will judge a book by its cover so let go of your true self to satisfy others, also do it bother anybody else that both the jock and rebel got a girl at the end and the nerd was left out after he did write an essay for them all.6/10 for being entertaining and having some heart to it, the movie will appeal to those who don't look beyond all the laughter and happy endings but will surely be criticised by those like me who find the movie lacking in the realism and conveyance of its messages. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So I bought a VHS copy(yeah I'm oldschool) of The Breakfast Club at a Goodwill several months ago as I was familiar with the films reputation and I lumped it in my To Watch pile. So months pass and I got busy with life and such when one day strolling through my FB newsfeed, I noticed one of my friends making a post about the films 30th anniversary and all of a sudden I figured I should finally get to watching that movie that I've had sitting around all this time.So I popped it in, was waiting for this supposedly FANTASTIC high school film to get underway, and this film is not at all what you have been led to believe, this movie is the cinematic equivalent of I thought he'd be taller this movie underperforms and is disappointing in just about every way I could think. Not that the actors were bad, they were fine, it just felt like most of the characters were either poorly written or extremely unlikeable.The film is largely driven by the Character of John Bender, an Anti-Authoritarian Punk ass who reviles at any sort of rules be they for his betterment or not. This film is basically 90 minutes of Bender complaining about how horrible life is and how its so unfair etc, not that Bender has any suggestions or ideas for how to improve life, he's to much of a dumb mother fu**er to have anything actually half profound to say. Instead he just sits around whining, and eventually the rest of the cast join in with him and they all have a big whining session. The only part of the film I found actually interesting was the sparse moments of backstory when we learn about the characters and why they were in Detention for that Saturday, in these moments you glimpse the great thing the Breakfast Club could have been, but then its back to Bender whining and complaining. Bender was insanely unlikeable and though I know this isn't an action movie I kept hoping the teacher would pull out a glock and blow that kid away, all he does is talk big and complain,in one scene he gets into a fight with the Jock and after being easily bested, Bender steps back and pulls out a switchblade stabbing it into a nearby chair, OH WHAT A BIG MAN YOU ARE BENDER! YOU COULDVE STABBED SOMEBODY THAT WAS FIGHTING YOU WITH BARE HANDS! KUDOS. And then when The Teacher is haranguing Bender and he finally has a chance to take him down, he refuses, proving the teacher's point, bender wont stand up for anybody not even himself. WHAT A FU**ing pathetic waste of space. AND THEN HE GETS THE GIRL!?!??! ARE YOU KIDDING ME?????? The Breakfast Club is in the end, a movie that truly could have been great but devolves into a whining session with supposed Friends you know the kind of friends that say FU** you to each other all the time. The verbal abuse these children put upon each other is enough to make me not like it, but the film wants to act like it has soooooooooooooooooooooooo much to say. But it doesn't it sucks. At one point in the movie the teacher expresses fear that These kids are gonna be running the country! There gonna be taking care of me! To which the wisecracking Janitor responds, I doubt it but honestly, with folks like Bender at the helm, would you really want them taking care of you? And then just to point out one last thing, that essay was significantly less than 1000 words. "},{"Title":"A cult classic I have never connected with","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think it is safe to say that The Breakfast Club has become somewhat of a cult classic. It's hard to criticize a movie like this because it has been around for so long and continues to connect with audiences. I have just never been that audience.It's a simple concept five different kids attend an eight hour-long Saturday detention (sometimes it truly felt like eight hours to me). They all have their own stories, they tell each other and the viewer those stories, come to some kind of understanding of one another, and then leave. The film does succeed in its portrayal of the students. John Hughes seems to have a very good understanding of what goes on in the head of a high school student. The character of John Bender, played by Judd Nelson, does have serious problems, and should contact child services. The other characters really don't have as dire an issue, but to someone that age, it feels as though their universe is imploding.The film is not very cinematic. It felt like there was very little thought behind the placement of the camera. Conversely, in a film like 12 Angry Men, which also basically takes place in one room, the camera-work has a voyeuristic quality, and the audience feels like they are peering into a forbidden world of life or death issues. There are also drastic changes in tone in The Breakfast Club, from scenes of serious drama, to over-the-top dance numbers.The film's goal seems to be to move its audience and to teach the audience to take teenagers and their problems more seriously. It does succeed in moving me when I hear Brian Johnson's story about how he considered suicide. But then you realize he considered killing himself with a flare gun&#x85;so basically, he was just doing that for attention, right? "},{"Title":"An 80's Classic","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director John Hughes created a timeless film about five high school students and one day of detention. The typical stereotypes of high school are represented by each character the athlete, Andrew Clark, played by Emilio Estevez; the brain, Brian Johnson, played by Anthony Michael Hall; the criminal, John Bender, played by Judd Nelson; the princess, Claire Standish, played by Molly Ringwald; and the basket case, Allison Reynolds, played by Ally Sheedy.Detention begins with each person believing the stereotypes strictly define themselves as well as the others around them. Principal Richard Vernon, played by Paul Gleason, has them write a paper describing who they think they are. As they address each of the roles they play in school they grow to realize each role is the same in some way or another. As students they have all been cast in every role at some point or another in their lives. Similarly in Mean Girls, the characters learn that they fit in each of the stereotypes produced in a high school setting, despite the original role they were given by their peers. By the end of the movie the kids have figured out that they are not against each other because it's who they are but rather protagonists and antagonists for each other because of the role they have been cast in. In the end they have reached a friendship that is for them to share even though it may not be seen in the halls of the school. The use of dialog and a single shoot location create the real feeling of high school and thus the characters. Hughes allowed the actors to ad lib and create much of their own dialog, giving each actor the ability to pull from their own experiences, making it a more authentic experience for the audience. The simplicity of one location, a high school library, forces the audience to focus on the stories being told and the characters themselves. Each of us can relate in some way or knows someone like each of the characters that Hughes introduces us to in this amazing film. More than likely each of us can see ourselves in each of them. In the paper that Brian ultimately writes he echoes that sentiment, that each of them are an athlete, a brain, a criminal, a princess, and a basket case. "},{"Title":"Great Coming Of Age Movie","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Movie, The Breakfast Club, is a classic. It's about five teenagers in Saturday detention. They are opposites(Brains, Bad Boy, Jock, Crazy, and the Princess. They tell each other about their problems, they all have problems with their parents, they fight, argue, they cry, they kiss, they dance, they get high, etc. It may not sound suitable for young teenagers, but it teaches life lessons and it's a great Coming Of Age movie for teenagers. They bond together, they learn that they have more things in common than they think. It's a great 80's movie. It teaches you that even if you're popular or a nerd, you can get along and be friends; even more then friends. "},{"Title":"Overpassed my expectations","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is perfectly made and many could relate to one of the characters. It for sure represents the real life of a teenager, their fear and their problems. And probably many of us remember having the same thoughts, the same problems, the same options.It is not a comedy although it has some funny moments. This movie gives you a lot to think about. The characters change during and the movie and maybe the same will happen to the one watching it from the screen.Personally, it has been a great discovery. I really enjoyed the argument as well the the dialogs. Not to mention the original soundtrack, particularly the ending. Let's say that it is not happy because it shouldn't be, but it is not sad either, it is the perfect balance between both of them. And as a fan of music I can say that it is awesome. "},{"Title":"A John Hughes Classic","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Only John Hughes or Alfred Hitchcock could keep you in one room for 90 minutes and still have you entertained at the end. That's exactly what Hughes does in his 1985 film, The Breakfast Club starring Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Anthony Michael Hall and Emilio Estevez as teenagers who spend a day in detention. They each are sent to detention for very different reasons, and each one has a very different personality.How will they survive? Will they get along? Those are the questions raised in the film. Teens from different backgrounds and lives come together and show us all humanity in this inspiring 1985 film by John Hughes. "},{"Title":"Classic movie, puts you in touch with yourself","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five very different high school kids wind up at Saturday detention for a various reasons. The educator pulling Saturday duty isn't the nicest guy around, and the kids immediately begin carving out their niches according to what they believe their social status and place in life demands. By the end of the film, you understand that this day, they've learned a lot about life and who they are, and that they will not allow their lives to be determined by what their parents, teachers, and other students think they should be. This is a wonderful film, and a powerful lesson in life, love, friendship, and free will. What happens in between the start and finish will make you mad, sad, and everything in between. The actors do a superb job of pulling you in and making you care, between raw outbursts of emotion, or displays of self sacrifice, this is one of those rare films that just touches you. "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The breakfast club is my all time favourite 80's film! The movie was just amazing! It connected to my life and others probably too. John Hughes is a genius! I thought the idea was fantastic and every little scene made it better. Time after time you would learn something new about the characters. They are an athlete, a Princess, a Brain, a basket case and a criminal. Does this sound like a breakfast club to you? I think Brian signed off the letter with the breakfast club because all five of them were poor in a way. Plus usually in a you meet all sort of different which seem like your friends because well just because! But after a day you never talk again. This movie showed that if you be yourself you will truly reveal the kind of person you are. I would say a 14A rating because there is tons of swearing and talk about mature themes. This movie is great and you, yes you should watch it!!! ) "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This one is a fabulous film with a great storyline. I love when I see something different on film and love the fact that it all happens in one place, different settings but the same place through all the movie. This is really a great lesson to all the big producers who need thousands of locations and budget to justify a good work. Anyhow, this movie is really entertaining. Photography, acting and all that stuff are OK, but what this comedy really good are the characters. Each and every single character is deep and yet simple. They are all adorable, specially the geek guy. And yes, this is not the expected or tacky kind of humor, this is a good one indeed. Totally recommended. "},{"Title":"Hughes was undoubtedly trying to open the eyes of the viewers to the timeless issue as stereotyping when he wrote The Breakfast Club.","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The writer John Hughes has written and produced several films, such as the film Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club, regarding issues that teenagers face such as coming of age and social interactions. Hughes was undoubtedly trying to open the eyes of the viewers to the timeless issue as stereotyping when he wrote The Breakfast Club. The film showed not only the views of teenagers but those of adults as well. The theme of the film clearly points to the coming of age of several students and how they were each perceived and stereotyped in society. This was portrayed through students, each representing a different stereotypical category, being sentenced to spend all day in Saturday school together. The director's usage of outside/inside editing allowed viewers to easily follow the setting changes, and camera angles as well as realistic sound effects helped the viewers to feel as if they were actually in the midst of the characters which intensified the emotional aspect of the situations. The camera zooming in on facial expressions during times of emotional intensity also helped to amplify the emotional levels and eliminate any other distractions. However, it was perhaps the specific clothing/costumes and even the hair and makeup that the characters wore that intensified each one of their specific stereotypes.The story of The Breakfast Club begins to unravel on screen as multiple students are dropped off, by their parents, at Shermer High School to serve their time in Saturday school. There were a total of five students confined together for the day long punishment. The stereo types that were represented were referred to in the movie as a princess, jock, brain, criminal, and a basket case. Claire was depicted as the spoiled rich princess, Andrew was a star jock, Brian was the ingenious brain, John the troubled criminal, and Allison was the weird mental case. Conflict first arises between the students due to their different backgrounds. Both John and Andrew stood their ground as dominant males both trying to prove how tough they are. Intensity levels continue to rise as the students shared personal tidbits of their lives with one another. Some of this information included Claire's parents using her to get back at each other, Brian crumbling under academic pressure, John's father was abusive, Andrew's father pressured him to be tougher, and Allison's parents ignored her. Each character deals with their situation differently. However, they were eventually able to look past their differences and find common ground. They are all teenagers dealing with the hardships of parental relationships, labels from society, and growing up. Many teenagers struggle with parental relationships and the storyline shows how those relationships may affect the way that teenagers behave. Although the setting took place in the 1980's the same issues still pertain to society decades later.By the end of their day long sentence the teenagers and even the tyrant principal Richard Vernon, thanks to the guidance of Carl the custodian, were forced to reevaluate their thinking process of how they viewed each other. The teenagers were eventually able to look past their differences and the labels that society had dealt them in order to bond into becoming The Breakfast Club. An unlikely romance between Claire and John even blossomed at the end. However, the reality that many of them would probably succumb to peer pressure come Monday and would not wind up being friends at school was also portrayed. This once again showed the power that society can have on an individual. Not only was it a movie for teenagers to gain a better perspective of one another, but it also was for adults to see how much they impact their children with their behavior. In the end everyone become well aware that they had been stereotyping each other as a result of being taught to think in that manner by society.The themes and lessons, of stereo types and coming of age, that the film emanated still pertain to the world decades later. Unfortunately, the reality is that there are often cliques and stereotypes that carry over into the adult realm as well, but as this film shows it is possible to get beyond those. It may be as simple as getting an outside perspective to bring clarity to a situation or being confined together for several hours. Either way, it is possible to break through personal differences and stereotypes if people are willing to take the time and put forth the effort. Judging and stereotyping instead of trying to understand someone will only lead to continued problems rather than resolving them. "}{"Title":"My God, are we gonna be like our parents?","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My God, are we gonna be like our parents?...It's the one question that every teenager asks themselves. In John Hughes 1985 drama, The Breakfast Club, five high school students meet in Saturday detention. The brainy Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), the princess, Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), the criminal, John Bender (Judd Nelson), the athlete, Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), and Allison Reynolds, the basket case (Ally Sheedy). From seven in the morning to four in the afternoon the teenagers delve into their problems at home and prove that they're bigger than their respective stereotypes, while trying to evade their villainous principal, Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason). At the beginning of the movie Andrew and John immediately go at it after John mocks him and Brian, and sexually harasses Claire. Gradually the group begins to open up to each other, revealing that they all have unpleasant relationships with their parents. Andrew's father wants him to be a winner, and won't take anything less. Claire's parents use her to get back at one another, while Allison's parents ignore her. John's life at home is full of violence and rage. Brian is seen as the perfect kid, but he is under intense pressure to keep his grades up. The teenagers are then shown together, dancing all over the library, their stereotypes no longer holding them back from one another. The movie has amazing dialog that plays a large part in setting up the characters and gives the movie verisimilitude. Claire (Ringwald) tells Vernon (Gleason) at the beginning of the movie Excuse me sir, I think there's been a mistake. I know it's detention, but I don't think I belong in here. This simple line has a subtle snobby air about it, with a slight hint that she thinks she's better than the people she's with, that the audience can relate to hearing with the own popular kids in their school. When Vernon asks if the kids care to return to detention Brian (Hall) stands up and says Uh, you know I can answer that now sir. That'd be a no, no for me. Being the nerd, this line makes it look like Brian is trying to get on Vernon's good side, which is stereotypical of the nerd type, always being the teachers favorite. Bender's (Nelson) dialog in the movie is constantly sarcastic and mocking, which makes the audience believe that he really is the one kid that doesn't care about school and is always getting into some sort of trouble. An example of this is when he asks Vernon Does Barry Manilow know that you raid his wardrobe? This quote makes people think back to the dropout or burner they knew in high school, the one who was always getting into some sort of trouble. The same type of verisimilitude is given off when Andrew, the jock (Estevez), tells Brian You ask me one more question and I'm beating the sh*t out of you. This line shows the typical jock, the one that uses his fists to settle things and scare people. Another wonderful aspect of the movie is the costume design for the characters. The costume design seems to fit perfectly to the type of stereotype each of the actors is playing. Allison (Sheedy), the basket case, is wearing something that looks like bag lady clothes. She has on really baggy clothes that are dark colors. Her hair is slightly disheveled and she has very dark eyeliner. Her clothes make her blend into the background, which adds to her being a sort of recluse. Claire looks like the standard rich prep, with an expensive leather jacket and diamond earrings. Her makeup is light and pretty and she has a sort of innocent look about her. She looks very put together with a skirt and a light pink shirt paired with boots. The audience can tell that she definitely comes from a family that has money. Bender, the criminal, has a grungy look to him. He has an overcoat, leather biker gloves, with black combat boots that have bandannas tied around them. He has a jean jacket over a half unbuttoned plaid shirt. His hair is long and carefree. He looks like someone you wouldn't want to mess with. Brian looks like a typical nerd. He has a respectable haircut with khakis and a green sweater. He has an air of innocence while you know that he's the one sitting in the front of the class hanging onto the teacher's every word. The jock, Andrew, comes in with his wrestling letterman jacket on, displaying loudly and proudly that he is an athlete. Under that he just wears jeans with a muscle shirt, showing off his toned biceps. All of the costumes pull together, yet while being completely different at the same time. Overall, this film is one of my favorite films of all time, and was an instant hit with me. I loved the witty dialog, the characters, the setting, everything. The one aspect that really stuck with me was how I could completely relate to almost every character in the film, knowing at least one person who acted in the exact same manner. I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who is in high school, or who has ever been in high school. On my list, The Breakfast Club will always be a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"We All Can Relate","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director John Hughes created the film The Breakfast Club simply about stereotyping. This film is about 5 students who get stuck in detention on a Saturday all day. Claire (Molly Ringwald) is the princess, Andrew (Emilio Estevez) is the jock, Bender (Judd Nelson) is the criminal, Allison (Ally Sheedy) is the basket case, and Brian (Anthony Michael Hall) is the brain. Together Claire, Andrew, Bender, Allison, and Brian spend the day getting to know each other and revealing who they really are. Each of these students shares their emotions and realizes that they have a lot more in common than they thought. Claire is just a teen who is popular, but doesn't like the pressure everyone puts her under just because she id. Andrew just wishes he didn't have to live up to his father's expectations. He wishes he wasn't pressured into being popular and being mean to those who aren't jocks or not in his social group. Allison is considered a basket case because she is weird. Bender is misunderstood and is considered a criminal because he acts out due to coming from an abusive household. Brian is smart and isn't popular due to the fact he is stereotyped as a nerd. Director John Hughes captures their bonds when are sitting in a circle in the middle of the library. The camera zooms in on Claire's, Andrew's, Bender's, Allison's, and Brian's faces as they reveal their truth about why they are in detention. You can't help but feel their emotions from their facial expressions and movements as they speak. Claire, Andrew, Allison, Bender, and Brian are dancing to We Are Not Alone and in that moment all their stereotypes disappear. They are just a bunch of teens that like the same music. They are just dancing away, having fun, carefree, and bonding. Another movie that can relate to this theme of stereotyping is Pretty in Pink also directed by John Hughes. Again in this movie you have the stereotypes put on students who attend an upper class high school. The teens are just trying to rise above it and make it through high school. Stereotyping is everywhere and The Breakfast Club can be related by every one of all ages. I love this movie and can watch it over and over again. The humor, music, actors, and theme just draw you in because you can relate to the characters in the film. The film gives you a glimpse of what teens go through. Makes you wonder how everyone else perceives you as. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club (1985) - John Hughes Strikes Again!","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Written and directed by the late great John Hughes, The Breakfast Club is a comedy-drama told through the emotions of five different high schoolers the nerd, the prom queen, the jock, the goth, and the rebel. The movie takes place on a Saturday in detention, when five kids express their feelings of their every-day life, and how they wish that it can all change one day. The Breakfast Club is one of my all-time favorite movies. I can watch this over and over again, and I'm still entertained by what this movie has to offer. John Hughes completely knocked this out of the park, and created his best movie ever made. The talented cast of Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, and Paul Gleason, in a scene-stealing performance as the school principal, is quite perfect in every way, and each performance made these characters look more like real human beings. This is a movie that I bet all audiences will relate to. This movie has consistent laughs, heartwarming messages, and memorable moments. This can give audiences a big reminder about being your own person, and how expressing your feelings can make you a better person. All teen audiences can watch this movie again and again, and they'll totally understand. I'm a fan of well-written teen movies that gives out heartwarming messages, and John Hughes does not forget to deliver. He's the perfect director to bring back the high school past of being a teen, and put it on film in a way nobody has ever done it before. This movie is an entertaining message from the heart, and it's worth watching over and over. The Breakfast Club, in my review, an entertaining teen movie, with heartwarming elements. "},{"Title":"This movie does a great job with depicting the pressures that teenagers went through in 1985 and still go through today.","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club was written and directed by John Hughes in 1985. This is a movie about five students that have to spend an entire Saturday in detention and have to write an essay telling Principal Richard Vernon who is played by Paul Gleason who they think they are. One is a basket case, one is a spoiled rich girl, one is a geek, one is a criminal, and one is a jock. This movie does a great job with depicting the realistic pressures that teenagers went through in 1985 and still go through today. I feel that the movie has great continuity and the actors are creative contributors to the success of the film. This is the type of film that no matter who watches is they can relate to it in some fashion. Everything about the film from the set, the characters costumes, and the music are a great representation of how and what public suburban schools look and feel like throughout the country. At the end of the film everyone is left drawing their own conclusion on how things will play out for each of the characters. This movie left me thinking about how high school was for me and how I could relate to each and every character. I would recommend that you see this movie, especially if you want to look back at the time you spent in high school. "},{"Title":"Great package... dull film","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a huge John Hughs fan and actually regret making this public knowledge - but I hated this film and thought that it sucked. I was excited to crack open the beautiful packaging and quickly fell into a disappointing episode of feeling really dumb that I just didn't get it.The photography was classic Hughs - the acting was something out of a bad rehearsal at an insane asylum. Don't get caught up in having to like it, just because it's Hughs - it's OK to go against the grain and declare to the world - this movie blows.Final Grade 1/10 "},{"Title":"A strangely and uniquely intriguing film from John Hughes","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of several teen movies the late John Hughes wrote and directed in the 1980's. It was released the year before I was born, and I think the first time I saw it was in 2007, after I had first seen Ferris Bueller's Day Off, another one of Hughes's 80's teen films, but definitely a different idea. From what I remember, I thought The Breakfast Club was pretty good the first time, but maybe a little puzzling. I watched the 1996 version of 101 Dalmatians this week, with a screenplay written by Hughes, and thought it was very dull. This was the first movie I watched after that one, and I thought it was so much better than that particular 90's film, though it's totally different. In fact, this 1985 drama (with some comedy) isn't like any other film I've ever seen! Five high school students in Shermer, Illinois (a fictional suburb of Chicago) are forced to come to school one Saturday morning in 1984 for detention. Each of these students appears to be of a different high school stereotype. There's Andrew Clark, a jock; Claire Standish, a princess; Brian Johnson, a nerd; Allison Reynolds, a basket case; and John Bender, a criminal. Their principal, Mr. Richard Vernon, assigns each of them to write an essay during their stay in the school library that day about who they think they are. At first, the five of them don't seem to have anything in common, and are in for a lot of conflict, especially with John Bender's behaviour, giving the others a hard time. With Bender's big mouth and rebellious ways, he gets into even more trouble with the aggravated Mr. Vernon during his Saturday detention. However, as the hours of the day go by, the five students gradually get to know each other, and it turns out there's more to them than their stereotypes after all.It's probably not too often you see a movie that doesn't go any farther from one location to another than this one. The Breakfast Club is almost entirely set in one building, and all the scenes that don't take place in this building take place just outside it. One might assume that this must be very boring, but it's not. During my second viewing, I wasn't sure exactly what was keeping me intrigued around the beginning, but the main element of the film is probably the dialogue. The conversations, no matter how long they may get, are constantly gripping! It's really interesting seeing the students fighting (verbally and sometimes physically) but gradually learning more about each other, including their lives at home. The conflict between John Bender and Mr. Vernon is also unforgettable, and the acting and script were very well done, which obviously also helps carry the film. Hughes put some interesting characters into his story, with a strong cast to play them. The movie has a good theme song, Don't You (Forget About Me), an 80's New Wave hit by Simple Minds.As I write this, I haven't seen every teen movie John Hughes made in the 80's, but have seen The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off. The protagonists in both films are obviously high school students, but the films are different from one another. Ferris Bueller's Day Off is an upbeat comedy, whereas this movie does have some mildly amusing humour but is more of a drama. It's also significantly darker than its successor. However, they are both good in their own way, and both deserve their good reputation. This 1985 Hughes film may have some plot holes, and even after two viewings, I'm still not sure if I totally get it, but it's still a movie to hold the viewer's attention, and it seems many have been able to relate to it. Hughes was involved in some lacklustre efforts during his career, and 101 Dalmatians is one of them, but this one is not. For the good films he made, The Breakfast Club being an example, I'm sure he will be remembered. "},{"Title":"Offbeat high school drama","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To truly understand the message of The Breakfast Club, you shouldn't think what high school was like. You have to think of who YOU were. What group were you a part of? The jock, the geek, the prep, the tough guy, the outsider. When you know what you were, try to think what that meant. What was your role in the high school to be associated with that group, and what do you think you know about the other groups?The Breakfast Club, is not an attempt to break social barriers among high school kids, but more of an attempt to portray how even lives that have go in such different paths, all of them have common life issues. This film begs the issues, not only of why do we judge others, but why do we fear the judging of ourselves?The film's first hour is, what I believe, a very shallow attempt to introduce the film as a typical teenage comedy. I found myself to bite into the clichés these characters (probably intentionally) portrayed. However, the last 30 minutes of this film was VERY powerful stuff, it totally caught me off guard. I found myself feeling emotions that I wouldn't have imagined myself having from earlier in the film. Overall, not a life-changing movie, but definitely life-lesson worthy. "},{"Title":"Timeless Film With Many Classic Moments","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is an extremely fun movie that makes me smile to just think about it. I remember the first time I saw it, I did not know what to think going into a film entitled The Breakfast Club, but I was very satisfied once it got rolling along.It is cool to see all of the different types of high school groups represented and to see them interact in a Saturday detention. Throughout the film they all slowly realized that despite the very noticeable differences on the outside, the all have a lot in common on the inside.I don't feel that this movie is outdated. High school life really breaks kids up into different groups like this, but when you get down to it and the groups disappear the different seeming individuals can coexist nicely.This movie is filled with many classic scenes, but, of course, the best scene is the final one with the bully character walking through the football field while Don't You Forget About Me plays loudly. Everyone who has seen this movie will always associate that song with it. "},{"Title":"Detention becomes a whole lot of fun","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is directed by the late John Hughes and stars Judd Nelson. Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, Anthony Michael Hall and Paul Gleason.One of the first films to really show how teenagers speak,feel and behave, it also groups together the main school stereotypes and forces them to acknowledge each others existence. A high school detention on a Saturday turns into something special for five teenagers in Illinois.There's the school sports star Andrew Clark(Emilio Estevez),the stuck up glamour girl Claire Standish(Molly Ringwald),the kind hearted goth Allison Reynolds(Ally Sheedy),science genius Brian Johnson(Anthony Michael Hall)and the school troublemaker John Bender(Judd Nelson).They are grouped together under the ever watchful gaze of strict teacher Richard Vernin(Paul Gleason). Set an essay to write they start talking to each other and barriers are broken down and new friendships formed during the day and a new relationship begins between Bender and Claire despite what her friends might say.Ultimately The Breakfast Club is a film about not judging people by their outward look but by their actions. The whole cast are superb with Paul Gleason getting most of the laughs, there are standout performances from Judd Nelson,Ally Sheedy and Molly Ringwald. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is a really funny tale of a handful of teens trapped in a detention session late in the afternoon while the school is only maintained by its vengeful principle and a Janitor. The principal paces around the school barking orders at them. Meanwhile one of the kids terrorizes him and the other kids too. They all ignore him and give him the cold shoulder while he wanders around the classroom. They have a lot of fights and bickers but throughout the movie they slowly form a tentative bond, and towards the end this bond deepens. The characters are a geeky boy, a Trouble-maker, a disturbed girl, a Jock, and the prom queen. Funny teen comedy. Definitely worth watching. Probably the best if you watch it while a teen or while having teens. "}{"Title":"They only met once, but it changed their lives forever.","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 5 kids, all with differing hang-ups, all from differing back grounds, are sentenced to Saturday morning detention at Shermer High School.......Of all the teen based films that have been made in the modern age, few can match The Breakfast Club's vibrancy and simplicity of worth. Written by John Hughes in just a couple of weeks, the film has five young actors in one locale, that is driven by dialogue, and for better or worse, managed to tap into the zeitgeist of a whole generation of teenagers. It would be churlish, nay even foolish, to suggest that all within The Breakfast Club is a triumph. For every moment of genuine warmth and poignancy, there is unintentional humour, and in one character make over scene, Hughes is seemingly saying that you should scrub up love as beauty is not in the eye of the beholder!Yet Hughes' film is standing the test of time as a perennial favourite of everyone who wasn't born with a silver spoon in their mouth. There is something totally engaging watching as the nerd, the weirdo, the princess, the jock and the rebel poke fun at each other to only then pick apart their respective defences. With the final result being something not akin to chest thumping brilliance. Those irritants that were prior in the piece now merely fading pock marks of the teenage zits we simply had to scratch. Not only boosted by one of the finest title songs as Simple Minds belt out Don't You Forget About Me, The Breakfast Club also contains a fine ensemble cast that infuses a sense of reality in the script. Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson and Anthony Michael Hall are particularly memorable, whilst Emilio Estevez one excruciating dance sequence aside and Ally Sheedy work well enough with what they are asked to do.Iconic for many, and resonating to even more, who would have thought such a simple picture could have such lasting, and unadulterated appeal? 9/10 "},{"Title":"I think it's overrated, but still a good film.","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughe's The Breakfast Club is a film that millions of people love. I on the other hand didn't love it like everyone else. I personally think the film is overrated. I'm not saying it's a bad film, but it's certainly not the best teen comedy. It's not really a teen comedy though, it's more like a teen dromedy. Hughes has done some great films like Ferris Bueller. Since he just died recently I've decide to write some reviews on the films he's done. The Breakfast club doesn't fit in the best category. I don't know what the film goes under. Hughes did such great films like Uncle Buck, Planes, trains, and automobiles, and Sixteen Candles. John Hughes changed teen films for us. Really he didn't change it, he invented it. There wouldn't be teen films without John Hughes. Johhn Hughes did fantastic films, but I didn't love The Breakfast Club. i'll admit it was inspiring, but it wasn't his best. It was a good film, but not the best teen film.The Breakfast club is a classic, but I don't think it is. I don't like it as much as Ferris Bueller or Clueless or Mean girls, but I did like it. In the long run, it works. It was a big inspiration at the time and I know why. The Breakfast club was inspiring. "},{"Title":"An excellent film, but I may have an idea why it might not always hit the mark now....","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I admit it..I love The Breakfast Club. I was a teenager when it first came out and it remains the quintessential 80's Teen movie. John Hughes made great and entertaining films and it is sad that he is no longer with us, by far his best work are the teen flicks of the 80s.Reading through the comments on here, I was initially really upset that some people hated it (how dare they!), but I have thought of a few reasons why.Firstly, there will always be people who just don't like this sort of film. It's just a given.Secondly there are people who are uneasy about the characters and how rigidly stereotyped they are. I understand this, but I also think I get why John Hughes made them this way. Obviously 'real' people are less defined and have a bit more of this or that in them, but my experience of school was that kids pigeon-hole people like crazy. If someone is big on sports that defines them, if someone is highly academic with no interest in sport they are 'a geek'. They are other things too, but this main characteristic is the 'essence' of who they are in high school terms. Brian says '....the most convenient definitions....' I think John Hughes simplified them to exaggerate this point.Finally, and this is the sad reason. I think The Breakfast Club is victim of its own success. These films (The Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, Some Kind of Wonderful, etc) paved the way for the teen movie format. They have been emulated, rewoven, and even copied. There have been so many teen flicks in the 25 years since The Breakfast Club was made, that I worry that it's near impossible for the modern teen to fully appreciate the films as I did when I was young. The Breakfast Club could seem clichéd even though it wasn't originally. It is a little slow by modern standards and the dialogue is occasionally dated. I wonder whether it would have been made if the script came along now; and that, my friends, would have been a great shame, because it really is a great movie and I don't believe the underlying messages are any less relevant now than they were then (eg prejudice, pigeon holing, petty authority, home life, wealth/poverty, understanding) So, please do watch this film, forgive some of the dated vernacular and try to judge it sympathetically as an original format for its time. Then look at the world around you and see if you think the problems are really very much different! "},{"Title":"You see us as you want to see us","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You see us as you want to see us- Brian Johnson In the genre of High school/coming of age films, The Breakfast club is arguably the best film in it. Detailing the teen angst and problems they go through in high school as never been done in such perfection. From the slow burning start to the beautifully dramatic ending, High school has never been shown like this. Ironically it takes place on a Saturday where five very different students are forced into detention for the entire day. The quite popular athlete, the popular drama princess, the weird loner, the unhappy academic and the tough guy who doesn't care; these are the stars of the movie. Most people think its cliché to categorize and characterize high school students like this but like it or not these people are there in almost every high school. Trust me I am in one right now. The movie takes place in this single seemly mind numbing boring day where these students who in normal circumstances wouldn't even go close to each other are forced to interact to pass the time. This is where the movie becomes from good to unforgettable, from barely speaking to each other to finally opening up like they never have before, all this is done with incredible subtlety. Each actor pulls out there character perfectly and there interactions with one and another is nothing more than that. From the witty dialogue to the surprisingly good acting, this film will make you laugh your head off and move you from a hundred different emotions. Anyone who has ever been to a high school will instantly relate to the characters and most probably find themselves in one of them. Compared to other R rater films this is quite minor. Yeah there is a little drug use and swears but that's just what we go through in that stage of our lives. Some may argue about how this film stands against the other classics but some thing that anyone has seen this movie before is certain of is that this is definitely the greatest High school/teen film ever made.Maybe you have been there and done that or maybe or still going through it all but by the end of it, you'll be raising you fist high for The Breakfast Club as well. "},{"Title":"The 80's style may have outdated, but the heart hasn't","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was born in 1989, so I don't actually remember a thing about the 80's, the decade that infamously gave us the worst hairdo's and movies (though that's debatable- I think its quite a swell decade). Lucky I have great flicks like The Breakfast Club to turn to. I have seen the concept re-worked on many sitcoms and teen drama shows, so I didn't really find too many surprises, plot-wise, with this film. Five high school kids, all representing types, are stuck in detention together one Saturday. They can't stand or understand each other, of course, but with some shouting and group pot-smoking, they get to. While the slang may be dated, the sharp dialogue and engaging performances are not. Considering 95% of the film takes place in a single room, the fact that it never outstays its welcome, and is purely entertaining yet thoughtful, is quite a triumph. The teens (including Molly Ringwald, Anthony Michael Hall and Nelson)are obvious clichés, but they are meant to be-- so we can pick apart that stereotype too. My teen experience wasn't quite like theirs (we don't have as much of the cliques here in Australia), but I found a bit of myself in each character. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated until you're well out of high school","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this film! I don't think it can be watched and appreciated by today's teen audience though. But once you've put enough distance between you and high school - and grown up enough to recognise it - you can relate to this film. Even if the clothes and the hairstyles are outdated.People talk about it being over-simplified - I think that's kind of the point. It's a simple film which addresses the need we all seem to have to make things more complicated than they have to be - perversely by putting over-simplified labels on people.Kids have this complicated code of conduct - the jocks can't hang with the geeks, etc. Yet when you get down to it - in some ways, they're not that different, if only because they're all just trying to get through life, trying to earn approval from someone.I think it's impressive that such a small cast operating in such a small set can hold the attention so well - down to the fact that everyone, even just a bunch of kids, have a story to tell.A cult classic.Oh, and I don't have a problem with the obviousness of the pairings at the end because it's totally subjective as to whether or not they really did overcome the stereotypes. Maybe they did ... Maybe they never spoke to each other again ... "},{"Title":"An ageless film that transcends all generations.","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of all of John Hughes' classic films of the 1980s about teenagers, The Breakfast Club is the most famous, the most sympathetic and the most endearing. It also is the film that has defined a generation of young people who were growing up in a time where they truly didn't feel that they belonged in any one category but now as they are probably in their 30s or 40s I am sure they can look back on their teen years as better than they thought.The setup is well-known five kids with nothing in common, all from different points on the society scale stuck in detention on a Saturday who come to realize that there is more than just stereotypes in the room with them. The other four are people, people who hurt and have feelings and friends and parents they have problems with as well as a domineering principal they cannot relate to. These common bonds are doors, opening to show them the truth not just about each other but about teenagers in general and the true difficulties they all face.As mentioned before, of all of John Hughes' films, this is the most serious as well as endearing towards its characters. Hughes wisely doesn't talk down to them but puts them all on an equal plane, which forces them to look past the outside caricatures and see the person inside. The acting then brings this out fully, with Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, Emilio Estevez and Anthony Michael Hall giving perhaps the best performances of their careers all in this one movie. The performance that sticks out most to me, though, is Judd Nelson as the criminal-mind John Bender. He is the most outrageous, so he breaks the ice between them and really starts the ball rolling. He kind of takes a back seat in the narrative in the third part, but still gives the best performance , one that I think is Oscar-worthy and truly captures the anger and frustration someone in his situation would be feeling constantly.There are times when it can be hard to watch as these five break down the walls that separate them, but it is all worth it in the end. Not just a classic teen film but also one of the best of the decade, The Breakfast Club still applies today to teenagers who feel out-of-place or misled in their lives. That is the film's greatest achievement it is an ageless story that transcends all generations and speaks to each of us no matter who or where. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Really loved this movie.It really did portray high school in the right ways which had 5 different people from 5 different stereotypes - Princess,Criminal,Geek,Outcast and Criminal which are all stereotypes found at all high schools.These 5 stereotypes joined together to know each other and they never realized that they had a lot in common because they had to sit through detention on a Saturday from 7 - 4 pm, This movie is a movie which I would watch many times because it was funny and was a real high school movie aimed at teenagers.Back in the 80s and 70s movies set in high schools draw hordes of teenagers to view these movies but nowadays with movies such as the HSM franchise they are set at 7 - 12 year old crowd.This movie had style,attitude and a good soundtrack.There is a lot of swearing in the movie and it is a very good comedy.Get it out from the local DVD store cos it is a MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies EVER","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is honestly one of the best ones I have ever seen. It easily and brilliantly captures a time when is to the extreme and when anything can happen.Everyone can remember the groups in school (the popular kids, the freaks, the jocks, the nerds, etc.) Everyone can relate to at least character in the movie and everyone will end up cheering them on by the end. The acting is great. Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, and Ally Sheedy give a amazing performances and truly put their heart and soul into their parts. The emotion the actors put into their parts really make you believe everything they say. You may start off laughing a bit when Bender starts describing what its like at his house but by the end you'll be stunned silent. Emeilio Estevez plays the jock very well and the scene where he describing what he did to end up in detention and how much he hates his dad is one of the best scenes in the movie he puts so emotion in it. Everything Ally does is totally convincing (she's the crazy one.) This movie may have come out about 7 years before i was even born but it is one of the best ones i have ever seen and probably the one that touched me the most. It's a movie you really don't want to end. You'll walk away from this movie with a new perspective. It's a must see. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Teen Film","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have so much love for this film that it can barely be contained. It really is just such a clever and inclusive way at looking at adolescence and high school cliques. The movie is easy to follow and the change in each character is gradually and believably seen.Judd Nelson is mesmerizingly charismatic as the witty and defensively flippant, John Bender. And really, he makes this movie. Not wanting to take anything away from the other actors, but he has about 40% of the dialog. If Nelson's performance had lacked even slightly, the whole movie could have fallen over. But he is fantastic.One of the most interesting things about this movie, is how much you care about the characters and how much you just wanted them to succeed at everything in the future. A sequel here, would not have gone astray. But obviously now, it is much too late. And the idea of a remake makes me nauseous. I would hate anyone else playing these characters. They were all that good.The most asked question, upon finishing the film is, no doubt, What's going to happen on Monday? And I, as much as anyone, would love to know the answer to that question. But ultimately, it doesn't matter. If they all ignored each other for the rest of their high school careers, it wouldn't matter. Because they still had something that day in detention. They still learned something about themselves from each other. And for a day, at least, they could say they were completely themselves, and they were still liked.I don't care if Judd Nelson was an a-hole to Molly Ringwald during filming, I don't care that they played horrible 80's music throughout (like seriously, they had Duran Duran, the Go's Go's, Cold Chisel, etc, they couldn't have taken one of those paths?), I don't care that there's no way that Emilio Estevez could have broken that glass simply by yelling (he's hardly Pavarotti). This movie is brilliant and a MUST watch for anyone over the age of thirteen.It'll change your life. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh, yes. My very favorite movie of all-time. I don't care how many times this movie comes on TV, I will watch it every time.It defines a time period in my life for me. The music is what I grew up listening to on the radio and MTV (when it was an actual music television channel).The statements this movie makes are so true. The divisions there are in high school. The preps, nerds, jocks, thugs, and weirdos. It affects me tremendously. Also, the views about how the school officials really feel about the students. So true.Now that I am grown and over all of the drama from high school. I am facing similar situations with my own children.This movie speaks to me every time I watch it. I LOVE this movie and always will. Don't you forget about me! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite 80s movies","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The way I judge the true quality and greatness of a movie is if I still find it as or more enjoyable today as I did when I first saw it. The Breakfast Club falls into that category. There's a reason that Entertainment Weekly listed this as the NUMBER ONE teenage movie of all time. I just saw this movie again a week ago, and was just as into it as I was in 1985. While it obviously has the dated 80s look in some of the characters (that's the way they looked back then; they can't help it) and music, the core theme of the film still resonates today.It's about a group of disjointed, confused, and outcast youths who, in one way or another, are trapped by the circumstances of their schoolhouse cliques, family lives, and by themselves. But on one Saturday morning and afternoon while they are all in detention, all of their fears, secrets, and inner demons are revealed to each other, sometimes on purpose, sometimes not. Andy, John, Claire, Brian, and Allison all come reluctantly together and find they are not as different as they all thought on this Saturday, which represents a turning point in all their lives.The cast is perfection. Five actors who were members of 'The Brat Pack' star in this movie Emilio Estevez (Andy), Judd Nelson (John), Molly Ringwald (Claire), Anthony Michael Hall (Brian), and Ally Sheedy (Allison). Their various interactions are completely realistic, powerful, and poignant. And the two couples that pair off near the end are perfectly chosen. Of course there has to be an odd man out (and we all know who that is). What's amazing is that although some of these actors had worked together before and they were all friends in real life, they completely pull it off that their characters are essentially complete strangers (except for Andy and Claire, who travel in some of the same popular circles). All the performances still hold up today. That's a big reason the movie is still very good.Additionally, Paul Gleason (as Principal Vernon), who has to oversee the 5 misfits' detention and John Kapelos (as Carl the Janitor) are perfectly cast. The scene where Nelson's rebellious John Bender and Gleason's authoritarian Vernon go back and forth may be the best scene in the movie. And Carl the Janitor's 'big' scene where he speechifies about knowing all their secrets is hilarious.Make no mistake, even though this is easily classified as a 'teen' movie, there are some real powerful moments in it the Bender-Vernon face-off, Andy's speech about what he did to get in detention and how remorseful he was about it (the long, tracking shot of just seeing Andy and no one else for a while added power to this moment), and Brian's all-too-real admission of why he got sent to detention (a real scary moment, this one hit me the hardest b/c I can relate to how he felt).All in all, an extremely well done film that still holds up amazingly well today. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Ever","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even though I wasn't even thought of when this movie came out, I saw it on TV Land because it looked interesting. And it was. It really was. The characters each have their own unique personal lives and are the personalities that everyone eventually will see in school a jock, a princess, a bully, a brain, and a person who doesn't really belong anywhere, just sticks around for the ride. It has a very good lesson behind it as well, that some people in school may seem perfect, but in truth they all have stories behind them. And when you put these different kinds of people in the same room for a day, The Breakfast Club has signaled what will probably happen. In short, brilliant film. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"just one thing wrong with it...","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just really don't like that the character of Bender seems like the Hero. To me, he's a jerk that dosn't deserve that kind of praise. He's a rebel, but not in any important to the world kind of way. All he does is make people feel bad about what they do and what they are. He yells at Claire, telling her that she has everything. He completely overlooks everyone else's problems, assuming that he is the only one that deserves any sympathy. I hate how Claire and the rest of the club let him get away with criticizing Claire on what she is. She is the one who seems the most real to me. She's the only one not trying to play a part. I just don't like Bender's hero status. I don't think he deserves it just because he bullies poor Brian and everyone else in the world. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A solid 10 out of 10. A teenage classic. A literal tour de force of emotion, and from minute one to the end I was glued to the screen. I have only seen the film twice, and it still remains my favourite title to date.Bender and Clair, the imperfect match. Allison and Andrew, who would have thought eh?And who can forget when they get stoned? Chicks, can not hol' the smoke. That's what it is! Haha, absolute classic!I literally feel that this is a path to righteous teenagehood. And I cannot stress enough how well this film was written and performed. A serious MUST watch! "},{"Title":"Very good 1980's teen Comedy/Drama","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" MPAARated R for Language,Drug Use and Some Sexual Content. Quebec RatingG Canadian Home Video Rating14AThe Breakfast Club is a very good teen film from the 1980's.Its funny,sad and clever.The film has an all star cast from the 1980's but now most of these people are has-been's.The film is about five kids who are stuck in detention on a Saturday for something they each did.Each kid is from a social group.One is a jock,one is a popular prom queen,one is a geek,one is a weird quiet girl and the other is a punk who the principal does not like.Over the course of the film they get to know each other and they tell how they got in detention.The Breakfast Club is a very clever and good film that I recommend. "},{"Title":"One of the Best John Huston Movies","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember when this movie came out; I saw it with some of my high school friends and we though that it would be another dorky teen movie. We couldn't have been farther from the truth. This movie was so touching, so well made, so convincing and so unbelievably realistic. Need I say more? Judd Nelson was very convincing as The Rebel but also added a touch of sympathy to it. It's like; he's rebellious because of his home life but there is some sense of empathy to his character. All the characters have some sort of problems, family problems, that made them who they are and how they got in detention. It was a very emotionally strong movie and it really spoke about high school life and differences between clicks.What really makes this movie worth watching is also the chemistry and character development between these alienated and severely different groups of kids. At first they don't want anything to do with each other, but as the movie goes on, they grow to like one another. It's even better, considering how John Huston found so many different activities and lectures to pass the time in detention. How many kids haven't thought of some of the things that the Breakfast Club though of to pass time? This movie, among others, was the corner stone of teen angst and the general teen genre all together. John Huston knows how to write teen dramas, unlike some of the writers today.A great American classic. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being a high school senior when this movie was released, it hit home on a lot of subjects. A lot of people don't get this movie. And all i can say to that is, then you didn't go to high school in the early thru mid 80's. The whole plot of a jock, brain, princess, criminal, and basket-case having to spend a Saturday in detention was never done before or has it been repeated since this movie. And that is the way it needs to stay. 22 Years later i'm still wondering what they were like in the hallway the next day, did any of them say hi or hang out with one another?I seen one or two trailers for this movie before it came out in February of 1985, and i blew it off. Well being bored with the movie i went to see, don't even remember the name of it, a few doors down was the breakfast club so i was like, i'm getting my three dollars a fifty cents out of this place before i leave it. Think i came in on the opening credits so i missed maybe a minute. John Bender was the one i related to the most, it was like they knew me, and had Judd Nelson play me. Molly Ringwald was the perfect person to play Claire. Anthony Michael Hall played the part of Brian and was like a natural for the part with his looks. The whole cast was a very believable bunch in there parts. That is what made this movie. The story was easy to keep up with, the plot was simple. And you could tell the unknown tone through out the movie. My favorite was when they were talking about turning into there parents, that one subject hits very hard with anyone. I must admit i don't watch this movie all the time. I seen it when it came out and again like ten years later on TV. I saw it a few months ago on DVD and as it ended i had the same feelings as i did when i watched it in 1985, that not knowing whats next feeling. But like i said, i came out of high school when unemployment rates were high, you stayed on your job because a bad one was better than not having one, and you had no idea what the future was holding for you. As something that happened to me last year while i was on vacation, i had planned for a side trip when i got back from Hawaii, to go to Hollywood and also Rodeo drive. Well while a was walking down Rodeo drive i passed what i thought was someone i knew who smiled at me as we passed, i smiled back and kept walking, and i kept thinking man she looked familiar then some one behind me starts saying loudly molly Ringwald can i have your autograph? I was like no way we passed each other like a foot away. You always remember actors/Actress from the movie you liked the most, well for me that movie is 22 years old, people change over time, but the eyes always stay the same. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club offers a breakthrough portrait of the pain and misunderstanding which result from the social hierarchy created by youth themselves. The princesses and the jocks are popular and can do whatever they want — except relate to those outside their social circle of winners. Eggheads, rebels and eccentrics have no choice but to create their own piddling worlds on the periphery. In this closed society, everyone knows his or her place and accepts it. No wonder so many kids look baffled when adults babble on about the sunny side of adolescence as a blooming season. The youth in The Breakfast Club are serving more time than just a Saturday in detention.The film is a borderline teenage classic, period. Everything in it is amazing, from the character development, the acting, the directing and the score. Alongside Ferris Bueler's Day Off, Girls Just Want to Have Fun, Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink and Heathers (the much darker portrait on teenagers), The Breakfast Club is by far the best teenage film of the 1980s, it offers a satire, and realistic, plausible view on teenagers, rather than the dribble Hilary Duff, Olsen-twin vehicles you see today....the films dealing with teens in 2000s really have been artificial, predictable and unintelligent full of clichés and performances that almost ruin the film.The songs(although there aren't really many) are excellent, containing one of the best 1980s songs ('Don't You' from Simple Minds), and it really adds a lot to the film. The performances are also excellent, especially from the five fantastic leads (Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy and Anthony Michael Hall).Overall, The Breakfast Club is not technically perfect, it is still an amazing film, and I related to it a lot, it perfectly captured the angst, happiness and highs and lows of being a teenager...I loved it. I just hope todays generation will be able to see a film like this, instead of being brainwashed by the mainstream, dizzy blonde nominated trash we see today (New York Minute, Cinderella Story, Raise Your Voice).Rated R for Profanity and Strong Adult Themes. "},{"Title":"For the ages","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Absolutely love this movie. I was 6 when it came out, but my sister lived vicariously through this movie, 16 Candles, and Weird Science, during our summer vacations from school, so I grew to love them. I almost wish I was a bit older (almost) but as a teacher now, I can still relate to my high school students about the Big Three Rat Pack flicks of the 80s.I recommend adding Revenge of the Nerds and having a Dead Man's Party to celebrate the 80s with these movies! The soundtracks are already on my iPod and they remind me of a time when movies about teens were still fun and were able to make light of social stigmas without anti-stereotyping groups blocking their release! "}{"Title":"The essential coming of age film for the eighties","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is for its generation in many ways what I feel The Graduate was for the late sixties. It captures the generation and in some small iconic way manages to make bold statements with seemingly 'teen film' type dialect. Anytime anyone hears 'The Breakfast Club' they fondly remember it making this an absolute classic and giving it deeper meaning than what it might appear to have. The Breakfast Club didn't treat teens like kids but rather portrayed them frankly, openly, and unabashedly, . It took stereotypes that are still to this day very existent in any high school, mixed them together and let every single one of those stereotypes have their moment and explain their side. It even went so far as to show the stick togetherness of youth and the eighties theme of wanting more from life and confusion and being young in an adult ruled world. The Breakfast Club is timeless.For all it's simplicity the cast nail every one of their roles and become icons to every teen out there. The story and cast seem to focus on John Bender played with eerie certainty by Judd Nelson. Bender is the bad ass in every sense of the word. He's the kid that skips school, breaks all the rules, does dope, drinks, has the hard home life, the bully, the shop class kid and he manages to incorporate all of this into a character you end up rooting for somehow. Even the other kids in the detention with him despise him and yet seem to look to him for leadership and come out with a better understanding of where he's coming from. He is the rebel to say the least. Nelson's portrayal is one of the movie greats hands down. Emilio Estevez is terrific as the jock Andy Clark who also has the reputation for bully against the kids who aren't as athletic or 'cool' as he is. Estevez has a quiet demeanor in most of the film and yet is very effective in showing a different style of parental control that somehow matches Bender's but is very different. Anthony Michael Hall is just brilliant as the brainy Brian Johnson who is the most down to earth out of all of them and seemingly the one with the most academic potential and yet you feel the most sorry for in the life he leads inside the school walls. He might be the most unfortunate out of the group socially and it's wearing thin on his mental state. He too turns in a brilliantly quiet performance. This might have been the performance of teen queen Molly Ringwald's career as the snobby, popular, and self obsessed Claire Standish who wants nothing more than to break the mold she has made for herself. She longs to rebel. Ringwald is just amazing in her role. Ally Sheedy is also good as the quiet, disturbed, rather odd Allison Reynolds. Honestly I didn't get or appreciate her character or performance as much as some of the other ones but nonetheless I'm sure others consider her performance brilliant and that's what The Breakfast Club is all about....appealing to everyone in a different way. Regardless the core cast of teens in detention are terrific and their firecracker intensity and chemistry is unmistakable whether fighting like mad dogs with each other or covering for one of the others' mistakes. Paul Gleason turns in a memorable and classic performance as Richard Vernon, the tired, and worn out teacher who is left to watch the Saturday Detention kids. He's harsh and abrasive and downright fed up with kids in general it would seem. Basically he appears to be on the verge of a nervous breakdown. As basically the only adult in the film and the only character outside of the core kids group he does a good job.The Breakfast Club is so incredibly basic. A cast of basically six people, all set in a library and briefly in other sections of the school and yet it's like an hour and a half adventure. They learn so much about each other, and themselves and rebellion and life outside of school and it's all just from being with each other who happen to be polar opposites of each other. It's just brilliant. I have no doubt that sometime in the future...probably soon...The Breakfast Club will be remade and it simply will never capture the original magic because I'm not sure they even knew what they were doing. There is just a certain honesty to the characters, a certain brilliance to it's simplicity. It's not perfect, I mean ultimately it is a 'teen flick' and many adults who didn't see it as a kid won't ever understand it. The film is chock full of gratuitous foul language, sexual references, drug use (by the kids) and yet this is life...this is what is dealt with then and today and probably in the future...this is more reality than it is fiction. At the same time the film is darkly hilarious, has some incredible one liners, and manages some romance which for me is where the film hits a stand still. The brief romance between Ringwald and Nelson is perfect for the film because as he points out to her, making out with him and getting even with her parents ...in that capacity, would be outstanding. It's rebellion not romance. But the sudden and forced romance between Andy (the Jock) and Allison (the outcast) is ridiculous and unnecessary but then again it's a very 'eighties' kind of move. All Allison needs is a make over by the popular girl and the popular jock is all over her...it's a dream come true. I think it clashes with the main message of the film. Nonetheless you can't exist until you've seen The Breakfast Club. It's a stone cold classic and a must see. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is something that i will never forget.It had a meaning that they sacrificed the whole day in that Saturday detention and they learned something,they found friendship,relationship and most of all,spending their time together.My favorite part in the movie was when they were eating lunch it was so funny.Especially when Andrew had a whole stack of lunches lol!And when Allison put a whole thing of i think was salt or sugar on her bread then put corn flakes on the bread and eat it.I also like when they put rock music on then they were dancing around the library and dancing on the big handle stick. It was cool.My favorite character in this movie is John Bender(Judd Nelson)He is very funny and i like his attitude.He starts a lot of trouble with people because he was raised poorly with his parents.He got burned with a cigar because he spilled paint on the garage.But i give this movie a 10 out of 10 because it has a theme to itRelation,friendship, and courage. "},{"Title":"The best movie i've ever seen!","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh my God what a wonderful movie, what a warm and special feeling this movie shares with you, it's amazing.I was only a kid back then in the 80's, but i grew up in those times, and i know i've always dreamed to be a part of that American high-school spirit.Take John Bender for example.He's my hero, the guy is amazing, he's the revolutionary, the rebel, the cool guy, it's amazing after all this years the spirit of the 80's never left some people's heart.I am one of those people.After watching the movie several times, i ended up with an ear piercing just like John Bender's, and i am 29 years old, soon to be 30! Amazing! I don't like to copy other people, but this movie is so great, it's a reminder of who we really are, and always should be young.That's wright, always stay young in your heart and the looks will follow.This is a movie that can be watched all over again, without getting bored, it's definitely a ten from my point of view.However i do must admit that the end of the movie left me with a sad sense of nostalgia, like a beautiful tale that must end eventually.I didn't like that.Still, for me this movie is and always be Number One.What is the message? Stay young! Always! "},{"Title":"Oscar BUMMER","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I forever have had Paul Gleason as my Image of what a Proctor/Principal would be only Strickland of The Back To The Future Trilogy coming in second NO mention of Paul's passing in May Of Last Year was Mentioned in tonight's Oscars -( My Name is Stx I was in An Academy Award Winner Almost Famous check out stx1138 on my space please and See Almost Famous if you haven't already, also my vision of a dream girl is Ally Sheedy as The Nut Case ;-) Thank you For Your time ~Michael Stx Lawler A Veteran to Detention ;-)I love This Movie I even bought the special Cleverly designed Old School Jean style canvas Blue three Ring Binder about the scale of a DVD case it also came with sixteen Candles and Weird Science and a bonus Music CD and it's drawn and scribbled on like in school etc etc All three of these movies shaped me into who I am today Check out my Blog on My Space I've listed my DVD collection there each movie holding a special place in my life like The Breakfast Club Thank You To all who worked on it!! Much Respect Huge (bows gracefully into the shadows) "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my all time favourite movie, i feel as a high school student myself it is a really touching film, i was literally glued to the screen and i have watched it many times since and never get bored anyone who doesn't like this has no taste in good movies. definitely one to watch, i have to say john Hughes really out did himself i have only seen a couple of his movies but this is definitely my favourite and according to a few sites i searched on google there is news of a sequel in the making so fingers crossed. All i can say is if you ever see this movie on DVD don't even take time to think, just go straight ahead and buy it, it will really touch you, I definitely recommend it. A+++++++++ 5 STAR "},{"Title":"Life lesson you already knew","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A group of high school students band together during their Saturday detention and learn about each other, and come to some very basic conclusions.While I used to enjoy this movie a whole lot more, I find that a lot of these John Hughes movies have lost their edge as I grew up. The drama of seeing Bender act out his home life is not shocking, it actually seems to be more like an annoying attention-getting device. The most enjoyable elements of the film are smaller things - seeing the purse dumped out, hearing Brian Johnson detail why he's in detention.... But the larger message of the movie is useless to most people who have finished high school, and come to the realization that the labels and social cliques are meaningless and a poor way to arrange life. That's not to say that the film isn't fun. It's just not really worth taking seriously.My favorite guilty pleasure - Emilio screaming and shattering the glass. "},{"Title":"A reunion","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a terrific movie when I was 16 when it came out in 1985. I have been wondering as my 20th high school reunion is approaching, why did they not make a sequel to the breakfast club. You know they heard principal Vernon had died and they all reach back into their memories and recall that day. Thery go back to the funeral and after go see the library and recount what happened to them the past 20 years. Some possibilitiesJohn Bender- turns out exactly as Vrnon predicted, angry and bitter. Working in Shermer as a roofer. Brian Johnson- Goes on to Yale and picks up the nickname wedgie, lives in Belfast Maine and is a Ob GYN (Bender jokes, about the only way he'd see a girl anatomy in person). Claire Standish- Went to Tufts and married a descendant of Cotton Mather and live on Beacon Hill in a loveless sexless marriage with 2 kids neither likes. Allison Reynolds- Goes to Art School in SF and is happy as a graphics designer in Spanish Fork Utah, has 3 kids and a devoted husband. Andrew Clark. Andrew Clark- went to Stanford to be close to Allison, they married after graduating. Andrew works as a history teacher and wrestling coach, has 3 girls and is a loving doting father and husband. Carl the Janitor- Still walking the hallowed halls pushing a broom.Hey John Hughes call me I have the script. "},{"Title":"4 Thumbs Up !!!!!","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This story mixed with the fabulous acting and script will be timeless/priceless/whateverelseless you want to think of.There are a hand full of movies which set a certain standard, benchmark. Until this date 28th July 2006, NO movie related to youth and school has ever match up to The Breakfast Club.People love these movies because some production company somewhere is trying to reach its standard, they will fail a thousands of times, but when they do finally succeed, it will make cinema history. When this time comes you will look back to its predecessor, The Breakfast Club and thank the fabulous cast and crew.Reprhasing Dave Chappelle, playing Rick James comments I wish I had more hands, so I could give this movie 4 thumbs up bohahahaha "},{"Title":"Once were teenagers","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was trying to summarize a philosophical piece, October '97, so tired of studying but not enough to go to bed.Turned on the TV with my legs on the table, started zapping as usual but immediately stopped on channel 4 as I saw a kid getting off a kind of SUV with the same expression on his face as mine every damned morning my parent used to drop me at school.No need to add anything about plot and stuff.It was 10 years before me and the moment I was living, my era the middle nineties, but they had not mobile as I hadn't, they got bad attitude and were divided in groups as I was, spirits and smoking as guys from my city... and above all that the same consciousness, fears, will to relate and over cross divisions exchanging differences and living real emotionsNow kids could have the same problems, same bad habits But something lacksSociety in Italy as in France and I guess in the States has changed so muchI don't think this movie can transmit and infuse something to teenagers nowadays, as it did till my generation1980 is the border "},{"Title":"Clever and engaging Brat pack comedy drama.","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I only ever discovered this movie through an episode of Dawson's Creek I have to admit. It was an episode where the main characters of that show find themselves on Saturday detention and actually make reference to the film. It was only a few years later when I had taped a documentary off BBC One about Star Wars that I actually got around to seeing the movie itself as it was on straight after, prompting me to remember as the film was about to start, oh yeah, that Dawson's Creek film. Suffice to say I enjoyed the movie immensely and it was only after a recent screening on Irish television that I got around to buying it on DVD, the day after said screening. I was surprised to find the film somewhat deeper, a little more intense and surprisingly philosophical when I watched it recently, seeing that there is a lot more going on here than unresolved sexual tension issues and pot smoking going on. This is a film about the fears of young adulthood and the even bigger fears of actually growing old and how disappointing life can be. This may be a film for teenagers, but it surprising how adult it can be, and how much a twenty one year old, or even someone older, can actually get something out of this film. Forget the fun and games of Ferris Bueller, as good as it it is, this is probably John Hughes' best film, offering up something more darker, but something ultimately a little uplifting, about a bunch of characters looking into themselves at a young age and not necessarily liking what they are seeing.The performances from all the cast are first rate, with special mention to Judd Nelson and Ally Sheedy. Estevez, Ringwald and Hall are fine also, but these two get the best characters to play with, as do Paul Gleason and John Kapelos as two bitter school employees also realizing how disappointing life can be (a little note, keep a look out for the middle photo during the opening shots at the start of the movie to see how clever this film actually is, not to mention subtle). Add to this one of the best theme songs written for a film, in this case Don't You Forget About Me by Simple Minds, and what we have here is a bona fide 80's teen classic and an example of how teen movies today are nowhere near as good as they were when they had the Brat Pack starring in them. Today's teen movies are full of too much bad taste humour and stars who can't act, they aren't full of the pathos and genuine humour that this, and many other films, at the time had. I don't know about anybody else, but that makes me feel quite sad. "}{"Title":"Don't Forget About Me","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Geek, Basketcase, Jock, Princess,and Rebel what do they have in common nothing but each other-Tagline. The Breakfast Club follows 5 students in Saturday morning detention. Their all their for different reasons but find they connect to one another. This film is beautiful when you see it you'll remember the people at your school you see everyday. The so-called loner, rebel, smart, geek,shy,preppie, ex. Were all the same. This film makes me want to have detention with these types of people I see everyday. Just one day to be treated with respect to be the same. I could never forget about this film see it if you haven't.They only met once, but it changed their lives forever-Tagline. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie amazing?","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simple, it's about bringing people together. It paved the way for millions of movies, while teaching the world that it is possible for everyone to just get along. We conducted character studies in a Psycology class at my high school. It revolved around this movie. We analyzed the characters. I took the class just because of that assignment. However, I learned more about myself in one semester, than I have in my entire life. I'm not sure if all that is relevant. The point is...The Breakfast Club is a versatile movie that will stand the test of time. Every person on Earth can identify with at least one of the characters. After all, aren't we all a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess, or a criminal? "},{"Title":"This movie had taught my HighSchool a lot.","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pretty much my high school class from freshman to senior year has watched this film. This movie has really taught my class about getting to know people. This is an excellent film to learn about how judging other people before getting to know them. The kids didn't know each other at first but they taught their selves something so important that you can never forget about in all of life. My school has been affected by this movie. Not only the students may i add, but the teachers as well. They would not choose to show this film for the fun and entertainment. They chose it because it really teaches you a life long lesson. They learned that themselves when they watched this movie for the first time. I think The Breakfast Club is inspirational. "},{"Title":"Are we really like this","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club poses this question. Do we, or have we been stereotypical and conformed to a school society. Have there been the Jocks, Beauty Queens, Loafers, Brainiacs, Bullies, Loners, Psychopaths, Sociopaths, The Popular, The Pretenders, The Brave, The Noble...etc etc... To be honest, I never noticed... not until I watched The Breakfast Club. And if this is the case. I wonder two things. 1 How do we shake the stereotypes 2 Can we change on just one random meeting with a bunch of strangersMaybe, maybe not... but all that can be said is that this film really impressed me, and made me think about things I never considered before.John Hughes directs, this funny little film, full of attitude, and a brat pack of student players, who are both realistic and enjoyable to watch. I recommend this film heartily, and think that most would enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"A hard to forget film","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a perfect film from start to finish. Each actor was able to portray their character perfectly. From John Bender, played by Judd Nelson, and his constant lack respect for others, to Brian Johnson, played by Anthony Michael Hall, and his need to stick to the rules. This movie used both comedy and high school drama to portray the lives of teenagers. This film can show teens a different point of view other than their own, and can give adults a view on how hard a teens life really can be.John Bender was your average I don't give a s**t about no one and nothing, guy. As soon as the movie starts you know that he won't sit quiet during his stay in Saturday. Brian Johnson was John's polar opposite. Stuck to the rules and always got A's in school, but this movie showed just how hard it is to be like that when you're going to school. Even the popular kids, princess Clair Standish and athlete Andrew Clark, have trouble with pressure to be cool from their friends, and a lack of real love from their parents. And the one person that no one knows the story of, the basket case Allison Reynolds, played by Ally Sheedy. As a way of making her look like a nobody, you don't even hear her name once throughout the entire movie. This movie shows everyone, that no matter how different you think you are, we all have one thing in common. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club and its theme are universal","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As an exchange student from Holland I walked in blindly when I went to an American high school. I was only 18, my English was not too good, but it was such an big adventure that all the difficulties didn't matter. It opened my eyes on America from the inside, and, especially, how people deal with each other in that country.The way the teenagers in The Breakfast Club could be described as purely American by (mostly) Europeans who have never been to the United States. These people tend to think that, when they see a movie like this, the American way of interaction is (over)dramatized and that they would never talk the way the teenagers do in TBC.Wrong. I have traveled quite a bit in both North-America and Europe and I have met people from all over the world. These kind of conversations, the entire process of opening up to each other, are universal. Whenever people end up together in a situation similar to the one in TBC, they start doing the same thing. And that's exactly what makes the movie and its theme so recognizable for people all around the world. The American setting doesn't matter. It could have been filmed in a Dutch windmill and still have the same effect on Americans and other nationalities.And so even skeptic Europeans have to admit that this movie is a classic. And trust me, all the people around me who have seen it do. They think that The Breakfast Club is simply brilliant. And right they are! The dialogs, the scenario, the directing, the music and the acting all come together as one big thing. As a whole. It's so touching. Viewers feel what the characters feel and wonder what they would do and say in a situation similar to the one in TBC. I think we should thank John Hughes for leaving generations to come with such a state of the art motion picture! "},{"Title":"Wow, need to be seen again - so good!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Really great movie, I'm so impressed of both the actors for their talents and the director for putting it together. It starts out quite good as well, by beginning with the end so to say, I like it. And you can't really help adoring the 'bad guy', which must mean that he's playing his role as he should. impressing... Actually, you tend to like everybody the more you see of the movie - by getting to know them so sincere. I think the director has done an excellent job in the development of the movie, he doesn't handle you over the whole cake, he gives you one piece at time - and it works! And it's not that predictable either. Sure, you might possibly figure some things out after a while - but it's not a movie that works like that. It's a story about peoples' life, how they are and why they are. It gets to you, can't avoid it. And I have to get this one, cause I can't let my friends life through life without having seen it ) "},{"Title":"Must be 43 times now...","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have just watched the Breakfast Club for what must be the forty third time, if I remember rightly. And I loved it just as much as when I first saw it, two months ago.Being a typical teenager, (aged 13) I was actually sceptical to see this film. It has what I think is probably the most inappropriate name for such a good film. In fact, when a friend suggested I watched it, I believed it to be a club, where people went to eat breakfast.I don't know whether it's the simple but heart tearing dialogues throughout the movie, the obvious attracting vibes running through four of the characters, or the amazing long scene where they are coming down from the cannabis, but something in this movie means that when I watch it, I can still feel the tensions between them just as I did the first time I saw it.Not only giving a star performance, all five teenagers put their heart and soul into their performances, and it really shows. They have striking differences, but still they manage to come together as the breakfast club in the end.Also adding a sinister feel is the corrupted principal of the school, who takes it upon himself to be rude to all the students, and in particular Bender. Adding a random but amusing character is the Janitor, who struck me also as rather sinister, when he revealed that he spied on all of the students when they least expected it, and went through their lockers.I thought this was an absolutely amazing film, and will probably remain one of my favourites for a very long time. When the end came, I insisted on watching it again and again, because its endless dialogue was never wasted. I would recommend this to anyone, as it is a great movie, and I would love it if there had been a sequel. As it is, all the actors are now in their forties, so it probably wouldn't have the same teenage effect. "},{"Title":" Inspiring, not the same crap that we are used to see","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has it all good acting performance, good direction, excellent script, great story which is very well taken from the beginning to the end leaving you with a phenomenal taste. I recommend this movie to all ages but specially to teens teens because you may feel a little more connected with the characters,I must add that I actually don't give much 10's but this movie has the something that turns a great movie into a memorable one, do not miss it, totally recommendable, probably the best of the 80's films, i don't tell what's about because you must go to see a movie without expecting or knowing anything about it in order to enjoy it at the maximum point, good bye and enjoy the world of movies. "},{"Title":"Don't you...  Forget about me.","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" That line from the end song really is one of the big messages in the movie. I guess it's a spoiler which is why I put the warning, but the scene where they realize who is going to still be friends come Monday is one of the big points of the movie in my opinion. The song's statement goes right along side it, don't you forget about me... come Monday, don't act like we aren't friends just because of your social circle. I think one of the greatest things about this movie is that it applies to each new generation. Some people may say it helped define a generation or an era, but I say it helps show who we are as people, prejudiced against that which we don't know and understand, laughing at it and calling it names so it won't come near us so we don't have to try and understand it. That's... What I think comes from The Breakfast Club. Now, there are other reason's to see it, like the scene where everyone is dancing around, some of the famous lines, or just to see Allison in action (My favorite character). However, you could get stuff like that from other movies, what I said first isn't in a lot of movies and that's why I would recommend it to anyone not afraid of language (Because it does have that). If that does scare you off however, a similar, though perhaps not quite as solid, statement is made in the movie Mean Girls which is surprisingly good in my opinion and I would recommend that anyone with teenagers in high school watch it. So yeah, see The Breakfast Club, it's worth it. "}{"Title":"5 completely different kids have to spend a whole day with each other.","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is really a great movie. this movie is very interesting and entertaining. the characters are really complex. this movie really focuses on real life high schools and really lets you relate to the 5 totally opposite characters. the movie also has great music and award winning acting. the characters only see each other as a brain, or a jock, or a princess, or a basket case, or a criminal but they will soon find out that they were wrong. i think besides some language The Breakfast Club is a great movie for all ages. the biggest reason i like it is because the movie is truthful and real so if you have every felt left out or if you were the most popular person in school either way you will like it. "},{"Title":"Excellent examination of high school social groups","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a look into the social classes of High Schools; it's not another one of those main stream teen movies that have cheesy comedy scenes and out of the blue romantics.This film shows us the real deal. The side of adolescences that is rarely shared with the world. The characters come from all different back rounds and show us that they are rational, intelligent, and caring. That they are human.Bottom Line A must see, true to life classic that will make you rethink teens. I would recommend it for anyone who is going into high school, or currently in high school. But it can also be a reminder for those who have long sensed passed the great wasteland that is public schooling. "},{"Title":"Classic teen comedy movie","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 2nd movie in my 1980s teen movie marathon.I watched this movie for the first time today with my mum and my sister and i thought that this movie would be good but it turned out to be one of the best teen movies ever made and it is the best teen movie i have ever seen.There is an all star cast in this movie with actors and actress like Anthony Michael Hall,The great actor Emilio Estevz,The beautiful and talented actress Molly Ringwald,Judd Nelson,Ally Sheedy and Paul Gleason.The best character in this movie is John Bender acted by Judd Nelson and what i liked about his character is all of his great come backs and he has a great rebel attitude and his clothes where great.over all this movie is great and it is a must watch movie and u will love this movie no matter how old u are and my rating for this movie is 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"And you thought that your problems were extreme","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The very first Brat Pack flick (there had been others but not with the entire group). There are only a few missing like Rob Lowe and Demi Moore from St. Elmo's Fire. It is nothing like any of the undergraduate slob films like Porky's and the MeatBalls series. This flick tries to take teen angst seriously and it examines the various types you will find in high school, like the jock, the nerd, etc.Judd Nelson gives the performance he would be called upon to do again and again, the angry loner who has a terrible home life and who always seems to know everything much better than you. Not that his acting isn't good here but you get weary of seeing him shout and be provocative to everybody in the course of almost 2 hours. He would retread his character here in Blue City and Fandango and finally he couldn't get any choice films to his credit. The other Brat Packers do not have as flashy a presence as Nelson and you can see why they had trouble finding work after the craze was over.As for the film itself it is rather original. To set almost the entire movie in a class room was a bit of a gamble, especially since such high voltage action films like Beverly Hills Cop and Top Gun would dominate the box office for most of the middle to late 80's. There has to be some pretty impressive dialog to hold the audience's interest and nobody could write it like John Hughes. The fact that the F-word is spoken frequently was probably shocking to a lot of adults at the time and that is probably why it has an R rating.Be warned, though, that this is not a comedy and anyone who is expecting it will be sorely disappointed. John Hughes has also written great comedies like Planes, Trains and Automobiles but the mood of this picture can be interpreted as terribly depressing. There are some scattered laughs but it is only because the adult characters, especially the principal is such buffoons that you laugh derisively at them. All in all I will say that even though the pace is enormously slow the viewing of this film should not be missed because after all the Brat Pack was talented and they were fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Best of the '80s teen flicks","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It's a teen movie but it's not sugar-coated. It's realistic and a little bit gritty with memorable characters. You have all your stereotypical high school characters (the popular girl, the geek, the jock, the bad boy, and the weird girl), but you eventually find out that there's more to them than their labels. The popular girl's parents are bitterly divorced and her mother's an alcoholic, the geek is under enormous pressure to get good grades from his parents, the bad boy has an abusive and neglectful father and (expectantly) does badly at school, the jock is under enormous pressure to be tough and do good at sports from his father, and the weird girl's parents ignore her. They see that all have similar problems and are more alike than they first thought. They come out of the school building more open-minded. A miracle has just occurred five high school kids who normally wouldn't give each other the time of day have become friends. This movie is unusual in that has a powerful message that teens can relate to. It's a reminder of a lost era when teen movies had substance and weren't presented as a stereotypical product of the teen movie machine, horrible scripts and all. I hope someday that era can be brought back. "},{"Title":"2nd to Risky Business","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Breakfast Club is definitive of great 80's dramedies. I rank it 2nd to Risky Business which is more grown-up, soul-felt, and has the best music and soundtrack with Tangerine Dream. The Breakfast Club deals pretty well with teen issues even if sort of cookie-cutterish. It too has great music in its own right to push it into the high excellence class. It stands out as a page in time moving farther and farther away. Sure its not really close to some of the great films in cinema, and with that comment growing up with this movie puts these opinions as biased. Still all the cast are memorable if a little shy in general. John Hughes has in this one of his best movies. It's quick and heartfelt with believable character growth. And it's great to revisit every-so-often. Judd Nelson stands out in his performance even if he doesn't much resemble a high-schooler. Paul Gleason also is quite convincing as a burnt-out educator disciplinarian. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made, in my opinion.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great movie. Teenage classic. As a teenager myself, I relate to many of these characters. Everyone was perfect in this movie. I have no problems with it whatsoever. It is probably one of the closest relations to actual teenage/high school life that I have ever seen on the big screen (Most of those movies are totally exaggerated and idiotic. People aren't setting fire to things in the school lawn and there aren't massive Junior girl fights in the corridors,at least not where I go to school). All of my friends love this movie and, like me, can see themselves in each one of the characters, even though they are all so different. That is what makes this movie so profound and excellent. Perfect. I can't say too much else. I'm going to buy it as soon as I can get to the mall again.And to those who don't like it, I have one thing to say. Eat my shorts. ) "},{"Title":"Essential","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In John Hughes' classic 80's film The Breakfast Club, five people from five different clicks of the high school realm are forced to sit together for one Saturday due to their reckless behavior. The group consisting of, a brain, and an athlete, and a basket case, a princess, and a criminal, learn what it is like living in their shoes.The brain is Anthony Michael Hall and his character Brian is one of the more complex. He needs to keep his grades up so he can survive his home life. All seems fine in his world but little does the Breakfast Club know it is anything but.Andy is the athlete played by Emilio Estevez, is the person who always can fight his way out of a situation. If something needs to get done, he can do it. This pressure is poured onto him by his father. The wrestling team needs him and this Saturday session is the key to continuing his quest for college.Ally Sheedy plays the part of the basket case named Allison. She is the oddball of the group. With her secretive, quiet, and sometimes disturbing attitude, she is the one who must truly find out what she really is and what she wants out of life.The princess is played by Molly Ringwald. Claire is so self absorbed that even if she became friends with someone there she wouldn't tell anyone because it would ruin her reputation of being perfect and popular.Last but not least is the criminal played by Judd Nelson. As the smart-ass of the club, John Bender (just called Bender) feels like he runs the show. Always nipping back at Principal Vernon (Paul Gleason) who runs this Saturday detention. Nelson delivers a mind blowing performance as this trash talking, punk dressing, and domestically abused teenager.Director John Hughes could not miss with any of his pictures in the 80's. Sixteen Candles, Ferris Buehler's Day Off, PLanes, Trains, and Automobiles, and Uncle Buck. All done within 5 years. All are priceless. This picture stands out among them.What makes this movie so memorable is the dialogue shared between these characters. They would have never met if it wasn't for this detention on a Saturday. They never would have shared so many deep, intimate thoughts that otherwise might have stayed locked up in the vault. Each person tells their story of where they come from and why they are there giving us a feeling of relief in the end.With all the pieces put together, you get one hell of a movie and one that will be remembered for generations to come. Who could ever forget Claire's lipstick trick? "},{"Title":"A classic forever","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie had great characters. It also had a funny dialog, and great actors. Bender portrayed a wonderful criminal, and Emilio Estevez's character was artfully played. I really felt that I was seeing into what a teen in John Bender's situation would be feeling. The scene where he was yelling at Molly Ringwald's character touched me. I agreed completely with Bender's accusations. I felt that at the end of the movie I knew the characters well. The direction in this movie was astounding. I couldn't believe how well the director cast the characters. Allison was a hysterical yet deep addition to the cast. I wished I could have been friends with them. See this movie, you can't miss it. A complete classic for years and years to come. "},{"Title":"Classical 80's","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one movie that can never be redone, there are no movies now days that are quite the same. Teen movies are just not the same, they contain no plots other than, crushes, sex and vulgar scenes that just aren't worth the 8 dollars to go see in the movies. If you haven't seen this film you are missing out on a great movie. Although it is overly dramatic and filled with clichés, the unison of 5 teenage opposites is a tale only once told. You will recognize many scenes that are used in other movies. This is a crucial movie for any movie buff to see. It contains movie history and may give you a better view of other scenes. This is by far one of the best 80's movies you can see and will be well worth the 3 dollars to rent it. You probably could find it in a friends library of movies. Happy Movie Watching. "}{"Title":"Writing like this is hard to find","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a credit to the writing of this movie that I came away from it desperate for a sequel but hoping one would never be made. I love this movie and the five characters as so fragile that it looks like they may shatter at any moment, yet find a collective strength Anyone who's seen this film knows it switches from melancholy to funny to confrontational in the blink of an eye, but there is a method to the madness. Unlike modern teen flicks where there is the predictable X and Y are different, grow to like each other, big fight, reunion, this film is a little more insightful to teenage angst and emotion, that being completely unpredictable Set over the course of half a day, there is no film i've ever seen where you emotionally invest in the characters so much you want to see what happened to them all after that day, even though you know they are merely fictional characters. To make a sequel (or even worse, a remake) would spoil this movie entirely Timeless "},{"Title":"The good times...","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was not quite thrilled with this movie when I saw it back in 1997---but being in 9th grade, I didn't quite get it so much as I do now.A crew of High Schoolers is put in detention on a Saturday for various mis-doings during the course of their day at school, therefore, they are punished with Saturday detention (which actually was never done in my school, but I also wasn't in High School in the eighties). There you have the Jock, The hood, The Princess, the nut, and the Brain trapped with their fire breathing dragon of a principal.The thing that I really loved was how they all start off showing the closed mindedness of each student towards the other and all the assumptions they made and then lead into the whole We stick together thing. They all make inaccurate assumptions about each other and then really understand that the lines placed on students and cliques is all man made and they cross those lines and blur them. In the end, two of the guys and both girls get involved with each other (and the total opposite of each other ends up together) and the brain stays smart and stays single! More of a coming of age thing but a go against the standards and rulings of peers thing! The best performance was by Judd Nelson, playing John Bender. Anyone else would not have fit the part as well as he did, I don't care who it is. I believe that the part was made for him and only he could pull it off so well and Molly Ringwald's performance in their tension scenes and argument scenes was amazing---they played off of each other's energy and emotion and took it further. Also noteworthy is Ally Sheedy, Anthony Michael Hall, and Emilio Estevez---all 5 played well off of each other and fed off of each other to carry the movie the way it went. The script was well written, but if the acting was no good, even the best script can go bad. Paul Gleason was also excellent in his role and his reactions and sternness really set a great tone, especially with his anger toward John Bender.Well done, a great classic, 10/10 "},{"Title":"The next screw that  falls out is going to be you!","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast club is one of the best teen movies ever made. Although this film is low budget, I found this film to be very precise and realistic to what high school environments are all about. Its about five high school students that attend a high school detention session one Saturday and all became good friends by the end of the session.What I found realistic about this film is how the director John Hughes managed to include every social class that children have in the high school environment. You've got Brian Johnson (Michael Anthony Hall) the nerd, John Bender(Judd Nelson) as the rebel punk, Claire Standish(Molly Ringwold) as the prude, Allison Reynolds(Ally Sheely) as the weirdo and Andrew Clarke (Emilio Estevez) as the jock. You even have Richard Vernon as the strict angry teacher(Paul Gleason) which stereotypes a typical example of an American teacher. What I also liked about this film was the brilliant acting, especially Judd Nelson who played John Bender for without him this film wouldn't have been half as good as it was. Although he was a punk, I found his persona quite cool and yet funny in the ways he behaved with his piers and his teacher Richard Vernon. Even though John Bender was in the wrong with Mr. Vernon and how Mr. Vernon got the best of him, I did respect John for standing up for himself against his teacher and for getting the best of Mr. Vernon by escaping from the room he was locked up in by Mr. Vernon and without Mr. Vernon knowing about it. I loved the scene when he yelled out to Mr. Vernon f**k you when Mr.Vernon left the room. Anyway, if you haven't seen this film then you should definitely watch it, for I believe the moral of this film is that whatever social class your apart of whether your a nerd, a jock, a prude, a weirdo or a rebel, we're all the same, no persons better than the next. "},{"Title":"Classic eighties","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is for me a manifestation of USA in the eighties. Or I should say a climax of what I, as a non American, experienced as an array of culturally strong movies. John Huges is credited for more than a handful of good movies, always oozing of the American way of life, and he doesn't fail to deliver here. Molly Ringwold, Emilio Estavez, Anthony M. Hall and Judd Nelson all perform brilliantly in this stream of classic remarks. This is one of those movies where you learn all the lines of by heart; quoting an inquisitive John Bender as he asks Pricipal Dick Vernon ... does Barry Manilow know that you're raiding his waredrobe?!. As a teenager I watched this over and over again, and I firmly believe it has added to my understanding of one of the most powerful cultures of the eighties. I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"this movie would have to be in any 1980s time capsule !!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is probably one of my 10 favorite movies of all time. I agree with many of the reviewers that it really captures the 1980s feel and what it was like to be a teenager in high school then, or really at any time. If you had to pick 5 movies to represent the 1980s, this movie would have to be included. In fact, this is one of the few movies that if I'm home and I see it's on TV, I will try to stop what I'm doing and watch it, even though I've seen it probably 10 times. I was in high school from 1984 to 1988 so I remember when the movie came out although I think I first saw it when I rented it about a year later.On a personal note, I agree this movie does a great job of showing the hardships teenagers go through, wanting to feel popular but also wanting to establish their own identity. My parents got divorced when I was in 11th grade and I can not say that high school was a good time in my life. I mean I had a small circle of friends but like most teens, they were awkward years. However, I've come to see that in many ways things were simpler then. As time goes by, I enjoy more and more keeping in touch with some of my high school friends.If you want a movie that will make you somewhat nostalgic for high school, this movie is it. "},{"Title":"Great character movie.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For the fans of movies with some good character development this is a must see.The Breakfast Club truly is a movie with some brilliant character development and good dialogs. You'll have to like this kind of movie to fully appreciate this movie however. The main actors, Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Anthony Michael Hall and Ally Sheedy all give some brilliant performances. It's hard to believe that that kid Anthony Michael Hall is the same guy that would later play Johnny Smith in The Dead Zone TV-series, I would never had recognized him!But to me the movie is not exactly perfect. I didn't particularly liked the ending and I've said it many times before but let me say it again; The 80's music is absolutely horrible! And did people really danced to 80's music like they did in this movie? Because holy poop, that was scary!All in all a perfectly watchable movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One of the classics","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thoroughly enjoy watching this movie. I was just about 5 when this movie first came out, but as I've gotten older, every time I see it, I think it's a classic from a good time in my life growing up. I think it's part of a dying breed of movies where people can actually act. Look at movies nowadays.... Just a bunch of special effects, and pretty crappy acting, if you even want to call it that. Watching this movie kind of gives you a good idea on how different the lifestyles and backgrounds are of people you hardly ever come in contact with now, let alone the ones you never even meet. I don't know what you think about it, but it's just a really good movie. I can't say that about a whole lot of movies that have come out of the 80's. "},{"Title":"The best high school movie of the 80's","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Hughes has to be the best director of all teen movies!!!this movie has become one of the most talked about teen movies of all time. With all its hype, this movie certainly deserves every speck of attention, because of its brilliance. 80's is considered to be the era of the underdog, when it dealt with movies. However forget about all of that - and watch this. It has the charm of 'feel good', together with the fabulous cast, all matched perfectly to suit their characters. Most impressive performance in this movie is by Judd Nelson and Ally Sheedy. The script to this movie is brilliant, and the directing is just the same. If this movie were only released now, with the same directing and script, it would still be a massive hit, because its pure teen fun. "},{"Title":"Who Would've Thought...","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There have been countless great stories told over time, so much so it's a wonder where directors get original ideas anymore. If someone told me now (much less back in 1985) that making a movie about five teenagers spending a Saturday in detention was going to top the charts, I wouldn't have believed them. But I'd be wrong, as that is exactly what The Breakfast Club did/does. This film leaves an immortal quality with it because it's so archetypal or universal. It shows use the insides of a group of teenagers who might, on the surface, appear totally different from one another but realize they are more alike than they ever could imagine. The brilliance in the film is in introducing five characters together, watching the hostilities/personas flare, and then seeing the stereotypes fade away as the delinquents begin to bond. All of this transpires during an era (the 80's) that seemed to leave its own legacy, producing The Breakfast Club in its wake. And childhood stars back then went on to become greater things Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall (reminds me of my brother), and Ally Sheedy. Obviously, much of this cast needs no introduction and in seeing The Breakfast Club it's obvious how talented they were, especially Ringwald and Hall who were 17 at the time. It's sort of strange how in most films or television series they use older actors to play younger roles. Seeing Judd Nelson stomp around and act like a seventeen or eighteen old when he was really twenty-six at the time is hilarious in retrospect. It's makes Ringwald and Hall's performances all the more miraculous in being able to deliver the goods at such a young age (but then again maybe they were just acting like themselves at the time).I really can't give any part of the movie away to readers. But my belabored emphasis is because it's so good. It takes everything that makes a teenager a teenager (all the pastimes, rights of passage, peer pressure, and acting cool) and bottles it all up and shakes it around. Out come the pieces of five individuals who spend the day together and realize more about life (and themselves) than probably most people do. 9/10! "},{"Title":"Don't you forget about me - Trust me, I won't!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie begins and ends with one of my favorite songs from the eighties Don't you from the Simple Minds. In the beginning you think this is just a song, but at the end you understand the true meaning of it for this movie.The movie is about five teenagers who all have a completely different background. They have absolutely nothing in common, they never talked to each other before and they never would, but somehow they will have to get through eight hours of detention. Of course they hate each other, but before the day is over they find out that they have more in common than they thought.This is a teen movie, but it certainly isn't a typical one. I mean no teens that get killed, not a lot of screaming... No, this is an intelligent and timeless movie in which every one of us will recognize something from him or herself. It was shot in 1985, but it still hasn't lost its relevance. The different characters are perhaps a little bit stereotypical, but I don't consider that as a bad thing. It helps you to identify the different types of people that can be found in a large community like a school.I really liked this movie and I would recommend it to everybody. Teens can recognize themselves in it and adults know all to well what it was like being a teenager. This is certainly one of the best eighties movies. I give this movie an 8/10. "}{"Title":"Positive Feedback With Great Enthusiasm!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is definitely a MUST SEE movie whether you like 80's movies or not. This is one of the top 5 80's movies in my opinion and it's in my top 10 list of all movies. Great cast, great characters, very well done! Some people I know who have seen the movie feel closterphobic because it's done mostly in one room and never leaves the school (except for the opening and closing credits). This is the same kind of reaction I've gotten from watching and knowing people who have watched Panic Room. However, it wasn't the same for me. Don't let the one setting deter you from watching or liking the movie. It is done very well and there's plenty of room for their antics and mischief. "},{"Title":"This movie only for the non-cynical","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to get all bent out of shape about some of the cynical, arrogant remarks about this movie, even though, yeah, they do really irritate me.Plain and simple this movie rocked my childhood and rocks my adulthood and it always will. As do Pretty In Pink and Sixteen Candles. It may not be a cinematic wonder like The English Patient, but at bare minimum, it keeps me awake. Richard Callaghan, the fact that you've picked this movie apart like your own creepy autopsy makes me sad for you. As a matter of fact, I would bet my life that The English Patient is one of your favorite movies. With that said, don't you forget about me!  "},{"Title":"Well hell, let's watch Lethal Weapon 4","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what the hell moonspinner is talking about. You can pull negative criticism out of your ass on any movie. He is missing the point. This is the archetype for the daily lives of teenagers.. yeah, their characters are cliché, but they need to be. This is quite simply the definitive paradigm for teenage life in the modern west. The western free world, being inherently capitalist, creates certain dilemmas which this movie deals with. Many of these problems wouldn't be inherent in a different socio political culture, but they are, being that we are here rather than there, and we need to realize just what happens to us and those others, the latter and the former congruent to age, where these things become prominent. Most kids are a mixture of all of these types, but it's important to divide them (and cliché them) in order to get the point across---definitely for clarity's sake. This movie is excellent.  "},{"Title":"dope movie","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i heard of this movie before and although i was born 3 years after this movie i still enjoyed it. what got me to watch it was after i saw an episode of degrassi the next generation, Take On Me. i heard it was very similar to The Breakfast Club about five students in Saturday detention who were all opposites, nerd, criminal, outcast, jock, and a popular princess. the thing about this movie is that it was more realistic than almost all the movies/shows about high schoolers. the principal wasn't nice and perfect as most movies and shows make authority figures out to be and the students didn't watch their language or bite their toung in front of the principal. that right there, is real. that is how my school is. i loved this movie and i just found it in my basement last night and watched it again this morning...i am going to get the DVD soon. this is a movie that probably anyone would enjoy.  "},{"Title":"The best teen film of the 1980's and beyond.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would have to say that this movie about teens is the best in the 1980's and beyond,this movie really gets to the heart of what being a teenager can be and the pain of been a teenager.Five teenagers having to spend a whole Saturday in detention at first didn't know one another but got to become friends.Andrew Clark(Emilio Estevez),John Bender(Judd Nelson),Allison Reynolds(Ally Sheedy),Clair Standish(Molly Ringwald),and Brian Johnson(Anthony Michael Hall) learned more about each other as time went on.The principal Richard Vernon(Paul Gleason)looked down at them like they were very bad people,not realizing they are human like him,but learned some things from Carl the Janitor(John Kapelos)about being a teen.The gang starting to bare their souls about the way their parents treated them,that really showed that their differences do not outway their similarities.All friendships start out that way.This film really talked to me in many ways,I am an 80's man,I miss the days.This film I give 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars.The soundtrack is so awesome,Simple Minds Don't You Forget About Meis an awesome song and the other songs like We Are Not Aloneby Karla Devito is a super song.I recommend buying the Soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"one of the great movies of the 80's","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved it! The first time I saw it, my expression was whoa. Yeah I know that if you read the summary of this movie you might think it's a little corny, hey when I think about it, it is corny, but it's still a very cool movie. The acting was great, you actually felt where they were coming from. Also, it showed and stated a lot of feelings that kids go through at this age, but most people wouldn't like to admit and talk about. It makes feel like your in their world, and makes you think What if they were real people? which basically answers the question, because there are people like all of them, in all of us. So if you haven't seen it, your losing out.  "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club is truly one great movie!","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is fantastic. I first watched on TV, and then my friends brought it over and we watched it on DVD. It's just a really well put together movie, with an all-star cast. The story plot is amazing, how many people can get away today with just five teens in a library talking about their problems? Each kid figured out something new about himself, as well as everyone else. I love how in the end 'Andy' falls for the 'Kook'...my favorite scene is when they are all dancing around the library and just enjoying each others company. Another is the dramatic scene when they are sitting together and learning the reasons why each one of them is in detention for. Judd played one of the best rolls in my opinion...many teens have to face living with unloving parents and abusive ones as well. His character can relate to many troubled teens in our society today. Judd also added a lot of humor to the film as well. This movie is a lot of fun to watch, and is definitely one my favorites.  "},{"Title":"Hugh School Classic....","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rating * * * *Five students spend nine hours in the school library on Saturday serving detention. All of them are different as night and day one is a princess busted for ditching class to hit the mall. One is the jock, taking a prank way too far. Another is a kook, making up lies to suit her needs. Still another is the brain, but even smart people do stupid things and finally the criminal, willing to break all the rules without a second thought. By lunch they ripped each other to shreds. But by four o'clock they became the best of friends. They were&#133;.The Brat Pack (oops, I mean The Breakfast Club). By the time I had got into junior high in 1987, the Breakfast Club had become a perennial prerequisite for kids in school (much like say Fast Times at Ridgemont High). Surprising well written and acted, John Hughes shows that he has the knack for killer high school films (Sixteen Candles, Weird Science and Ferris Bueller's Day Off) that entertain while being occasionally sentimental and dramatic. Twenty years later it should still be shown to all high schoolers and is a classic in its' genre.  "},{"Title":"GREATEST MOVIE EVER!","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is the greatest movie ever created. All the actors in the movie are awesome and all play their parts extremely well. The movie goes from one funny thing to the next and there is never a dull moment. Anyone who hasn't seen this movie should. It is def. worth buying and watching it over and over again. This movie is good because it shows all the different kinds of people in high school, a brain, a jock, a beauty, a rebel, and a recluse. And how they all came together and formed a friendship. The Breakfast Club has comedy, drama, and romance...which all comes together to make the movie the greatest. This is my all time favorite movie.....so nobody diss The Breakfast Club. Without lamps there would be no light. -John Bender  "},{"Title":"Rated R... yet Teens are the ones who need to see this film","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just had the pleasure of watching this movie again.Despite the very dated 80's music and fashion, this film... and 20 years on, the teens are now parents ) still deals with Teenage years in the same way it did back then.Ignore the fact that some of the Brat Pack of actors are in the movie, this film is the quintessential (or something spelt close to it) teen movie.They need to change it from R to PG-13 and show it in schools.Teens... you are not alone... run this an Office Space as a double feature. "}{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I adore this movie to bits,(mainly because of Judd Nelson) It makes you laugh and cry, and gives you a complete new outlook on life. It gives you a little bit of all the worlds; From prep, to jock to geek to outcast to bad boy. At times in the movie you have to think, They're more alike than they know! The only real shocker to me, is that The jock ended up with the outcast, and the prep with the bad boy. In a lot of ways you know their lives changed forever, which gives a good feeling inside. If only the real world was as good as this movie! The part that really touched me the most was when they were discussing stuff on the floor and Bryan brought up where they would be in the future. If you haven't seen this movie yet, do so now. It deserves 5 thumbs up. *I love Judd!*  "},{"Title":"Don't You Forget About Me","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Directed by John Hughes and starring Brat Packers Emilio Estevez, Ally Sheedy, Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, and Anthony Michael Hall, The Breakfast Club is THE quintessential '80s teen movie. The plot is simple enough five kids from five different cliques are stuck in Saturday detention together. They talk and get to know one another, eventually realizing how alike they are. It's the getting there that's fun. The characters and dialogue are very well done (and its a good thing, because that's really all there is). The kids in the cast are great, and you have to love that theme song by Simple Minds. If you haven't seen this one yet, where have you been? "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to Anthony Michael Hall?","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The sheer idea for this 80's epic The Breakfast Club (1985) is a very simple concept about how five American teenage students were faced with spending a Saturday together in detention at their local school. Director/writer/producer John Hughes took this everyday scenario and transformed it into a film that highlights many questions, which the average teenager faces in those 'troublesome years'. It's a story about how these five students whom to the outside world were simply seen as a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess and a criminal could somehow find a common ground and become good, firm friends. The students address major ideological issues such as sex, drugs, generation gaps and the pressure to succeed. As with all 80's films, which target the teen audience, the soundtrack boasts an impressive ensemble of raw talent in the form of the hit single 'Don't You' by Simple Minds and includes hits from Wang Chung among others. I liked the fact that very little effects were used (except for Emilio Estefez's legendary dance sequence) this added to the realism. Also its slow paced narrative was true to how real life is and the fact that things don't occur all the time and that especially appealed to me.The dialogue used is rife with slang terms and it gives the film a sense of realism and you don't have to be American to relate to the story or characters it comes across as universal. The setting used is the stereotypical American high school and because of its authenticity the feel and look of it adds to the atmosphere, the graffiti covered lockers, the engraved tables, the mould encrusted toilets really make the film come alive. The negative aspect of the film which stood out was the inexperience of the 'so called' teen actors yet they radiated a sense of innocence (especially Claire played by Molly Ringwald) and that youthful spunk which was needed. The film is almost 20 years old and so therefore it comes over as quite dated yet the questions raised and to an extent answered still hold their own ground in today's world. I think that everyone can relate with one of the five teenagers due to their diverseness in character, appearance and value system. I thought that the character of John Bender played by newcomer Judd Nelson shined in this performance thanks to his quirky comebacks, raw emotion, and the fact that he's so damn cool. Yet all the characters are well rounded and each have their moments to shine, and shine they do. I have to say that The Breakfast Club is a great film and anyone who hasn't seen it should do. The genius that is the 80's legend John Hughes really knew what he was doing and made a little piece of heaven for all ages to enjoy. A timeless classic just hope you can get past the shocking clothes (especially Principal Vernon's Barry Manilow inspired wardrobe). I'm just a sucker for all those escapist 80's films and I just can't say no to them, pure magic. "},{"Title":"GREATEST MOVIE EVER!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This'll of course sound familiar, but this truly is my favorite movie ever. What's not to like, killer characters and actors, great plot and setting, it's all there! I can't say one bad thing about it, except for the fact that the only fully unedited version is owned by writer/director John Hughes, and will more than likely never be available to the public, but I'll keep prayin' for that day to come. And also, it's too bad there was never a sequel, or better yet a prequel (showing what the day before detention was like or something). Hopefully a remake one day, but nothing ever beats an original! Or even a halfway uncut dvd release w/ lots more extras than the release out now, which is still good. "},{"Title":"A film about teenagers not just a film with teenagers","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Breakfast Club is about 5 kids who get thrown into detention and over the coarse of the day become friends.We see them first as they are seen by the world,as a brain,an athlete,a basketcase,a princess and a criminal, and they act as you would expect those types of people to,at first.As the day goes on they talk more and bond and share their fears and problems with their fellow inmates.At the end of the day,they go home,leaving us to wonder what would be instore for them on Monday as a result of this experience.There are some odd bits with the dance scene(probably put in to ease the tension)and Ally Sheedy's character getting made over,but it's still enjoyable.A great film with a great messagethat everyone has problems and that just because people aren't like you doesn't mean you should give up on them. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't even born yet when this movie was released, but I can still relate to it. I think everyone can is some form. What I love about this movie is how, one minute they're arguing, and the next minute they're sitting around telling each other their feelings, then they argue again and yell at eachother, and then they dance. The dancing scene is my favorite part of the movie. If you listen to the words of the song, it really fits with what just happened in group therapy. If you have the DVD and can't understand the lyrics, just put the captions on. I watch this movie all the time, and never get sick of it. If you haven't seen this movie, you're missing out! "},{"Title":"Don't You Forget About It!!!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast ClubJohn Hughes' `The Breakfast Club' is probably the most famous teen movie of the 1980's, if not of all time. This is not to say that it's the best. But I remember it being shown as a compulsory video in health class in high school, and this because it was seen as the ideal movie to show teenage angst and troubles and the overcoming of stereotypes. I think our public education system gave the movie way too much credit in that department, but that doesn't mean they were completely misguided.The movie features the story of Brian (the `brain'), Claire (the `princess'), Andy (the `jock'), Allison (the `weirdo'), and John (the `criminal'), five students unlucky enough to have been  forced to endure a Saturday detention, spending eight hours in the same room, when they barely live in the same world. First off, were there really any schools in the 1980's that not only mandated weekend detentions, but made them 8 FREAKING HOURS LONG??? This seems to be a bit of a stretch, although many of the juvenile acts that landed the teens in detention in the first place would have warranted suspension.The basic story is as follows these five kids start the day with nothing to say to each other, but by the end of the movie they overcome their prejudices and become best friends, well, at least for the day, as even they realize. They open their hearts and pour out their souls, yadda yadda yadda, and realize that despite their differences, they all share the same problems parental pressures, a world that wants to see them only one way, as one-dimensional characters, and societal stereotypes that more or less force them to be part of different worlds, when they are all basically ordinary teenagers. It's an interesting premise, not entirely clichéd given the period, and the way it all develops doesn't entirely seem fabricated.I still find the character of the principal, Richard Vernon, now known for his famous line `I'll be cracking skulls' to be the most interesting. Yes, he's the typical teen movie `idiot adult' and ultimately a comic relief character. But he's a tad bit deeper than most. Unlike, say, Mr. Rooney, the principal from Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Mr. Vernon is not nearly as one-sided nor worm-like. He's a life-long educator who loves children, but, somewhere along the line, just lost his footing and also succumbed to societal pressure of `what a principal should be.' The kids no longer respect him, and see him as an enemy, because he's a completely authoritarian figure. I have always been left wondering if, at the end of the movie, Mr. Vernon, who reads the short note the kids have left, understands where he went wrong and becomes a better person.In the end, I recommend this movie as a must-see to those who have not had the privilege of a viewing, and for those who have, rent it again if it's been awhile. Some of the dialogue is a bit corny, but a lot of the lines are memorable, and while there isn't much a plot per se, the movie is character-driven and focuses on giving us glimpses of who these kids (and adults, in the case of the principal and janitor) are. The movie looks and sounds SO 80's that I can't help but love it. I'm sure that, if you're part of the vast minority who has never seen it, you will too.Grade B+  "},{"Title":"The Most Poignant Teen Movie Ever Created","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club (1985) Starring Emilio Estevez, Paul Gleason, Anthony Michael Hall Written and Directed by John Hughes MPAA Rating R 10/10John Hughes made his movies with teens in mind. His movies really spoke for teenagers, removes stereotypes, and shakes people up by pointing out that teens have more complexity than meets the eye. Unlike today's teen movies that stereotype teens and make jokes about them, The Breakfast Club breaks down the stereotypes, and ends up being a psychological study... A film basing itself not so much on plot structure, but on character development. The Breakfast Club delivers.5 students at Shermer High School are forced to attend a Saturday detention. At first, they seem to have nothing in common. In fact, each of them have a stereotype The athlete, the spoiled brat, the crazy chick, the nerd, and the guy who you know will end up in jail. In the time that they're forced to spend with each other, you really see them begin to open up to one another, learning that they had more in common than what they think they did. In the end, we begin to forget about the stereotypes that hold teenagers back, and accept the fact that teens are people too, and they have feelings.The screenplay was very well written. The performers did an excellent job, and to quote Jason Mewes (and/or screenwriter Kevin Smith), ...Judd Nelson... was ******* harsh!The Breakfast Club is by far the greatest teen movie ever made. It stands the test of time, and is probably the most accurate view of teenage behavior you will ever see.Smitty's evaluation 10/10 - A must-see, flawless film. "},{"Title":"Does Barry Manilow know you raid his closet?","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was a really cool movie for me.  It just goes to show you, if you go out and befriend people you would normally overlook you find out how much you were missing.  Five individuals go to a Saturday Detention and leave as one.  My favourite character was Bender, but only because he was the most developed and had the best sense of humor.  It could be as light or as heavy as you want it to be and that's what I liked about it, it could be interpreted anyway you wanted it to be.  It was good but it is not for everyone, some people I know get strongly offended at some of the subject matter and dialogue in it.  If you like a movie that is funny and pops around the idea of breaking the walls between the cliques and loners and is deep and shows some harsh realities then you'll probably like it.   "},{"Title":"Parents of teenagers need to watch","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When my girls get to high school, I will watch this movie to remind me of what it's like to be a teenager. Sometimes, I think parents lose sight of the pressure their teens are under, and this movie does a dynamic job of exploring the pressure of being the stud athlete, the brainiac, the popular girl, the ignored loser, and the discipline case. I think everyone can relate to each character somehow. It's one of my all-time favorite movies. The writing is witty, the characters are all believeable (even the adults, especially Carl) and the transformation each student goes through is legit.Again, I highly recommend parents of high schoolers to occasionally watch this movie. Heck, watch it with your teenager! "}{"Title":"My favorite '80s teen movie...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How can five kids who don't have anything in common at the start of a day have almost everything in common by the end of it? The Breakfast Club is so moving and such a true example of the incredible writing style John Hughes always delivers.  Anthony Michael Hall and Molly Ringwald return from Sixteen Candles together in this well thought out script about what would happen to five kids who are all 180 degrees different from one another, by the end of a day of detention with each other.  Ally Sheedy, Emilio Estevez, and Judd Nelson join the other two actors in this heart-felt classic, aimed at teens but great to watch even as you get older.  Out of all the Hughes films that came out in the '80s, even throughout the early '90s, this is probably my favorite.  Although it's hard to turn that slot down to Ferris Beuller's Day Off and Sixteen Candles.  It's a funny, sad and true depiction of how high school can really be, and the ending more hollywood than real life, is still really great, and I feel for each of the characters every time I see the movie.  I love it, and hope that everyone who is in high school or has faced the same trials and tribulations as these kids have, should watch it. I give it a 10 out of 10.  A classic and will stay that way in all of motion picture history. "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, i first saw this film when i was 14, 1n 1992. That put me roughly around the age of the main characters (teenagers) so at first i just thought maybe it had bias on it. then the other week i dusted it off and watch it again. The tagline makes sense, many people lose contact after school is done. The only thing that concerned me in the script is that the flaregun going off in Brians locker and the false fire alarm raised by Bender, seemingly have gone unnoticed by the other 4, as they are not met with any real response from the others. unlike, andy's taping of larry lesters buns---and thats only mentioned coz Brian knows him. What basically the point of it is, is that apart from Bender knowing that Claire is the prom queen, and a comment to Allison, that he has seen her around they are anonymous to each other. The dialogue between Bender and Vernon is great, Judd Nelson is by far the most popular character overall (according to online polls ive seen)but i believe the show stopper is Ally Sheedy. Her poise throughout the film similar to Judd nelsons, only nelson has far more dialogue to work with. All the actors have at least one real powerful bit of acting, Bender explaining what his family are like and then goes up to andy and shows him the cigar burn, Brians i dont understand pressure Allisons i dont have to run to the streets andy explaiing that his father will not tolerate losers in this family Claire when she has been tricked into saying shes a virgin. Generally, i believe this is a greatly underated film, and would have been good to see a sequel, but with the tagline---it kinda makes it impossible. i voted it a 9....(well above its average) "},{"Title":"Best 80's teen movie","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie so much that I never get sick of it.  When saw this movie for the very first time, I was just a Pre-Teen but I started to experience the ways of teen life at a young age. This film is about 5 strangers who are a jock, thug, rich but very snobby girl, dork and an outcast freak girl who share a Saturday detention.  There is also the High School principal who was one tough motherf***er.  My favorite character was Andy the jock who was played by Emilio Estevez, I thought he was cool and I like how he stood up for himself against Judd Nelson's caharacter John.  I also like how he let Alison (Ally Sheedy) be his girl at the end of the movie, it was nice for him to do something like that to someone who has no friends.  I recommend this film to everyone.  "},{"Title":"5 teens trapped in a library for a Saturday","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SpoilersI think this movie was absolutely wonderful. Principal Richard Vernon is a complete Dick and very fun to watch.I think its great that these 5 kids can get along even though they all come from very different backgrounds and are nothing alike. The brain, the jock, the princess, the criminal and the basket case are very worth watching again and again. Its strange how the opposites attract, i.e. the jock and the basketcase, the criminal and the princess. I think that Molly Ringwald's character was a total bitch though, and I really didn't like seeing her that way, that is not how I know and love her.If you like slow paced movies that don't have a lot of scene changes, that only rely on dialogue to keep them alive, then you will love this movie. The only action it contains is when they all sneak out to Bender's locker to get the pot, then see Vernon and have to run through the halls of the school trying to get back to the library before he notices that they are gone. I think a little of it was poorly written and didn't really fit together perfectly, but that is because they had to fit a whole day of detention into a one and a half hour movie.I personally enjoy watching this movie early in the morning, like on sick days or early on Saturdays or whatever, it seems to have a better effect if you watch it then. So in conclusion, if you like stuff like this, go watch it, if you cant rent it anywhere, BUY IT, it is DEFINITELY worth it. I give it a 10. How can you go wrong with Molly Ringwald, Ally Sheedy, Judd Nelson, Anthony Michael Hall, and Emilio Estevez all in the same movie? "},{"Title":"the ultimate","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it doesn't matter who u r, or what u do...this movie is the ultimate Saturday afternoon/morning movie. it's a John Hughs film which speaks for itself (awesome...*duh). so, r u a geek, princess, tough guy, jock, or the invisible kid....i know i have a bit of them all in me and this movie brings it out like no other. this movie makes u angry, sad, scared, joyful, and just laugh your ass off. it's amazing what u can do with a few cameras, a high school, some terrific actors/actresses, and a few hours of your Saturday!!! "},{"Title":"the ultimate","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it doesn't matter who u r, or what u do...this movie is the ultimate saturday afternoon/morning movie. it's a john hughs film which speaks for itself (awesome...*duh). so, r u a geek, princess, tough guy, jock, or the invisible kid....i know i have a bit of them all in me and this movie brings it out like no other. this movie makes u angry, sad, scared, joyful, and just laugh your ass off. it's amazing what u can do with a few cameras, a high school, some terrific actors/actresses, and a few hours of your Saturday!!! "},{"Title":"The Best 80's Movie","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the best 80's movie that I have seen. It is my favorite movie, I cant even count how many times I have seen it. Definitely a 10. If there was a number higher it would get it!! John Bender is Hilarious. If you like movies by John Hughes this is a must see.  "},{"Title":"...So what are we havin'?","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love each character in this movie for different reasons, but I also like this movie for all the reasons as the rest of the users comments. This movie was funny, emotional, and at times could make you mad. I especially love Judd Nelsons character because I think he's the reason a change even occurred during that Saturday detention. I believe that if 5 strangers were together for an entire Saturday in a library, they would start to talk also. I think almost everything would happen how it did in the movie except for the ending. I don't know if it's just my school but the majority of the people in mine wouldn't change and speak to you the following week. Things would go back to normal after the detention was over. You see, reputation is huge for some people and I think its a number one obsession for most. And sometimes nothing can make them change. Not to say they aren't good people, they just care more about their rep than most other things. This movie is always fun to watch and my emotions are always the same when watching it, and things they say and do still shock me sometimes. My favorite part is when they're running all over the school together because its one part when they're all happy and together.  "},{"Title":"one of the best teen film of the 80's","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off, I would just like to say that this movie is one of my favorite movies of all time. The entire cast's performances are awesome and extremely entertaining and the story line, simple as it is, is very heartfelt. I'm sure most people can relate to one, if not all, of these characters portrayed in this film. I recommend The Breakfast Club to every person that ever attended a public high school and dare you not to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Do Not Miss It!","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For so long, I missed out on this legendary 'classic'. Finally, I was able to watch it and I am glad that I did. I would not hesitate for one second to rate this film a 10.For those who don't know, this is the quintessential 80's teen movie. Dealing with timeless issues of youth, this film will remain close to viewers' hearts, despite its slightly dated looking surface that many people fault with it. In my opinion, the datedness of the 80s only serves to make the film more interesting.Anyway, if you are not put off by the so-called stigma of watching a teen flick, you will find a thoroughly intelligent and thoughtful film. The acting is surprisingly good and the soundtrack is kickin'. But I kid you not, this is truly a fine bit of drama. It is among the most unique movies that I have seen - without relying on silly gimmicks.Everyone will probably identify with the characters. Yes the movie would primarily appeal to teens, but the intelligent movie-goer will appreciate it nonetheless.This movie has stood the test of time. Go to my high school and you will find people quoting it (often without even realizing). I would think that it is quite difficult to pull of a good teen drama without cheezy-ness, but Hughes has done it. Breakfast Club will move you and you will fall in love with it - and for good reason too. It is that excellent!Note (perhaps SPOILERS)it's funny how they wore skirts with tights under. gotta love the 80s also, note the crazy glorification of marijuana! "}{"Title":"Simple and classic...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club-1985- ***1/2Although not masterpieces of cinema, John Hughes produced good film after another in the 1980's. They were mostly teen comedies, asides from the classic Uncle Buck. After his popular Sixteen Candles with Molly Ringwald and Anthony Michael Hall, he delivered my favorite movie from him The Breakfast Club.What we have here is the story of 5 stereotyped students that are forced to spend eight hours of detention together. A criminal, a prom queen, an outcast, a nerd, and a jock. Their disliking of their egocentric principal is all that bonds them at first, besides that they all hate each other.As the films progresses, the characters get deeper and the students learn to be friends with one another.It delivers a script with fresh lines, at least for the standards of 1985, but holds up well to the present day. It is a well deserved cult classic that has some great scenes and the greatest Brat-Pack collaboration there is. Judd Nelson gives the most memorable performance as the bad-boy John Bender and is the most standout character in the movie. Ringwald pulls the prissy bit off well and Anthony Michael Hall stays comfortable in his niche as a nerd. Ally Sheedy is a mute for half the movie and is really not noticed until the later parts. Emilio plays the tough jock nice. I give The Breakfast Club ***1/2 stars for a comedy and it is by far John Hughes best teen flick. "},{"Title":"A very good teen drama","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although this movie was before my time, I really admired the effort of the the director to show how young (and older) people shouldn't try to categorize their fellows. We are all complex human beings with individual strengths, weaknesses, desires, hope, fears and so forth. This idea was brought to life by good ensemble work on the part of the cast. For many of them it was the highlight of their careers. Recommended, 9/10.  "},{"Title":"They only met once, but it changed their lives forever","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i saw a documentary on british t.v called i love the 80's the year was 1985, and they were discussing movies, all of a sudden you hear the simple minds song, ashley judd walking on the football field and lifting his hand in the air, after seeing this i knew i had 2 see this film, i rented and i absolutely fell in love with it that i had to download it. the film is very symbolic to a teenager like me and i guess we can all identify with each of the nicknamed characters, personally the film touched my heart and i can relate to every situation mention, i am not a stranger to detentions so i know how it feels, however not a breakfast club member, neway i recommend you watch this film, older folks it should remind you of your youth and the pressures teenagers have in daily life 9/10 "},{"Title":"The king of 80's teen movies","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out and being 16 at the time, I thought that if adults and other cliquish teens would just see this movie, they would finally understand and get the message and quit being so shallow and superficial. But anyhow, I now find the movie rather cheesy, not to mention pessimistic. I have to keep reminding myself that teenagers for the past 10 years for the most part are a lot more cheerful and positive, mainly for the fact that they were small children in the 80's and 90's when the baby boomers had cherished and protected their children, rather than the X generation that was neglected in comparison. Anyway, I liked the John Bender character the best, even though he was the nastiest and most street-smart of the bunch. Mainly for fact of it was that he was at least sure of himself and had already known the school of hard knocks. And John Kapelos has a great scene in the movie as the school janitor who blackmails the detention teacher for looking at confidential files. Great time filler on a rainy day to reminisc about the 80's, but not much else. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is one of those very few old movies that almost everyone has heard of before.  For those people who haven't heard of it or seen it, it was written and directed by John Hughes in 1985 and continues to be a classic.  This film is great for teenagers and pre-teens, because it catches the characters between adulthood and childhood and really involves this age group. The plot of this film is that five high school students, all very different from one another, have to go to Saturday detention.  The five students can be classified as a jock, nerd, rebel, Prom Queen, and basket case.  The principal has assigned each of them to write an essay about themselves. While trying to burn time during the day, they all learn things about each other and themselves. John Hughes is trying to show the audience that although people may be biased against someone, they may still end up changing their mind about them after they really get to know them.  He does a very excellent job showing us this.  Each of the five students are from different groups, and in the end they all finish detention understanding each other better and not being so narrow-minded. I think that this film is great all around.  I love the three different groups in high school coming together by one Saturday detention.  The film has a solid plot and interesting dialogue which always keeps the audience watching to see what is going to happen next.  There are a couple of dull parts in the movie like when they are just sitting in the library, although they always do something to make it interesting again. The Breakfast Club is a great film for people of all ages to watch, although it is mainly for junior high and high school students.  There is quite a bit of action going on to keep everyone involved.  This is a perfect film for people who dislike others because of they way they look it might give them a different perspective on things.  This film is an all time favorite for thousands of people and will continue to be for years to come.  "},{"Title":"I can never get tired of this film.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think the first time I saw this film was probably in the summer of 1997. It was right before I went into high school, so the film showed  me some of the things I would go through during my high school years. I went through a lot of stuff that was in this movie. I was a lot like Brian and Allison. This movie really made me fell a lot better about myself because it made me realize tons of teenagers go through the same problems. This has to be the all time best teenage film ever! They don't make them like this anymore.  "},{"Title":"A 80's masterpiece","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, The Breakfast Club counts to my favorite movies from the 80's, because it contains all that an 80's teenager (and not only) movie has to contain  good plot, good acting, sensational music, and, somehow, a happy end. We follow the development of the character all through the movie, and the end might be, although not so surprising, but a pleasant refreshness. I enjoyed it much, for its combination of all the above mentioned ingredients. "},{"Title":"it is the mother of all teen movies!!!!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club was the original. One and only. It was here before any teen movie you can think of. It makes you laugh and cry. John, Allison, Claire,Brian,Andrew. The most unique group of kids to date. And, you can kind of relate to it. There problems I mean. "},{"Title":"John Hughes Work Of Genius!!","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is no possible way that you could write a bad review of this movie. With great acting from Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald etc, great direction by john himself, and great scene settings, it is a work of art. It is one of few movies that the film is able to stay in the one setting, and yet still be extremely entertaining. The character that steals the show, has to be John Bender (Judd Nelson). With his witty comments, and his personal family problems, we are able to feel so many emotions; anger, pity, humour.  It was a shame that this was the only blockbuster that he appeared in (except of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back).Overall, i have to give this movie a 9 out of 10, for its sheer excellence. "},{"Title":"A timeless movie that takes a look at teen life","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a timeless movie that takes a look at teen life.  It is a great story line.  Keep in mind, each of us growing up come from different walks of life. This movie looks only at a few, and from a narrow point of view. I have read other comments here that the characters are stereo typical, and that teachers weren't like the one potrayed in the movie.  Bad news for you, I grew up with kids similar to these and I had a teacher who was exactly like the one in the film.  This movie hits home.  I give it an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"does that answer your question?","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When most people think of 80s movies, the Brat Pack usually comes to mind. The Breakfast Club is probably one of the Pack's best known films, and it's one of my personal favorites. John Hughes captured the epitome of the teen movie that you just can't find in today's cinema-- I'm sorry, but rejects like Freddie Prinze, Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar just don't compare to the group of young actors that Hughes brought to the mainstream.On to the film itself, people complain about the stereotypes represented in the movie, and how the characters are entirely predictable. That was the point of it. Everyone in high school is familiar with the brain, the athlete, the basket case, the princess and the criminal. The Breakfast Club starts out with a group of obvious stereotypes, but begins to break them down into the deeper, more believable characters they turn out to be in the end. If you think about it, this movie wasn't made to present stereotypes, but rather to break them. I definitely give this one 4.75/5 stars-- it's just one of those films that one can never deny one's love for. In the words of Anthony Michael Hall, Does that answer your question? "},{"Title":"Epitomical 80's movie.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is probably the best 80's teen movie ever done.  The excellence of acting combined with the characters shown, equals the greatest explanation of the typical teen experience and lifestyle.  John Hughes out did himself.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"80's all the way","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I must admit that I am a fan of the 80's genre.  From one-hit-wonders to the Brat Pack and so on, the 80's gave us a plethora of insignificant albeit esoteric trivia.  Just as those who didn't experience the 60's and 70's firsthand can never understand what living in that time meant, the same applies to those that did not grow up in the 80's.  There's a certain charm...appeal...and yes, absurdity to it all.  Often times the write-off is, well, it *was* the 80's.  Indeed, it was.  And so the Breakfast Club captures much of the essence of the 80's  teen movies with the jock, the dweeb, and the menace to society (along with some moral we're supposed to walk away from the film with).  Ok, so it really had little impact on, well, anything but that doesn't detract from the overall enjoyment value of the movie itself.Breakfast Club is chock-full of one-liners you'll hear repeated long after the point of the movie has left your brain.  These one-liners make this movie (along with many others in the 80's) worth watching.  Sure, it's predictable.  Sure, it's cheesy.  And sure, it's stereotypical 80's.  But dangit, it's fun!  I've lost count of the number of times I've seen this movie, yet it's lost none of its appeal for me.  Have fun with this one...let it take you where it goes and expect nothing more than it wants (or is able) to give.For pure enjoyment value...nothing more nothing less...I give Breakfast Club 4 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Audio in Montage","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Hughes will never win an Oscar for 'Original Screenplay', not even with Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  His films focus on white, middle-class teens of varying stereotypes.  Here, he throws everything into the blender.What surprised me about The Breakfast Club was the level of silence.  I'm serious, there is almost an equivalent level of quiet as in 2001 A Space Odyssey.  Whereas Kubrick used that silence for a purpose, Hughes must have run out of time in production.  Of course, when music is used in Breakfast Club, it's not Blue Danube Waltz.  The library is too large to create any mood, but, with a movie like this, don't expect an ALIEN level of quality in production design.  The editor must have been on vacation because the movie could have been 15 minutes shorter and made stronger because of it.  John Hughes' director of photography doesn't catch many memorable images, although Emilio Esteves' monologue is delivered with an obvious pan around reminiscent of Reservoir Dogs.  He will never be a notable character actor, whereas everyone else seems to have a grip on their ideas--except when they're overacting.  Question the social issues and problems that are smeared around like bloodstains all you want, I haven't the time for it.Dialogue is the movie's only asset.  Some of the conversations are rather...how should I say...enlightened for a bunch of teenage miscreants.  Much of it is Hughes' standard recycled propaganda that he continued repeating, but he's not Kevin Smith.  Had Smith made this movie there would have been many changes, but how effective would they have been?  Indeed, the entire plot is hostage in a prison that never releases any new or inventive ideas.  The adults are the typical Hughes incompetents who 'don't understand' and the kids admit that they hate their parents.  What else is new?  Still, The Breakfast Club is worth watching for the minority that it appeals to as long as they aren't decayed from the wave of 'Modern Teenage Comedies'.  Just thinking about THOSE makes my head hurt.Overall, 3 out of 5 stars.  Love it or leave it, I still enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"The Kids haven't Changed, YOU HAVE","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this line by John Hughes in The Breakfast Club really hit the nail on generational gaps.  Keep in mind it was written back in 1983 or 1984.  The principal played Paul Gleason, thinks that his students are the worst kids ever.  Carl the wise janitor tells him otherwise.Principal Vernon Carl I've been teaching for 22 years, and each year....these kids get more and more arrogant!Carl the Janitor Awww bullsh*t man.  Come on Vern, the kids haven't changed, you have!!Principal Vernon These kids turned on me.  They think I'm a big f*cking jokeCarl the Janitor Come on.  Listen Vern, if you were 16, what would YOU think of YOU!!?????EVERYONE take a long pause and think about this scene.  Think about the words written by John Hughes around 1983/'84.  Kids don't change, WE do.  We get older.  Kids get older.  Kids become adults, adults become anal and uptight about everything.  But a new batch of kids come along, and they are still.....well kids.  So all you people ragging on the kids today, oh come on now.  Shut up about how awful the kids today are, and how violent and messed up they are.  These kids today, all they do is hang out at the mall, play video games and shoot each other.  My god the same thing was said about teenagers back in 1983.  So all you former 80's high school grads, and even many 90's high school grads, stop acting like crusty old Principal Vernon.  Gen Xers were the whipping boys for the Baby Boomers for years, and now here we are putting down the next crop of kids, the Gen Y and Gen Z.  Even most teenagers and pre-teens today buy into the nonsense that they have changed and are so different and original with their bad ass selves.  Kids are kids, no matter what era.  I mean I was an early-mid 1990's teenager, and even many kids around today think they are so different from when I was a kid some 7-12 years ago.     Do we really want to be Principal Vernon?  Kids don't change, we do.  "},{"Title":"Well what would you expect?","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well what would you expect leaving a handful of teenagers in school over the weekend. I saw this film a while ago but seem to remember it being pretty good. The film was both typical and perhaps slightly over the top at the same time. But hey, being over the top is not always a bad thing. "},{"Title":"A great movie for teens..","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, The Breakfast Club is a wonderful movie for teens and above, and gives them a chance to see that you should look beyond whatever subculture/Social Status a person is part of and get to know the person before you make any judgements about them.In the movie, a few teens who seem completely different are stuck in the school's library for detention on a Saturday morning, and find out that they have more in common than they actually think.My favorite characters are John Bender and Allison Reynolds, because they are the two that remind me of myself the most. In fact, I think the most wonderful thing about this movie is how you can relate to at least one of the characters and how they feel and think.Warning Spoilers below!!!I remember first seeing this movie, and I was thinking This is perfect!...up until the very end. The very end is completely unbelievable and goes against everything Molly Ringwald said in the library about them most likely not being friends anymore when Monday comes. The freaky outcast girl dates the school jock? The prom princess and the punk rebel? I give it a day at the most. But, even then, this movie is still a wonder to behold. Rent this for your teenager today. "},{"Title":"When teen films had something to say","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Remember when teen films had something to say?  The 80's had an abundance of teen films, some good, many bad.  The current millenium has a slew of films aimed at teens, but they aren't really about teens.  John Hughes made films about teenagers; whether it was the angst they felt, or a bunch of goofy scenes.  His films are a mixed bag, often trying to blend comedy and drama, with mixed results.  The stock company of actors lent a sameness to them, but they were still on a higher plane then most of the other teen films.The Breakfast Club features a group of stereotypes, but there is truth there.  Every public school has a jock, a princess, a brain, a delinquent, and a basket-case.  In most films, that would be the sole aspect to the character.  Hughes actually tried to explain why these personality types exist and give them a three-dimensional personality.  The delinquent is the product of abuse and neglect.  The jock is driven by his father's dreams of athletic glory, not his own.  The brain must succeed at academics, a B is unacceptable.  The princess is indulged by her father and used as a weapon for her parents arguments.  The basket-case is ignored and seeks attention.  Now, you can debate whether the parents are to blame, or the children for using these excuses to behave the way they do.  Personally, I believe that the parents and the environment do play a major part in the development of these personalities.  Yes, the teens make conscious decisions, but those decisions are influenced heavily by the environment they have developed within.With a John Hughes film, you know you will hear some great dialogue and have some funny moments.  You will also run into some absurd events and coincidences.  For instance, when the kids are running through the school halls and nearly meet up with the administrator at ever turn.  The drama is often overplayed, a fault of both the director and the immature actors.  The actors are still developing their talents, and haven't learned restraint as well as they might.  The director should be the one to pull them back, but Hughes often fails in this task.Ultimately, this film is a bit uneven, but there is so much good, even great, material to be found in it. The performances overall strike the right cord.  The soundtrack is great and the setting used for great effect.  There is a lot of truth to be found here.  There are a lot of laughs and a few honest tears.  It's not perfect, but it's a darn good try.My only real problem with the film is this  who gets detention on a Saturday?  No teacher, principal, dean, or school official is going to give up their Saturday to babysit some kids; and no parents are going to spend Saturday shuttling their kids to and from school.  Yeah, I know it's a device to get the kids together, without their peers around' but, come on!One last note about John Hughes; the man knew how to put together a great soundtrack!  All of his films feature great music, especially to those of us whose musical tastes froze in the 80's.  Those were the days; when MTV actually showed videos, and they were worth watching.  Where there was some variety to the music there and on radio.  When a band could get some mileage out of one really great song.  Give me Wang Chung or the Police over Creed or Brittney Spears any day! "},{"Title":"My life on screen","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    John Hughes must know all the cliques of high schools, and their minds. Coming of age movies now are basically about kids who shop at the Abercrombie & fitch, drive a car to school, have about 10 friends at school, play on the field hockey team, throw parties and have parents who look like super models. When I look at this movie I can name a bunch of kids at my high school who are similar. There's kids who get detentions every day, love to fight, get on people's nerves whom they don't like and always think of themselves like Judd Nelson's character. There's kids who always want to hear who's dating who, want attention, shop at expensive stores like Abercrombie & Fitch, live in a new fancy house development and go for school only for their tons of friends like Claire. There's kids who make the basketball team, and get their friends off the bleachers of the court like Andrew.  Then there's the kids who tend to get picked on, have a unique/alternative life style, tend to be in art classes, hang out with the 'social outcasts' (Punks, Gothic people, and lower class) and hate going to school like Allison. People like Brian are the ones who turn up in the national honor society, turn up in the debate team and have no idea that to some people they aren't cool. If you don't know what I'm talking about you probably didn't go to a public high school. Topics like drug use and sex used in the movie are basically what is talked about in schools today. Who ever gets laid in her teens and smokes dope is cool to a lot of teenage America sadly.  Looking at this characters in this masterpiece the only character I can relate to Allison. I always get picked on for being myself and being into darker things. Even before I got into the gothic scene I was picked on. People like Andrew and Clarie's character always seemed to pick on me. My opinion of the change of Allison's character in the end would've been better if it was cut out. It seemed like the message was like if your like Allison you should change your style so guys will like you and you will get friends. Which can be untrue though. Andrew liked Allison as a person before her transformation in style wise. "},{"Title":"funny movie!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a very funny movie but with  lots of profanity most of the time it ruins  a movie but for this it was really funny  I wouldn't recommend this to little kids overall  I would give it 5/5 stars. "}{"Title":"Instant Classic!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i have never seen the breakfast club before until today. and i must say, this movie was GREAT! i loved it. It has great characters, great story. It's awesome, if you have not seen it. Go see it NOW! it's quite possibly the best 80's movie i ever seen. "},{"Title":"Fab Movie","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I disagree with people who think kids of today would not get this film because I am 14 and I love this movie.I do know there are some kids out there that are very close-minded and won't watch any movie made before the year 1999.What I'm basically trying to say is that even though this movie is a little bit out-dated,it's still very enjoyable and most teens of today would watch it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was born in 1984, but I am such a big fan of the'80s. Especially the music and the movies. And The Breakfast Club is one of my absolute favorite '80s movies. It stars the members of the Brat Pack, which I'm a big fan of, it has a great '80s song, (Don't You Forget About Me by Simple Minds), and it has great '80s dialogue. This was a great story about how five totally different kids have to spend a whole day in detention together and they end up finding out that they each have a lot in common and they end up becoming friends. I liked all the characters, but all of them had something that annoyed me. Andrew (Emilio Estevez) was way too cocky and too much of a jock, Brian (Anthony Michael Hall) was too dorky and a brainiac, John (Judd Nelson) was way too badass and mean, Claire (Molly Ringwald) was too much of a popular prom queen and I just thought she was full of herself, and Alison (Ally Sheedy) was too much of a wierdo. But I didn't hate any of the characters. I think my favorite character was John Bender. (I will always love Judd Nelson). Most of the funniest lines in the movie were said by him and he wasn't too arrogant. But he was so mean. That's what I didn't like about him. But he was still funny. The principal, Richard Vernon, (played by Paul Gleason), was good, but I didn't care too much for his attitude. I mean, I know that he had to be extremely rude towards John because that's what John did to him, but it was still unlikeable. Anyways. I am just so in love with The Breakfast Club and it will always be one of my most favorite movies. Well, thanks for reading my review! Bye! "},{"Title":"I was just about to go into the Navy when i saw this.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why was I about to go into the navy? I was heartbroken, afraid and lost. Didn't know what I wanted to do with my life, needed to get out of the little grey town where I was raised, and needed to get far away from my last relationship. That was the way I dealt with life back then. Needless to say I could relate to this movie. It was one of the most real things released in the theatres at the time. It doesn't hold up to the passage of time I'm afraid. But what movie from the mid eighties does? This movie is Hollywood stylized. I think that's its biggest problem. Hollywood cares less about a story making any sense than it does about getting some reaction from a site gag. The actors were used many times together (hence the Brat Pack) because someone obviously thought they had some chemistry together. The sound track was brilliant and showcases some of the best music of the time. I had the cassette of the music and played it till it busted. I don't think the question is Was this a good movie? but that the question which should be asked is, Does this movie translate well over the years. I would have to say no. At the time it was real to me, and took me out of myself, which is all I ask a movie to do. During the mid eighties I wanted to be an actor myself, and wanted to have Molly Ringwold love me. I wished my life was a continuing happy ending instead of what I perceived it to be. Painful. Movies like this helped me dream for an hour and a half. The styles, music and attitudes were probably only real in Hollywood, but sometimes that is why we go to the movies, because we are tired of what is real with ourselves. "},{"Title":"This movie is great","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I seen this movie almost a year ago and it is great. I recommend this movie to anybody. If you disagree with me please reply. Oh, and the next time your in the video store make sure you pick this movie up. "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the 80's","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Five high school students are forced to spend their Saturday in detention from 7 am to 4 pm. A Jock(Andrew), a Nerd(Brian), a Punk(John), a beauty(Claire) and a shy girl(Allison). All of them meet for the first time, but it changed their lives forever. I considered this movie more of a Drama than a Comedy, but it has some very funny moments. The scenes between Principal Vernon and John Bender were pretty funny.Starring Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Paul Gleason, Judd Nelson, John Kapelos, Molly Ringwald, and Ally Sheedy. 3 out of 4. My IMDB rating 7.6/10. "},{"Title":"A movie that is so good it shocked me","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I normally hate teen movies.  In an era of the Rules of Attraction and A Guy Thing it is hard for me to even watch teen movies. But this was a teen movie from a completely different era.  This teen movie talks about many different facets of life in an excellent way.  Seeing this movie I was a bit skeptical, but this is definitely a world-class movie.The plot is relatively simple.  Five children are kept on a Saturday after all of them do something wrong at their high school.  The Principal, played excellently by Paul Gleason is not very nice to them.  He watches over them on Saturday and makes sure they do nothing wrong.  The students are excellently done themselves.  Judd Nelson plays the really bad guy, a punk type very close to dropping out of school.  Ally Sheedy is a very unusual and extremely quiet girl.  Molly Ringwald is the popular girl, Emilio Estevez is the athlete, and Anthony Michael Hall is the smart kid.These four people come together for an unusual Saturday afternoon and they learn so much about themselves, where they are going and where they have been.  I liked this movie I liked it a lot.  Watching it ten years later going into the theater (I saw it in my college theater) I was wandering why it was so many people said such good things about this.  With teen movies the way they are today I try to avoid them.  But this was actually very good.The movie has funny moments, poignant moments, sad moments and very intense moments.  We learn about the intense relationship these people have with themselves, their family and their school, or even if they have a relationship with their school.  I liked this movie because it pegged my sentiments about high school.  I suffered through it and didn't like it, and it appears the people here were saying exactly what I said.I was not an athlete but the character I most identified with was Emilio Estevez.  I was not an athlete in high school but I know what it is like to have to live up to someone else's standards.  Granted I never did what he did in the film but I did put up with a lot at home and at school as to what I was supposed to be.  Not to say others didn't do great they all did equally well, he just stuck out to me.  Paul Gleason is dead on as the prick principal.  I dealt with too many people like them in school, they think they are such bad a#$es but in the end they are not that smart.Director Chris Columbus set this one outside of Chicago, where most of his movies are set.  It's an interesting touch.  The quote by David Bowie at the beginning is very well put.  This movie is many things, it is a comment on the way that society looks at children it is a comment on the falling society around it the movie is a comment on a big generation gap that exists today.  The movie has lost little of it's meaning today, it could be made today, the only things that might be dated are the Barry Manilow jokes. This is a very well done, well-acted look into Ronald Reagan's America as some of us may or may not remember it.  Looking at the deterioration condition of the school they were in I saw something similar to mine.  This movie defied my expectations and turned out to be really good.  What is sad is that none of these people are famous today.  It's too bad, they were very talented, especially Ally Sheedy, who I used to have a crush on.  "},{"Title":"Trust me...","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an amazing film, and I would reccommmend it to anyone in high school or has graduated from high school.  Hughes' messages ring clear for any age, and we can all agree that there is some yuppie, sporto, geek, slacker and/or freak in all of us. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club is an emotional trip and I didn't want it to end","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like voyeurs we watch a group of teenage misfits as they anxiously spar and bond during detention. By the end you get a sense they've aged. This is a brilliant film disguised as a teen flick. It's intelligent, well written and goofy. The Breakfast Club is more than the sum of its parts, which is saying a lot given its stars were 80s teen royalty. It may not be perfect, but it's perfect enough. 9/10 "},{"Title":"people can be so tough on popular films","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's funny how one film can polarise people's opinions so distinctly. While I don't proclaim the Breakfast Club to be a masterpiece, it certainly deserves appreciation for its originality. more than that, it raises issues relevant twenty two years ago and still relevant to teenagers today.Here was a film that presented five students initially presented as stereotypes, but who eventually revealed themselves as so much more. So often films are criticised for not revealing enough about the characters to make you care; that could never be said of the Breakfast Club. The writing is sharp and witty, in most scenes dialogue flowing seamlessly in a way that so many other films fail to achieve.Twenty two years on, school life hasn't changed that much. kids are still in conflict with their parents, they still have private fears often not obvious to the outside world, and they still worry about their futures and what they will become.Bullying, drugs, guns, suicide, and sex are all tackled with gusto, issues that are still relevant today and will ensure the Breakfast Club continues to have an important place in cinema history for many years to come. "}{"Title":"The Movie of the 80's.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE BREAKFAST CLUBJohn Hughes' 1985 masterpiece, The Breakfast Club takes place on March 24, a Saturday. 5 kids from Sherman High School have detention from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. A Brain, A Jock, A Loner, A Princess and A Rebel all meet for the first time that day. A day they will surely never forget. Anthony Michael Hall plays the Brain who can be lovable or annoying. Emilio Estevez plays the Jock who has both a soft and tough side to him. Ally Sheedy plays the Loner who is a compulsive liar... and a good one! Molly Ringwald plays the Princess who you love to hate. Judd Nelson plays the criminal who shows that bad guys have all the fun. This is a movie I recommend! I give it **** stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"Two Words Judd Nelson","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great Movie, even after seeing it a few hundred times.  Either on video or TBS. Of course, the best performance in here is Judd Nelson's misunderstood punk character.  Great from the opening shot of the quote from David Bowie's Changes to the final scene where Judd stick a triumphant fist in the air. "},{"Title":"One of those films","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well Ive read most of the comments about the Breakfast club, good and bad. Its one of those hated or loved movies, i guess.  If its any measure of how i feel about it, then i will say its the only film ive ever went out my way to watch again.  Ok, it has its flaws, i dont like the scene where Emilio Estevez shouts so loud that the glass on the door breaks - it almost turns the film into a spoof and outdoes the good work leading up.  But nothing is black and white, in life and in the movies and i think that the Breakfast Club overall is a fantastic movie.  It is a credit to the film that it appeals internationally and that it can mean so much to so many.  Its a very eighties film, tho, still relevant to this day , perhaps, i could be wrong but unless high school has undergone a remarkable transformation it still appeals.  Judd Nelson has the best lines, Molly Ringwald looks pretty but she aint wearing pink,  Emillio Estevez is more concerned about tomorows wrestling meet,Anthony Michael Hall is analysing the whole situation in a scientific sense- yet cant still make sense of it all and Ally Sheedy is just there - cos she has nothing better to do. Watch it it encapsulates the decade, but more so the emotions, stereotypes and indeed the teen angst that we all go through. "},{"Title":"Best of The Brat Pack Films","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club was by far the best of The Brat Pack films and i think the best John Hughes film as well.Five teenage students with nothing in common are faced with spending a day in detention in their High-School library.John Bender(Judd Nelson) is the rebel, Andrew(Emilio Estevez) is the jock Brian(Anthony Michael Hall) is the geek, Claire(Molly Ringwald) is the rich girl and Allison(Ally Sheedy) is the strange one.At first they all have nothing to say too each other but by the end of the day in detention they have bared their souls to each other and realize they have more in common then they thought.Great comedy and drama.I think most people can relate to some of the characters in The Breakfast Club.I just love the scenes between Bender and Richard Vernon(Paul Gleason)Judd Nelson is the stand-out. While all the actors did great in their roles Judd Nelson steals the show here as John Bender.Bender has to be one of the coolest characters ever in a film.Writer/Director John Hughes the king of the 80's out does himself here.I give The Breakfast Club 10/10John BenderScrews fall out all the time, the world is an imperfect place.I know every line by Judd Nelson by heart "},{"Title":"The memories it brings.....","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was in high school when this movie came out, the same age as the characters were in the movie.  It truly captures the time, feel, and experience of growing up in the eighties, when the twenty-first century of today was a long way off and the time you lived in seemed significant or important.  Years later, it was just another point in time.It's been pointed out this movie is just a bunch of kids hanging out in detention one morning, but that's often what more our experiences are than drama, and sometimes even the people you hang around with can change you in some fundamental way.  The movie is dated now, the fashions have changed and if anything the kids today are even more sophisticated and growing up earlier, but it still captures a changing moment in life.This is also a hard movie for me to watch, in particular whenever I hear the theme song (one of the best songs of that era, regardless.)  At that age I was in love with a girl who was a dead ringer for the Ally Sheedy character, (although she acted more like Molly Ringwald) who broke my heart and I was never the same.  In the movies true love happens and they go off in the sunset, in real life your true love marries a millionaire who breeds race horses in New York.  Many times I wish I could go back to sixteen or seventeen and feel the same hope and optimism these kids in the movie felt, but that's life.    "},{"Title":"Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe?","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was the ultimate teen movie, forget American Pie this one beats it by a mile. The teens have been put in detention together and all lead different lives but they soon get to know each other better and eventually realise they're all no different to one another. John Bender is the funniest of them all (obviously) and just makes me laugh at his cheek towards Dick...Excuse me, Rich. If you wanna see a film, see this. "},{"Title":"An 80s flick I could watch over and over...","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie again for the umpteenth time tonight and I have to say that it just gets better each time.  I was only 13 when TBC came out (and in Ontario too young to see it) but I caught it on cable and saw it numerous times before I bought my own copy on VHS.  And I have to say, if you are going to watch it....DON'T settle for the butchered and sloppily-edited versions they show on TV.  See the complete and unedited video or DVD version, or don't see it at all!I know that some people have been offended by the plethora of four-letter words, but let's face it, most children have heard those words by the time they reach 2nd grade, and in case you haven't figured it out...that's how teenagers talk!!  John Hughes really had his finger on the pulse of teen culture in the 1980s and in my opinion this film has not aged at all; the themes of peer pressure and finding your own identity are still relevant today as they were in 1985.TBC forever!!!I don't rank films but this makes my Top Five Movies of all Time list--with a bullet! "},{"Title":"good movie for teenagers","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  as a teenage and probably every other teenager, i liked this movie. It was funny, and just made you laugh a lot throughout the whole thing, go rent it, its a good laugh, especially if your a teenage who likes comedy/dramatic movies!!! "},{"Title":"For teens and those who still remember!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have heard people through out the years praising this movie, I have also heard almost as many saying that it's overrated. That these kids are too stereotyped and are presenting too simple problems. That they're just not believable. I think these kinds of comments comes from people who have already grown up and can't remember how it was to be a teenager. Sure, if you're an adult they may seem trivial, but to a teenager they could mean the end of the world. If you are in your teens, or if you still feel you haven't forgotten your childhood this is the movie to see. All you other people do best turning to something more mature. "},{"Title":"A great movie, timeless","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  REVIEW MAY POSSIBLY CONTAIN SPOILERS.I just thought that I needed to comment and give my opinions after reading such a horrible review by another member.  I completely respect the fact that other people have opinions, but these are mine.First off, I am a child of the 80's and I know that many-a-cheesy things came out of the decade, and sure, this movie has MULTIPLE cheesy parts, but I, being a fan of all movie types, am yet to see a movie without a few cheesy parts thrown in.  And also, being a teenager, I am yet to meet someone of my generation (or any other for that matter) who hasn't liked the movie that has seen it.  I had one teacher in high school who even showed it as part of their class.  The stereotypical teenage angst, the separation of personalities (though over the top at points), and the seemingly meaningless incidents, mean so much more to those of us with the idea of sentiment in mind, as well as quality.  If you are looking for an art film, this is not it.  If you are looking for yet another great Brat Pack movie, THIS IS IT. "}{"Title":"A 10 well deserved","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I gave The Breakfast Club a 10 out of 10. I can hear many shouts of approval, and even more of derision already. However, I don't claim that this movie is the best ever made. I gave it a 10, because The Breakfast Club is one of the best movies I've ever felt. When I watch a movie, typically a few mistakes stick out. Mostly things that seem inconsistent, or contrary to the theme or message of the film. When watching The Breakfast Club, I don't notice anything left out, or overdone, or anything that defies the purpose of the movie. This film received such a high rating from me, because it is perfect in its own right. It has done everything it was set out to do, and more. There is no way I, or anyone else, could improve it. Highlights Paul Gleason's portrayal of a high school principal is uncanny. I'm in my senior year of high school, and I swear the principal of my school learned everything he knew from Richard Vernon. That includes wardrobe. Ally Sheedy defines the era of film making in which she starred. I find it startling that she has so effectively portrayed a social outcast like the secretly beautiful Allison Reynolds, and also the outgoing, ravishingly cute Jennifer Mack, in War Games. I'm running out of words here, so I'll end saying, if you've seen this movie and love it, keep watching, there's always something new. If you've seen it and don't like, stop watching it, you're missing the point. If you haven't seen it yet, you'll be trapped emotionally at age fifteen until you do. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but fairly watchable","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a great movie for teenage wannabee serious film buffs. However, it's trivial for anyone who's seen more than a few films to start picking holes in it. The mathematician in me says that there are 10 ways to make a pair from five people and I'd guess there are 10 major scenes, if you can catch my drift. I have to say that the scene with the broken glass was just pants. However, it could be seen as a 'trainer' movie, and as such it's quite a good one.If you're ~15 years old - see this movie. If you're older - see it too, but be prepared for some cringe-worthy triteness.FatPhil "},{"Title":"You either get it or you don't","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It really is that simple! Of course the characters in this film are stereotypical. The whole point of the film is to show how in the teens everyone is afraid to show their real selves. So they fall into whatever cookie cutter clique they can. As far as 80's films go...watch 16 candles for sweet humor, Fast Times for slightly smarmier humor, but you must see Breakfast Club for the drama. This is a brat packer film at it's best. The writing is excellent, and Judd Nelson is on target as the bad boy. I graduated in 1988 so I can well remember when the film came out, me and my friends loved it. And love it still. Many of the scenes are unbelievable in that I doubt one detention would pull so many different types together for an honesty binge..but maybe that is what Hughes is trying to relate. Teenage years are the hardest ones to get through, but we all go through it and we move on. I can still watch this film 17 years later and relate to the characters.Brings back memories. Try and compare it to the teen based films out now and you...can't. American Pie? Please. She's All That? talk about unbelievable. Unfortunately most teen based films today do not have heart(or guts, or brains...etc). This film has it whether you get it or you don't.  "},{"Title":"john benders master plan (spoilers)","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the thing this movie struck me most as was a movie that wanted to coin the be all end all of cliques,,,and thats not bad, cuz thats what movies try to do, coin a senerio, this movie wanted to grab the chance to coin the high school clique senerio which in real life also exists. and yes this is a movie so it actually says what real life doesnt, but what was interesting is that most of what is said that people dont say in real life is what people are thinking, its like taking that clique without being cynical and worried about reprecussion to bearing your soul and just saying it,,,john bender does alot of that and a guy like john bender in your school would never actually go so far as to say those things,,,its been thought. as far as what the movie really meant to me was that everyone that claimed to be sorry for how they act in school by being too cool too this to that or whatever but the only reason they felt bad was cuz of john bender,,,only then did they feel bad,,,there feelings caught up with them,,i dont think molly ringwalds character ever felt bad about who she was with or what she did or didnt do to the rest of the underclass under bender picked at her. it just shows how emotional kids are and how they can be lead on and persuaded into feeling things then getting over it real quick. john bender was the only one that wasnt really effected by the whole schmeel. he was a defined person more less as the rest were normal teenagers, although as time goes on teenagers seem to think they know more and can be taught less at younger and younger ages,,,,im rambling so in short i like this movie cuz it says what people are thinking,,,,,,not how they act. "},{"Title":"Like it or not, this movie is the voice of the 80s","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My ex has a personal theory....there are two kinds of people there are Clubbers (Breakfast Club fans) or Heathers (Heathers fans). I'm far and away a Clubber. Watching this film now, I definitively find parts of it tacky and little overdone. However, you can't deny that it spoke for its generation and it serves it purpose to demonstrate the hardships of growing up (especially in high school when your adulthood is taking shape) and of course, John Hughes' very blantent stereotyping that represents the different walks of life that we come into contact with on a daily basis. Not the most sophisticated of concepts, but the setting and cast make it interesting.It's sort of strange, but I've seen this film listed as both a comedy and a drama. I'd have a hard time making that distinction too, unless a 80s Teen Anthem category becomes a reality in the near future. I'll always have a place in my heart for this movie (probably helps that I was 12 when I first saw it!) and it's still a great movie for people to see. Judd Nelson's role alone is worth the watch. This film made a huge John Hughes fan out of me and no, I can never hear the song Don't You Forget About Me again without thinking of the film. "},{"Title":"A very moving film.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is a very moving film. I loved it because I think it shows that adults take advantage over children whether they be small or teenagers, yet they do not know what they hide inside.Children have problems too and it seems like adults do not recognize that. That is what The Breakfast Club shows. "},{"Title":"i liked this movie","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok.  I liked this movie very much.  I don't think there was anything wrong with the movie.  All it talks about is five people that come together to a detention.  They barely know each other.  And they end up being friends. I think that this was one of the best movies.  i give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the truly best films to come out of the eighties was this gem. I have to admit that I can relate to most of the situations in the movie and watch it over and over. I do have one question for anyone out there in movie land. In one scene, Jud Nelson is crawling along the ceiling and is telling a joke. Unfortunately he falls through the ceiling before he can finish the joke. Anybody out there know the whole joke? If you do, please email me with the joke. Thanks in advance!!Stephen "},{"Title":"The Best film ever!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would just like to say that I watched this film when I was like 10, am 12 now and I absolutely love it. Most of my friends favourite films are Scream and crappy horrors like that. But if you dont like this film you obviously dont appreciate good films. One of my best bits is where Brian goes, Chicks cannot hold their smoke thats what it is and where they are all running down the corridors. Just watch the film its ace! (and its got a good soundtrack! 80's music kicks ass!) "},{"Title":"Great movie, too much analysis","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers included!First of all, I read over sixty reviews on IMDB, and most of them were good, and usually those that did offer criticism also provided back up for why.I noticed some people commented that it doesn't fit into comedy well, and it seems awkward when you try to push it into drama. Well, why does it need a genre? Isn't the whole movie about breaking down cliques, titles and stereotypes? The dialogue was awkward at times, and some said that took something away from the film (like the quality, for example) but if you were in the library that day when you were in school, would you have been comfortable and relaxed with people like Bender, who're armed to the teeth and come across hostile? Or Claire who would likely look down on you? Andrew with his inane attempts to stand up to Bender and speak to Brian even though he was laughing at him too? What if Alison was there, and she sat in silence and stared you down every time you tried to communicate with her?The film deals with a lot of teen problems, without making them seem unworthy or childish. That would have meant something to most teens when they saw it, since High School sure isn't like the Porky's series. The dancing, getting high, etc. remove realism from it, but think about it for a minute - the kids probably won't speak to each other again after that day. Getting high brings the four others into Bender's world, dancing (however ridiculous it may seem that the principal DIDN'T notice) represents Stubby's party, and hanging out with the popular kids. Claire and Alison bond through make-up, and Brian is just pulled along for the ride. The Breakfast Club probably didn't define a generation, and the tag line for it is as cheesy as David Bowie's tights were in Labyrinth, but it's like watching an episode of I dream of Jeannie - you wonder how anyone could have gotten away with making it, then feel glad that they did.I doubt the Breakfast Club is an accurate portrayal of all the problems teenagers face, but it scratches the surface of self-absorbed kids (like me! Ha!) who worry over stupid things because they don't know the real world yet. Like training worries. I really loved this movie, probably because I overlooked the flaws and just took it for what it is... whatever that may be. "}{"Title":"Great movie, John Hughes is a god!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie rules!!! The 80's are the best!!! This movie is about how 5 people, totally different people have to spend a saturday detion together. And when the arrive they know nothing about each other but in the end they become best friends!!! Please rent this movie if not buy it!!! "},{"Title":"Group therapy for the young and pimply","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Go teenagers! Boo adults!This movie is great if you can hack the corny eightiesness that occasionally pops its head up. When I first saw it (in the eighties) I actually thought it would be cool to have group detention on a weekend. Now I have a laugh and think, god i took myself seriously then. And that is what is great about the film. The issues may not seem deep to adults who have mortgages etc. But there is still something that teenagers (whether in the 80s, 90s or 00s) see of themselves in this movie, that have kept it as a cult classic.The Breakfast Club joins Grease and a few other late 70s/ early to mid 80s films that many of us in our 20s to 30s can quote line for line... "},{"Title":"Second best Hughes movie","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cannot, in good concience, place this above Planes, Trains, & Automobiles in the list of John Hughes movies, but I CAN place it just behind it. It's well casted (one person said Nelson looked too old to play a teenager, but his character might have gotten held back a few times), well written, and aside from the end, mostly well acted. The main thing that kills the movie is the EXTREME overacting at the very end. A bunch of High School students crying about having to go along with their friends is just plain unbelievable (NOT believable). Along with that is the scene where everyone whistles (I think it might be from Bridge over the River Kwai), and where Estivez screams and the glass door shatters.The movie is also easy to watch over and over again. You don't have to sit and really concentrate on it, you can watch it while you're doing other stuff and just concentrate when your favorite part comes up (when Bender crashes through the ceiling), or just sit and watch it.A lot of people I know wouldn't like this movie, mostly because most of the people I know don't like older movies and think the best movie ever is Rush Hour 2 or whatever movie is out at the moment.Don't let the negative review convince you not to watch this movie. But don't let me convince you to watch it. This is just my opinion, just like the rest of the reviews. If you've never seen this movie and you were going to watch it, then watch it, enjoy, have a sammich. If you don't think you'd like this movie, then don't watch it. But Rush Hour 2 still sucks. "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's!!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   The Breakfast Club is a movie about those five high school students getting Saturday detention. Emilio Estevez plays a jock, Anthony Michael Hall plays a nerd, Judd Nelson plays a criminal, Ally Sheedy plays a weirdo, and Molly Ringwald plays a prom queen. This movie is very funny. My favorite part is when Judd Nelson was hiding inside the top school roof from the principal, but fell down. That was funny. See this movie, it's great. You won't be disappointed. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Average High School movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Average High School movie which delves into typical High School groupings or cliques and their perspectives.This movie has a good idea and format although the production was done in a sloppy or hasty manner which does not do justice to the deep and insightfull writing presented here.Also,many questionable unrealistic sequences regarding musical numbers and such seem inconsistent with the flow of the movie's philosophy.Still worth a look for High School movie genre fans and for big fans of the lead actors who did a splendid job here......      "},{"Title":"This was what high school in the 80s was like...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It blows me away when I read the nasty comments about this movie.  From what I remember when I first saw it, it hit home in a number of areas for me -- as it did for plenty of teens that I knew.  Remember, this was a HUGE hit back in '85 and that was because kids related.  This wasn't just another teen romance -- it actually attempted to dig deeper into the crud we knew as high school cliques.Don't get me wrong, it has it's shallow moments and I cringe when I watch chunks of it but that's because I couldn't stand being a teenager.  Who on earth did?  Think about it... each cliche in the movie existed somewhere in your high school in some relatable form.  John Hughes knew what he was doing when he took a person from every major clique in high school and said, What would happen if you put them all in a locked up room together for a Saturday afternoon?  He succeeded somewhat.  Each clique member eventually revealed that they were a person underneath the label.  That was the whole point of the movie.As for where Hughes got his inspirations and writings, it was very simple he talked to teenagers and plenty of them.  Sure, he didn't capture it entirely, but he got pretty close.  I remember watching this with friends and my mother saying that high school wasn't anything like that and all of us replying Yes, it is.  I remember my local church posting a bulletin that they were playing it for the kids that attended that evening (despite the language) because it had a good lesson.  I remember that it made such an impact on my high school that they actually performed it onstage in a play. Why?  That's because John Hughes somehow captured underneath the unbelievable crashing windows and ceilings collapsing how crappy it is to be a teenager.Still think it's a bad movie?  Or did you possibly want to forget how much you hated high school?  Think about it. "},{"Title":"If anyone should see this film, it's YOU!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SOME SPOILERS MAY ARISE WHEN READING THIS!OK, if you haven't seen The Breakfast Club before, go out right now, and hire it out.I was sixteen when I first saw this movie, and now, three years later, it's still my No.1 fave movie of all time (even though I love horror). The film itself, comprising of seven characters and no more, is fantastically driven through some comedic routines, such as the scene in which they all dance to the song 'We Are Not Alone' (which would be impossible, considering Vernon would hear the racket, although, he is in the basement).I totally related to this movie, and admit that in my school years there was a little Bender, Brian, and Andrew in me, and I totally got involved in this movie. The first time I had owned this movie (it was shown on TV and I had taped it- though the movie was half cut up due to the language in it) I watched it as regularily as I breathe. It was a fantastic movie experience that I will never forget! The soundtrack itself also rocks, but onto more detail of the film.I totally loved this movie because of the five stereotypical roles in the movie. As one person had mentioned, every school has a Bender. That's right, every school also has a Brian, an Andrew, an Alison, and a Queenie ;) The film does have it's dragging moments, although they are necessary (such as the scene in which Andrew tells of how his father always pushes him), and they get you 'in touch' with the characters. Molly Ringwald gives a perfect performance as Claire (that's a fat girl's name), actually, everyone gave brilliant performances, that's what made this movie so likeable! Everyone that was casted was perfect, they fit the role like a glove. The scene in which Bender 'defends' Brian (so it's social, demented and sad, but social) is fantastic- through the scene, you see him placing everyone lower than him, like true a**holes in schools do (do you think I'd speak for you? I don't even know your language!). Although, (besides speaking for his family life), he never speaks too highly of himself.Anyway, off the psychological stuff, this movie is fantastic and I would reccomend it to anyone! 12/10! (It's that good! You can't rate any lower than 10!) "},{"Title":"i love this movie!!!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this is an awesome movie, all of you that said otherwise must have problems. it relates to so many of the problems that normal teens face everyday. i can totally relate to this movie, plus some of those guys werent so bad looking ;). i dont know what people could be thinking when they totally blew this movie off.if you disagree, email me ur comments. i'd luv 2 hear 4m ya. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the negatives","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it, this movie is a classic.  Don't listen to that Dick (excuse me Richard) that hates 80's movies; Aliens ROCKS.  Hoosiers ROCKS.  The Back to the Future series ROCKS.  Plus, who can forget The Terminator?  That's only a few movies out of many films I can name that are good that came out of the 80's.For this classic, you might not want to pay too much attention to the plot.  It's the characters and their development that highlights this gem.  Judd Nelson is the best here, and with good development too.  Also, not only is it funny, but there is great perception here (questions such as why do jocks have to act cool around each other?).  My advice at least rent it. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast club is one of my all time favorite movie's ever. I can't understand anybody who  watched the film and didn't like it. I first saw this a couple of years ago and  was blown away. Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson,Molly Ringwald and Ally Sheedy all gave their best performances and made you feel like you were there as well with them. Paul Gleason and John Kapelos also gave fine supporting performances. This film is a must see for everyone young and old! "}{"Title":"Fan of the 80's can only say yes to this film","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast club is one of the greatest 80's films made. It epitomizes what high school was like and set a standard for films to this day. The 80's retro slang and the star filled cast make the film great beyond its time period. If you are a fan of the 80's this is the film for you.  "},{"Title":"Absoloute classic, Emilio Estevez's best role ever!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why some people don't like this movie! Its an original idea and I loved every minute of it. It is so like real life its untrue. Everyone had a John Bender in their school. The movie is so original and one of the best movies of the 80's no doubt!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    The Breakfast Club is truly a classic movie of the 80's. Wonderfully acted, with a great story line, makes this movie unique compared to most of the Teen Movies in the last 20 yrs. It's compelling characters make you feel like you're there, and the final conclusion is very good. The music, although outdated, is still very good. And the movie goes along very smoothly. The more I think about it, The Breakfast Club is more of a movie for adults, not teens. It shows that adults need to talk to their kids more, and be there for them more than they already are. Like previously stated, The Breakfast Club is truly a classic film! "},{"Title":"Truly one of the best ever...","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best ever. It's obligatory for every teenager. Although this movie has only one location, it never gets boring. It's funny, it's moving and it's realistic. The 80s setting might be out of date, but for me, it's part of the fun. Gotta see it  "},{"Title":"Claire is a Fat girl's name.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great Movie...Have you ever noticed the character's clothes in this movie??  They all start out wearing alot of bulky layers in the beginning of the movie... symbolizing the 'layers' they put on, protecting them from the messed-up world.  As the movie progresses... and the characters start to open up to each other, they begin to shed the layers of clothing that they have on.   Claire is a fat girl's name.Thank you and have a nice day.  "},{"Title":"You cannot be serious!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If anyone tells me that they didn't enjoy this film, you had to be watching the wrong film. This is a classic. Brat Pack at its best. I love it, I love it, I love it! Total feel good, funny  evening in. A definite must see - Got the hint? I think it's quite good. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, while the plot may be very cliched, it still is my favorite movie of all time. It is a true icon of the 80's, and gives a deep psycological analysis of the way teens think. It may only have one set, but it never gets boring. Something every teenager should see. "},{"Title":"The classic teen film depicting stereotypes in high schools.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The 1984 film, The Breakfast Club is still admired among teenagers today. It's almost a shock, at least it was for my fellow classmates, to learn that I had not seen the movie until recently for a school project. After viewing the film, I asked myself why so many people watch this movie time and time again. I realized, that besides the obvious over exaggeration of the characters, the movie did hit several key aspects of teens' lives and issues dealing with adolescence. Many still watch it because it portrays characters that modern day teenagers can related to. The basic plot of the film deals with five high school students who are sentenced to all day detention one Saturday. Each one of them carries a specific role, or stereotype in their high school. There is the jock, the prom queen, the brain, the criminal, and the basket case. None of them know each other, because their school standards did not permit them to socialize among different groups. The group `began the day as strangers and soon found themselves united by a common affliction youth.'  Throughout the day, they began to bond over certain events that happened. It does not take long before they all realize that they have quite a bit in common their problems. After they break through their strictly drawn stereotypes, they all come to find that they share one thing, even despite their obviously different personalities. They have all been labeled, and through over demanding parents (or a complete lack of parent guidance), the teens have been forced to live up the their labels. So much that, for the most part, others only see the person as that particular stereotype.Personally, I enjoyed the film. That is, after I got past the grossly exaggerated roles played by the characters.  Certain scenes, such as the students smoking pot in the library, or the teacher threatening to beat up the `criminal,' would never been seen in any high school institution. However, they did provide entertainment and kept the movie plot going. This also kept people interested. Overall, I think the director, John Hughes, did an excellent job getting his message across with the film. The key aspect that the film portrayed were the dangers of labeling our youth. So many people are faced with stereotypes which can cause problems for the already troubled youth. They become more concerned with how others view them, and try to live up to their standards. In many high schools, it has become more important to develop how others see you, than  who you actually are. Teenagers will spend their entire high school tenure trying to exceed what others what them to be. They are constantly struggling to live up to their friends' expectations, instead of their own. During adolescence, teenagers naturally find themselves dealing with stress and frustration. The high standards set by the high schools only add to that stress and can make the students act out in different ways. The most common form is rebellion. That is what brought all five of the `breakfast clubbers' together. I believe that Hughes' message is still relevant in high schools today. There are still the social standards that students must live up to and try to compete with everyday. Perhaps by watching this 1980's classic, some may realize the dangers of these actions and come together, breaking through their strict stereotypes.  "},{"Title":"man, what a cool movie","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  after coming across the breakfast club page in imdb, i read the comments submitted by a fellow imdb user and felt that his view of the film didnt do the film justice. i think it was fantastic. sure there was no inspiring moral in the story. Maybe there wasnt much of a story at all. but of all the videos in my collection(60+) breakfast club is one i can always be sure to enjoy even though ive seen it so many times.it revolves around 5 school kids in saturday detention. the plot is as simple as that. but what makes it a classic film is the issues it deals with and the way that they are dealt with. it also has some great one-liners and humor.its covers teen suicide (brians flare gun going off in his locker), drug use(four of them smoking dope in the library), life at home and parents, general teen angst/disenchantment, parental abuse(benders cigar burn scar) and different ranks of human beings in society. One of the heaviest, most intense scenes being the one in the library when the group all confide in each other with secrets or feelings that they couldnt talk to with their friends/family. Its a little sullen but quite beautiful.Its a great feel good movie and im sure most teenagers (and adults with children down inside =) ) will relate to the implications of teen life and how it can often be a kind of torment for some.And to top off, it has a happy ending. 5 strangers go into detention and walk out feeling better in themselves and feeling stonger and more confident with who they are.to wrap up, if you see this one on the shelf at your video store, pick it up and try it at least once. you wont regret it... "},{"Title":"Response to the first comment on the page","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was truly unhappy when I read I don't like what I see, I really don't on the main page for The Breakfast Club. Writing from a teenager's perspective, I really don't agree with the review at all. The reviewer described the problems the characters in the movie face as everyday and banal, and that they were silly teenage problems no one really cares about and teenagers should stop complaining. We haven't entered the real world yet, true, and maybe we don't face things like the 20-100 age group does, but we face our fair share of problems. If the reviewer remembered what it was like to be a teenager, or perhaps put himself in that position even for a moment, maybe his review would not have been so stereotypical of teenagers today. Maybe HE remembers growing up not getting along with his family, and how, at the time, it seemed like the most awful thing in the world. I'm not defending that situation and saying it IS the most awful thing in the world. More, cut the characters a little bit of slack - they think their problems are a big deal, and that's what matters. The  Breakfast Club wasn't thinking Are our problems a big deal for adults?, they were thinking This is a problem for me and I'm trying to deal. This response isn't so much defending the characters, but defending teenagers in general. Adults really don't really cut us enough slack. We have a fair amount of emotional grief to deal with, and we shouldn't be frowned upon because our problems seem silly and frivolous, but shown some compassion - what we're facing really IS a big deal. "}{"Title":"The world is an imperfect place......","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The world is an imperfect place. well, according to Bender (Judd Nelson) it is.it's always a hard task to choose between this and Ferris Bueller's day Off as John Hughes best out of the teen flicks he has written, directed and produced. Weird Science, Sixteen Candles and Pretty in Pink. All classics in their own way, but as for the best it's Ferris and The Club going head to head.Ferris's  nuggets of wisdom, Life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop and look around once in a while you could miss it. or Bender's one liners, Does Barry Manilow know that you raid his wardrobe?It's a tough decsion but I think The Breakfast Club wins over all. It is superbly acted and directed. It has classic comedy moments, such as the five stars getting stoned. It has classic one liners, classic soundtrack. The whole film is in fact a classic. It's remembered by all who watch it.It was the movie that defined the teen genre. It's format has been used in various other films, like The Faculty and referenced in many more. The Breakfast Club is a part of movie history. Many teen flicks have tried to be the new Breakfast Club, but none will ever better the orginal. It is the epitomy of teen movies, with the brat pack cast including Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez and Molly Ringwald, whos names are now synomomous with the genre that made them stars.It has touching moments and funny moments and serious moments. It has all that you could need for ninety minutes of light hearted entertainment. The actors are great at portraying the characters on screen. Judd Nelson as the criminal hard ass, Bender who has a screwed up family life. Emilio Estevez playing the sporto, Andrew Clark, who feels he's being pressured to do things he doesn't want to do. Brian Johnson, the nerd is played by Anthony Michael Hall, a John Hughes regular (starring in not only The Breakfast Club but also Sixteen Candles and  Weird Science). Another Hughes regular is Molly Ringwald, playing perfect prom princess, Claire. Last, but not least Ally Sheedy has quite possibly the hardest role of all. Playing the quiet kleptomaniac, Allyson who doesn't talk until halfway through the movie. Then of course there's the obligatory authority figure, Mr. Vernon, or Dick. As in most of Hughes' films the authoriy figure is ridiculed. This is true not only in The Breakfast Club but also in Ferris Bueller's day off (Mr. Rooney) and Chet, Wyatt's older brother in Weird Science.All of the characters have their own problems and they bare their souls to each other having become firm friends at the end. The film isn't just about entertaining, it's a lesson in growing up. It's not just the characters, themselves, that learn an important lesson. It's the viewer too. The cast find themselves. That's the plot of the movie. Finding out that there's more to life than credit cards and theiving, more than just grades and wrestling. Finding friends and new love. They all change for the better and the message is that we can all change if we look inside and decide we want to change.Hughes directs the film with more than just making a film. There's psychology. At the start of the film the characters all wear several layers of clothing. Various coats and sweaters that as the group get closer the layers are shed. They become less of the image and more of the real deal. They become themselves. This is what Hughes is good at, teen psychology, which is also used in Ferris Bueller's Day Off. This makes Hughes a cut above the rest when it comes to teen flicks. He understands what teens are going through and portrays it on screen perfectly.If you have the means I highly recommend that you watch this movie. You won't feel disappointed.You see us as you want to see us...  "},{"Title":"I Absolutely Love This Movie","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie.  I have seen it at least ten times.  It has some of the best lines I have ever heard.  I think that it does a great job illustrating some of the issues with which many teenagers struggle.  These issues may seem simple and unimportant to adults but they mean the world to the teenagers.  There are teenagers who attempt or commit suicide over these issues every year.  So, they are very important.I also thought that the movie did a great job illustrating how teenagers are often divided into different cliques particularly at school.  As well as how these various cliques rarely interact and sometimes look down on each other. As a teenager (and I was a teenager when this movie first came out), I had many problems around the issue of acceptance.  I wanted other schoolmates to accept me.  I wanted to fit in.  I wanted to be popular and well-liked. I wanted my parents to accept me for who I was at the time.  All of this was very important to me.  I can really relate to the characters in this movie.This movie will always remind me what it was like to be a teenager.  I also believe that it helps me to better relate with teenagers now as an adult. Thank you to anyone who had anything to do with it and thank you to IMDb for all the great quotes they have listed here for this movie.  Take care and God bless you and yours. "},{"Title":"Re-evaluating an old fave and still loving it!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A few weeks ago a film buff I'd just met made a disparaging comment about The Breakfast Club when he saw it on my list of faves.  He was incredulous that anyone could like such rubbish.  I must confess that (in light of his comment) I had to re-watch this old favorite and, as I did, I continually wondered, Okay, as much as I used to like this as a teen, is this REALLY any good?  After close observation and careful consideration, I must re-affirm (for the world to know), I love this movie!  Whether or not I SHOULD, I do.  No amount of condescension can take that away.One thing, however, that changed in the interim since my last viewing was the response I felt toward Judd Nelson's John Bender.  This time around I found him much less cool.  Frankly, I thought (especially in the first hour) that he was annoying and loud, if sporadically amusing.  Snide comments and monologues that I used to love weren't as fun this time around.  Not as you saw the faces fall of whoever happened to be Bender's target.  As I saw the movie progress, though, and carefully watched the other characters' reactions to Bender, I realized that this was probably closer to Hughes' intention than my initial adolescent adulation.  The gradual revelations we are given into his background aren't as meaningful unless we begin with (at least) mild revulsion.  One of the reasons I really care about this move is because it just plain FEELS GOOD to experience this gradual change of heart toward John.  Sure, you never quite like him but you can definitely see that underneath all the barbs and bluster is a whole lot of fear and pain.  The look on John's face as Vernon publicly denigrates him says it all.  He is cringing and hollow-eyed as Vernon jeers, You wanna see something funny?  Let's look at John Bender in five years.  Now that's funny.  Chilling moments like this, however cleverly written, reinforce the fact that The Breakfast Club may be funny but it's no comedy.I personally find the progression from mutual indifference to anger and eventual understanding (however limited) believable and touching.  Sure, in truth, not much is really accomplished.  A few silly stories are exchanged.  Some personal secrets are revealed (hidden fears about growing old and shame about being virgins to name a few).  And some unstable romantic unions are formed.  But, isn't this part of what makes this such a wonderful movie?  Sure, nobody saves the world.  Nobody really accomplishes much of anything...'cept a little bit of understanding.  And isn't that, after all, EVERYTHING?  Sure, the intimacy these five kids find in this ephemeral moment will never be rekindled in quite the same way.  I think of the end of Stand By Me where the narrator tells us that Teddy and Vern would eventually become for him just two more faces in the crowd.  But this, by no means, invalidates what was gained by these kids.  Each of them will take away something invaluable and (hopefully) indelible a slightly broader mind and a little bit bigger heart.   "},{"Title":"16 Years after I first watched it,I'm still watching it!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My favourite film of the 80's, I actually like the soundtrack, it's part of the whole nostalgia trip.The quotes from this film became part of everyday vocab in my teens, I have spent the interim 16 years looking for boots and nailvarnish the same as Clare's!!I have seen this film somewhere in the region of 25 times... I know most of the script off by heart... but the best thing is, I notice something new every time, even now.As a kid, I always wanted a sequel... but that would have ruined it (like Grease 2)... so I'm happy to keep watching, drooling over Bender (he's SO cool)and pretending I am not in my 30's!! "},{"Title":"What happened to the Judd-man?!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have always LOVED Judd Nelson, ever since I first saw him. He absolutely Shines in this movie. He is so compellingly deep, that besides how shallow he acts in the beginning, you know that there is something behind those eyes. He tries to cover them, shade them with sarcasm, but they still sadden up. What a great actor. I'm wondering why he was reduced to minor slasher flicks after such a huge success! I just have to ask that. He startles me with his eyes. The movie is wonderful, but I strongly suggest forgetting the sound track, and the ending; they just don't fit. *+*Anna*+* "},{"Title":"One of the best teen movies ever","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie a few months ago (it is slightly before my time, im only 14) but i still love it. Ive watched it with a few of my friends and they all love it too. Its got some great actors ( I really like Anthony Michael Hall and Judd Nelson ) except for Molly Ringwald who I usually like, but she annoyed me in this movie.  Some people have said that it lacks depth, but its a teen movie and there really isnt one that has too much anyway.  I normally hate teen movies, especially the ones out now like Bring it on (how can people like that?) but compare 80s movies (john hughes mostly) to the ones out now and you will see them in a different light.  I guess adults who dont like it really need to be a teen to understand what the characters are going through, because high school is tough, and some people really would get upset if they couldnt make a ceramic elephant. This movie is great for teens no matter what social group they are in. The only part i dont like is how Anthony Michael Hall doesnt get a girlfriend. He was so adorable! "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorites. Yes it is somewhat 80's cheesy. But it's good. My favorite character is Judd Nelson. He is the best one in the whole movie next to my second favorite Ally Sheedy. I give this movie 10/10. I watch it a lot when it is on T.V plus i have the movie too.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have one question am I the only teenager of the 2000 years who has seen this movie? Everyone one else who rated this movie is 30ish years old. Oyé vay. Well onto my actual review. Except for the totally chessy music and some over done scenes I loved that movie. I thought it was great and it the only one i seen like it taken in that scenery. The five characters, the princess, the jock, the geek, the regect and the rebel are all so perfectly stereotypicalized ( is that a word) in themselves that you can sit there and think omg ___ is just like that. I thought it was an excellent movie, although it has been labeled comedy is isn't really one. I think it is more sort of dramaish, there are some funny lines surer but it is more of a dramatic film. I think Judd Nelson ( rebelious John Bender) stole the show with the best lines and the most interesting character. Well that's all, I think it is a great movie for teenagers of any era so other people my age (13) should totally see it! 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films in the teen genre","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You can't call yourself a teenager if you've never seen a John Hughes flick. With this film (his best) he presented a common problem we have (communication) using characters we all understand, teenagers. This film has heart and envokes some deep isssues. The cast is great but Judd Nelson stands out the most. I can't wait for the remake. "},{"Title":"Amazing social commentary of school classes.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A brilliant movie. Nothing could ever possibly be improved. It just has to be savoured. I wish the dvd had some decent extra`s on it though. This is one of my favourite movie`s ever, and age hasn`t dulled it (surprising, actually, as I thought it would have). "}{"Title":"Hughes Has Come Up With Another 80's Classic!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here it is folks! The movie that had every teenager in America flocking to local movie theaters and cinemas to see. And why did they want to see it? Breakfast Club dealt with the 5 most popular groups of kids in high school during the 80's. The nerds, the preps, the jocks, the freaks, and the blazers. This movie can be summed up into one word. Fantastic.The Breakfast Club deals with a situation every high-schooler goes through at least once in there career. The dreaded detention. This movie attracted such a big following because it shows how normal everyday kids from these different genres could put there differences aside and become friends for a day. Even though they all knew they would not be able to remain friends after this Saturday School Detention due to the criticism they would receive from their own friends.TBC fuses supreme acting with a fantastic plot. What more could you want? 5 high strung students who are forced to spend 10 hours together, even though they have nothing in common. This film is fantastic in every way. You have to love the part when all 5 of the students blaze up and there true colors show through. And at the end of the day, they go their seprate ways, the same way they arrived in the morning.An awesome movie that truly defines Generation X'ers. A Must See.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"NEVER SICK OF IT","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How many times you ever seen this movie you will never get sick of it!!!It is so retro and anyone who likes Molly Ringwald movies will love this PLEASE watch this movie. Out of 1-100 stars I give it a 100. Am I a little crazy but...... Its The Breakfast Club Forever!!! "},{"Title":"Sincerely The Breakfast Club","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. It is really good if you like Molly Ringwald and Drama. It is really worth seeing. Judd Nelson plays a Criminal like person and makes fun of people yet he does have feelings. Molly Ringwald is very good in this movie and so is Emilio Estevez, Ally Sheedy, and Anthony Michael Hall. I have only seen the tv version of it but it really gives you a chance to think about how people acted in 1985. It is totally HIGH SCHOOL. I love the quote that Brian says near the end the letter one. Dear Mr. Vernon. that one. "},{"Title":"this movie","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has some of the quotes that defined the 80's. It faces every subject and then throws it into a mixture of what-if's. It also started some of the 80's legendary actors of that generation. A must see! "},{"Title":"One of my big time favourites","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has really captured my heart!! I find it amazing that a movie that takes place more or less in ONE room and with such a small cast, can feel so ACTIVE!! But it does...it has it all you laugh and you cry...and you get to think!!  "},{"Title":"Think back...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For those of you who criticize this movie - do you remember high school? There was one reviewer who said he liked it at 16 but doesn't like it now and that it all has to do with age. In some ways, I think that's true, but not because you're any less perceptive as a teenager. But these characters do resonate with teens because, however stereotyped they may be, these are true stereotypes. I could name you a John, a Claire, a Brian, an Allison, and an Andrew from my school in a second. And the movie does break these stereotypes apart and show you where their role really comes from.However trite the dialogue may seem, it's still true - a part that particularly resonated with me was when they talked about the fact that if they saw each other in the halls the popular kids would say hi and then badmouth them to their friends to make sure it didn't look like they were friends with the unpopular kids. Ask most high school kids and they will tell you that this happens all the time.The same reviewer I mentioned before says that the end has something to do with knowing your place. I don't think that's it at all. I think that it's saying that, when they opened up to each other, they learned that they weren't so different after all and that we can all relate if we give each other a chance.I think this is the ultimate teen movie about what all teens go through - that point where you want to be a kid and you want to grow up at the same.10/10 "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTLY GENIUS!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club! I great film! TBS plays it sooooo often but I always got to it in the middle, never got to it when it started so I got fed up and rented it, and of course it was really worth it! It is the best movie ever! nothing can beat this....well it is pretty close to St. Elmo's Fire another great film by the same three actors; Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy and Emilio Estevez. T.B.C is a great movie for people of all ages, teens still love this movie even if it's old and Judd Nelson could not get any cuter! As the bad boy he steels this movie, the other actors give great performences but Nelson is the key to this movie, every person I know loves this movie mostly because of him. The family speach he gives is priceless!! I have that all memorized and say it to or with my friends, we crack up everytime. Movies don't get better then this I really recomend renting this film it is absolutly worth it! I give it a ten out of ten!  "},{"Title":"The Best Teen Film Ever Made; Hands Down","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is the ultimate teen film ever protrayed of film.  The characters are typical teenage stereotypes that are abundant in your years in high school.  Everyone can relate to this movie in some way or another. The Breakfast Club has been called the quintessential teen movie of the 1980's, and it definetly lives up to that title.  Judd Nelson as John Bender, solely steals the whole film, with Ally Sheedy right behind him. Without a doubt John Hughes' best film along with Ferris Bueller's Day Off. I mean Sixteen Candles was alright, and Pretty In Pink was straight horrible.  The Breakfast Club is a modern classic, and is definetly the best film from the 1980's. "},{"Title":"best brat-pack film of all","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie about forty times and still every time it shows on t.v. again, I am drawn back to it. This is one of the few movies that actually makes me cry and laugh at the same time, and I really love the characters so well portrayed by the actors. Classic 80's high-school movie! "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie of All Time!!!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I must say that there's just something about the 80's that fascinates me.  New Kids On The Block, Tiffany, Jessica McClure, the clothes, the hair-- and the Breakfast Club.  I love all of it.  I wish more than anything that it was still the current decade.  The music and movies were the absolute top and this is a sterling example.  This film is insightful, intriguing, probing, and thoughtful.  It is the American Beauty for the 80's.  The characters are well developed, the story is fast paced, never boring, and completely original, and the acting is superb!!  The music is about as good as the movie, too!!  The opening sequence with Simple Minds Don't You (Forget About Me) and a famous/infamous quote from David Bowie will forever stand out in my mind.  I must say, my favorite character was Claire.  Molly Ringwald was moving (not to downsize any of the other characters who were equally moving and well-portrayed) but she always seems to stand out.  The ending leaves me with an indescribable feeling of overwhelming something that I just can't figure out.  I've seen this movie about as many times as you've seen your reflection in a mirror!  It is by far (in my book) the greatest movie ever made!!! "}{"Title":"Cream of the 80's Crop","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie ever made. The characters casted were great, the clothes were great, the set was well designed. It's clear John Hughes knows the 80's well, this is his best film to date, it's clear he knows what he is doing when directing and writing moves. The dialogue between the characters is A++. This movie leaves you wondering what will happen to everyone on Monday morning. This movie in my opinion defies a generation.  "},{"Title":"An 80's icon film, a great hit due to the strong message it brings that all of us can relate to.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Hughes I thank you for making a film that is so true in it's message times that we can all remember our high school days. High school is a point when you find yourself searching for that meaning well knowing what the world is about and dealing with problems and differences while always bumping over and stepping on others toes. The, Breakfast Club is a story of five Chicago, Illinois high school kids who spend a Saturday afternoon in detention and I will tell you that you find that in every high school in America you have students just like these characters in The, Breakfast Club. Even my small town high school had teenage high school students just like these that's why The, Breakfast Club is such a hit for the fact of the realism it brings. You have it in all different types first Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez) as the athletic type a high school wrestling champion all brawn and no brains, next Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall) as the brain and straight as the arrow student the next genius in the making, then the criminal and everyday rule breaker John Bender (Judd Nelson), then follows the princess and prom queen Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald) a girl that any boy would desire to be with, finishing out with a basket case and odd Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy). See what I mean now remember these types in your own high school. During the days detention these five discover they have more in common than they think. The, Breakfast Club has some of the better dialogue and acting in film history it's one of those films you learn to like and remember by heart and Judd Nelson gives the best performance of any cast member. The, Breakfast Club continues to receive numerous airings on cable many weekends you can find it on the TV as high as five or six times that's how well respected this John Hughes classic is, I have a copy of The, Breakfast Club in my video collection and view it many times. I think the Anthony Michael Hall character Brian Johnson says it all in the end that each of us found out who we are a athlete, a brain, a criminal, a princess, and a basket case. Remember it's meant for everyone to be different, everyone should be different, and it's OK for everyone to be different. I had friend tell me that once and I can well see how that message is shown in The, Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"An A+ film. And read my 80's icon film comment.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am shortly typing another Breakfast Club comment because I left the word a out in my first and with this movie great you want the comment to be great! Read my 80's icon comment but remember this a athlete, a brain, a criminal, a princess, and a basket case. Always remember it's meant for everyone to be different, everyone should be different, and it's OK to be different I had a friend tell me that once. I can see how that message is shown in The, Breakfast Club. "},{"Title":"Cream of the 80's crop","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is, in my point the best movie made in the 80's or even all time. The movie has some of the best dialog ever between characters. Ill never forget Brian's line so whats going to happen to us on monday. John Hughes has definatly done it again in this film , not only did he write a good script and direct another good film but cast great characters for The breakfast club.  "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite other erronius reviews I've read (here) TBC is, simply put, the best movie of it's category I've ever seen.  For those of you have not seen it (yet) it's about a group of 'catagorized' high school students who are lumped together one fateful Saturday for detention.  Sound dull 'till you see it.  The walls of society's 'pigeon holes' come crashing down when the teens learn to talk to each other as individuals rather than talking to each other as who they think they should be. In example we learn that the 'tough guy' John Bender (Played by Judd Nelson) although street smart and rugged is also insightful and intelligent.The thing I liked specifically about this movie is how the writer (John Hughes) takes the conversations between the actors one step beyond. Although in real life the flow probably wouldn't happen. It was portrayed in a believable manner.  The attitudes, dress, and even the language of that era (1985) take me right back to high school.It has been commented that scenes in the movie 'could never happen' and are even 'far fetched'. To these critics I say perhaps. But if you delve into the real meaning of the movie and understand that the intention of the writer was to illustrate the social prejudices of the time, you'd understand that the premis isn't 'far fetched' at all.On a less serious note, there are (at least in my mind) some serious one liners that even today i'll take out of my one liner library, dust off and use. Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe? All in all I found this movie to be funny, nestalgic, dramatic and uplifting... Even still. I give it a full 9.9/10. An excellent rental for the 30 something crowd. "},{"Title":"Ah its fine","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you want something to take you back to the 'thank god they're over' great days of the 80s then this could be for you. Right, okay it's cheesy, it's corny, at times it is just unbelievable and stupid, but the dialogue is spot on and I liked it. So there! "},{"Title":"Welcome to The Breakfast Club","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I'm writing as a 13 year old boy who secretly watched that movie at night while my parents were out. Right from the beginnig I realized (as an experience watcher) that this movie was something special and by the time the movie was halfway done I wanted to kill myself not to have taped it.Well, what made it so special? Five young students spent their detention on a Saturday in school and discover the others and themselves. Of course, each one is completly different and they share just one common enemy - their teacher. The fight is not easy and starts among themselves, but by the time they get out of there, they become The Breakfast Club.Now, many years later I know how much that movie shaped me and others who saw that movie. You can take a lot out of this movie, but if you're just looking for some entertainment, then I'd say better watch something else. Don't expect too much if it when you consider yourself grown-up, even though it would still be a good movie. You'll be the judge, if you want let me know what you thought about it... "},{"Title":"It has its flaws, but they just can't hurt this wonderful film!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film brings me back to my high school days, being 15 and worrying about the most trivial of things. And this film is about how the most ordinary and banal of occurrences - being a virgin, failing a project, hating your parents, stupid jock pranks - can all seem so earth-shattering to the people they affect.This film should not be taken too seriously. It's mostly tongue-in-cheek, the dialogue is often purposefully overly cheezy, the characters are all stereotypes and aren't too deep. Even the teacher is an overdone caricature. But it all works. And the greatest part is that this film isn't dated at all...well, aside from the evil hair-styles and horrid 80s music (couldn't they have used *good* 80s pop?? I wish I *could* forget about the Simple Minds!!)Some of it is *too* cheezy..the horrid synth music that rises to a predictable crescendo whenever something dramatic happens being a good example. The silly make-over (which ends up uglifying Ally Sheedy...she looked *way* cuter in her &#145;reject' form) and odd pairing of Sheedy and Estevez (where did *that* come from? All of a sudden. no prior hints, they're madly in love?? At least with Molly vs. Nelson you could see them eyeing each other and flirting all throughout the film... (-sigh- the nerds never get the girl...;)Anyhow, that aside, many of the lines are still memorable (&#145;Does Barry Manilow know you have his wardrobe?', &#145;How DOES one become a janitor?', &#145;No sir, because it's in Johnson's underwear...') And a lot of the quotes here have been used or referred to in many recent films (eg Go). This film has a cool-factor of ten! It's hilarious, the interplay between characters is great, and even the cheezy parts are fun! The simple fact is that any aspect of this film that is groanable is smothered by all of the better aspects. And c'mon, being a high school teen is filled with cheeze anyhow, so it all fits in the greater scheme of things;)Overall great direction, sharp dialogue, great acting (this was Judd Nelson's *best* role ever! And he carries this film as well...the other characters support him). Okay, so Emilio got the girl, so Judd Nelson pumped his fist in the air like a moron (hey, if *I* got to kiss Molly Ringwald, I'd be pumping my fist like a moron, too!!) This film is pure amusement, and behind it all we can nod our heads and say yeah, this is what it was like! The pressures of being a teenager...life really could suck sometimes. And even though in retrospect it seem so silly, sometimes it's okay for the boring and trivial to be of earth-shattering importance...Take this film for what it is a fun watch and a handbook to being a teenager, stereotypical or not. An easy 8/10!! "},{"Title":"An absorbing film that still resonates today, but only for those who were there...","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A chilly Saturday morning at a suburban Chicago high school.  Five students from different social groups spend a day of detention together.  Over the course of 8 hours, they learn about each other, themselves, and life.  This film, lumped into the maliciously titled Brat Pack genre of movies, exceeds far beyond the expendable category it's been branded into.  It is an uncommonly moving film about the hardships of growing up, but where it differs from other coming-of-age/slice-of-life stories is that the film has NOTHING to do with adults, including an adult's perception on the problems that these five characters confront, avoid and examine in The Breakfast Club.  It is a film for teenagers, written & directed by John Hughes, who clearly never lost touch of the teenage heart that still beats inside him.  It's possible that if you don't get this film, it may simply be because you are now an ADULT, an adult who forgot what high school was like.  John Hughes is talking to kids in this film, it isn't a story that's going to stir emotion in middle-aged film critics and suburban professionals.  He communicates the problems of teenagers with an almost meditative pace that employs a heavy amount of dialogue and little music or fanciful editing.  Hughes does a fine job of injecting comedic touches into this drama without ever sacrificing its overall somber tone.In retrospect, the film vaguely solicits sympathy for the teenager growing up in Reagan-era America, where children are dealing with a sudden, yuppie-corporate world that stole away their baby boomer parents who were only too happy to trade in their disco balls & hippie beads for foreign cars & pasta machines.  These are children of parents who simply don't care (Allison and John), of parents who are too busy making money (Claire) or of parents who funnel all their failed ambitions into their overachieving children (Andy and Brian).  Sure, Andy, Claire and Brian are easily identifiable characters, while John and Allison hint at many more layers existing beneath their surface, but they collectively present the different faces of adolescence.Many detractors of The Breakfast Club complain about its sentimentality and lack of insight.  What are these movie lovers expecting, these characters are teenagers!  They don't have the experience yet to make bold, all-encompassing musings on the hardships of adult life.  They are your typically angry, impatient, confused kids, yet they are still unusually aware of themselves.  They are trying to make sense of a time in their life where society begins to assign them many of the responsibilities of adulthood but few of the privileges (which is why teenagers will always be seeking out late nights of sex & alcohol).  It's funny how people regard this film as a great 80's movie because it implies how many people think what a culturally bankrupt decade it was, probably the tackiest in 20th century America (sorry, it wasn't the 70's, at least that decade had Martin Scorsese, Marvin Gaye and Led Zeppelin).  Further irony is apparent considering this film isn't as dated-looking as many other films of that decade. Sure, the two dancing scenes and brief bits of the synthesizer-laden film score are cheesy, not to mention the fact that these kids nowadays would be under much more duress.  Claire (the rich princess) would have some sort of eating disorder, Andy (the athlete) would have date-raped somebody, Allison (the goth introvert) would have a severe psychological disorder, the kind where you see her in the school cafeteria scratching her wrists and incessantly mumbling to herself.  John (the stoner rebel) would have dropped out already, gotten someone pregnant, and be relegated to bagging groceries or fixing cars.  As for Brian (the nerdy brain), it's quite obvious he's the one who will arrive at school one morning with a firearm and shoot his classmates (Hughes prophetically hints at this, more than a decade before it would come to fruition).The performances are all-around perfect and very understated, including Ally Sheedy as Allison, the basketcase who skillfully played an introvert without being boring.  Over the course of the film, Hughes very slowly peels away as Ally's layers, although by the end we still don't really know her too well or where she will end up.  Only Judd Nelson, as the infamous trash-talking John Bender, really goes appropriately overboard.  Hughes has this character chewing the scenery almost every chance he gets.  Nelson is a quick actor when it comes to being confrontational, especially the seated circle scene where he berates Molly Ringwald for lacking the courage to judge people by character instead of appearance - wow, is he good there.  You've got to accept that films like Gandhi and Out Of Africa are NOT going to be revered as epics of their era.  It's The Breakfast Club that will be remembered because it defined its time so thoughtfully, and it has held up considerably well given the era it was filmed in.  Like it or not, it's a modern classic. "},{"Title":"Teenagers must have made this!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah I do admit the lines weren't award winning, and the actions/issues somewhat shallow, but that is what it is like to be a teenager. Almost any teen can relate to what this movie is about. I loved this movie, most of the good movies came from the late 70's-early 90's, and this is one of them! "}{"Title":"Should be required viewing for teens","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let's get my rants out of the way first.  I hate seeing this movie in the comedy sections of video stores.  Have those people ever sat down and watched it?  I'm willing to bet that they haven't. I've also noted that this is a movie people either love or hate.  Most of the people I know who hate it first watched it as adults.  That is a HUGE mistake.  Adults (and I know this because I find myself slowly, reluctantly transforming into one) tend to remember their teenage years with (can you believe this?) *FONDNESS*!  I'm serious!  Adults have it in their heads that being a teenager is *enjoyable*.The Breakfast Club was one of the first films to try and show what kids really go through in high school.  Most teen movies prior were something more like Grease, all nostalgia and denial, no trauma or disillusion.  Then this movie arrived with scene after excruciating scene of adolescent angst.My humble opinion is this  If you are currently in high school you MUST watch this movie.  If you wait, you'll be too old to get it.  It is, simply put, the greatest teen movie ever made.If you aren't tearing up by the middle of the second act, you are advised to check your pulse. "},{"Title":"THE definitive '80's movie.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  They only met once but it changed their lives foreverYet another wonderfully angsty teen movie from the master of the genre, possibly John Hughes' best although Somekind Of Wonderful and Ferris Beuller's.. are both great. The plot is simple yet effective (5 different kids have to spent saturday detention together, a brain, a basket case, a jock, a princess and a criminal). The cast are excellent, a stand out being Judd Nelson as the wonderfully sarcastic and wise-cracking John Bender. This movie has to been seen when you are a teenager or it won't have the same impact. Check your mind at the door and enjoy! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when it first came out, the last time I saw it was today....and I still love it. John Bender was, in my opinion..the best character of the 80's. You really need to keep in mind it was made for the teenage 80's audience, so commenting 16 years later that the music was lame, some of the dialogue was cheesy, they had trivial problems etc is pretty absurd. The music fitted the movie and the era, we spoke like that pretty much, and the problems discussed were that of high school kids...I don't think at the time John Hughes cared less what cynical people who have forgotten what it was like when they were teens would think of his film in 2001...he didn't make it for them. A lot of people have commented on why Brian didn't get the girl, well when nerds get all the girls and the jock gets left out in the cold all the time maybe films will change. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this as part of the BBC's 'I Love 1980's' night and was pleasantly surprised with the film. It is a highly unusual concept and in the wrong hands could be the most boring thing ever - however this isn't. John Hughes has done a fantastic job mixing humour, romance and hatred together and the young cast are highly believable and entertaining. Watch this if you can, it will not disappoint. I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Classic teen-angst from Hughes","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though a little more in the sentimental comic-drama style of Pretty in Pink than an all-out comedy like Ferris Bueller or Sixteen Candles, this is Hughes at the very top of his form. Bringing together a gang of his regular favourites to play each of those stereotyped characters who fill all his classic teen movies, Hughes shows the horrible, cliquey, competitive us-against-them culture permeating American schoolkids, school systems, and by extension society as a whole. This masterpiece has everything from hilarious slapstick to terribly moving anguish, without ever straying outside the narrow confines of a few rooms and corridors and a handful of characters. Anyone who hasn't already seen it really should give it a go, and if US schools are still like this after all Hughes has done to portray them as breeding grounds of unhappiness, something really should be done. "},{"Title":"Funny-sad","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This must be one of the best teen films ever made. I resisted watching it for a while because it looked boring. It's not boring! This work explores the depths of feeling of 5 teenagers in a way that is totally realistic. The dialog and interaction between the characters is perfectly done, exactly as teens would have done it. There are 5 totally distinct personalities and they begin to understand one another as they talk out pretty much anything and everything. Some of the dialog is serious, some inane. Don't try to think of it as a comedy, because it isn't. There are some moments of levity, but this is a serious film! Watch this in one sitting and you will enjoy it better. "},{"Title":"No question about it, the best teen movie ever!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is one of the best teen films and one of the best films of any genre films I have ever seen!It is a feel-good movie and yet it makes you feel sorry for the characters while also being side-splittingly funny in parts and although it is a teen movie anybody would enjoy who likes character films.Judd Nelson shines through as 'the criminal', John Bender but the whole cast is superb and their devotion to the characters realism makes it a definite must see movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but the premise never exploited to the max","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When this movie came out, I was 8, but I consider the 80s to be my era.The films premise is never exploited, I felt that picture could've featured more fun for the kids. Saying that, John Hughes handles the film very well.The screenplay does lack something, but at the end of the picture, it has served its purpose.The film's 5 characters are perfect, every class had a geek, a sports fanatic, a loser etcetc. Judd Nelson is awesome in this, steals the film.A good film, but never exploited to the max.  "},{"Title":"An eighties insight","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I watched The Breakfast Club on TV the other day , I was surprised that I felt the same emotions after viewing the film the first time round. As an 80's kid , admittedly an English one. The characters of the film were so similar to how we all actually were. The geek , we all had one of them in a class , the wannabe rebel who thought he was smarter than everyone else , and the Sporty type , filled with a demanding father's high expectations. Im so sorry that Ive omitted the female cast , as I myself went to an all boys school...gives a clue to why you find Englishman sexually and emotionally repressed , but hey thats another story.Anyway , the film showed an insight to the social-strata of America , it seemed that safe nice middle-class types only get into contact with the Plebians at High School...Im sure thats not really how it is. The Film I believe is a top drawer offering on how confused and demanding the 80's really were for children portrayed by The Breakfast Club. Ally Sheedy's character (Allison I believe) was a real eye-opener , the Cinderella , a girl enforced into obscurity by Parents who ignored her , and yet with one make-over we see a real princess who instantly seals the affections of Andy (Emilio Estevez)...For American readers , the kids in the 80's in Britain were not only so-so similar to the kids in the film , but if you somehow added the Industrial and Political conflict that existed outside the School gate then you would've had an even more sharper and cynical scope for characters if a Breakfast Club version was ever made or set in the UK.For the lighter version of the film , the music and dancing was pure escapist brilliance. Especially when the scene follows on from the Teacher talking to the Janitor , saying these kids are gonna run the Country. Well lets hope the leaders in 2010 will be able to dance and do make-overs as they try and pay for Pensions and Healthcare and keep us all from bombing each other..Anyway the best line in the film is when Bender says to Brian after doing an impression of his home life(which Judd Nelson's character was secretly jealous of) saying your a parents wet-dream. That was such a great line.I recommend The Breakfast Club , because one it is like a film anthem for the p***ed off kids of the 80s , which I will gladly admit that Im a definate one of that Generation B club. (B is for Betrayed) "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the eighties (spoilers ahead)","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of the 80's.  I could really relate to the characters of Ally Sheedy and Anthony Michael Hall.  The actors turn in good performances, with Sheedy and Nelson as standouts.  Nelson was funny at times by some of the things that he says, but Sheedy is funny without even saying a word!  I think that the dialogue could have been better at times, like when Emilio Estevez says Drop dead i hope!.  Notice that Molly Ringwald was in three of John Hughes' films in the mid 80's, and notice that this was the only good one of the three, so Ringwald really couldn't pull this film off without the other four.  Paul Gleason is excellent as the wanna-be-cool principal, who, according to Judd Nelson, raids Barry Mantelo's wardrobe.  I love this film, and every teen should see it, and let yourself be aware of the fact that you aren't alone when you're dealing with peer pressure and loneliness.****/***** "}{"Title":"one of the best movies of the '80s","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was the best of the 1980s era. I enjoyed all of the actors. They all gave great performances. I really love Judd Nelson. The Breakfast Club made me laugh. It made me cry. I felt like I was emotionally in it. I didn't go to public school but we had the usual kind of kids that you hated or wished you were them. I felt like I fit in with Ally Sheedy's character. The loner who lied to much and then set up someone to admit things that they normally wouldn't.  "},{"Title":"John Hughes at his best","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i can not put into words how i feel about The Breakfast Club i love this movie so much, it has a great cast for it's time, Molly Ringwald, Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, Emilio Estevez were all so great but Judd Nelson is what made this movie what it was playing John Bender, i know all of his lines in the film yeah i know i saw The BreakFast Club one too many times, John Hughes has made so many great movies but this is by far his best work ever, i give The Breakfast Club 10/10, it's a classic, and wont be forgotten any time soon "},{"Title":"A movie that shows us all we are human.","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When Breakfast Club was released I was only 5 years old.  At that time I wasn't allowed to watch the film, but when I got older it became one of my favorite movies.  When I was in high school I really started to understand the movie better.  I could relate with the characters of the film and see how each of them represented someone I knew in my life.  It is one of those movies that I wish would never end.  The film means so much to me and when I am down it picks me up. "},{"Title":"True to teenage life and the hardships that go along with it.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film shows quite eloquently the peer pressure, cruelty, and hardships that teenagers face on a day-to-day basis.  It's a very hard time in life when you're pulled in several directions by the child inside, by the adult outside, and by the expectations others have of you.  I think this film is the foundation for the Scared Straight shows on television that expose teenagers to what will happen if they drink too much, smoke, commit suicide, etc.  It's all about sacrificing yourself (and sometimes others) to impress the other people. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best movies to come out of the 80's!!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like 80's movies, then you've hit the jackpot this The Breakfast Club!  If you grow up in the 80's, you can figure out what find of person you were in the junior high or high school.  It's a pretty serious movie, but it's also a lot of fun.  This movie is a collector!!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie. Period.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When you watch The Breakfast Club, you are taken back to your days of high school, the good and bad memories.  You look back and you remember the fact that there were people like Judd Nelson (The Criminal) or Molly Ringwald (The Princess).  John Hughes masterfully takes all these characters and places them in such a common place, detention, and sees what happens.  You can't help but be there with these characters, going along with their problems.  An amazing ensemble cast, and an awesome story makes it a teen drama.  Dawson's Creek wishes it was as good as this movie. "},{"Title":"Another Hughes Classic","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hughes follow up to Sixteen Candles is an even better effort, dealing with five teens stuck in a Saturday afternoon detention together.  None wants to be there, of course, but by the end of the day they come to like each other.  Not without the usual threats, anger and tears, which is what makes the film great as Hughes delves deep into each character.  Though all the performances are great, the film really belongs to Nelson, who has the best lines, be it funny or antagonistic.  Estevez is strong as well, Hall is pleasantly understated, Ringwald good at the emotional, and Sheedy a perfect neurotic.  Hughes wisely trimmed his original script, dropping a silly subplot involving a teacher (Gleason, who watches over the kids) spying on a female co-worker throughout the building.  And also to omit Vernon's change of heart that the kids are not so bad after all, as it would have been totally unbelievable.  But for whats on screen, its all great, with a dynamite soundtrack, and a great final shot.  One of three(!) great Hughes films from '85. "},{"Title":"  Please NO REMAKE.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   John Hughes may do a sequel, using the same school or principal with different new students in modern day.  I would accept that, allowing him to exploit the title even though only one group called itself The Breakfast Club (or one character, Brian).  I would be able to handle Hughes revisiting the old cast, who might make themselves available.  But recasting the same roles with modern teens would be along the same lines as pulling a Gus Van Sant.  A Breakfast Club sequel, maybe co-written by Kevin Smith, might succeed.  But I can't stress enough how Judd Nelson should be the only person playing John Bender. "},{"Title":"It's the Ericmeister writing reviews!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a deep and beautiful movie. Hughes went all out with his views on teen angst and came out successful on the other side. All the main characters are rather represented well here. You have the jock, princess, dork, the criminal and the one psychopath that scared....a lot...out of me.She was rather well, though. And I must admit, I have a friend who lives in Tujunga, and reminded me of Andrew Johnson so much. Like, a lot, dude. "},{"Title":"The BEST John Hughes movie... the BEST 80's movie!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love John Hughes' work.  That I have to say to begin with... but when I learned that this movie was all set in ONE place I had serious misgivings.  I just hoped it wouldn't be tediouos.  How wrong could I be..?  This is such an intense movie, that it has you on the edge of your seat throughout.  Not bad for a movie with almost NO action. Secondly, even as someone who grew up in Britain, I can still relate to these kids.  The moral I think is that everyone has their own problems whether rich or poor, successful or a failure... and the old adage that the grass is greener but that it really isn't is one aspect of this movie.Thirdly, the dialogue is excellent; the script is so awesome and never fails to deliver.  It is so true, so profound and very believeable.  There is little schmaltz and we are left wondering if there is a happy ending at all...Fourthly, the acting in this movie is of the best calibre considering the average age of the cast.  Emilio is par for his usual course, Ringwald is superb, Hall plays the subdued academic geek too well, but the real winners here are Nelson and Sheedy... especially the latter with her very convincing portrayal of a basket-case.This movie is in my Top Ten.  Watch it... tonight! "}{"Title":"5 teen kids, one nasty principal, one good movie","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is a fine drama of 5 high school kids, who have nothing in common with each other, but find the right solace together through deep trust and judgement. EmilioEstevez is Andrew, the jock, Anthony Michael Hall is Brian, thenerd, Ally Sheedy is Allison, the outcast, Judd Nelson is John, the punk, and Molly Ringwald is Claire, the stuck-up. Each kid has different categories in personality, and that clashes with one another because one doesn't agree that another can fit into the world. But how are they to argue if one isn't the same asthe next person?The cast, which is consisted of half of the famed Brat Pack, (minus Charlie Sheen and Demi Moore), is great and bonafide.Nelson and Sheedy provide the best performances, because theytotally unique kids, not the kind that would be part of an in- crowd. Paul Gleason does his typical nasty turn as Vernon, the jerk principal. If you think Gleason's role in this moviewas rough, check out his police chief in Die Hard! You'd like to punch the snot out of the guy! "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the best of the eighties.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When this movie was made I couldn't even read yet. I watched it for the first time, exactly 15 years after it was made, and I must admit, this movie is great.I was going to vote for this movie, and I couldn't decide wether I'd give it a 9 or a 10, but I thought that if the vote was based on the first thought that gets to your mind just after you finish watching the movie, I'd have to rate the movie with a 10, because the first thing I said to myself after watching it, was I liked this movie... I liked it a lot.Sometimes it's fun for me to see actors when they were pretty young. I am used to see those actors now, in these years, but 15 years ago they looked pretty different.All the actors and actresses, Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy and Anthony Michael Hall, were great. Each actor, pretty young by that time, gave a very convincent performance.Not many people participate in this movie, just about 7. And the movie is always developed in the same place, the same atmosphere, but the dialogs and the discussions are awesome.For a teenager, like me, watching this movie would be really good, because I believe you can learn something from it. And even if you are an adult, you can also learn something from it.All those kids were in trouble for different reasons. And all had problems with their families. One of the kid's father wanted him to be number one at everything. Other father wanted his boy to get the best grades, and wont accept a bad grade. Other father gives his daughter everything. other gives his son nothing, oh, right, he gave him a pack of cigarettes for Christmas.Kids in different social positions, get to spend a whole Saturday locked up at school. They get to know each other pretty well, after a lot of tears dropped and stories told. But along with all that, there were many laughs and everybody got out pretty happy.And the essay they were supposed to write, which Anthony M. Hall wrote all by himself, was excellent. I simply loved it. He described everyone of those kids with just 1 simple word An athlete, a brain, a basket case, a princess and a criminal.This movie is really worth watching, I enjoyed it a lot and rated it with the highest rating possible. "},{"Title":"An 80's classic.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the 80's had a truckload of great movies, this was one of the best. It was the most true to life of all of them even though the scenario seems a little unlikely to really happen.The story is simple. Five kids from different lives are all brought together in Saturday detention. We have Andrew the jock, Brian who is the nerdy one, Claire the prom queen, Bender the troublemaker, and Allison the outcast. They all started out basically disliking each other but as the day grew on they learned trust in each other and turned detention into a fun day.What I liked best about this movie was the acting. These are all of these actors at their best. What I meant about the unlikely scenario was that I doubt that one of each of these kind of people would be in detention at the same time, but I guess that was part of the uniqueness of the story. Once you see it you'll overlook it.Highly recommended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The best John Hughes film ever - after Ferris Bueller, of course","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This you should have seen.  If you die without knowing The Breakfast Club, that is really sad. It is what makes the eigthies so special the brat pack movie.The Breakfast Club is the absolute king of that genre. No one brought the mind of a few teenagers so close to you than John Hughes did. You can watch five completely different teens - the weirdo, the nerd, the macho, the sporty and the cool but misunderstood girl - spending a Saturday at school, for detention. The principal is ten times as worse as Mr. Rooney from Ferris Bueller's Day Off, but let's ignore that and concentrate on the wiz kids.Emilio Estevez has the role of his life playing the sporty one. Antony Michael Hall is great as the quiet brainiac  and Molly Ringwald plays at her absolute best. Although she made a good appearance, I think Ally Sheedy did a better job in WarGames. And Judd Nelson... well he's just tough. That's all.So, people. They just don't make movies like this anymore... "},{"Title":"15 years on and still as memorable","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is John Hughes at his best. It is no wonder that 15 years on his 80s high school movies are still popular. Even in todays era with Dawsons Creek etc etc - his movies still rate a mention. Ally Sheedy was truly amazing. Even though she only spoke towards the end - she performance alone was mesmerising.Judd Nelson was also fantastic and he is a very underrated actor. If you haven't seen this movie you don't know what you are missing as this one will sure go down in history as one of the best. "},{"Title":"A rare classic that shines of truth.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Hughes classic directing style, which can be spotted after watching only 10 minutes of any of his films, is magnified 10 fold is this awesome classic.This excellent telling of the social scene at an 80's high school is surprisingly accurate and honest.  The all-star cast brings all aspects of the high school drama to life with excellent accuracy, especially when compared to other high school-based films.This movie is home to scores of classic moments and epic lines that have been repeated countless times by my generation.There are less than a handful of films that are truly untouchable in all aspects, but this is definitely one of them.  Writing, directing, acting, soundtrack, everything is presented in perfect form.  This film is an eternal classic. "},{"Title":"Don't you forget about me","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Only one word. WOW. WOW in capital letters.This movie is perfect in portraying the four main, but somewhat exaggerated, images people have in high school, why they have that image, and that none of their lives are as perfect as their stereotypes.We have a typical nerdy person. We have the quiet, kooky one. We have the jock. We have the little Ms. Perfect rich b**** prom princess. Lastly, we have the troublemaker.Although it seems a bit bizarre, everyone was, is, or will be one of these people in high school, but just not as exaggerated and fitting into stereotype.The movie also shows how their peers and parents have made them what they are. All of their parents are responsible for the way their child has become, and it is realistic too.The roles are also well portrayed. Judd Nelson is at his definate best as John Bender, the school criminal from the abusive family. Ally Sheedy, although having few lines, is also a highlight as her role of Allison. Michael Anthony Hall, although not as convincing as he was as Farmer Ted (Sixteen Candles) gives Brian that brainy style you probably couldn't get from any other actor. Emilo is an excellent candidate to play an athlete like Andrew. Finally, Molly Ringwald will always be that upward nosed senior and  she will always be the only actress with the capability of being a Ms. Perfect. That was what pretty well all of her roles resembled in the John Hughes' high school movie collection.TBC is a rare gem. It's the type of teenager-aimed  movie that doesn't come around very often at all. Anyone who has ever attended high school must see this movie.My rating **** (out of 5 *'s)Sincerely yours, The Breakfast Club "},{"Title":"A great movie, to put it simply.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hi everyone!Let me start out by saying that I truly love this movie. To me, it is a movie I can watch again and again, finding something new to like about it with every viewing.Okay okay, you already know the story line and all the characters, so I'll just cut to the chase.Without a doubt, Judd Nelson gives the strongest performance in TBC. He hits every line perfectly and nothing that he says or does is ever out of character. No other actor could have played John Bender as well as him - he just fits the part so well, in appearance and actions. Not that his appearance is bad. His eyes are so gorgeous..and his hair, and his smile, and...you get the point.   But I digress.Another strong performance, in my opinion, is given by Ally Sheedy. The girl hardly says anything in the entire movie, and yet her character speaks to you more than the others. Plus Allison was one of the coolest people, anyway. How come she didn't have friends? I would've hung out with her.Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez, and Anthony Michael Hall give great performances too, though not as strong as the other two. Molly gives off the rich kid-prom queen vibe better than any other actress probably could. She doesn't make her character fake, like the snobbish types are in movies today. She gives Claire depth.Emilio Estevez is good in TBC, though his real shining moment is when he talks to Allison about her problems. His emotions are so apparent during the dialogue...it's at that pivotal moment that you know his athlete character has real feelings, too. And I swear, Anthony Michael Hall can do no wrong. He is so cute in this movie...his character is so believable. What an amazing underrated actor!*Spoiler*The only problem with this movie is the fact that a) Allison gets together with Andrew at the end when b) she could have gotten together with Brian (or not gotten with anyone at all). Andrew does drop little hints during the movie, if you watch closely, that he likes her, but they got together too quickly for me. It would have been a bit better if they'd just left the detention as good friends.And besides, why pass up Anthony Michael Hall? He's adorable in this movie. o)Well, that's enough of my babbling. See The Breakfast Club. Two thumbs up, four out of four stars, 10/10. The Brat Pack at its best.~ Peace out ~ "},{"Title":"A film for the ages","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club was an inspiring film that was easy to understand for anybody that ever attended high school. Each character was perfectly planned out, each played their part perfectly. None of them ever struck me as the slightest bit unrealistic, and the story was great. It was simple. It had an actual story to it unlike the many movies today which are just eye candy. It gave me hope that one day, many kids will join together like the five high schoolers in The Breakfast Club did and realize that they weren't different at all. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite 80's movie!!!!!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I grew up in the 80's and lived by John Hughes movies. I love all of the films he has made. This one being my all time favorite.I knew kids just like these in my high school. I think I hung out with the Judd Nelson type.The first time I saw this movie was when i was about 12. I didn't understand all of the dialogue. But loved it anyway. Me and my friends were in love with Judd Nelson right away. I wanted to be Molly Ringwald so badly back then. As I got older I understood the dialogue much better and got all of the jokes. Also as I grew older I still Had the thing for Judd Nelson.Anyway I think this movie works well in the 80's and 90's and I am sure my son will love it when he is a teenager.  "}{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club has been my favorite movie since the fifth grade, but now that I'm in high school it means a whole lot more to me. When I first bought this video I watched it everyday after school for three months! Now my friends won't watch it with me because I'll say the dialogue right along with all the characters. Anyway, this movie is both hilarious and extremely sad, often at the same time. I recommend this movie to anyone, especially those that hate the cliqueiness of high school. I hope you enjoy this film as much as I have! "},{"Title":"Best movie ever.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say? All I can say about this one is that it is most likely the best teenager movie i ever saw. It starts out as a comedy but along the way it turns into some sort of drama. And that, I believe is a very good trick to do. the way we get to know the club, it's just amazing.  The reason why this should be the best movie is that in stead of sticking to the original plot the soty digs in the lives of the characters. As I said, one hell of a movie. "},{"Title":"Featuring a star-filled cast, excellent plot and dialogue, this is one of the greatest eighties movies.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club will forever be remembered as one of the greatest films for many reasons.  This seemingly simple plot thickens as the story unfolds. The Breakfast Club displays many popular features that most 80's teen movies possess.  For example, all of the young main characters are full of an attribute that seemed so often confronted in 80's movies that it defined many characters in movies from that decade.  Angst.  That simple word describes a feeling that every main character experienced for reasons not too diverse.  Angst is felt in this film's characters and is directed primarily towards teachers, school, and, of course, parents.  As each character explained their troubles to each other they realized how similar they were.  With a star-studded cast including Molly Ringwald, Anthony Michael hall, Emilio Esteves, and, of course, Judd Nelson, this movie is easily summarized as magnificent.  Judd Nelson is featured in his most famous role as a bully, criminal, and typical high-school punk which every adult, young or old, can easily relate to.  With his seemingly simple personality he is used as the comic-relief as well as the individual who triggers character conversations.  These hilarious and somewhat immature conversations are really the glue which holds together this fabulous movie. The deep explanation of these multifaceted characters is exceptional.  The audience could easily relate to the troubles and pain that each character experienced. The main individuals featured in this picture each developed to understand each other and to think differently of themselves.  To truly experience the 80's, see this film and be amazed. "},{"Title":"A movie for either the 80's OR the 90's","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1999 and I still consider it one of my favorites. I never laughed so hard at a 80's movie, but this was one of the best. I haven't seen it in a while, but whenever I did in the past, it was great. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A clever work of art","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quite possibly the best teen movie ever, The Breakfast Club outlasts all that have come before or after it. All of the overly stereotyped characters are included, but do not react to the stereotypes that they are categorized in. They represent accurate feelings spanning the categories. For example, the Nerd almost never does anything remotley nerdy. It deals with everyday issues and has a great time with some truly funny diologue. 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"This one has not held up well","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No doubt this film will always impress teenage viewers---I couldn't stop watching it 15 years ago and was disappointed when my mother dismissed it as cute and self-involved.  Well, it is---and although it definately invokes memories of the 1980's, the films self-importance begins to cloud my adult appreciation.  Its not as fun as Sixteen Candles or Ferris Bueller's Day Off, also by Hughes.   "},{"Title":"A classic teen film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen The Breakfast Club about 20 times and it stands as the quintessential teen film.  The idea for the film sounded like a loser to the movie executives.  You take five characters and put them in one room and let them talk to each other.  That's it.  No car chases, stunts, explosions.  This could have been a stage play. This film should be studied by film students because it shows that a film can be made for very little money and still be entertaining.  You just need a good script and characters who are easy to identify with.  Most viewers can certainly identify with one or more of these kids and almost everyone can relate to the loneliness and disaffection they experience.  Despite their differences, they bond with each other because no one else seems to understand the pain and pressure they live through, certainly not their parents or teachers.  The film has been accused of being anti-adult, or portraying the adult characters one- dimensionally.  I don't think that is fair because the film is clearly told through the point of view of the teenagers. This is how adults appear to them much of the time.  Parents can watch this film and even learn something about themselves and understand what teenagers are going through. The best reason to treasure the film is the strong, memorable dialogue, delivered to perfection by the terrific cast of young actors. Judd Nelson has the best role in the film and comes through with a spellbinding performance. He gives the film its edge and bite. We all knew kids like him and either hated him, loved to hate him or fantasized about being like him. Nelson beat out John Cusack and Nicolas Cage for this part and I think his performance is one of the greatest portrayals of a rebellious American teenager ever seen on film. Matthew Broderick in Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Michael J. Fox in Back to the Future also fall into this category. Nelson went on to play more anti-establishment characters in films like Blue City and From The Hip, but showed amazing range when he lost 50 pounds and played a wimpy nerd in The Dark Backward. He gave a mesmerizing performance as the genius killer in Billionaire Boys Club, for which he received a Golden Globe nomination. While all the actors were great, I think The Breakfast Club is a showcase for how underrated an actor Judd Nelson is.   "},{"Title":"Simply the greatest teen movie ever.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the benchmark that all other teen movies should be judged. The breakfast Club defined an entire generation. I know that it helped me survive my teens. Story line, acting, dialog all top rate. No other movie has ever captured all the insecrities, prejudgces and fear that every teen goes through. "},{"Title":"A great movie about teens that still rings true today","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very clever and often funny movie. I've seen it many times and I always enjoy it. Much of the things the characters in the movie talk about and the different kinds of social classes in high school are still true today. The performances are excellent and I believe this is one of those movies that all teenagers should see.  "},{"Title":"Who said detention was a bad thing???","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So simple yet so effective.Its hard to believe this film only consists of a handful of characters and is set within one building.Boring you may say - but it kept me hooked from start to finish.Its so unbelievable how a bunch of students who seemed so different at the start ended up having so much in common. Makes you think how well you really know the people around you!!!Its a classic - unless you're looking for hundreds of people, explosions and cars!!! "}{"Title":"Will withstand the times","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 20 times and never get sick of it.  I love it!!!  The first time I saw it was only Summer 1999, and it is already my favorite.  It WILL withstand the test of time, and can never be improved on. It can only be remade, which is a disaster(just watch the new Psycho). Watch it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love The Breakfast Club! It was made when I was like three, but I saw it when I was in middle school and fell in love with it! I'm doing a project on Molly Ringwald right now for the Great Books and Film class that I am currently taking. I think Molly is absolutely fascinating. ) Everyone should watch this movie at least once! It should be required! (This and Pretty in Pink...) "},{"Title":"Teen film making at it's best.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has tons of flaws. Hughes' characters are stereotyped a little, the ending is pretty bad, the rock video in the middle of the movie is a bit random, and it seems like this was a screw you from John Hughes to parents everywhere. But when you get past all that, this movie is a moving, funny, innovative and influentail teen drama.The movie takes place on a Saturday where 5 teens-A brain (Anthony Michael Hall), a basketcase(Ally Sheedy), a princess (Molly Ringwald), an athlete (Emilio Estevez), and a criminal (Judd Nelson) are serving a detention. They are not allowed to talk to one another, and are forced to write an essay on why they're here and who they think they are. Nelson and the principal of the school hate each other, and throughout the film they are given good interaction. Eventually, Nelson makes the door slam shut, and he forces the 5 of them to talk. They eat their lunches, and you can see the style of the 5 of them. Then they begin to discuss why they are all here.By the end of this movie, you will have been erased of the idea that any teen, whatsoever, has a perfect life. A must-see for teens and struggling parents. (9 out of 10). "},{"Title":"A very nice and funny drama. This one had past the time test successfully","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this fun movie when I was about 13-14. It's been 5 years and I still like it a lot. The problems and dilemmas the fellas are dealing with are very real and sensable. I find this movie very funny at times but also very deep and sad in his other parts. I mean if you take the scene where the five of them are all smoking Hashish, and having a good time, you feel good when you see that. But then again when you here the same five all talking about their parents problems it makes you wanna cry. It has great scenes, it is performed brilliantly buy all the actors (especially the psycho...)and is directed in the right way by hughs. Here me well - that's a strong one - go see it. "},{"Title":"John Hughes' best!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club, for all of its narcissism and cloying plot devices, simply works TOO well.It serves as an excellent study of five of the most common adolescent stereotypes, and it manages to do so without becoming trite in its presentation, unlike all of the 90's films that attempt to do the same (re anything that Jennifer Love Hewitt and/or Sarah Michelle Gellar and/or ANY cast member of Dawson's Creek have starred in...)The Breakfast Club actually lets its audience judge the characters for themselves, instead of telling them how the characters should be seen that's why the film's message works to such angsty perfection.The performances are all exceptional, particularly those given by Judd Nelson and Ally Sheedy (If not for Maid to Order, she could've been one of the most respected actresses working TODAY...) Each character is uniquely affecting.And, unlike so many other 80's 'classics,' The Breakfast Club has aged remarkably well. The dialogue, although occasionally lapsing into now-undecipherable slang, is still every bit as poignant or vicious (as the situation demands) as it was upon the film's release.Rent the original (or buy it... you'll be able to find it in the discount bins, more than likely), b/c the TV version that's on at least once every week cuts out a great deal of the good stuff-- especially the particular scene in which the five students each meander back to the A/V room...Rating 9 out of 10. Great dialogue and great characters under the guiding force of skillful direction. Hughes manages to keep the film's psycho-babbly flaws to a minimum, which was no easy task. Excellent performances and a timeless theme of acceptance. "},{"Title":"What Breakfast?????","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first heard this movie, I pictured a delicious buffet of bacon and eggs, pancakes, sausage, danish, fresh orange juice, assorted cereals, hash browns, wow was I ambushed. Lukewarm cans of coke and cheap soggy sandwiches were all the food these guys ended up with, and perhaps thats the theme of the film, what looks like treasure is often trash. Breakfast Club (Shouldve been called High School is Prison) wasn't a bad film, and wouldve been better as an afterschool special if only they allowed F words. I liked the scenes where Judd Nelson tells Molly Ringwald where to stick it, and Carl the clever janitor was a nice touch as well. The film was an accurate depiction of high school's darker side (which too many kids are forced to endure, rather than just get to date cheerleaders and drive expensive cars)and certainly outclassed every other teen movie made since (except maybe for Ferris Bueller's Day Off).  "},{"Title":"Totally 80s - Totally awesome","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies ever - good characters - amazing writing. -you must see it.Period. -defines the 80s, along with other Hughes' greatsFerris Buellers day off, Pretty in Pink etc... "},{"Title":"What a movie has that others will not.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie, and I liked it. But not a whole lot. Getting detention in school is a bad thing. But no one else, like these characters would have the guts to disrupt the other students and be disrespectful to the detention monitor. This is the kind of movie to see after you come home from detention. See what life in it could have been like. This movie starts out funny, then slowy drags, picks up, then turns into drama. Not a recommended movie, but a good one to see. Although it would have been nice to of been older in '85 to see this on the big screen. I might see it again. "},{"Title":"One of John Hughes' best","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have liked most of the films that have come from John Hughes but The Breakfast Club is one of his best.It stands out because the premise is so simplistic and the entertainment relies heavily on just the dialogue between the kids in detention (unlike say, Home Alone).  There are lots of memorable quotes from it (is this where Bart Simpson picked up the phrase Eat My Shorts?). Out of all of them Judd Nelson comes off best as the student with the big mouth but with a soft heart by the end of the movie.It's the quintessential 80's teen movie that still holds up quite well as good entertainment almost a decade and a half later. "},{"Title":"This movie was The best!! Molly Ringwald is sooo hot!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen it had really good points and it was really funny! Molly Ringwald is really hot so it made it even a lot better! I recommend seeing this movie it is really good! "}{"Title":"Holds up surprisingly well","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was first released and I enjoyed it quite alot.  I saw it for the second time last week and I was surprised how well it held up - probably because the actors are so good at portraying actual human beings, unlike most 'teen' comedies.  I liked the dramatic sections better - Ally Sheedy and Emilio Estevez share a very heartfelt scene that is very well done.  The end of the movie drags it down slightly, as the movie stretches the credibility of the relationships that have developed.  But it is still a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Something for everyone","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is a movie that can speak to anyone. By that I don't mean you will find a character just like you or anything. I know I didn't. But, I think the movie has some qualities that can make everyone like it. Judging by other reviews I'd assume that's pretty much true. First, you have detention. Something pretty much everyone has done before. Next, you have one of the factors that made the Shining a great movie, that kind of no way out setting. And third you have 5 people who can't get along in an enclosed space for a long period of time. Put them together and here you have the Breakfast Club. This movie will speak to anyone who is or ever was a teenager. I particularly liked Brian's essay in the end. My one problem with this movie Why were they called the Breakfast Club? I'm sure there's some reasonable explanation that I missed because I'm stupid, but, oh well. Great flick. Watch it if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"A Classic Teen Movie","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Teen movies such as Can't Hardly Wait, Cruel Intentions, and She's All That are bigger than ever thanks to stars such as Rachel Leigh Cook, Freddie Prinze jr., Jennifer Love Hewitt, just to name a few.  Yet before these movies and these stars, there was the 80's brat pack which featured Tom Cruise, Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, just to name a few, and movies such as Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, and Pretty In Pink caught the attention of teenagers around the world.The movie I am reviewing right now is The Breakfast Club.  Before I saw this movie, I heard it was excellent, and it was, it really was!  And it kind of showed something in which all teenagers should learn, and that is to know each other before they judge each other.  In this movie,  you have the teen with a very high IQ, the outcast, the athlete, the basket case, and of course, the golden girl.  Spending just one Saturday together in the school library together without knowing a thing about each other let them form an everlasting friendship even though they are different from each other in so many ways!  And I guess that bond gave them the freedom to open their hearts to each other to search for some understanding, which they did.This is one of the greatest teen movies ever, and teenagers from both the 80's and the 90's, I think, can not only relate to this movie, but can also easily enjoy it.  And from what I've heard, they do really enjoy it! I'm an eighteen year old girl, and I must be honest, I did! o) "},{"Title":"A great film of the 80's","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this film from the first time that I saw it. I like the whole idea of the kids sitting around for a whole day and talking about anything and everything that comes to their mind and how their situation in life is reflected in how they come to their very distinct and separate ideas and opinions. I felt I identified with Judd Nelson's character of Bender, being that I was the pain in the butt that he was, at that time. I'd like to think that if there was a second part to update us on what happened to the members of The Breakfast Club, that the character of Bender would have grown up to a better vision of life than he displayed in the movie. A fantastic movie of not coming of age, but becoming aware. "},{"Title":"It was Excellent, but know...","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember watching this film as I was growing up and I loved it.  It was one of the few films I like that didn't have constant action, but a clever interplay between stereotypes of my day.It's interesting now, at 28, I watched this movie again and it seems like a whiney typical American movie.  In a way a bit like the characters that appear on the Jerry Springer show.  People who try to blame their lack of successful on everything but themselves.The other thing I notice now is the obsession society has with young people.  This generation of, lets be honest, pretty naive selfish people have a ridiculous amount of time and consideration devoted to them considering they're in the minority.Anyway a great theme song and an excellent movie at the age I was when I saw it.  I think the movie probably does stand the test of time for a new generation, but as an older and wiser person it has lost a lot of its appeal.8/10.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was only 4 years old when this movie came out, but ever since then I have loved this movie.  I hadn't seen it in about 10 years and then last summer (1998) I saw it and I fell in love with it again.  It is, by far my favorite movie.  It is a must for any 80s child, or teen...  Each character from Mr. Vernon to Allison (the basketcase) play their role in perfection.  It is a humourous, yet clever depiction of adolescence in the 80s and even now. Current movies like American Pie and Varsity Blues have come close to creating such a wonderful depiction, but the Breakfast Club is (and probably always will be) at the top of my list. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All Time!!!!!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! If you have not seen it, I would recommend it a thousand times over! True, I did see an edited TV version, but over all the dozens of movies I have seen, the Breakfast Club ranks #1!!! Loved it, loved it, loved it! "},{"Title":"a great 80's movie","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is the classic teen 80's movie.  It is an extremely funny film that is even better when looking back to the 80's.  The movie is well-cast, well-acted, and a pleasure to watch again and again.  My favorite part is when Ally Sheedy's character casually steals the knife that Bender has just stuck in the library chair. "},{"Title":"A yummy breakfast indeed","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This masterpiece should be required viewing for anyone entering adolescence. I hate to put it into such a serious context, but if all teens were raised with a sense that good people can hang with any crowd, school shootings by tortured outcasts wouldn't happen.  Perhaps it's time for a '90s update version with a Goth, a gangsta, a merit scholar, a cheerleader, and a skater, or some such arrangement.  But they'd better do it justice. "},{"Title":"Another 80's Classic!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is a great 80's Classic!  It's funny, hip, and touching...all the skills of a great movie just like Sixteen Candles. "}{"Title":"The best movie ever made!!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By far the best movie ever made. Without a doubt. I'm a huge fan of all the 80's teen movies, but this one is unbelievable. John Hughs does a great job with the script and the directing. The cover shots that used were great. You don't really see that many cover shots in a movie. But this one has tons and it shows you how the other kids are reacting. I'm only a freshman in highschool right now, but I can still relate to it. I remember watching this movie in 6th grade and I related to it back then. I've seen this movie so many times that I memorized it. And I'm still not bored of it. The more I see it, the more I like it. Here's a few things of my perspective of the characters. I'll try to make it short, but I could probably write a book about this movie.John-A toubled kid who cracks some funny lines to impress his classmates. He has his problems at home, with getting beaten by his dad and he has his problems at school with basically everyone. They all think that he's a big joke and is just clowning his ways through highschool. The predictable thing would be to show that this kid is very emotional and bunch of other junk that's hiding behind his image. But in the end he's just a big as a jerk as he was in the beginning, except with a couple more friends. But do you really think that they all stayed friends? There's no chance. All in all his character makes you think that the bad people in school are just trying to show off.Andrew-The average jock who is being pressured by his dad to do everything right. His character is a pretty cool though. He's probly the nicest guy out of the group besides Brian, but he is always hiding behind his dad. We think at the beginning of the movie that he loves playing his sports and being a jock, but we find out that he isn't what everyone thinks that he is. I think one cool thing in there was on his jacket it has a State championship patch on it. All the students were probly so proud of him and he was treated like a celebrity but inside he really didn't care. All in all his character makes you think that not everyone wants to go through the things the go through.Brian-The brain of the group. One of the nicest and kindest. He is pressured by his parents just like Andy but not for sports. He's pressured by his grades. We find out that he got an F in shop class and he can't take it. Some of the other kids think that is pretty dumb to hate yourself for failing shop. But the he might think that it's pretty dumb for Andy to hate himself because he didn't win his wrestling match. He is having a tough time dealing with his grades, parents, and getting ripped on by his other classmates, such as John. All in all his character makes you think that some kids have a tougher time and makes you think about treating people badly.Claire-She is probably my least favorite character. I mean I love Molly Ringwald but the character is a snob and is very conceited. She does have her normal teenage problems like everyone, but that's about it. I mean she's popular, she's not getting beaten by her dad, she's not being pressure by her dad, and she's not being ignored by her parents. She tries to get other people to feel sorry for her and thinks that she's the only one with problems. All in all her character is one who learns that other peolpe have different problems too.Allison-The basketcase. She doesn't talk for the first half of the movie and she starts talking after all the other kids are all high. She starts lying about all kinds of sexual themes and trying to get people to think that she's some crazy girl. We find out that she has a tough homelife, being ignored by her parents and find out that she's a good girl and just tries to get a rise out of people. One of my favorite parts of the movie is when she dumps her purse out on the couch. Andrew says At least I didn't dump my problems out on the couch! That was likea cry for help, but she wasn't sure if she wanted it. All in in all her character makes you think what kind of people you never talk to at school could be. They could turn out to be one of your best friends.Well that's what I gotta say about the characters. I could've written more. Much more, but I don't think anyone would've read it. If you haven't seen this movie...you're missing out on your highschool days. It teaches you so much. You really do learn more from this than out of some book you have to learn for some school project.  "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club!!!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most enjoyable, meaningful films, with a wonderful cast.  Brat-packing at it's best. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Hughes' most intelligent film is perfectly played with right on the money performances from everyone involved. Hughes shows us the edgy side of teenagers and a truism that had been lacking in those kinds of finds. It follows the misadventures of five disparite kids forced to spend a Saturday in detention hall.  "},{"Title":"There's nothing to do when you're locked in a vacancy","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club opens with a simple quote from David Bowie that talks about the way that the youth are treated.  This is what the generality of the movie is about.  I love this movie, as should everyone that ever went to highschool.  John Hughs clearly lays out five stereotypes that are given in every educational institute.  The way the movie progresses is brilliant, the characters don't sell out to each other and their are no false emotions. These people spend a whole day together and speak of their greatest humiliations and talk about stuff they normally wouldn't, and then when a simple question is asked.  Will we still be friends on Monday, if we're friends now that is?.  This gives the perfect set-up for a cheesy hollywood ending, but the characters are true to themselves and their stereotypes.The scene with the janitor and Vernon is outstanding as he learns that if he keeps up his attitude towards students that there will be no one to look after him in his old age, we learn so much from these students humanity, humilty, trust... it's a film for the ages. This movie will stand the test of time, and I'm glad that it is one that proves that you don't need big expensive sets and outragious special effects, all you need is a good story with good people to tell it - that is the fundamental of film and John Hughes has caught it in his 145 min of running time, I just wish he would make more movies like this and leave the Home Alone series to hacks like it should be.  This is THE HIGHSCHOOL movie. Never pass up the chance to see it. "},{"Title":"John Hughes could make a movie in a phone booth.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If Spielberg was the king of fantasy in the 80's then John Hughes was the quintessential teen movie director.  He usually writes his own material and that combination of writing and directing has kept us entertained for the better part of 20 years.  He hears things that most other people can't and he conveys his message with the clarity of a bell ringing.  Breakfast Club is one of those movies.With an all star young cast, they lend instant credibility to the characters that they play.  My fave character because of his honesty is Bender.  He is the only character that seems to have a beef with everyone and when he picks on the person, he holds nothing back.  This movie is one of the best teen flicks to come out in the eighties.  Along with Fast Times, Sixteen Candles, The Sure Thing, Weird Science, Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Say Anything, this movie gives an honest look at what it was like growing up and attending high school in the eighties.  This is a must see.   "},{"Title":"a timeless masterpiece","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw The Breakfast Club 10 years ago when in the 7th grade we had to watch it in English class. It struck a chord with me as even though the labels of the kids in the movie were different as to what they were when I was at school (change the crim to the goth etc. etc) the themes with the popular kids ignoring the outsiders were pretty much the same. Even now, as I work in the education system - the Breakfast Club is still as popular today as it was 14 years ago. I have seen this movie over 50 times and I never tire of it. Allison and Brian are to two characters I related to when I was growing up   because since I didn't conform to the popular kids beliefs I was automatically  ostracised - which was fine by me although my family didn't push me like Brian's or ignored me like Allison's. Judd Nelson gave a powerful performance as John. Even though I am usually a fan of Molly Ringwald's work I think she was miscast in TBC - automatically making me dislike the character of Claire. Emilio Estevez was good as Andrew although making Vernon's character evil and the  little use of Carl seemed like a waste. I always hoped there would be a sequel - to see if they remained true to their new friendships on Monday!! I heard a rumour that there may be a sequel with the characters reuniting at their high school reunion. Also the blonde joke that Bender said while crawling in the roof was made up... I know some people were asking about it in one of the web sites for this movie.   "},{"Title":"I really identified with, and loved this classic film.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is a movie that accurately defined an entire generation. In The Breakfast Club, five kids (a nerd, a prom queen, a criminal, a basket case, and a jock) are sent to detention for a whole Saturday. At first they are all at ends with each other but through their own rampant insecurities; they begin to go through a rare bonding process. This is a great movie. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"One of my top 10 all-time favorites","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie so much.. I made a New Year's resolution one year to watch it every day. I only made it to January 12th, so now if I'm watching the movie with someone they have to tell me to shut up since I know all the lines!This movie captured my generation superbly. I had at least one of each character in my high school, except the uppity principal. A lot of great dialogue in this movie and each actor played their part perfect, except for Estevez.All of the characters in their own clique. All of them with one common enemy adults.Most teenagers dislike their parents for this reason or that and fear they will become like their parents. It's inevitable says Ally Sheedy's Allison. I think she's right. Scary, huh?10/10 is my rating "},{"Title":"THIS ONE IS A CLASSIC!!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of the 80's if not ever for the GEN X group. there are so many funny lines in this movie. Every time I watch this movie I remember watching it with my friends and I kept rewinding it back to hear the lines. This movie will stay in my memory forever. "},{"Title":"John Hughes' finest.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Hughes has been responsible for many entertaining movies but none better than this one, in my opinion. It works well as a teen comedy but there are a few curves thrown in that take it to another level.When a group of five disparate students arrives at their high school on a Saturday morning for an all-day detention session they represent five archetypes, one of which almost any viewer can personally relate to. There's Claire (Molly Ringwald), the high school princess who can't believe she's actually to be included in this motley crew. Andrew (Emelio Estevez) is a jock who's traveling down the straight and narrow path that athletics takes him, a path prescribed by his father. Brian (Anthony Michael Hall) is one of the school's brains. His very intelligence is the thing that diminishes in the eyes of others. John Bender (Judd Nelson) comes swaggering in like the top con in the yard. This is his turf. He works hard as portraying himself as an outlaw and an outsider but he's desperate for understanding and attention just like anyone else. Finally Allison (Ally Sheedy) comes scurrying in looking like a junior bag lady-in-training. She sits in the back, hiding behind her hair, apparently terrified to speak or to be spoken to.It promises to be a dull day but Bender will have none of that, as he seeks to make everyone as uncomfortable as possible. Over the course of the next several hours he leads the group on a series of adventures right under the nose of their principal, played by Paul Gleason in the film's only other substantial role. (One is required to suspend reality here to believe they get away with some of the stuff they do.)The first big surprise for me came when Bender pulled out his stash of marijuana and convinces the others, after initial reluctance, to join him in smoking some. Coming as the movie did in the middle of the Reagan years, one expects the kids to just say no. It's a brave stance for the movie to take, but it's also a completely believable turn of events.The real surprise, and the segment that makes the movie great, is when the five youngsters settle down on the floor and discuss who they are and how they came to this point. Andrew reveals he's in detention for pulling some horseplay only because he thought it was expected of him by his father. On the verge of tears he tells of the relentless pressure put on him to succeed. When he says of his dad,God, I f*****g hate him!, the viewer is shocked, not by the language, but by the sudden seriousness the film has acquired. This leads to a series of cathartic confessions and confrontations among the group that are angry, tearful and emotionally draining, but in the end it leads to a bond between the five that just a few hours earlier they never would have expected could be forged.This movie is best seen on cassette or on a premium channel, as the broadcast version cuts out all references to pot-smoking and also prudishly censors the dialog to a ridiculous extent. For example, Oh my God! is dubbed to become, Oh my lord! But if you're a real fan you might want to see this TV version since it contains a minute or two of action not included in the theatrical release. "}{"Title":"a movie me AND my mom love!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Me and my mom can sit down and watch this movie together.  One of few.  Me and mom don't agree on movies or music, but we both have this one in common. In the words of TBS, a new classic.  all the way.  see it if you haven't before (and if you haven't before you must be from mars, because you are braindead!  Heck, people on mars have probably seen it).  Great movie! "},{"Title":"typical brat pack film","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why do I love 80's films as much as I do? Who knows, but the Breakfast Club is top of the list.  The Brat Pack at their best (or worst however you want to look at it). Feel a bit of 80's Nostalgia coming on...rent this film. "},{"Title":"A classic real people movie.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The detention handed out to the characters of this movie totally failed to serve its purpose from the point of view of the sadistic, blinkered principal of the school. From the point of view of the students involved, however, it taught them things that can never be taught in school - that everyone is a person, everyone counts, and those weirdos in the corner who you wouldn't usually be seen dead with are real people with real feelings and real lives, who could maybe just teach you something about your own lifestyle and prejudices.This is probably going to overtake Some Kind Of Wonderful as my favourite John Hughes movie - having only just seen it almost 15 years after it came out, I'm still wondering how I managed to miss seeing it before. Everybody identifies with the characters in these movies, which isn't surprising, as these are very much films about people rather than events - a rare commodity indeed. In a world where effects and action are all too frequently valued over dialogue and character development in movies, Hughes reminds us that you _can_ still generate 95 minutes of classic cinema based simply around five teenagers talking in a library...So, just who _do_ we think we are, anyway?  "},{"Title":"the best teen movie of all time! and one of my favorite movies of all time!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i love the breakfast club.it's hard to believe the first time i saw the breakfast club was only in 1995.it's a classic in my mind.it's one of my favorite movies of all time! and a tie between another movie for my favorite movie of all time.i first saw the edited tv version in 1995.it was great then i bought the movie the day after christmas in 1997.it was better than the tv version as you should know.it's a masterpiece in my mind.it's the best teen movie i have even seen in my life! everything that everyone says in this movie is masterful.everytime i watch it i feel like i'm in detention with them.the breakfast club is about five teenagers that are a brain,a jock,a basketcase,a criminal,and a princess that spend a saturday in detention for various reasons.everything that comes out of everyone's mouth in this movie is masterful.but not everything that comes out of mr. vernon's mouth is masterful.but everyone's else is.even everything the janitor says is masterful.it's sometimes funny is always entertaining.john bender (judd nelson) steals every scene.in my opinion he had the best performance of the whole cast.but the rest of the cast was great also.the breakfast club is an unforgettable masterpiece.it just gets better,and better every time i see it.it was co-produced wrote,and directed by the king,and master of teen,and feel-good movies john hughes.the five teenagers in this movie talk about themselves,and each other the whole time there in detention.it's the best movie made by john hughes.the best music,and movies came out of my favorite decade the 80's.i love the 80's.i wish i was a teenager in 1985.being the same age i am now 17.my favorite part in the breakfast club is the whole movie.but one part stands as the best.which is the end when all five teens are all sitting around a table in detention.talking about themselves,and each other.that was the most touching,and most real part part of the movie.everything they said was so touching,and so real.THANKS JOHN HUGHES FOR GIVING US THIS MASTERPIECE CALLED THE BREAKFAST CLUB.you can relate to this movie so much.i love this movie,and i always will.i give this masterpiece called the breakfast club **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"All the adolescents have something in common.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That film make us think about the way we treat the people different from us.Sometimes,those people are not as different as they may look like.The delinquent  plays by Judd Nelson can't be missed and we can't forget the roles play by Emilio Estevez,Anthony Michael Hall,Molly Ringwald and Ally Sheedy.A wonderful film with wonderful actors.A film that everybody have to see one time in their lives "},{"Title":"Young man have you finished your paper!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  1. Son ya dad how was your day pal great dad how was yours super. 2.Say son how would you like to go fishing this weekend great dad but I've got homework to do that's ok son you can do it on the boat gee isn't our super oh  oh!!   That part of the movie just cracks me up!! The cast did a superb job Ally Sheedy was my favorite out of them all. This was a great movie of the 80's and it still rules!!!!   "},{"Title":"The movie that defined 80's teendom","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my all-time favorites. Sure it had some flaws (detention all day on a Saturday? What universe does THAT happen in?) but it's worth watching again and again. One word chemistry. These actors had it, and their interaction is fabulous. Quality work from John Hughes (not as sappy as Pretty in Pink, not as wacky as Weird Science). Truly my favorite film of his. John Hughes made movies that are quintessentially 80's, but still look timeless and are not dated at all when you watch them today. Great script. The only major problem I had with it was Alison's makeover (which consisted of brushing her hair back and taking off her black sweater). Suddenly she is attractive to Estevez's jock character... please. She's still the same girl who had massive dandruff flakes and ate a Cap'n Crunch sandwich for lunch. But aside from THAT... one of my faves, a great, funny movie that everyone should see and appreciate but probably only 80's teens like me will relish. It takes me back.  "},{"Title":"The movie that defines and defies the 1980's.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is easily one of the top 5 movies ever made, and I've seen thousands of movies. The acting was great, especially Judd Nelson, and Anthony Michael Hall. Emilio Estevez was the only real weakness in the movie, he wasn't convincing as a jock, considering he weighs 120 soaking wet, and Molly Ringwald could beat him up. If you haven't seen this movie you are really missing out. If you liked it, watch it again, and rent Sixteen Candles, and Weird Science, so you can experience the Anthony Michael Hall trilogy of great teen movies.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a teen movie that people of all ages can relate to!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great teen flick!  Actually, it's a great flick, period.  It's a movie that almost every teen can relate to and sympathize with.  For us adults, it's a teen movie that we can relate to and sympathize with.  No limits here.  Powerful, real, and quite effective for almost any age!  "},{"Title":"one of the best if not (the) best movie I have ever seen!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is so great I don't even know my name. The people in this movie you can relate to so much it's like you're in detention with them. The first time I saw this movie was in 1995. It was great. Then I bought the movie in 1997. The more I watch it the more I like it. I think John Bender is the best character in this movie, played by Judd Nelson. Second was a tie between Andy and Brian played by Emilio Estevez and Anthony Michael Hall, but every character was great -even the janitor was great, and Paul Gleason playing Mr. Vernen was good too. Like someone else said I wish I was in 1985 as my age now. Nothing would be more cooler than that. I give this masterpeace **** out of ****  "}{"Title":"Fairly good","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard a few positive things about this film, that it was a very original, humorous, moving, and accurate film on teenagers in the 1980`s. After I viewed the film, I got mixed feelings. Altogether the film was fairly good, but there were a lot of flaws in it that just subtracted from the film`s quality.  Sure, there were a few memorable parts of the film, some of the witty and comical, and others that were realistically poignant. The film`s plot was pretty basic; Five very different, almost stereotypical teenagers are forced to stay in a library for a whole day, serving detention. At first they can`t connect, but they ultimately bare their souls to each other. John Hughes did quite a good job constructing some real depth out of it. Now, it is time to review the film`s downside. The conclusion of the film was that bothered me the most. I don`t want to say what happens, but it is positively the weakest part of the film that just stands out too much to be ignored.  The beginning of the film is also quite slow, it sort of takes a long time for the story to unravel. But all in all, if you are a fan of teen flicks and are easy to please, The Breakfast Club is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Best of the Brat Pack movies","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of the 80's if you ask me. These actors work so well together and we can all relate to this movie because of them. (Depending on age) This is the best movie of the Brat Pack with St. Elmo's Fire coming in the close 2nd!  "},{"Title":"The best Brat  Pack film of all time!!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say. JOHN HUGHES IS A GENIUS !! This is without a doubt the best film I have ever seen. Judd Nelson's portrayal of John Bender is truly sexy. Oh, how I wish I was Molly Ringwald. It's a shame that the cast have fallen into the traps of American sitcoms and T.V. movies. However the film would probably not have the same impact on the teenage population, today. Saying this, I first saw this film in the mid 90's as a young teenager and have loved it ever since. Although the film is set in one place for most of the film, the script and the chemistry between the actors more than make up for it. In conclusion, I would say that The Breakfast Club is explosive viewing, so ENJOY. "},{"Title":"Ultimate teen film still packs a punch today; Brat Pack lives on!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I vividly recall growing up in the '80's. One of my pastimes was soaking up the culture of the age. Video and film were key parts of this culture. The thing was you didn't care whether they were Oscar material, you just had a good time. This film however, THE BREAKFAST CLUB, is one of the more serious films of the age, and I think one of the best. Even though the Brat Pack did not rage on with their careers after the eighties, they undoubtedly had talent, and they certainly display it in this play-like setting. It takes a different kind of skill to perform in these types of atmospheres, but all of them handle it very well. Judd Nelson may be a sort of a scene-stealer (and he does do it well), but the whole cast plays their part to the mark. I found it odd that I didn't play favorites with the characters. Each one had a past to tell, and a captivating one, too. This is not your traditional John Hughes fare with bumbling burglars and vacations that get out of control. This is deeper material with deeper character sketches. This is a rare teen comedy that delivers more than you expect. Rating Three stars and a half.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just pure greatness. I love it some much. It's got to be the best of the '80s. It's got a lot of humor and it was actully sad when they are all talking about their problems. The talent is really great because you really wouldn't expect it from such young people. I think the reason people like it so much is because it tells about almost every type of person. Everyone knows a John Bender or Andrew Clark. The people who are just always getting in trouble and the ones who are just obsessed with a sport. I really like it because I have experienced what each person went through. I've been a brain, an athlete, a basketcase, a princess, and a criminal. And some people just don't understand other people's problems. Just because you're used to getting bad grades doesn't mean others are. It can be really painful for them. This movie also tells about good friends. You can find them in the strangest places. Someone you think you absolutely hate, you actully find things in you both that make you just the same. This movie really changed me. And i'm really thankful for that. When you get done watching this you will always feel glad that you have the friends you have but you won't be embarrassed to show people that they are your friends even if they aren't very liked by other people. Watch this movie and you'll agree. "},{"Title":"Still going strong after 8 years.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of months ago.....Yeah 8 years after it premiered and I still found that it fully applied to today's reality. I connected with them and I wanted even to be a part of them which is amazing because they were still wearing tight- rolled jeans. The acting was great......it's just a timeless movie about teenagers and their stereotypical vision of high-school. I couldn't be more pleased with this film. Movies like this never go out of style. "},{"Title":"Another one of my favorite movies","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this film. All the actors are GREAT (mostly Alley Sheedy and Judd Nelson)I never get tired of seeing this film. The BEST teenage movie of the 80's (besides The Outsiders) "},{"Title":"in response to hugboy","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  to hugboy obviously you haven't been paying attention. hugboy-OK, every high school has a boring jock, a mean and boring bully, a mean and boring prom queen, an interesting-but-flawed basket case, and a nice nerd.That's the set-up, right? Now, add a completely one-dimensional principal and an overly sympathetic janitor...shake...and serve...The kids will eat it up, but what are we really eating?first of all the mean jock is the only person who understood and cared for the basketcase. did u catch the scene where andy asked allison what was the matter with her? and second he accepted her even before her makeover. way before. he's not boring. he's normal. he's the only normal one. he doesn't fit the stereotypical jock. but the NERD does.  "},{"Title":"The 80's Ruled!!!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would do anything to be my age (15) in 1985. The eighties must have been a great time for high-schoolers. I dream about being in the 80's and going to the movies on Friday night to see that new film THE BREAKFAST CLUB or WEIRD SCIENCE or FERRIS BUELER'S DAY OFF all because of one man. A man who understood what was going on with teenagers. John Hughes. What a great guy. The man of the 80's. Unfortunately, we're stuck in the 90's. A crappy time. The hottest writer these days is Kevin Williamson. Scream was good, but he's no Hughes. Anyways, The Breakfast Club rules. Anthony Michael Hall kicked ass in that.  "},{"Title":"the ultimate teen flick!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is about 5 teenagers locked in detention on a cold saturday morning. they start off as opposites... a jock, a prom queen, a nerd, a freak and a criminal but during the course of the movie, end up baring their souls to each other... sometimes funny, sometimes poignant but ultimately, always enjoyable...  a teen classic... and the dancing is also top notch! haha! "}{"Title":"A work of Art","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so totally awesome.  They don't make movies like this anymore.  John Hughs is Brilliant.  This movie is my favorite and I love all the other movies he made.  This movie is so realistic. Everyone in high school has a sterotype for everybody and Every group.   It shows that movies can deal with real life and that teens of the 80's went through the same thing teens of the 90's go through. Things really haven't changed much.  It is wonderful and I wouldn't change anything about it.     Perfect!!! *****************************************  You see us as you want to see us.  In the Simplest terms and the most convenient definitions. you see us a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess, and a criminal.    "},{"Title":"Excellent film... Keeps you laughing and is one of the all-time bests!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the all-time greatest movies! It shows how different people can be and still become close through the course of a day.  Anthony Michael Hall is really great in the film, but maybe I'm being a little biased since he is my favorite actor) I highly recommend this film, to watch with a lot of your close friends or by yourself...  this is also a great movie for teenagers, what can I say, John Hughes is an excellent director to say the least. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies ever made.  It really makes you think about what's going on in all the characters' lives.  The principal of the school is a very interesting person.  He really makes you think.  One more thing...don't steal bowling shoes, because, people that go bowling may need them some day.Steven "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very good. Whenever any  teenagers have a problem, refer to the breakfast club. It is a text book concerning teenage relationships in high school. At times brutally honest but always entartaining. One of Judd Nelson's greatest roles. From Emilio Estevez's charming yet troubled existence to Anthony Michael Hall's isolated good guy to Ally Sheedy's hysterically real freak, this movie was all-around excellent. Oh, yeah Molly Ringwald was for once an effective actress, a bright spot in an otherwise lackluster career.  "},{"Title":"Perfect depiction of suburban American high schools in the 80's","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is one of my favorite movies.  I was in high school when it came out and I thought at the time that it was an extremely accurate depiction of what high school was like in the 80's around suburban America. I could identify a little with every single one of the characters and went so far as to memorize some of the best lines.  If you went to high school in the 80's and you haven't seen this film you should check it out.  It's entertaining and you can see Suddenly Susan's Judd Nelson in a younger, wilder role.  Not to mention 80's fads Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, Molly Ringwald and Emilio Estevez in their best film to date. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very good. Whenever any  teenagers have a problem, refer to the breakfast club. It is a text book concerning teenage relationships in high school. At times brutally honest but always entartaining. One of Judd Nelson's greatest roles. From Emilio Estevez's charming yet troubled existence to Anthony Michael Hall's isolated good guy to Ally Sheedy's hysterically real freak, this movie was all-around excellent. Oh, yeah Molly Ringwald was for once an effective actress, a bright spot in an otherwise lackluster career.  "},{"Title":"Cool, fresh and relevant- another classic John Hughes film","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While I slightly prefer Planes, Trains and Automobiles, this along with Ferris Bueller's Day Off is one of John Hughes' better films. It isn't a perfect film I agree as admittedly the characters are clichéd and there are minor logic lapses, but here's the thing- the more I see The Breakfast Club the more I like it. It still has its freshness, and while I never had a detention when I was in school even from what I've heard from people who have this actually makes detentions cool. And it is still relevant not only to the teenagers back then but now too, it does ring true a vast majority of the time what with its justified grievances, self-pitying whinges and hard-hitting home truths. The cinematography is nice and fluid, typical Hughes really, and the soundtrack adds to the film's coolness. Hughes directs wonderfully, and the script and story are well written and I think memorable. While their characters are clichéd, that I agree, the cast do a great job with what they have. Emilio Estevez, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy, Anthony Michael Hall and especially Molly Ringwald give very appealing performances and interact well together. In conclusion, I love this film, while not perfect I like it more every time I see it. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Entertaining and well meaning, yet flawed","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On an entertainment level, The Breakfast Club is an effective, enjoyable film. The actors all do a credible job of portraying some of the various stereotypes present in a typical school setting the jock, the delinquent, the princess, the nerd and the loner'. As a high school student in the 80's, I enjoyed the film tremendously. But as a high school teacher for the past seventeen years, there are certain elements of the film that are both disturbing and a bit hard to swallow. Director John Hughes' slapdash and careless depictions of the typical high school experience somewhat detracts from a film that has noble intentions.In making his point- that we wrongfully judge people we really don't know- director Hughes asks us to accept some wild implausibilities along the way. The most disturbing is Paul Gleason's portrayal of Principal Richard Vernon. He is shown as a hard ass who belittles and threatens to the point of name calling and promises of violence. It is an outrageous, inaccurate characterization of a typical high school principal which wouldn't be tolerated for a second in the real world of education. It is obviously intended to engender viewer sympathy for the students, but it rings hollow.We're also expected to believe the school princess would hook up with the school dirt bag when she hated his guts two hours earlier and the school jock would hook up with the compulsive liar/weirdo. While it certainly is possible for students of varying experiences to come to a greater understanding of one another, it would undoubtedly take time- much more than just part of a Saturday spent together.The film is also a bit dated, with terms like wasteoid and sporto being thrown around, but in and of itself, that's not a big deal. Despite its faults, The Breakfast Club is a good watch. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This kind of teenage comedy drama involving rebellion reminds me of Ferris Bueller's Day Off, being very good, but not completely as entertaining as gross teen comedies, e.g. American Pie. On the other hand, it is much more memorable than Ferris Bueller. Anyway, basically a bunch of teenagers, all strangers to each other, and all different stereotypes, meet in detention, and are told to stay in the room Principal Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) has placed them for eight hours, and in that time, write no more than a thousand words to describe themselves. As the time passes, Andrew 'Andy' Clark - the jock (Emilio Estevez), Brian Ralph Johnson - the geeky brain (Anthony Michael Hall), John Bender - the troublemaker (Judd Nelson), Claire Standish - the princess (Molly Ringwald, looks very similar to Bette Midler) and Allison Reynolds - the weird (and hardly talking) one (Ally Sheedy) get to know each other, even through their arguments and misunderstandings, and find troublesome and unusual ways to entertain themselves and each other. But also, as they open up to each other, they find they have more in common than they thought, the bit when their all sat in a circle talking was improvised. Also starring John Kapelos as Carl the Janitor. Anyone who watches this film can certainly relate to at least one of the characters, all fantastic, and the dialogue and comedy elements are perfect, very impressive. It was number 27 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My all time favourite school type film is Grease however although BC is set in different times it still has the same message. It's tough to be different but it can work. I am English and went to a Catholic all girls school in the 1970's of which I have great memories and without wishing to make it sound perfect there was practically none of the 'you are different so it's OK to pick on you type mentality. What was taught was tolerance which the five characters in this film eventually learn as well as four falling in love a little. Also for me as a lady who appreciates individual type actors I wasn't looking at anyone but Judd Nelson all the way through. I like him in New Jack City as well an equally fine film with a fine cast. The Breakfast Club is a very watchable film and we have little of such calibre these days. "}{"Title":"If You haven't seen the Breakfast Club, then you've been living in a cave...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's Saturday. The coveted weekend has arrived, but five High School teenagers find themselves not at home, at the mall, or even with their friends. Eachof these individuals has done some act, or committed some crime to receive the punishment of an eight-hour detention at Sherman High.Frictions develop between these teenagers who are wildly different and stereotyped as a jock, a princess, a basket case, a brain, and a criminal.This movie is rated R for a reason kiddos. The comments, (mostly made by John Bender) could make anyone watching more than a little uncomfortable. But that's the beauty of the movie; it goes beyond the stereotypes, beyond the initial small talk about school affairs and parties. The language is crude, but it wouldn't fit if it were any other way.Eventually, all five of these Teenagers confront issues such a school violence, pressure, their family lives, parents, and sex. With such different personalities, groups of friends, lives and problems, it's hard to believe that somehow, they find a way to have something in common, and become The Breakfast Club... "},{"Title":"So do we remember school positively or negatively?","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am not someone who came of age in the '80s, so for me, movies like The Breakfast Club are mostly remnants of the past. Still, there is a reason that this movie is probably the best remembered of the teen movies from that era, and continues to impress people today. The plot of course has nasty principal Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) making five students do detention and write about why they got put on detention and what they think of it all. The students are jock Andrew Clark (Emilio Estevez), nerd Brian Johnson (Anthony Michael Hall), hoodlum John Bender (Judd Nelson), princess Claire Standish (Molly Ringwald), and kook Allison Reynolds (Ally Sheedy).As the movie progresses, it becomes clear that what these students did that led to their detention is almost immaterial. The important thing is their experience together. Bender holds some hostility towards Standish for her status, Johnson can figure out how to escape any situation, and Reynolds seems an outcast no matter what.Maybe The Breakfast Club isn't the greatest movie ever made, but it remains a cultural artifact. It's worth seeing for what it is. Bender's cynical attitude might disturb some, but all that I can say is, some people are really like that. "},{"Title":"Watched it and loved it.","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film during high school in a health class. I loved it. Gotta love the Brat Pack. Some scenes were shot in my high school since it was filmed in Illinois. Maine North, which is now a Police Department, was the original setting. There are two particular scenes I can recall that were shot at my Alma Mater, Maine East... One where they walk through the trophy area and in the end when Judd Nelson walks through the field. All in all, this movies shows the many different social groups of teens. Some time along the way, high school kids are find their clicks and social groups. Any one who's been in high school can someway or another relate to some of the characters in the film. "},{"Title":"Hey Son! Yeah Dad?...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was fourteen and loved it. I still do. Even though I realized that all the characters in the movie were your classic stereotypical categorizations of people. Not only did this movie have me laughing. I felt bad that they were portrayed as such harsh sterotypes. Is this supposed to be funny. In high school, I was more like Allison than anything. But I had a bit of Brian personality as well. I didn't dress in all black, granted. I knew I was an outsider, but come on. Some of the scenes are just too fake as well. The one where Brian cries about having a gun in his locker. That is definitely not Anthony Michael Hall's best performance. If you really want to see him act, check out  The Dead Zone television series on the USA network. He really stretches big time. I give him a lot of credit. Molly Ringwald is the Prom Queen? OK, so it was her decade, but come on. I love the movie and the dialogue, but the acting is just bad. Maybe I love it 'cuz it's soooo cheezy and unrealistic. How many people do you know actually tell you their life story in a day?  Still this is a great pickme up movie. If you want something that's unrealistic and will take you attention off the stresses of your life. "},{"Title":"Look, I'm not going to discuss my private life with total strangers.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  And yet that's precisely what they did. Breakfast Club is one of those movies that is easy to like. It's witty, moving fast, covering many differing subjects (such as drugs, sex, child abuse, alcoholism, suicide etc.) and has a set of more or less likeable characters that many of us can relate to on various levels. Keeping all of these facts in mind it would be very hard to figure out what this movie is lacking if you have as of yet not seen it.What's missing is credibility and a certain sense of reality. Anyone who's ever served a couple of hours in detention are aware that for the most part, unless someone you know is there, you don't go blabbering on about your own difficulties and personal problems. Strangers are just that; people you do not know well enough to speak to about private matters. And after 8 hours in a room together it's unlikely that strangers suddenly become friends (SPOILER alert) and even lovers.Despite the issues I've just mentioned I do love this movie and have watched it a dozen times (at least). Because firstly, it's mainly a teen-flick and secondly it's an 80's teen-flick; plot holes and unrealisticness can be overlooked slightly. Truth is, this movie is entertaining and a very well made dramedy that makes you laugh and get teary eyed at the same time. The characters are not as one dimensional as you are lead to believe, they all interact well together and the acting is very nice indeed. The movie runs pretty smoothly throughout except the ending which is my humble opinion seems slightly forced.Final grade 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A Classic 80's Teen Melodrama","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know, it could never happen. Let's just say that in a perfect world it could. That five students from different backgrounds and cliques could come together and become friends. Being real. Only in Hollywood people.John Hughes makes his second teen film about kids coming together by way of a Saturday detention. They HAVE to be together. First they cut each other down as normal, then as time passes they begin to open up. Next thing you know they're all crying! I know to other viewers the subject matter that upset these kids doesn't seem so major, but THEY ARE KIDS! When you are younger, little things seem so important. With age we see how silly all this is. That's why I feel differently about this film now than when it first came out. When I watch it now, it's like relieving my high school days, but I won't say which character I was like most Most of the Brat Pack are here for this one. I enjoyed the soundtrack featuring Karla DeVito's We Are Not Alone (played during the dancing scene) and Wang Chung's Fire In The Twilight (played during the breakout scene). Enjoy a blast from the past and watch the unedited version and don't be a Neo Max Zoomdweebee. "},{"Title":"I only have good things to say about this movie.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the breakfast club was a great movie! i enjoyed watching it. i have to say john bender-played by judd nelson- was my favorite character. he was by far the most interesting. he was the only one i thought that was actually going through difficult times in his life as opposed to the others who were just going through every day run-of-the-mill type stuff. i give the movie a 8/10....i enjoyed it a lot...i have an obsession with movies made in the 80's.  "},{"Title":"not another teen movie","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah The Breakfast Club is a cool movie. It has something that will keep you in front of the t.v. without changing the channel. The acting is good, and the dialogue is real. The end will please everyone, that's for sure. This film has been an influence for lots of teen movies, but none of the new ones can be compared to this one.Watch it! it's the kind of movie that will leave a smile on your face after watching it. "},{"Title":"It's cool!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is one of the coolest movies I have ever seen! The movie is about five students Andrew (Emilio Estevez), an athlete, John (Judd Nelson), a bad boy, Brian (Anthony Michael Hall), a nerd, Allison (Ally Sheedy), a weirdo, and Claire (Molly Ringwald), a princess spending Saturday detention for 8 hours. The film is also hilarious! Whoever does not like the movie The Breakfast Club is a dummy. So I suggest you go see that film if you have not seen it. You'll like it! I like it!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"definitely number 1","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is probably the best of the 80s. it had so many memorable scenes by the brat packers. judd nelson did a wonderful immitation of what goes on at anthony michael hall's family. there were lots  of scenes that opened my eyes. some made me cry, some made me fall over laughing.molly ringwald, emilio estevez and ally sheedy shone once more in this cult 80s classic. definitely a movie not the be missed by anyone.  "}{"Title":"Damn good","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this film in the 80's as a teenager I totaly identified with it.  I enjoyed the humor and the characters.  It was a riot and very real.  I knew many 'Benders' in my school (one I knew even killed himself) as with all the other characters.  It even meant more to me cause so many people liked to remark how much I looked like Anthony Michael Hall back then (who was in all these movies playing the same stereotyped character).Looking back the film is still great.  However, my only criticism with the movie now was that it didn't go far enough in letting the characters vent.  I think that just reflects the time it was made. THe movie wasn't ready to handle HARD ISSUES not because it couldn't but because the time it was made no one was doing that.Kids now are faced with harder issues and are forced to grow up faster. Also kids are more accepting I think of other cliques compared to back then..  Except the geeks I guess...Anyway...  A film that will stand the test of time.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Typical John Hughes entertainment.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Five kids have to go to a 'breakfast club' detention, and discover more about themselves and each other in traditional John Hughes style. Although the script is a little silly, and the ending completely bizzare and unrealistic, the rest of the Breakfast Club is enjoyable enough teenage fare. Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy and Judd Nelson are the highlights of the cast, particulary Sheedy who says almost nothing during the film and still manages to make an impact. Emilio Estevez and Molly Ringwald are a litle bland, but so are their characters. Paul Gleason comes off as stupid and unrealistic as the principal.Despite the odd corny lines, the script is truthful enough, and sometimes quite witty. The soundtrack is full of eighties hit music, including the powerful Simple Minds theme 'Don't You Forget About Me.' Worth catching on television.(Comedy/Drama, 1985) "},{"Title":"What's the big deal??","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie 15 years ago when i t came out.  I was 22 at the time. Everyone made a big deal of this movie.  Why???  Was high school like this for anyone else?  I like realism in my movies.  I just didn't find any here. Five kids who had NOTHING in common spend a Saturday in detention become chummy at the end of the movie  Yeah, right.  Maybe my school experience was different.  I don't go into that area of my memory very often or fondly. "},{"Title":"I think I loved this movie before I even saw it.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I usually detest high school movies, where the cliches run rampant and a huge deal is made out of the Prom or the Big Game. That's why my first viewing of The Breakfast Club yesterday was such a nice experience.  This is the ultimate teenaged angst film, one that rings much truer to life than such pale attempts as Cruel Intentions or Varsity Blues.  The story is so simple, it's amazing how deep it goes.  Five kids in clearly delineated roles, the brain, the athlete, the basket case, the princess, and the criminal, find themselves stuck together in Saturday detention, and figure out they're all really pretty much the same.The mood of the film feel right, the isolation, the funny feeling of promise and doom mixed together.  I must have seen television ads for this a hundred times when I was younger, but never watched it.  I'm glad my first viewing was of the video version with all the swearing and marijuana left in. These elements may not be pretty, but they keep the film grounded and realistic. I'd say it's aged pretty well, as the archetypes and the questions of identity haven't changed a bit.  10/10   "},{"Title":"Probably Most Treasured by a particular generation","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what folks from other generations would think of this film, but it probably resonates the most with folks who were in HS during the time of it's release because of the music, etc.  "},{"Title":"a good 80s film, but then again, who likes the 80s?","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  2 1/2 Stars The Breakfast Club was arguably the most definitive teen angst film of the 80s, but then again, the 80s were a pretty bad decade for teenager films so that's not saying much. The film is about a group of five high school students who are forced to spend a day-long detention with each other.The group comprises of a jock, a bully, a nerd, a beauty queen and a freak. These are five of the most blandly stereotypical characters ever to appear in a film, and even though this is a deliberate action designed to give the actors leverage so that they could more easily be dynamic later in the film, it's blatantly obvious. The teenagers, interact with each other in ways that they otherwise wouldn't have had they not been forced to spend a Saturday together. The strongest part about the film is that there's a lot of good dialogue as the ragtag group starts going through the mundane activities of trying to stop the school bully from getting them in trouble or asking for a piece of gum, to having conversation in which they get to know each other and finding they all had more in common, than they realized.However, if ever a potentially good film was set back by the ending, The Breakfast Club would have to be one of the best examples. If the idea was that these teenagers of different social classes were going to learn that they had more in common than they realized and eventually tear down those barriers, than why does the film end with the status quo, where the beauty queen ends up with the bad boy, and everyone gets together with someone except for the nerd who ends up having to write the group paper? "},{"Title":"I can't believe I missed this movie for so long...","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am definitely a child of the 80's, but I have never seen this movie in its entirety until tonight.  What was wrong with me?  While I was only 10 when it was released, every time that Simple Minds song comes on I am just flooded with nostalgia.  This is a great movie.  I wish they'd make movies like that now.  Unfortunately all the 90's teen movies are too concerned with being hip to relay any kind of message.But I do have a gripe - what's with the brain not getting the girl?  I realize it might be a little cliche, but c'mon - even dorks need love!And I think they missed one character - the guy (or girl) who is not easily defined - the one who can get along with every group, but really doesn't belong to any clique.  Just a thought... "},{"Title":"Very good, but a corny ending","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, a teenage movie from the 80ies, how bad can it get, I thought. But it really surprised me. I like those kind of movies where only a few characters accidentally get together in one situation or one room and therefore are forced to get to know each other, e.g. 12 Angry Men. Breakfast Club is such a character study and as each character represents a high school stereotype also a social study. Dialogues, acting and directing are great. You have two conformists, one nerd, the rebel and the schizo. The way they get in touch to each other, how the characters develop over that movie are very believable. It is really worth watching. There's just one thing that really bothers me about it the ending. I would bet that this isn't the ending as writer and director Hughes has planned it and that some producer has interfered to give it the hip teenage note appropriate for that time (1985). The romance has been slightly implied in the first part of the film and on that level it was totally believable and would have left an open end on how these guys would react on Monday as it was part of the discussion in the key scene. But the way that Claire suddenly comes to John and kissing him was totally out of context. And even worst is the romance between Alley and Andrew. First, it wasn't indicated at all and second, she had to have been made up to fulfill the beauty standards of that time. That was really a downer, a killer of individuality. Maybe typical American, maybe typical 80ies, I don't know but it certainly destroyed the profoundness that movie had until the key scene was over. Well, with an more open ending this would have been a really great flick. But because of the ending which left me disappointed it is only a 6 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Kids spoilt rotten -- an American tragedy.","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five students are brought in to detention on a Saturday ( the reason why is a spoiler) and what they get up to during that one day trapped in the school library.They are school joker Andrew Clark (played by Emilio Estevez), nerdy Brian Johnson (played by Anthony Michael Hall), school bully/wise-guy John Bender (played by Judd Nelson), rich snob Claire Standish (played by Molly Ringwald), and total head-case Allison Reynolds (played by Ally Sheedy).America, America. The home of the punishment of luxury. Nearly every home have a car, most home's has several TVs, nearly every home has a fully stocked larder, but hey, they can be poor in their own way. Not material poverty, obviously but spiritual poverty. This film is about that -- people that don't believe in anything or want anything. Indeed they don't want anything because they have it all already and a soul can't be bought down at the mawwwl. This bit of fluff was a hit in America, but is considered late night TV elsewhere. Proof that this means something to the USA. This three act morality play comes from that well known device of throw strange people together and truth will emerge. Works in drama, but in real life all that happens is that people ignore each other or stick to their own -- like they do on a train journey.It also follows that drama convention of people being capable of sudden change. The ending is a complete hoot -- I've seen people change less in a stage hypnosis act! (Talking of change -- cop Molly Ringwald's hair! Seems to change between each and every shot. Who would have thought she could have so many hair styles in the one day!) The Breakfast Club is -- in summation -- a movie that is more interesting in its critical reaction than what happens on screen. Its far too cheap and cheerful to really please me and it also leaves you with the impression that destruction and soft drugs are a route to fun. This might be true -- for some -- but you don't have to advertise the fact. "},{"Title":"A melodramatic caricature of school life?","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this again after a long while. The first time I watched it I was in the 90s and I would've been about 14 or 15, and I found it boring to be honest. As for now, I did find it a little more interesting, but it didn't have any memories flooding back.I'll start by explaining why I called it a melodramatic caricature... The Principal. He was just a typical tyrannical teacher from any random teen school movie. And I used that as a starting point for the five kids. Also, Bender looked like he was dressed as a 'rebel' for a cheap school play, as well as looking old enough to be one of the teachers.Those things aside, I don't know what life was really like in American schools in the 80s, but it sure as hell was nothing like this for us in English schools in the 90s. Kids weren't generally that segregated. We still had the separate friend groups, but that would include people from all of the categories in this movie. As for Bender, I thought he had some serious mental issues, because most of the time he was just acting out like a five year old that'd been told he can't have anymore sweets.It was still an OKish movie. Personally I would've been impressed if it was ad-libbed. Because, lets face it, as a written movie some of the long monologues just sound silly.And I'll just end by saying Bueller was a better movie. D "}{"Title":"Beautiful, but overrated","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I feel that it's a little bit harsh for me to give it 5/10 - maybe it's unfair, because everything I've ever heard about this movie was how amazing it is, so not-liking it makes me too harsh. But this is how I felt. While it's true that the characters are likable and you can easily relate to them, I don't know how it was back in the 80', but I find it extremely unrealistic that teens would be so vulnerable and open about their feelings with strangers that they generally don't trust. So this is one thing. The other thing is that this is an awesome novel structure - it is. Like I said, fantastic characters. And great monologues/conversations. AND? What else? I wanted something to happen, but nothing did. Don't get me wrong, back stories are great. Everyone loves a character with an interesting story behind it. But it's literally just people sitting in the room, talking... that's not... a movie. That's real life. So that's too realistic to be interesting. I need my 3 acts, I really do need them. That ending was... so easy. And I honestly wanted to love this movie. I really did. Oh well. "},{"Title":"John Hughes Teen Comedy Drama.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy, and Anthony Michael Hall play five high school students forced to spend a Saturday in detention, overseen by a bitter teacher(Paul Gleason). Despite their differences, they talk and eventually bond over the course of the afternoon.Though this was popular, film is nothing more than an unrealistic examination of the very stereotypes it apparently decries, that is judging people without knowing them. Worthy message, but film, despite some moments of insight, is really superficial. The Judd Nelson character(the angry rebel) is such an obnoxious jerk, that you don't want to see him end up with Ringwald(the princess) It is an unintended irony that the Paul Gleason character(not deemed worthy of sympathy it seems...) is more often than not right.And I doubt they remained friends during school hours for long, though film was at least wise enough to pose the question. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but had higher potential","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would take Breakfast Club as a very enjoyable teenage movie. It might not have a clear point or top performances but it still retains its entertainment value. Apart from that, since the setting is minimal and the movie is concentrated on the dialogues, there was room for far better lines. Plenty of plot elements could be analyzed and explored deeper. It does not really justify the forming of the bond between the kids. Moreover, while only scraping the surface of their problems, it tries to communicate some vague moral lesson, without having truly elaborated on it before. "},{"Title":"Analysis of an unsatisfying ending","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though a child of the 1980s, I must admit to being a latecomer to the popular culture of the first decade of my life.That said, it has recently become the goal of my best friend to reacquaint me with the films that she grew up on while I was watching `Laurel and Hardy' and `Three Stooges' shorts.Our most recent viewing was of John Hughes' `The Breakfast Club' starring Emilio Estevez (Andy), Anthony Michael Hall (Brian), Judd Nelson (John), Molly Ringwald (Claire), and Ally Sheedy (Alison).Needless to say, only being a few years removed from the ages of these characters, I could relate in many ways to the people and situations in the film.In fact, Hughes had me until the very ending.*Note  The remainder of this review contains spoilers, especially pertaining to the end of the film.  If you haven't seen it and don't want to know what happens, please stop reading now.*I am disappointed in the couplings Hughes gives us at the end of the film, for reasons bordering on personal.  But, hey, we're all IMDB readers, I know you'll all be considerate (hold on while I wipe the dripping sarcasm off of myself).First of all, what the hell was Claire thinking?  Sure, there was obvious sexual tension between herself and John, but the fact that she chose him over either Andy or, especially, Brian, each of whom had been nothing but gentlemen to her is disheartening.What kind of message is this sending?  Don't bother being a gentleman, son, she's going to pick the asshole, anyway.  Sure, you can be kind and stick up for her when the bully is picking on her, but she likes him more, so why even bother?Several of my female friends have confessed to me that there are no gentlemen left.  Well, that's the reason.  There's no point in being the `nice guy,' because the `nice guy' always winds up alone or, worse yet, stuck in `best-friend' mode, never even considered boyfriend material.Then, there's Alison and Andy.  Where on Earth did this come from?  Yes, Andy was the one who drew her out of her shell, but beyond that there was seemingly no connection between them.Brian, on the other hand, was the best match for Alison.  Yes, they were from entirely different worlds (she the introverted.um.weirdo, he the bookworm), but their conversation near the end about peer pressure shows that, beneath their shockingly different exteriors, they share a similar soul.And isn't that what love is supposed to be?I brought this up at the end of the film, to which my friend responded, simply, `Opposites attract.'I won't argue that.  There is something very attractive about the `other side,' but, honestly, have you ever seen an `opposites attract' pairing that lasted any significant amount of time?  I know I, for one, have not. Every successful relationship I've ever seen has been between people who share common interests, common senses of humor.you get the picture.I will acknowledge that a relationship between two people who are nearly identical in this way would be boring and also would fail.  I'm not saying that an ideal pair would ONLY have common interests and the like, but what kind of relationship can stem from fundamental differences?Yes, `opposites attract,' but they will eventually repel each other.  I guess this is sort of a long-winded way to support an argument, but there it is.If I had written `Club,' the film would have gone almost exactly the same way, start-to-finish, except that at the end, Claire would have wound up with Andy (who shared some of the `bad boy' traits that attracted her to John, but lacked the inherent `asshole' quality) and Alison would have wound up with Brian (kindred spirits, I'm telling you).Don't get me wrong, I really liked this film, but there was something fundamentally wrong about the ending that almost ruined it for me.  Being the resident `nice guy,' maybe I just naturally identified with Brian and wanted to see him happy at the end.  But, once again, the nice, quiet, smart kid is the one that's left all alone.God bless the class structure, eh? "},{"Title":"Prepare to hate me.","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just don't get it.  I am a teenager, but I can't imagine why anyone would like the Breakfast Club.  This movie treats humanity and high school like a series of social stereotypes that play themselves out to a happy ending. This was, I believe, my least favorite film of the 80s...and one of my 5 least favorite of all time.  Let's examine what is really being said in this film...OK, every high school has a boring jock, a mean and boring bully, a mean and boring prom queen, an interesting-but-flawed basket case, and a nice nerd. That's the set-up, right?  Now, add a completely one-dimensional principal and an overly sympathetic janitor...shake...and serve...The kids will eat it up, but what are we really eating?As far as I can tell, this film has three messages.  Even if a person has a very interesting personality, they must abandon their individuality and date a complete jerk.  Ally Sheedy's basket case, one of the film's two interesting characters, is forced at the end to lose her personality so that she can be an acceptable partner for the jock.  Molly Ringwald's princess, one of the film's five bad characters, is forced to ignore how awfully Judd Nelson treated her, just because he is an abused child.  While it is true that Sheedy's character wasn't completely noble or realistic at first, when she put on the make-up and became a Ringwald, she lost every ounce of credibility that she might have kept.  I felt awful that someone who had such character would lose it so quickly.The second message seems to be the fact that adults are stupid and evil, unless they are on the kids' side.  The principal and the parents are bad, the janitor is good.  Very realistic...The third message is that even if prom queens can get together with bullies and jocks can get together with basket cases, there is no chance that anyone would ever be interested in the nerd...who happens to be the only nice guy in the movie.This film is supposed to be the greatest of all American teen angst films, but by stripping away the credibility of its already stereotypical characters, and by promoting other teen stereotypes (the nerd, the adults...), it is actually doing a disservice to the American teen.  If you want a good film about teens, throw BC in the garbage where it belongs and watch another Hughes...Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  Or better yet, watch a foreign film.   "},{"Title":"A cult movie that might touch some, but not everyone!","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sorry for those of you who consider this a cult movie. I know it has a big fan base.But I must warn you if you're about to watch this movie, there's a good chance you get bored. Not much happens, and most of what does happen is predictable.I know the movie speaks about the mind of teenagers, so maybe some will relate to it because of that. But many discussions feel fake because nobody (no, not even teenagers) would react like this.Some of the problems these teenagers have are real teenager problems, but others are just first world problems. It's nice to see that in 2015, people are more conscious of how ridiculous our little life problems are. I think there's more of a tendency today for people (yes teenagers too) to take a step back and realize that we're pretty lucky, life is pretty good, and our problems aren't that important! "},{"Title":"It's OK, but John Hughes has done much better","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'll start off by saying that I'm a big John Hughes fan and I've loved several of his other films he's brought out. Unfortunately, Breakfast Club (in my opinion) definitely stacks up as one of his weaker films. As I'm a generally positive person, I'll start off with the parts of Breakfast Club that I enjoyed;Firstly, the bicker and humour between John Bender (Judd Nelson) and Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) was pretty funny and whilst these were sporadic moments throughout the film, they did help to raise the film from being a tedious mess to an average watchable film. The way that Bender constantly winds the teacher up and him getting really angry with the students did provide some 'comedic' relief. There was also the 'eventual' character development about 25 minutes from the end. This 15 minute scene where the characters (Andrew Clark - Emilio Estevez, John Bender - Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald - Claire Standish, Ally Sheedy, Alison Reynolds and Anthony Michael Hall as Brian Johnson are all discussing why they are in detention, and their relevant faults was probably one of the best scenes in the film as we learn more about the characters and we get to see what makes them tick.There were however a few problems with Breakfast Club, for a start there is the total implausible scenario with the detention. OK, so 5 students are given detention 4 reasons that are unknown (apart from 3 out of 5 students) and the other 2 students reasons 4 detention seem 2 have been ignored. Secondly, they spend a day in detention with one of the most idiotic teachers that have ever existed. First of all, the teacher who is supposed to be supervising the students is one of the most idiotic men that has ever lived. He doesn't realise that one of his students has clearly tampered with his door meaning that it won't stay open, when he locks one of the students in a cupboard, then the student tries to escape and crashes through the ceiling, he doesn't know who it is, but comes running out to the students and asks them what happened to which they say they don't know ( obviously so that they can cover up for the character of Bender). Why they would cover for someone who is as big an asshole as 'Bender' I will never know.The final thing that bugged me about Breakfast Club is the unrealistic romance between Bender and Claire ( he was horrible to her throughout the film, but then when she discovers that he is a little insecure she decides to be his 'girlfriend'. This seemed totally implausible to me, friends 'yes' but boyfriend and girlfriend was just too ridiculous to me. On the other hand, Alison and Andy's romance was much more believable and made the film slightly more plausible.All in all, Breakfast Club is a reasonable film which does get the message across that no matter what your background is, that you can find a bond with anyone. Also the character development in the last 15-20 minutes was excellent and certainly in my mind raised the film from awful to average. This film is worth watching once, but it is certainly not one of John Hughes better works, my recommendation would be to watch Ferris Bueller's Day off, Planes, Trains and Automobiles or either of the first 2 Home Alone films which were all better than this film. "},{"Title":"quite disappointing","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It took me a while to see this movie, now I know why. All characters and their development in course of this one Saturday are absolutely unrealistic (except of Carl maybe). The dance scenes might have been fun in the eighties, however I didn't get them, as I don't think the film was meant to be a musical. The 7.5 vote of IMDB is in any case not understandable for me. "},{"Title":"Talky and nothing more","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ally Sheedy, Molly Ringwald, Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez and Anthony Michael Hall portray five of the most annoying young characters ever put together in a film. Their adventures together while all simultaneously serving a high school detention term are talky and tiring and the characters wind up being not all that likable. That annoying song by Simple Minds, Don't You Forget About Me doesn't help either.  "},{"Title":"Over-rated film","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is an altogether mediocre film, that could have  been a lot better, except that its major flaws tainted the rest of the movie`s good quality.  This supposedly teen classic has a pretty basic but interesting plot that intrigued me; five very different teens stuck in a library for a whole day, serving detention. After I viewed the film, I was let down. The beginning of the film was quite slow, it took quite a long time for the heart pouring near the end, which felt kind of rushed and forced.  Practically all the characters were one-dimensional and stereotypical, (the jock, the princess, the tough guy, the nerd, etc). The only exception was the basket-case girl, whom I admit, left me cracking up every second with her scathingingly funny remarks.  The biggest problem of the film though, is the ending. For some strange reason, the princess and tough guy magically fall in love, even though they were at each other`s throats before. That fraction of the film just irritated me. The Breakfast Club could have been a great movie, but its major flaws stand out too much to be ignored. "}{"Title":"Lacks subtly, real laughs or real emotion but is still an OK genre film","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Saturday morning is the last time anyone wants to be stuck in school, but that is the fate of a group of five high school students who have each been given detention for various reasons. With nothing in common but their location, tensions are immediately evident within the group with drop out Bender trying to out-macho jock Andy by competing for the attention of the prissy Claire. Meanwhile the geeky Brian and the reclusive Allison just seem out of place. While principle Vernon tries to keep control, the group fall out and then start to share themselves with one another, bringing about an uneasy bonding between them.Although I think this is an OK film I must admit to being a bit bewildered by the high regard that many viewers seem to hold it in. The plot is a fairly standard piece that relies more on the characters than any great narrative devices and, while this may work for some I found that the characters were not well enough written to really carry it. While elements of each character is recognisable none of them really stand out as being original or that insightful; in essence they are the characters you find in any high school movie and it never develops them to the point of being critical. Instead their issues and hang-ups are just accepted and it quickly turns into lots of teenage hand-wringing and complaining. If that sounds a bit strong then I suppose it is because the film still does enough to make things work and it does have enough within each character to be interesting but the problem is that, with so much of it being obvious, the clever bits tend to sound a bit corny rather than insightful.The cast are perhaps a little to blame because they do such a good job of playing rather annoying, up-themselves teenagers that that is exactly what they come off as. They are all OK and do manage to reveal layers within their characters but the surfaces of their performances are pretty obvious and it takes a lot to get away from that. Judd is the weakest because he takes so long to reveal anything in his character that by the time he did I had lost interest in him. Estevez is OK, Ringwald is suited to her character but Sheedy has little to do and Hall really just brings up the rear as the geeky comic relief. They are OK like I said but the film tends to go from loud school tomfoolery to quiet introspective revelations at the flick of a switch and this lack of subtly damages proceedings somewhat.Overall this is an OK film that probably doesn't deserve the reputation it has garnered over the years. It has good aspects but it lacks subtly or gradual development and the actors can't help this even if they do reasonably well. It provides some laughs and some nice moments but generally it doesn't do either that well. OK genre piece but nothing special. "},{"Title":"A film of great potential... and little payout.","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Honestly, I expected a lot more out of this movie from the beginning. It is famous a cult classic, and I would have certainly hoped it a deserved title. The set up is interesting a character driven story about five total stereotypes locked up together for an extended period of time. Of course, as the movie progresses, the characters began to feel less like stereotypes and more like people as so they should in any movie, and I found them believable (for the most part) as people, but their interactions were utterly contrived. For a character driven movie, it really felt like the writer had no idea who the characters were they simply slipped out of themselves constantly doing things that they obviously would not as people have done, such as Brian and Andy smoking pot in the library. Mostly, the end is ridiculous. It is as if the writer simply said Damn, I'm out of pages, I guess I'd better make everyone fall in love. There was a ton of potential here, and the payout was in small nuggets of real humanity. That's the beauty of a character driven plot the humanity of it. The Breakfast Club felt like somebody wanted to make a good movie, but thought nobody would go and see one, so made a mediocre one. A good try, but not a success. "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not going to say this was a BAD movie. I just think it's GOOD. You know, acceptable? An average movie. But I really don't think it's some masterpiece like everyone says it is.I LIKED it, but it's not really my taste, I guess. I mean I didn't like Ferris Bueller that much either. Whatever genre that may be. I guess 70s/80s teen movies or something.So, I GUESS I recommend it if you like those kind of movies, 70s/80s teen movies, but if you don't then don't see it. I didn't find it that memorable. But, it was OK.Thank you for your time. "},{"Title":"The dark side of the eighties","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film in 1990, when I was sixteen and preparing to leave school. Then I watched it again earlier this year. Guess which time I enjoyed it most. Hughes, that shameless panderer to teens, lumps together five crudely-defined stereotypes in one claustrophobic setting, fills their mouths with an uncomfortable mixture of psychobabble and self-importance, throws in a couple of horrid MTV-style sequences and a Reaganesque ending preaching conformity and knowing your place as the ultimate key to happiness, and foists the whole lumpy mixture onto a self-obsessed generation of whining brats who, inevitably, lap it up. This is the dark side of the eighties, make no mistake. All the characters whine about not being taken seriously, having unsatisfactory homelives and not wanting to do as they're told...get a grip, boys and girls, and GROW UP! Never have I wanted to reach into the screen and strangle somebody so badly as Molly Ringwald's character. Anthony Michael Hall's performance as the token nerd is the pits, absolutely amateur night stuff. Judd Nelson is the only interesting character, and even he is sold short by the wussy ending. I rated this 8 / 10 when I was sixteen, these days a grudging 2 / 10. Your enjoyment depends on your age, or whether or not you're an incurable nostalgic who longs for the days of cocaine-snorting synth players, mullet haircuts and Sushi eaters. "},{"Title":"Eww!! High School kids","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I only gave this movie a 2 because it did a decent job at capturing some of the most vile kinds of kids that made High School almost unbearable. That being said, its terribly cliché, and while high School kids tend to be that way, who wants to watch them or hear them bitch about life. When was the last time you wanted to go and hang out with high School kids? And if you have recently wasn't it awful? High School was and is awful and if you don't agree, well that's just sad and probably really creepy (Matthew Mcconaughey in Dazed and Confused). And I suppose I wouldn't dislike this movie so much if not for so many other people being so insistent on it being a great movie. The entire movie is basically summed up in the pretentious note that Brian writesDear Mr. Vernon, we accept the fact that we had to sacrifice a whole Saturday in detention for whatever it was we did wrong. But we think you're crazy to make us write an essay telling you who we think we are. You see us as you want to see us&#x85;In the simplest terms, in the most convenient definitions. But what we found out is that each one of us is a brain&#x85;an athlete&#x85;a basket case&#x85;a princess&#x85;and a criminal&#x85;Does that answer your question?1. Sacrifice? you goofed off, smoked pot, had a bad 80's dance and getaway montage2.For whatever you did wrong? You know what you did to get detention , don;t act like you're civil rights protesters locked up unfairly3. Introspection is key to self improvement(keep out of detention), you open up to each other but refuse to write a simple essay? what a spoiled 16yr old girl 4.What you found out is exactly how everyone already saw you!Really you are worse than my initial impression of you.There is that better Brian, you're not exactly who I thought you were.You easily give into peer pressure, fall into stereotypes and cry about being judged unless it s a judgement you like then that's fine, even if it isn't true. And I feel like that was supposed to be the point of the movie to Not judge a book by its cover' which it really failed at doing. Am I supposed to feel bad for Bender? He is exactly the bad influence on the other kids , bully, narcissist, drug pusher the principal thinks he is. And was it really necessary for Claire to start dating him to make her parents mad? That's terrible Andrew likes Allison just fine after her makeover, note to girls if you are a terrible person its okay so long as you look okay! Terrible No one will be Brian's friend and he is so gutless that he will still offer to do their schoolwork for them.Awful The janitor is the smartest guy in the school, I don't know how many janitors that you have spoken with recently but... yeah...80'sSo there is no real story to speak of, no comedy, no action, no good romance, no good dialogue and its full of clichés; so whats this movie good for?And please don't say the soundtrack, most people only know the one song, and really only five words from that song.And it isn't very good "},{"Title":"A product of the 80's","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Often regarded as something of a minor 80's classic, The Breakfast Club still stands up today as a decent, and fun drama. The Breakfast Club tells a simple story of five kids at high school being put into detention. The premise is simple, but it's what's behind the premise that's more important to the film as we learn about the different characters. This film will always be remembered for it's casting of 'the brat pack' over it's portrayal of teenagers coming of age, but that's not to say that it's deeper side should be ignored. The way that the characters are presented initially is very much two dimensional - with them all fitting into set teen groups. We've got a nerd, a prom queen, a tearaway, a 'jock' and a basket case and it all seems very convenient that five such different people should end up in detention together. However, this is how the film portrays it's point, as it shows that the kids are more similar than their exteriors would suggest, and that is explored through their innermost hopes and fears; which is actually done quite well.The film cuts music (mainly 80's style heavy metal) into the drama, which works at times but at other times is extremely annoying. It can be hip and cool, but it also becomes annoying fast and this isn't good when you're trying to watch a low concept movie that relies on it's dialogue and characters rather than any kind of razzle-dazzle. The acting in the movie is a mixed bag, with different actors being really realistic at times, and then really out of place at other times. Emilo Estivez trying to make himself look hard being a case for the latter. The film does feature many extremely unlikely occurrences, such as our protagonists smoking illegal substances in a school library, and one of them making a trek through the school roof; but the script always keeps it afloat and it's kept interesting by the way that the characters are varied and different to one another. After what the film has been building for it's duration, it fitters out with a damp squib ending that appears to be tacked on just to make the audience feel good and it's a real shame. Still, up until the ending the movie is a lot of fun so I still give it a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Watch Sixteen Candles instead (there may be spoilers)","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WARNING There may be spoilers in this review...OK, I admit that I'm not a child of the '80s. I don't knowanything about the '80s. But I DID watch Sixteen Candles and love it, so that doesn't mean  I'm a retarded teenager who hates all '80s movies.But I didn't like this movie. It was just an hour and half of listening to Bender insulting  everyone. I admit that Allison was funny, but she just wasn't funny enough to save the movie.  There were some other funny parts also, but overall... it just made no sense. Especially the  couplings at the end.  And Bender insulting everyone. Please, for God's sake, if you want an Eighties movie, watch Sixteen Candles. If you want to  watch a teen movie, watch Ten Things I Hate About You.  "},{"Title":"A Film, A Statement, Society At Large","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What to say about John Hughes's film the Breakfast Club? What was he trying to accomplish with this project? Yes, its true that he was trying to make a teen movie. But was he not also trying to make a statement about our society at large? Like Edward Albe's controversial play Zoo Story, through the Breakfast Club John Hughes is trying to make a statement about the mixing of social classes. However Hughes and Albe seem to go two different ways. Albe is saying that two classes can't merge without violent contact, but Hughes is suggesting that everything turns out alright. So I applaud Hughes for his brilliance and his decently made film. Good job Hughes, damn good job. "},{"Title":"As Good As the Brat Pack Could Be","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Breakfast Club is almost a good film, but it becomes a bit too serious in the film's final acts.  Or you could say it messes up early by trying to pass as a comedy.  As can be seen, the film's focus is disjointed and never clear.  Five young people at a Chicago high school have to serve a Saturday of detention.  Of course all are from different backgrounds, and immediately show their distaste for each other.  However, they learn about each other and figure out that they are not that different after all.  Judd Nelson is super, he is the film's greatest asset.  Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, and Molly Ringwald are all adequate.  Ally Sheedy is definitely the weakest link as she is quiet the first half of the movie and is then really annoying when she actually starts talking.  Paul Gleason is also on hand as the principal, but his part is never really explored as thoroughly as it should have been.  Once again John Hughes shows his shortcomings as a director and screenwriter with this one.  Above average, but not as good as some people think.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Most unrealistic movie in years","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I cannot believe how this movie could have gotten such a high rating from so many critics and being called one of the cream movies of the 80's. Were people stupid and cliché back then? The story moves around five stereotypical teens at a high school in America who got a whole day detention, and their task is to write an essay about who they think they are. Here we have the athlete, good looking guy who bullies others to please his dad. The prom queen lady who is afraid of being called a bitch or a slut and therefore avoids talking about her virginity. The little nerd who brags about his good grades and tries to fit into the group all the time. The anarchistic bully who doesn't care about anything and just messes around to have some fun. And last but not least the quiet and introvert emo-girl who shows off her weirdness by eating a sandwich buttered with sugar and unboiled pasta. Seriously??More than half of the movie is about that bully guy who can't stop gathering attention by messing around, picking fights, yelling mean things at each and everyone of the other students in order to find their weak mental points. Everything culminates in all of them sitting in a ring together, smoking pot and becoming best friends by whining about how more miserable their lives are compared to others. Okay, up to that part, I can still squeeze out enough energy to believe in the plots' realism. But what really went on my nerves is how that bully guy can be as mean as he wants to be and everybody follows him regardless, going down the hallway to get some drugs from his locker, sitting around smoking, talking about their parents and their miserable lives. And no matter HOW nice everyone is and shows him that he is understood and that nobody wants him any harm, but rather help him, he continues to be mean and hurtful toward others. He is at his worst against the prom queen girl who just doesn't want to admit that she is still a virgin, because she is too afraid of the others opinion. He throws sexist comments at her all the time and makes her cry and break down at last. I became so furious at the movie because NOBODY tries to tell him that he doesn't have to be mean all the time, just because he has a hard home life. The worst part starts at the very last ten minutes of the movie. Now after the quarrel in the group ring has reached its limit, the teens put on some music and dance like there's no tomorrow. Everybody is friends with each other right now, despite that they fought and hurt each other just a minute ago. The essay that everybody has to hand in is for the smart nerd to write, all five of them. Because he is the smart one, as the athlete boy describes it. Meanwhile, the prom queen is giving the weird girl a makeup lift, and suddenly the athlete has eyes for her and falls immediately in love with her and she with him, so they end up becoming a kissing couple in the last three minutes. Same goes for the prom queen who starts to kiss the bully and asks him to be her boyfriend. The movie ends with their teacher reading the nerds essay which reads that nobody really can know who they really are because everybody just sees others as they want to see them. The end.I was really disappointed at the end. Because the movie showed such interesting potential when everybody was explaining their hardship to each others in their own ways. It was interesting to observe how they would react to and bound with each other once they would realize that they all had problems and were different than what they appeared to be. But after that happened, it just went downhill. You can't expect the audience to believe that two people can fall in love with each other after a makeup or after one treated the other like crap the whole day. It doesn't make for a believable end and that is what made the movie become very disappointing. There were many open questions left unanswered, like how next Monday would be when they would see each other at school again and stop being friends. I wished the writers would have considered such things to make the movie more realistic instead of more appealing to the target audience. "}{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So this is it? One of the most acclaimed and praised movies of the 80s? This?! I'm not sure I'm watching the same movie as all these folks so positive about this one.It tries to be very deep an meaningful but to be honest, it really goes nowhere. We have a pretentious bully, a spoilt daddy's girl, sports guy, a nerd and of course, a retard all in detention. What happens throughout the movie? In the beginning, they just have random scuffles with one another. And later, they open up to each other and basically talk and rant about their incredibly clichéd teenage problems. Hmmm, didn't you guys hate each other like 2 seconds ago? And then there's the stupid note, which is also supposed to be very in depth, towards the teacher who put them in detention which reads 'You see us as a brain, an athlete, a basket case, a princess and a criminal. Correct?' Yeah, and even after the movie is over I see you as the exact same people, except perhaps the bully, who was also probably the only interesting guy in the whole movie but his character too was ruined towards the end. And, there is a scene where all of these idiots start dancing to synth rock music for no reason inside the school. How the hell did they find rock music inside the school while in detention anyway? Plus, the ending is completely idiotic and unbelievable.The worst thing about the movie is that I don't feel anything for any of the students. I mean, they could've dropped dead any second in the movie and I wouldn't have given a rat's ass. As this is a drama, we're actually supposed to feel for them in at least one way or another. Well, I didn't. And it's not that I have a stone cold heart. The last scene of 'Up' put me on the verge of tears. I fail to see why this movie couldn't do something that would make most people feel emotionally attached to the characters.Even if the overall idea of the movie isn't that bad, the execution seems completely terrible to me. The acting, cinematography etc. might be good but the overall plot does not come together well at all. "},{"Title":"Uh, so where's the great movie?","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If a spoiler is defined as how the characters make out in the end, there is probably one or two here.Now, I was flipping between a few things when I saw this on TV so I didn't see every minute of it, but I can describe my reaction in two words Thoroughly unimpressed.I just didn't like the direction the story was going, almost from the get-go. Why, at 17 minutes in, would any of them have any reason to cover for the guy who took the screw out of the door? It went more or less downhill from there, and just when I thought it was about to redeem itself and become this great movie everyone who was a teen in the '80s says it is, it didn't.Bender is the type of student that would torture me in high school, if such a stereotype had actually existed, and to that degree. My high school self would have wanted to alternately try to beat him up (and fail spectacularly) or go tell the supervisor what was going on. He comes falling through the ceiling? Yeah, sure, like I'm going to cover for that.The movie revisits, or perhaps imposes for the first time, the values that supposedly everyone has in high school, meaning none. Look down on virginity, smoke pot, and swear enough to turn March air in Illinois even bluer. Oh, and you can find a guy/girl by getting a total makeover and/or being one of the chicks who dig bad boys.Anthony Michael Hall's character was alternately overexploited (is that redundant?) and underused. OK, so maybe a flare gun was all he had access to, not an unreasonable position for 20 years ago. But the revelation of that during the conversation pretty much ruined whatever the movie had going for it at that point. Then he willingly writes the essay for the group? Mm-hm. And on top of that, they expect me to believe that the nerd can dance. If you think about it, his situation is one of the most dated parts of the movie, since today he would probably have been shuttled off to a psychiatrist, put on Prozac, reported to the police, or all of the above. (The 'underused' part comes from the gymnastics one must do in the script to get a nerd in detention in the first place, which is where the flare gun came in, and then there's the problem of what to do with him after that.)I'm not dismissing the possibility that I just don't get it for generational reasons, as high school came 15 years later for me. I'm also not dismissing the possibility that I don't get it because perhaps my experience and angst aren't like most people's experiences and angsts, or because being in a small high school doesn't lend itself to as deep divisions in the student body. (And Saturday detentions aren't part of the discipline.)If anything, this movie has confirmed two things I am most emphatically not a member of Generation X, and I should've know I probably wouldn't like this movie given my loathing of that other alleged symbol of teen angst, Catcher in the Rye. "},{"Title":"My terrible little secret I HATE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why am I the only one in my generation that hates this movie? For that matter, I hate nearly every John Hughes classic. I've never say anything to my friends, my family, even my wife! But, I hate this movie above all other John Hughes's '80s teen movies. I certainly do not expect anyone who stumbles across my little IMDb review to agree with me; I know I'm in the minority (I have no doubt that there are more people that believe 9/11 was an inside job and Obama was not born in the United States than genuinely hate this movie). Why do I hate this movie? First, I probably review this movie every two years or so thinking that I may find myself at a point in my life where I may enjoy The Breakfast Club. Nope. Hated it every single time. The first time I watched this movie was probably in 1989. I was nine and indifferent to it - didn't really understand it. That was the last time I didn't hate Claire, Bender, et al.I guess the single reason I hate The Breakfast Club is that I hate teenagers. I especially hate teenagers who think they are deep or that we can learn something from their existence. I hate teenagers who believe they are misunderstood and no one knows what they are going through. This movie is the essence of why I hate teenagers. "},{"Title":"Library of Fools","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I don't know the family tree of this genre unlikely characters are confined together, they reveal themselves and (usually) superficially are transformed. Here, we have kids in a movie for kids. The genre is particularly straightforward and easy to read, so it is particularly apt for the target.My own theory is that High Schoolers have seven archetypes to choose from for each sex. Here we have the five-choice-total theory convincingly argued, through they toned down the sexpot significantly. That severely dates this, no teen film today would assume the popular princess to be a virgin.I suppose some people will enjoy this, considering it sweet or cute. My own interest is in these archetypes, particularly the redhead. Sheedy was originally cast to play the princess I understand and at the last minute Hughes fired a girl, shifted Sheedy and inserted Molly. Hughes had already worked with her she was in the middle of something of an intelligent career, playing (before this) the Miranda in a loose adaptation of The Tempest and (afterward) the Cordelia in a truly sophisticated version of `Lear.'Why she would be featured in a Hughes-type movie is a no-brainer she's charming. But why he would shuffle things around here for her is a braintwister. The film is about stereotypes. The film world in which this film exists is all about stereotypes. The redheaded cutie stereotype in film is all about a zany or wild or passionate independence. But here, she plays the meekest of the bunch, in fact so subservient she falls for the meatheaded braggart. Hughes didn't play this ironic casting game with the others.Julianne Moore makes a living out of exploiting both roles when she plays most of here characters she plays the character in type and the actor in type playing the character. I think Molly does this too, in an immature way. Once Hughes tried to use her `normally,' in the next film, she walked away from a Harrison Ford-like career. Good for her. She recently did a campy take on herself in `Cut' where the joke was just this duality the film actually becomes the evil character! At this writing, she is signed to appear in the most ambitious and intelligent film project of the decade `Luper.'She never had a big career, but I really admire what she did at this age and her sufficient selfawareness to walk away from the numbing money roles.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"All the sharks have teeth","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I watch this movie it means nothing to me. It has never meant anything to me, and I have never chosen to watch this movie. Each situation in which I have watched the Breakfast Club, it was never my decision and I was not allowed to leave. Perhaps that might have biased my impression of this movie but nevertheless The Breakfast Club is an oppressive movie. It weighs down upon me, merciless cloying teen angst honky bullsh*t. And the worst part, so many people love this movie! All over America, people love The Breakfast Club, its normal, like somehow I'm the weird one. It's like a goddamn zombie dream but also a popular movie from the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Annoying movie","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's like of those stupid annoying reality shows on TV where people are locked up inside a room and they end up fighting,crying and doing all that sort of crap. And add the teenage hormones and emotions to that, it becomes even more worse. There was some 80s feel to it but that's pretty much the only thing that is good in this movie. I was expecting something else from this movie, I thought these people would use that time to bond with each other and have some interesting, maybe intellectual discussions, but nothing of that sort happens This movie is just a precursor to reality shows, which have completely spoiled TV later! "},{"Title":"Forced Acting and Cliché plot","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was my first viewing of The Breakfast Cub, I'd heard it was film any teenager can relate to. I absolutely disagree. The Breakfast Club is a film about a bunch of teenager sitting around whining about how much they're lives suck. People's issue may be along the lines of this film but there's no way that anybody truly acts like these characters. I did not consider this film humorous or greatly acted. Emilio Estevez and Molly Ringwald's performance were some of the most forced I've see in a long time. I found in the middle it seemed as if their principle was experiencing a 'mid-life crisis' however that was never referred to again. The Breakfast Club is a mainstream flick for teenagers, and that's about all. "},{"Title":"Not as good the second time around","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why I used to like this movie, I don't know. I'm sure it had a lot to do with me being a young pre-teen, aspiring to be just as cool as the cast of The Breakfast Club; that and whatever Molly Ringwald did in the 80's was supposed to be good. Watching this movie as an adult was very dissatisfying. The movie only reaffirmed a prejudice I already had, and that is for the most part, I can't stand teenagers.Five teens at a nice High School in Chicago get Saturday school. Immediately we're shown the different personalities the wealthy popular girl, the jock, the geek, the misfit, and the recluse. Throw in the loud, obnoxious, overbearing, drill Sargent of a teacher to watch over them and you have a cult classic. It isn't a mistake that the five kids represent just about every group from the high school social hierarchy, and how could you have a movie if there isn't any conflict? Up steps Bender (Judd Nelson), the 30 year old high school student with no hopes of being a contribution to society. He provides instant wise-cracking and obvious behavioral issues. He is the straw that stirs the drink, without him there is no movie. He is not remotely pleased unless he is completely degrading someone else. Yet, what you find is that high school kids are so fickle, no matter how much another teen insults them, angers them, or risks their future, they will cover for him and eventually follow him if he is the loudest and the boldest of the bunch.Bender, and the rest of his temporary cellmates all have some type of familial problems, and that is what ultimately makes them alike. Of course that is when the audience is supposed to have a sympathetic heart for these screw-ups because they aren't to be blamed for how they behave. And what better way to bridge the gap between you and your fellow teen than over a joint? I didn't finish the movie and I didn't think I had to really. I'm sure they all got along in the end, or at least came to a mutual understanding of respect though they don't like each other. The movie was far less funny and far more vulgar than I remember. Then again, my memory was stemming back to when my intellect was far less developed and my vocabulary consisted of the very cuss words used throughout the movie. All I got from this movie is that teenagers are fickle, dumb, and they like to smoke weed. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies about teenagers","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's hard for me to review a classic movie like this one. Even though it's not a perfect movie, it did an excellent job at explaining what being in high school is all about. I've been a child and a teenager in the 90's so I never had the chance to watch this great movie when it came out. I also had to endure all of the painful and unrealistic teen movies and soap operas of the 90's that were often set on glamorizing high school life or preaching to teenagers about serious topics such as teen pregnancy. I'm not saying that any of these movies or TV series were bad. They just weren't about teenagers. They were about models in their 20's who acted like idiots. Or they were written by adults in order to pass certain messages to teenagers.What is so great about The Breakfast Club is that it brings to life many characters that are completely different. The high school stereotypes is something that's still present even today. The stereotypes might be a little different, but after watching this movie, we realize it was this way even in the 80's. This is an aspect of high school life that was never discussed in movies. As a teenager, when I first saw this movie, I immediately thought that it probably helped teens in the 80's understand their peers better. It can also help adults understand why teenagers can act certain ways.But this movie does not preach to us. A proof of this is that the parents are accused for putting so much pressure on their children and making them become the stereotypes that they are now. In fact, all adults in this movie have a negative image, which is something I liked. In most modern teen TV series, there is always a teacher or a parental figure who makes the teenagers learn something. The adults are always right. However, in real life, it's not necessarily like this. Parents and other adults can also be a negative influence to their children and sometimes mistreat them. John Hughes understood that. It wasn't a perfect movie, of course. By example, certain scenes were silly and over the top, and the acting wasn't perfect. But isn't this what made the charm of this movie?  "},{"Title":"Doesn't stand the test of time...","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this when it premiered, and liked it a lot better then.  This has not aged well.  Of course, I am almost 40, but these issues seem slight to me now.  The situations one now faces as an adult are Olympian in proportion to what these kids whine about.  So, here is an essential fact to remember when looking at this film  Most teenagers think their parents don't care, don't listen, and don't know anything.  They're wrong.  The truth is, the world doesn't revolve around post-puberty teenagers.  The issues raised here most often occur because of poor communication (which is not necessarily always the fault of either parents or teens).  No one, not even grown-ups, have all the answers.  Deal with it.  And yes, sometimes bad stuff happens to kids like the Judd Nelson character, but if it ain't you, get over it.  (This does NOT mean I condone that behavior, or encourage people to ignore it if they see it.  It is here for drama.)  Think I'm full of s**t?  Look at the high school these kids go to...I went to one like it, and last time I checked, the people I graduated with were pretty much okay.  The problems they face now sure aren't high school in nature.Hughes does a lot of damage demonizing parents here.  The Estevez character may dislike his father, but he would thank him in the grown-up sequel (which could still be made...it's not like any of these actors went anywhere.  They're available).Some good scenes, b.s. ending.  A 3 out of 10.  No one ever reviews how the janitor and Bender interact and what they talk about, thereby ignoring what should be an integral part of the film and an insight into grown-up behavior. "}{"Title":"Not realistic as well as offensive","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie back in the 80s when I was a high schooler, and it made me realize that if this is how the world saw us back then, we're doomed. First off, 3 guys, 2 girls, all pretty much one step above the caricatures in Archie Comics, as well as your cardboard cut-out mean principal, have to spend a Saturday at school in detention. Oh yeah, they're all white, heterosexual. They're able to get the door to the library closed so that the meanie principal can't see them. Clearly, the principal never heard about putting a chair or a garbage can, to keep the door propped open, or just bringing his work and sitting with the students. Then the principal occasionally checks in on them, including one scene where the school ne'er-do-well hides under the desk of the pretty girl and performs cunnilingus on her. Think about it Random stranger is able to hide under a desk in a school, perform oral sex on a girl he just met, and it's supposed to be realistic? Funny? How about just plain unbelievable, offensive and one-step-away from being called rape. The ending has the nutty girl getting a make-over, and now she's popular enough to catch the eye of the popular jock! And the loser guy is now the popular girl's boyfriend! And ... you get it. The movie is just crap that hasn't stood up. "},{"Title":"Definitely overrated (contains one or two spoilers)","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The characters are full of stereotypes - that would be okay if they were not meant to be realistic to begin with, but if I understand the director correctly, he seriously thinks his movie portrays reality. One thing that made watching this movie really hard for me was the horrible stereotypical teacher. Teachers like that man simply do not exist. No teacher is legally allowed to treat a student the way this man treats Bender. It is terribly exaggerated and I am getting very tired of seeing the same prejudiced two-dimensional teacher images in movies.The story... well, what can I say. Very unrealistic, and the script is full of pseudo-philosophical blaaaah. I think I kept rolling my eyes throughout 3/4 of the movie. The supposedly terrible secrets that the students reveal to each other in the end seemed pretty trivial to me and left me wondering why I even bothered to sit there for 1 1/2 waiting for the truth to come out. I think if I were 15 I could relate to some of the problems the students talk about (isolation, insecurity) but, as I said, that is spoilt through the stereotypical characters. I find the typical brain, prom queen, athlete etc. boring to watch. Give us some interesting characters please!I give it a 3 out 10, because even though I really don't like this movie whatsoever, I was pretty impressed by the actors and actresses.  "},{"Title":"Terrible portrayal of real high school life","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No offense to anyone who liked or has fond memories of this movie, but as a current junior in high school, I would have to say it is SORELY mistaken about high school life. It just seems artificial, with nothing that would really work. I agree with some of the statements about how most would stay with their own crowd, but a lot is mistaken. Real high school life is a fresh-baked pie, full of unique flavors you've never tasted before. This movie is a hostess fruit pie, with artificial flavors you've had too many times, and with a bitter aftertaste. Also, I HATE how the quirky basket case Got a makeover, and, OH BOY! The athlete suddenly notices her! Holden Caulfield would have a field day with this movie. Final words Five stereotypes walk into a library, they leave after a cookie-cutter movie. Oh, and Judd Nelson dresses like the terminator when he attacked Sarah Connor in the Club Tech Noir. "},{"Title":"lacking any good character development","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is quite honestly the worst movie I've watched. The soundtrack is overrated, and the acting and writing are both very cliché. This movie is s string of contrived conversations that are unrealistic and feel set up just so that the actors could read the lines, in remembrance of Hughes' own high school days. The film serves no purpose other than to solidify five high school stereotypes that everyone is aware of before watching the movie which does nothing to make any of the stereotypical characters likable. In short, Travis Bickle is more heart rending, and we aren't even supposed to feel connected to him. "},{"Title":"I teach in a High School, and it ain't like this","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember I watched this a long time ago before I was a teacher. For some reason this movie was insanely popular at the time. I don't know why. Basic plot 5 kids serve a Saturday detention (where in the US does this happen?), from every high school stereotype. First they hate each other, and in the end they love each other.The writing is horrible, the actors are not likable, and the movie is not realistic. Here is a realistic movie script. 5 high school kids serve Saturday detention from different social groups. Teacher stays in the room and tells the kids to be quiet, or they will serve the detention again. Kids read or more likely sleep for 5 hours and then leave. On Monday they resume their lives in their separate cliques in their schools.Oh but my script doesn't make any money because most morons aka the public don't like reality.Don't waste 2 hours of your life on this turd, you'll never get it back. "},{"Title":"Moronic Stereotypes add up to Dumb Movie","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club has to be one of the dumbest and most boring movies ever made. Who can buy Jughead Nelson as a bully? He looks like a girl. Alley Seedy, Molly Ringworm, Anthony Michael (wasn't he in Van Halen), and Emilio Sheen Estevez (Thanks to his Dad, Martin Sheen, for this role). What a cast of boring rich kids.Ally Sheedy, she was what? An alcoholic? Judd Nelson was a victim of his Dad? Talk about unimaginative stereotypes. The Breakfast Club was one big stereotype, down to the dork who played the Principal. These characters are two-dimensional and dated. Would five people who hated each other spend all day whining to each other? What kind of school ever had Detention for more than one hour? Reform School? Of course, by the end of the movie, the corny canned Let's Be Friends ending is trotted out for the five millionth time. Hollywood thinks movie audiences are made up of morons, and the fact that so many people think that The Breakfast Club is a classic just goes to show that Hollywood is right about the dumb masses. Breakfast Club is the ultimate Low-Budget teen rip-off movie. Give them fake angst, whining, and blame the parents; and teens lacking self-esteem will run to the theaters to pay. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously Overrated","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is just one of the most overrated films of all time. Probably because of the emotional investment so many of its fans have in it, as they saw it when they were teenagers, or, just as likely, pre-teenagers. But even older critics seemed to have suspended their judgment.Despite having been made in, and so heavily identified with, the 80's, Breakfast Club is firmly rooted in the pop psychology movement of the late 60's/early 70's. Much of the action In the film consists of the eponymous club sitting in a circle and trying to break down each other's walls (in the parlance of the times), a trope directly lifted from the 70's pop psychology Encounter Group therapy session of the type seen in films like Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice. A lot of these scenes are right out of the rule book of the infamous Synanon House of the period, where the encounter style was far more aggressive, and could turn into an attack on a single person. This happens a lot in Breakfast Club, to each of the characters. Most of this psychological terror is carried out by the school bully, Bender, played by then-25-year-old Judd Nelson, who incessantly harasses most of the other kids in room, who are there involuntarily, (for detention). The only kid (actually a 25-year old Emilio Estevez playing a kid) to hold his own against him is Andy, the jock. There's also the nerd, played to the hilt by Anthony Michael Hall, and the prom queen, played by Molly Ringwald, ( about two years away from throwing her career right down the dustbin of history ). Ally Sheedy plays the loner.In the weird logic of Hollywood, all of this abuse just makes the kids love Bender more. Similarly, at other points in Breakfast Club we are repeatedly expected to feel sympathy not for the victims of abuse, but for their tormentors, not only in Bender's bullying actions, but in the Estevez character's whining, self-pitying (and, I might add, seemingly endless) monologue about committing some freakishly creepy sexual abuse on some poor kid. Apparently, it really hurts to bully people. The film industry, largely made up of people with Leftist tendencies, often asks us to sympathize with bullies and criminal perps, a couple of the most egregious examples being the bleeding-heart hand wringer Dead Man Walking and the South African film Tsotsi.The encounter sessions in Breakfast Club are interspersed with small, generally non-sequitir vignettes of 50's-style teen rebellion, e.g., the crazy, spontaneous dance scene, backed by a soundtrack that was already dated back in 1985. This little sequence gives the movie its biggest WTF moment, when Estevez lets out a leonine roar, and suddenly a plate glass window shatters ( It plays like some weird fusion of Heroes, Dune, and Footloose ). So disjointed is this film that it seems as if several different writers were working on different parts of the movie, and when they were done writing, they just sort of patched it all together in random order.Worst of all is the way the film resolves itself, as, for no apparent reason, four out of the five kids pair up (guess who gets left out? Bingo! The Nerd! How's that for a depressing message for at least a portion of the audience in a film that fancies itself uplifting?) In addition, the eccentric loner chick is turned into a clone of the prom queen (and there's another nice message, this time for the female portion of the audience conform, girlie)! "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is awful, just awful. Five kids are in detention and each one is a Hollywood cliché. We have the jock, the weirdo the geek etc. Even the teacher / supervisor is a disinterested clot. The tough guy (he wears a leather jacket - ooh, scary) comes from the wrong side of the tracks with a drunken father. Molly Ringwald is the gal who doesn't quite fit in. Yawn. The acting is fine, the script and storyline is woeful. The set-up dictates the opening tension but of course we are given (spoon-fed) the supposedly odd alliances between these (supposedly) different characters and a vaguely mutual anti-establishment bond is formed. If you like dialogue or are over eighteen and by great fortune have missed this dross then avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Best of the Brat Pack movies......","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It has been almost 20 years since I first saw this film as a 15 year old kid in 1985. Since then I've developed interests in directors far more intellectual than John Hughes. Assuredly, if I became a film director I would want to cite Akira Kurosawa as a main influence as opposed to John Hughes, but like Kevin Smith, I would have to give credit for the impact Hughes' films had on my adolescence. He was one of the few directors who focused on mostly teen films, though Planes, Trains, and Automobiles and Natl. Lampoon's Vacation drew larger audiences. Among his films about teens, Breakfast Club is by far the best. It's central characters, played by Molly Ringwald and company, represented a cross section of teenage America. In an odd way, it resembles the Turkish film Yol by director Yilmaz Guney which came out in 1982, in this regard. The Breakfast Club fully examines the plight of these characters during the Reagan years which were difficult for many of us who grew up then. This film may not stand up to Rebel Without a Clause, perhaps the best teen film ever made, but it captures its' generation, its' period, and the secluded isolation which was teenage America in the 80s. I am not surprised it has become popular with teens today. It may not be Rahsomon, but it is a crowning achievement for commerical films of this period, and its' title song Don't You Forget About Me still hauntingly helps this film capture the loneliness and fear of rejection which always seems to loom over teeangers whichever generations hey find themselves in. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At best, this is an average film. Stereotypes abound, the characters aren't developed at all, and the lack of a plot really shows. (Some movies that don't have plots (e.g. Ferris Bueller's Day Off) pull it off very well by being funny/entertaining. BFC doesn't succeed.)It does have highlights (such as Judd Nelson being locked in a closet), but otherwise it drags on to a predictable conclusion. "}{"Title":"Beaver Revisited","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A dated movie which marginally rises above standards of writing set by Leave It To Beaver in the 1950s.  Stiff dialog and routine performances weigh down a film already overburdened by a weak premise.  Not a memorable movie in the least.  See it if you're interested in a period piece but be prepared to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Boring Bunch of Cry Babies","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is possibly the most over rated movie ever. Its about five cry babies who stay in for Saturday detention that discover that they all have something in common despite being different steryotypes, they all hate their families and have strange mood swings. The acting is completely over the top ( Emilio Estevez), the characters are whiny losers and the story is just boring they sit their and scream at each other for most of it. Then one of the dumbest endings ever they all end up as lovers and the outkast girl is normal because the popular one puts make up on her? please. Bad story + bad characters + bad acting = Bad Movie. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Dull - Hasn't Aged Well","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this film incredibly dull, hardly anything happens and all the characters are unlikable. I couldn't identify with any of the characters. This film is like Dawson's Creek only without any of the interesting story lines - only the parts where the 'teenagers' (who are blatantly 25+) brood about their lives. I think the reason it has such a high rating is because it was probably good in the 80's, but it certainly has not aged well. I think if anyone reviews it high it is because it gives them that cosy nostalgia feeling. I was born a year after this film was made so unfortunately didn't experience any nostalgia whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Detention drama","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was hoping that The Breakfast Club would be just as good as Sixteen Candles, or even better, considering both films were done by John Hughes-but it wasn't. Although the characters do reveal many social issues in teenage life, the plot itself dragged on, all inside of one library for the majority of the movie. I found myself attempting to change the channel several times but decided to see if any jolts would occur. I finally gave up on the movie after watching about 75% of it. I was very disappointed with this film, considering it had such a great cast. If you are a fan of Saturday detention drama, then this is a great film for you! "},{"Title":"Whiny brat stereotypes classmates","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Breakfast Club is a movie people put in to view to make their guests leave. It is undoubtedly the greatest waste of great music since The Graduate. Like the Graduate, it has non believable characters who aren't interesting and a lame expository plot line. Two things make this movie remarkably bad. First, it takes what should have been a good idea, showing the ideas of a group of characters, and instead using a whole movie to turn them into ridiculous stereotypes. It becomes evident early on, however, that this is told from the point of view of the one character who is too tough for that (if you ever notice, when someone recounts an event, the one constant is that the narrator is always tough and decisive), which brings us to the second major flaw. The character who tells the story is a whiny brat with an unbelievable superiority complex which most teenagers certainly can't relate to, who gets everything his own way or else, and does nothing but belittle and mock everyone else. Probably the worst script ever. "},{"Title":"Ending ruined it","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Bowie Quote gave it more seriousness then it deserved-this movie wanted to be something great from the beginning.  Well, by the end of it I realized that what it wanted was not what it was.Yes, I knew kids like everyone of the leads.  My class (of'97) was made up of them.  But as far as realism goes-the buck stopped here.  The Sheedy character was used to show transformation at the sake of keeping her core being, the only character who was sacrificed as not good enough as she is.Each of us probably would have seen the end a bit different, but thanks to John Home Alone Hughes we all see it the same. I felt so manipulated to feel the way Hughes wanted me to by the essay it ruined the movie forever for me.  It was used to push the end of movie as if we were all too dumb to get it (or needed it drilled into our heads like a New York sidewalk.)   "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow. I thought I had seen bad movies before this one, but this takes the prize with flying colors. You couldn't pay me any amount of money to waste another two hours of my life on this piece of garbage. However, if you like stereotypical characters, an unrealistic story, and a plot so god-awful that the every copy of the script should be burned in a giant fire, this is the perfect movie for you.One of the first, most obvious, and most painful issues with this movie are the characters. They are all completely stereotyped. There is the 'everyone else in the world owes me a personal favor' prep, the 'poor me, I'm just the best at sports' jock, the 'part of every academic club at the school' geek, the 'who really knows what my problem is' weirdo, and the 'I'm so bad because I have such a terrible life' criminal. I am in high school right now. I think that, when people look back at high school when they are thirty or whatever, they see things how they want to, and so they categorize the people they knew. They think that each person is one way, and nothing else. WRONG. You don't have to be just one thing, in one group of people. People can't always be placed in neat little categories, GET OVER IT. The only realistic character is the prep, who only cares about herself and what the world can do for her. I know people exactly like her, but thats it. People need to be a little more realistic.The story, of course, doesn't help at all. One example a gun goes off in Brian's locker so he gets Saturday detention? Really. More like suspension, and only that because he probably never did anything else. But one Saturday detention? Right, and I just saw a flying hippo enter a bar where it sings every week.And last, but certainly not least, is the plot. This movie is what I like to call a 'prep movie'. Translation shallow, useless, and the preps win. You either change everything about yourself to become another brainless zombie prep, or you loose. You die. End of story. Sure, this is a happy, feel good movie- as long as you're another brainless zombie prep.So, to sum everything up, I repeat wow. This was the biggest waste of time I have ever seen. So, if you have a choice between watching this and poking your own eyes out, do yourself a favor and poke out your eyes. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clearly this was made on either a really low budget or no money at all.Everyone raves about how brilliant it is and how of the time it is. The film is awful. Nothing happens. In hardly any locations. The film must have cost about $10 to make?The budget most likely went on the soundtrack artists.There is little to no plot. It's a basic idea of bringing together people from all walks of life to see how they differ and eventually find common ground.Judd Nelson looks like he's about 30 in this, all the rest look just about old enough to be at High School/College.Ally Sheedy is totally miscast as the loner and crazy chick. All the roles she's had since were all good girl roles. Molly Ringwald seems to have always been cast as a whiner in John Huges films.Nothing happens in this film. Sitting in the library, running in a few corridors and a ton of really dull dialogue to get to an obvious conclusion - they find some common ground. No shock there then.It might have been an interesting movie when it was made but its a pile of garbage now. Only the music gives any relief from the awful and DULL script.Best avoided now. "},{"Title":"They are stupid and contagious","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like John Hughes movies - Planes, Trains And Automobiles is one of my all-time favourites comedy, Ferris Bueller's Day Off was great, Uncle Buck and Sixteen Candles were OK so I was thinking that Breakfast Club which got such high rating on IMDb should be at least no worse than his Weird Science or Curly Sue. But it was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I suspect that it got above average rating from damsels who liked Estevez. The movie is about nothing, no plot, no story, no emotions - just a bunch of stupid teenagers pretending that they have something to say not only to themselves but to us too. I was a teenager too but I fully understood that I have to learn a lot and I was reading A LOT of books, visiting art museums, concerts etc. I don't understand why someone has decided that this is a comedy. It's so pointless and dull that I can't say this is a movie at all. The speeches of Mr. Brezhnev in his late days when he had a lot of problems with brain functioning were much more exciting and dynamic than this worthless monument of American teenage stupidity. After vwatching this crap I now understand why there was no sequel - according to this movie all these teenage dimwits should blow their brains or become junkies in a year or two. The experience of watching this is just like eating and digesting a NY telephone directory. "},{"Title":"A wasted  2 and a half hours of my life","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Back in 1985, I went to see this hunk of junk with a friend of mine. It was like 20 min into the movie. We missed the beginning, so when I saw it the first time, I thought I missed the point.Fast forward a couple of months later and I catch it on HBO and watched it again. This movie is EXTREMELY boring. I wasted 2 and a half hours of my life on this pointless movie.I graduated in 1981, and I ***HATED**** high school (yes, even more than I hated this movie) and the ending of this movie where everyone stops short of hugging everyone else and sing Koom bye ya (however you spell that) is SOOOOOO phony in my experience that it makes the old Roadrunner cartoon more believable "}{"Title":"Remember when Woody Allen went serious?","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It feels the same here. Mr. Hughes turns his back on his fans with a desperate stab at legitimacy, and the results are mixed. The cast is game, but saddled with portentious monologues about 'fitting in' that are obviously all about John Hughes. Only Ally Sheedy comes off great, she seems to be playing a character that is unrecognizable in the Hughes Cannon- perhaps distantly related to 'Drummer Girl' from SKOW. This is a film that takes itself SERIOUSLY and begs you too as well. Very much of it's time- it feels dated- but the interesting thing is watching Hughes grow as a film maker. It's beautifully shot and edited, and he is clearly coming into his own. If only his cast had been better "}]