[{"Title":"Classic 80's Movie Must See","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a must have in your DVD collection. Some love it, some say OK, some don't laugh at all. I say, you must have the uncanny ability to laugh at things ordinary people wouldn't understand the humor in. I've owned this movie on VHS and now DVD and have a steady belt of laughter each countless time I watch it. This is one of those movies where you are with your friends twenty years later and go, I WANT MY TWO DOLLARS and the room jocularly erupts and instigates discussion. If you find yourself easily amused, can see the humor in the way life hands you a sour glass of milk to wash down lifes trials in love, then you MUST see this Classic Movie that made me a Cusack fan!  "},{"Title":"The ultimate teen angst flick!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If there was ever a role that John Cusack milked until it mooed, this one would have to have been it. His portrayal of Lane Meyer will forever be remembered in high school lore as the Ultimate Champion of the Underdog. I laughed so hard my sides ached and tears were running down my cheeks. What has long been a cult classic, this film did an excellent job of portraying the awkwardness of those teenage years that all adults thank God every day that we now have behind us. Savage Steve Holland's directorial debut was simply sensational; he could not have picked a better vehicle in which to make his mark! Rounding out the cast includes Amanda Wyss as the fickle girlfriend who is more interested in her popularity than anything else; David Ogden Stiers (Major Winchester from M*A*S*H fame) as the dad who tries too hard to be in, Kim Darby is priceless here as the mother who is completely, absolutely and utterly clueless, Scooter Stevens as Lane's little brother Badger is one ongoing surprise after another, and what is probably going to go down as BY FAR the most coveted film role in the 20th century, Demian Slade plays the paperboy from Hell. His portrayal alone makes the film not only worth watching, but worth buying! To close matters off in the casting department, the chemistry between Cusack and Diane Franklin &#150; who plays the French foreign exchange student Monique Junot, is something that simply cannot be denied. Keep in mind however, that whatever you do &#150; that like The Cable Guy &#150; DO NOT, I REPEAT, DO NOT take your eyes off that paperboy! Cusack and Holland do a perfect job of capturing that period of time in the 1980's better than any other film of the period. This film is well worth an evening's entertainment. Rent it once, and then buy it, as you will want to watch it many times over. It took me SEVEN YEARS to find a copy in VHS. The DVD was just bought for $10.00 and change from from Wal-Mart.com. I highly recommend this film to one and all as a MUST-OWN!On a scale of 1 to 10, I give this film a 12/10. *** "},{"Title":"Truly, a sight to behold!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"51 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead is the zaniest movie that I think I have ever seen.  Let's just recap what this movie has in it.  We have a guy that attempts suicide but he can't even succeed at that.  There is his best friend that declares that a mountain they are on in the dead of winter is pure snow, saying  Do you know what the street value of this is?  We have a father that is trying to speak the lingo of his kids and fails miserably and a mom that cooks food that literally slides off it's plate.  We have a math class full of genius' that get upset when they don't have homework to do.  Lane has a younger brother who orders books on how to pick up trashy women and learns how to build rockets.  We have the entire male population ( and Barney Rubble ) that wants to go out with Lane's ex-girlfriend now that they are broken up.  There is two Oriental guys that want to constantly race Lane and then broadcast it over the loud speaker on their car.  There is Porky from the Porky's movies basically playing the same role here, dancing hamburgers, a basketball team that grunts and of course the most relentless paper boy in the history of paper delivery.  Whoooooooo!  I'm out of breath.  So why do I mention all of these things about the movie?  Because all of these little issues combine to somehow make one of the funniest and zaniest movies you will ever see.  Better Off Dead is so full of energy that there is enough material in here for ten movies.  But Savage Steve Holland makes it work.  Don't ask me how, but he does.  I think I'm going to stop here because if you haven't seen this movie you have to see it now.  This is a completely original film and it also one that no one will ever have the guts to make again.  This is one hell of a film. "},{"Title":"I've watched this film about 7 times and I'm no dummy!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"35 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better Off Dead is a spoof takeoff of the John Hughes' eighties films about teen angst. John Cusack plays wonderfully as Lane Myer who had an obsessive relationship with his ex girlfriend, Beth, who breaks up the relationship for somebody better. Miserable, he tries to kill himself several times without failure. As his friend played brilliantly by Curtis Armstrong tells him Suicide is not the answer and lines like I've been going to high school for 7 years, I'm no dummy. While Lane depresses over his adolescence existence in a small northern California town, the laughs just keep getting better. His mother is obsessed with cooking. The father sets him up with a date when he worries his son is going insane. On top of all that, Lane is being hunted down by an unpaid paper boy who will stop at nothing to get his $2.00 and surprisingly, he finds love under his nose. I have to say this movie will leave you wanting more and more. "},{"Title":"Bizarre. But disarmingly so.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack's girlfriend has just dumped him for the biggest jerk in school, and John deals with the depression, anger, and frustration in humorous ways. Slowly, he finds himself bonding with French exchange student Diane Franklin, a beautiful and clever young woman, that helps to build up Cusack's self-image so he can win his girlfriend back.Better Off Dead follows a familiar basic storyline. Main likeable character is dealt a bad hand in life, pulls themselves up by their bootstraps, and ends up triumphing over the people who pushed them down. This formula led to such films as Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds, and Porky's. Not that these films are bad, they are just similar in basic plot.Better Off Dead however, adds a bizarre surreal quality unaccomplished by these other films. Perhaps this is due to the claymation hamburger sequence, or the unlikely skiing competition at the end of the film.Or perhaps it's due to the parade of familiar faces from other 80's films. John Cusack's best friend is none other than Curtis Armstrong, best known as Booger in the Revenge of the Nerds movies. Next door neighbor and consummate slob Dan Schneider is recognizable as Dennis from the TV show Head of the Class. Cusack's boss at the fast food joint is played by Chuck Wallace, the title character from Porky's. And with a bit part, yet one the funniest in the whole film, Yano Anaya reprises his Grover Dill persona from A Christmas Story in the form of a vengeful paperboy. I WANT MY TWO DOLLARS!!!!Also has some of the funniest lines in 80's teen comedy, such as Franklin's accidental misuse of the word testicles, and the comment made by an onlooker when Cusack tumbles into a trash truck. Definitely better than the majority of 1980's teen comedies. "},{"Title":"Blurred Realities","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ahhhh...an actual dark comedy. I watched this again, to clear my mind of Wilbur...What makes this a cut above is the composition of sight gags -- 'How to build a space shuttle out of household items' is in the foreground, and then the eye pulls back to reveal the mother battling a sea monster in a pot, which frustrates her attempt to cook it...Cusack frets over an impossibly broken binding, and in the same frame the 'paperboy from hell' appears on a weatherized delivery bicycle...it's priceless stuff.The story is told visually, you see...this has less to do with dialogue (although what there is of it, is classic), than with the idea of the writer's imagination conflated with movie imagination conflated with movie 'reality'. We see Holland seeing Cusack seeing the situations somewhere in between Holland's imagination and the platform of the movie (high school role playing - already a confused reality). At key points, Holland literally invents characters on paper or in stop motion animation to further warp that perception. These realities continually blur with 'real' reality, and the sheer absurdity keeps it seamless.Some impressive camera work during the skiing portions.This is capable film-making that can be enjoyed as what it was meant to be. "},{"Title":"Everybody Wants Some....","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently held a movie survey for an upcoming 12-hour silly film party at my house. This movie, surprisingly, was the top title to be voted on out of about 40 movies. Then I thought about it a bit - I loved this flick, and over 14 years, videos have been rented and others saw it and love it as well. What other flick can have a homicidal paper boy, a japanese guy who speaks only as howard cosell, a car that has darkened our driveway for six months, the k-12, and charles demar? The love story inside of it is good as well. Reminds me of the moonshine Ricky's dead pappy used to make - God Bless him! 9 of 10.  "},{"Title":"A teenager with a death wish.","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Eighties teen films, I love 'em. I never tire of this brand of entertainment that's a true product of it pop-culture times. There's something about this wonderful era. Everything about the humour had a natural build up, and even during the hits or misses it stayed consistently amusing without resorting to gross-outs. 'Better off Dead' fits that buck. Here's another cherished coming of age story through the eyes of a troubled teenager dealing with a dumped relationship and the embarrassments that seem to follow through the painful years of high school and everyday life. Wallowing in self-pity, eventually it comes to identifying self-confidence over what isn't the impossible. What am I going to type that someone hasn't already. Nothing. The plot is secondary to the oddball episodic set-pieces and comic characters, where the flow is unpredictable and original like out of some daydreaming teenager's imagination. John Cusack (a pin-up boy for these roles) has that likable, down-to-earth awe which fits. Surrounding him is a fantastically hearty support cast in David Ogden Stiers, Kim Darby, Diane Franklin, Demian Slade, Amanda Wyss, Curtis Armstrong, Dan Schneider and Laura Waterbury. Director Savage Steve Holland throws caution to the wind with his animatedly interesting style, but manages to make sure everything still comes together without really trying. Well it looks so. Visual gags also have a powerful note like the night-time chase sequence involving a persistent paperboy after his 2 dollars and the drag racing scenes with a pair of Asians. Even the ski scenes are well shot. An upbeat soundtrack pounds out the catchy, nostalgic tunes and cements an provocatively charming sincereness. It's hard to pass up this self-knowing, off-kilter teenage comedy/romance winner. "},{"Title":"Suicide Is A Question You Don't Wanna Answer","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Savage Steve Holland's sensational 'Better Off Dead...' is another one of my favourite teen films. I had seen this movie decades ago but didn't catch the name. I've been looking for the nameless film for years and only recently I found out the title and got it immediately.Ah, the nostalgic 80s when kids knew how to be young rather than spend their days on the cellphone or behind the computer. The film delightfully spoofs those teen angst movies that were so popular at the time. Lane's ex-girlfriend giving him an excuse that she dumped him for someone better looking and more popular, Lanes failed suicide attempts, Lanes cartoons are among some of the most amusing sequences.Holland gives the film a unique treatment. 'Better Off Dead...' has an innovative quality that makes it one of a kind. It includes the adorable claymated romantic Hamburgers, cartoons, a stalking paperboy, a ski competition on one leg, a little brother who's a silent genius and an international language. Holland put a lot of heart in the writing and some of the lines had me rolling on the floor laughing.The acting is splendid. The character Lane seems tailor-made for John Cusack. I've always thought of Cusack as an underrated actor and 'Better Off Dead...' is one of the few movies that does justice to his talents (even though this is perhaps one of his first roles). A vivacious Diane Franklin is supercute and she has the loveliest smile. The chemistry between her and Cusack is undeniable and both have excellent comic timing. David Ogden Stiers and Kim Darby are hilarious as the nutty parents. Curtis Armstrong provides some morbidly funny moments.To say it in one sentence, 'Better Off Dead...' is one of the rarest examples of teen movies at its best. It already is a classic and while many of us watch it for nostalgic reasons, others may like it simply for the heart and humour. "},{"Title":"For fans of absurd humor and silly 80's teen comedies.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. I admit I'm a huge fan of 80's comedies, and that probably affects my judgement as I write this. However, this movie wasn't the typical 80's comedy at all. I'll explain myself. This comedy has a very particular, absurd humor. Unlike a lot of comedies that were made in the late 80's and early 90's, it's not a rip-off or a bad version of something that was made in the early 80's. However, it's not a type of humor that anyone can enjoy. But if you do enjoy it, you'll love this movie and it can easily become one of your favorite. The strange family of the main character and the main character himself played by John Cusack are extremely amusing and funny. It's seen as a teen movie by a lot of people, but I personally don't think it is. It's an unique genre, but it's also easy to wonder if it's a parody of the typical 80's teen movies. If it is a parody, it's a lot easier to understand the typical cheesy ski film aspect of the movie and the romance with the exchange student. But if it's not, then the movie would be separated into a horrible cheesy teen movie and a hilarious comedy. This is what is so strange about it. The typical 80's love story really doesn't work in this movie because of how goofy it is. I prefer believing it's a parody, and it probably is. Basically, I think this is a very enjoyable fun movie that no one can possibly hate. Specially if you're a fan of absurd humor and the 80's. "}{"Title":"Booger Hath I Loved. (spoilers)","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I picked up this movie to see my favorite 80s comedy actor, Curtis Armstrong who is probably best known for his role as Booger in 'Revenge of the Nerds' or Miles in 'Risky Business.' He's just as good here as the 6-year high school senior and Lane Meyer's friend Charels.Better Off Dead, sister movie of One Crazy Summer, is one hell of an oddball film for the 80s teen category. It is a mix of strange humor, animated sequences (drawn by writer/director Savage Steve Holland), and a loveable star, to pull off quite an entertaining, and hopefully not too obscure, 80s teen comedy.John Cusak is his typical outrageous teenager character in his role as Lane Meyer, the same type of character we saw in One Crazy Summer, Hot Pursuit, and others; the one where he is always a regular nice guy who somehow gets caught up in unforseen crazy situations. But Better Off Dead offers the most off-the-wall atmosphere for such a seemingly level-headed kid.Lane Meyer is a young guy who's long time girlfriend, Beth (Amanda Wyss), breaks up with him. Lane is crushed and isn't quite sure whether he can deal with the problem (even contemplating suicide until he realizes he has not yet even visited New York). Beth has taken up with Lane's blonde macho nemesis, Roy (Aaron Dozier) (who's character is quite similar to Cusak's nemesis character in One Crazy Summer). As guys typically do in these movies to compete for a girl's heart, Lane is going to race Roy in the dangerous K-12 run (there is a joke in the measurement of the slope because 9 is actually the highest and hardest slope rating). But, Lane is in over his head and seems nowhere near ready for such a dangerous slope. But, since things have gone pretty lousy for Lane since breaking up with Beth, what's he got to lose? The tag line 'Sometimes...you're Better Off Dead' is quite right for Lane. It seems like for a while, everything is disastorous for Lane such as always losing the race to the two Japanese brothers who mimic Howard Cossell; the date with the girl who just suggests that Lane give her the money that a date would've cost and spare them both the agony of pretending to enjoy each other's company; or when everybody in the school, including Lane's geometry teacher, keeps asking Lane if it's alright if they ask Beth for her number).But things get better when a French exchange student, Monique, moves in next door with a fat mama's boy (Dan Schneider as Ricky) and his obnoxious mom who make her stay in America literally a living hell. So, she and Lane Meyer soon enough become friends and maybe life without Beth just isn't so bad for Lane Meyer after all. The movie is great (Valley Girl's E.G. Daily plays at the school dance!), and a completely different kind of 80s teen movies, one that should be in a category by itself, because the things that go on around Lane are so weird. For example, Lane's little brother Badger (Scooter Stevens), who has no speaking lines in this movie, spends the entire film cutting off those little sweepstakes mailers from various household food boxes and mailing them in to get stuff, particularly supplies needed to build himself a rocket (really). In another example, you'll notice that the filming locations used for the slope sequences in which the entire city appears to be covered in a blanket of snow is much different from the sunny, dry climate of the locations where Lane is at school or at home or anywhere but the slope. The Nine Lives song, Paperboy, makes the reference to the running gag of the paperboy in the movie who keeps hassling Lane for his two dollars. Where's my two dollars? repeats the kid with a paperboy posse. It subtle and unsubtle humor.If you like this movie, try Holland's One Crazy Summer, which came out a few years later, starring Cusak (again) and Demi Moore and Bobcat Goldwaith, among others. It is just as bizarre and funny. "},{"Title":"Better Off Dead Best Describes this Film *","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Outlandish film where John Cusack, at age 18, is despondent over the loss of his girlfriend and even tries to end it all.To say that the family is dysfunctional is to put it mildly. David Ogden Stiers provides some funny moments but Kim Darby, who was 38, at the time of the movie, is totally miscast as the mother. Her being so naive doesn't help her cause.We have a French exchange student living across the street from Cusack. She is staying with a boy who reminded me of Josh Mostel and a mother similar to Lainie Kazan.Naturally, we have the bully who took Cusack's original gal pal away. There will be an ultimate challenge by the two in the skiing finale.The oriental man doing an impression of the late Howard Cosell is hilarious.The picture lacks credibility and is most inane at times. "},{"Title":"Have You All Gone Mad?","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The IMDb user rating seems a bit excessive. Now, I like John Cusack (he was great in Grosse Pointe Blank and Eight Men Out) and I enjoy teen comedies like Ferris Bueller's Day Off, but this flick is about as bad as a movie can get. A dark comedy with very little edge and even less laughter, this was one of the biggest disappointments I have seen in recent memory. Now I know why it was listed for one cent on Amazon.com.The story concerns high schooler Cusack whose girlfriend, played by Amanda Wyss (Shakma) leaves him for a boorish jock. The film's title come from Cusack believing himself to be better off dead than minus Amanda Wyss. So, he tries to commit suicide (he really doesn't, his foolish attempts only give credence to the fact that he can't score at anything) a couple times during the film. Savage Steve Holland tries to coax laughs out of an eccentric family, Cusack's best pal that snorts snow and a deranged newspaper boy demanding his money. It's films like this that give teen comedies a bad name.STORY $$$ (There was plenty room here for Holland to give his viewers the goods but his writing skills are wanting to say the least. He fails to build any sort darkness out of John Cusack's character making his suicidal sojourns pointless and flat. Holland was dealt a hanging curveball and popped the darn thing up).ACTING $$ (Rather weak here as well. Genre favorites Curtis Armstrong, Vincent Schiavelli and Amanda Wyss do their thing and try to give this some substance but fail. Cusack is far better in other films and David Ogden Steirs is wasted as John's father).SEXUALITY $ (Little of note here. The sexy Tina Littlewood is accidentally stripped in the school cafeteria and blushes in her underwear). "},{"Title":"Better Off...before I ever watched it","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a poor man's (or woman's) version of Ferris Bueller's Day Off, or Fast Times At Ridgemount High -- without the humor, heart, soul, charm, music, screen chemistry, or creativity of those films. It's a sophomoric attempt, at best, to display high school heartache, that fails miserably.There is not a single solitary likable character (with the possible exception of Monique); and I use the term character rather loosely when it comes to this disaster. The so-called characters are less dimensional than cartoon characters. In fact, I've seen Saturday morning cartoons that are better than this. (Hint Beep-Beep) As such, there is no empathy evoked for any of them. Just the opposite -- I felt nothing but contempt and disdain for the characters, the writers, and the director.Coupled with the fact that the humor is Neanderthal-like (i.e. slipping on a banana peel), this apparent spoof is nothing but a colossal flop. It strains the mind trying to grasp how in the world this movie rates as high as it does on IMDb. "},{"Title":"Funny movie!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one's hilarious! My family have borrowed several lines from this film and use them as inside jokes. John Cusak stars in this film about a teenager whose girlfriend dumps him for the Captain of the ski team.  The film has enough skiing in it to satisfy most ski buffs, but it's not really about skiing. It's about relationships more than anything and the results are absolutely hilarious. This is destined to be a classic and it's a permanent part of my film library. "},{"Title":"Better off without it","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe how many people like this movie. It's cartoony fluff about shallow rich kids who like to ski. The main character (Lane) wants to kill himself because his girlfriend broke up with him. He eventually gets over it and falls in love with the first girl who is nice to him.Although Lane and his family seem to have more money than God (he has a huge walk-in closet on top of everything else), they somehow can't afford to pay the evil paperboy two dollars. The paperboy then stalks Lane throughout the movie which is just one of the many things that lowers the quality to the level of a second-rate Saturday morning kiddy show.If you're a not-too-bright, upper-middle class ten or eleven year old kid, you'll probably love this movie and laugh until you wet yourself. But, if you hate trivial movies that contain silly chase scenes, lame car crashes, idiotic daydreams, and unbelievable situations that the director seems to think are ever-so-wacky, you'll want to avoid this movie.If you like wacky movies, but don't want your intelligence insulted too much, try Weird Science. Lots of crazy stuff happens in that movie, but it's a thousand times more believable because of the premise. "},{"Title":"Everybody wants some","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Does Cusack still have a beef with this movie? Whatever the reason is, it's beyond me; the guy fits the teen side of this thing to a T. Better Off Dead has all the tropes of the '80s teen comedy, but jazzes it up with the surreal sense of humor of Savage Steve Holland (best director name ever). The sight gags in this movie are a trip, and his animation bring all sorts of charm to the table.It's a fun movie. The one-liners are good, it's got the requisite pop soundtrack, as well as Curtis Armstrong at his funniest. The whole package is an endearing brand of wacky.7/10 "},{"Title":"Lookin Good Meyer...Lookin Real Good...","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I must give this movie a 9.9, but that wasn't an option on the scroll-down. The score would have been a 10, but I was forced to deduct one percentage point for the Van Halen burgers. This movie is a classic in my book and a favorite for all time. I had just recently watched this movie again, with a friend from back-in-the-day, and I couldn't stop laughing from the opening seen on. (Typically, this would have been annoying if she hadn't been laughing just as hard.) The characters in this movie are perfect! I love the little things, like Ricky jumping after his balloon floating away after the dance; and the obvious things that are hilarious, like a math class where students are actually, well, awake. Great, great flick. If you haven't seen this, go and get it now...leave now...go. "},{"Title":"80's with a capital E!!!!!Spoilers!!!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie today for the first time, and oh i couldnt believe how out of control 80's this movie was. Like the part where John Cusack comes out of his house and the foriegn exchange student is working  on his camaro, and when they go to the interior shot theres cobwebs inside! Lets not forget the one ski race, oh yeeeeaah. I havent seen all the movies from the 80's but this one is top ten material in my book. "},{"Title":"Better than comedies today.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is what a teenage film should really be like! Forget American Pie and all of those other gross-out flicks! This is a movie that actually makes you laugh without being disgusting and that's very rare these days.It's impossible to be bored for one second while watching this! This is a film that will always stay with you. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've seen","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hilarious. It's on my list of all-time favorite comedies, along with Johnny Dangerously, the ZAZ movies (Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker), and many of Cary Grant's movies. This movie keeps me laughing from start to finish. The gags, the things some of the characters say, the weird scenarios, and Lane Myer's over-active imagination, all add up to a great movie! Unfortunately when I taped this off tv some time ago I missed the beginning. On my tape the movie begins with Lane's father struggling to get the garage door open before the psycho paper-boy can break another window. So I don't know how the movie actually begins. No matter though. It's funny all the way through. It's got great characters, and the actors that portray them do a great job. I'd rate it at least 9 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"Totally bodacious","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When people ask me what my favorite movie is, they are surprised to hear Better off Dead. The question is, why? Quite simply, it is the quality of repeat viewing. I have seen this literally dozens of times, and the laughs simply do not subside. I've come to anticipate almost every funny moment in the film, and consequently, I spend the entire time either laughing out loud or eagerly anticipating the next laugh. The pacing of the comedic elements is unrivaled; it is unrelentless, never letting down with gags, funny characters, or hilarious interplay and situations. It also qualifies for me as a Christmas film because of a significant segment of the film that revolves around the family's Christmas antics, and therefore, it has become as much a holiday standard in my home as It's a Wonderful Life. I will concede, however, that those who didn't grow up in and appreciate the 80's culture will not be as enamored with the film as I am. For me, it's not only the best comedy of all time, it is in some ways a time capsule that captured my high school years and brings a big-time feeling of nostalgia back to my mind.  "},{"Title":"At last, a review from the UK","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say, other than it's sad to see no UK reviews of this great movie.Shown several years ago (10+), on SKY, I was immediately hooked and must have watched at least a dozen times before I finally tracked down an original copy to add to my collection.One of my all time favourite feel good, switch off and enjoy movies with great characters and ridiculous skits throughout. John Cusack is great and this performance alone forced me to watch his career very closely there on.Up there with the greats, incl. Kilmer's Real Genius, if you haven't seen it then you're missing out BIG TIME.Sadly not released on R2 DVD o(  "},{"Title":"A Sheer Delight (Minor Spoilers)","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, the fact that I used the phrase sheer delight in the summary of this film should say something.  I mean, if I used this phrase anywhere else...in the bathroom, for instance...they'd beat me up and give me a swirly.Anyway, on with my review of one of the funniest movies of my time.The first time I ever saw Better Off Dead (referred to as BOD from here on out), I was 14 years old and I went to the video store and rented it and Weird Science.  I first watched Weird Science, then BOD, then I watched Weird Science another two times, because Kelly LeBrock was totally hot, and I really didn't think BOD was all that great.It's now 16 years later, and I can honestly say that I have not seen Weird Science since then, but I've watched BOD so many times, I can't keep track. (FYI Kelly LeBrock is still hot.)Sure, I admit, I'm a Cusack fan, so that definitely makes me enjoy the movie.  Plus Curtis Booger Armstrong makes me chuckle. (Side note Curtis Armstrong could win the Nobel Prize and he'd still be Booger.) But BOD has so much little things that just make you understand why you watch movies.  TO BE ENTERTAINED.***SPOILERS*** (Is there anyone out there who hasn't seen this movie?)From Booger snorting anything he could (I snorted Smarties when I was 15) to Cusack playing with a claymation hamburger to Van Halen's Everybody Wants Some to a very persistent newspaper boy (I want my two dollars) this movie is just an enjoyable little movie that has since become a classic. ***END SPOILERS***There's only one problem I really have with this movie. Kelly LeBrock doesn't star in it. "},{"Title":"Off-Beat 80s Screwball Cult Classic","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You just can't find a better mix.Better Off Dead is one of those films that reeks so horribly of the 80s you may dread sitting down to watch it, merely because of its crappy film quality and random, bizarre humor.Don't make that mistake.For every cult movie lover who ever lived, Better Off Dead is as commonplace as Citizen Kane is to AFI. It's a period fetish a product of an off-beat and off-the-wall imagination, produced at of a time of Reagan-era economics and Cold War discontent. It's the period of time that led to a sort of escapist, wacky humor in film, giving us such B-Movie classics as Critters, Meatballs II, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, and Big Melons, parts 3 through 6.Without a doubt, 1985 was an interesting year for movie comedy, especially that of the peculiar, oddball variety. Suffice to say, leading the pack in the bizarre department is Better Off Dead. It's a movie that leaves every cult film lover hooked repeating catchphrases, reciting scenes, and even trailing along with the dialogue.Better Off Dead is the story of a miserable teenager on the failing end of high-school fame. He's just lost his seat as the skiing champ, he's just lost his girlfriend, and he's just lost all self-respect. He can't even commit suicide right. The only thing he's got going for him is an overactive imagination...which considering the rut he's in, isn't much help. As you can guess, he's better off...well, you get the idea.John Cusack is perfect as the bottoming-out 80s hero a dashing young guy you keep hoping for, but who keeps falling deeper into the predictable pits of `Savage' Steve Holland's weird cinematic world. What makes Cusack so great here is his willingness to play to the bizarre and allow his imagination to fly in a time of dejection. It makes his misery downright hilarious, and you can truly feel his pain as he tries to navigate a world that truly makes no sense.Again, while a predictable teen-hero ride, Better Off Dead thankfully bases most of its humor and fun factor on the glories of the deep-end of imagination. Whether it's in an animated dream sequence, an ungodly blob of food skating off a dish, or even the surreal taunts of an Asian race rival who learned English from watching Howard Cossell...there's laughs in the wierdest of places. You'll just have to see it for yourself.In fact, you'll need to see it several times. As it is a cult classic, only after multiple views will you learn to appreciate the comedy that lies in the puddles between background humor and looming wit. Over and over and over again.Ah, 1985...what a great time to be Better Off Dead. "},{"Title":"I want my $2!!!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Is it silly? Yes.  Is it sophmoric? You had better believe it.  Is it funny? Hell yes!!!  Few movies struck a chord with so many people as this one has. When you mention those 5 little words (I want my two dollars!!!) to most anyone who grew up in the eighties, you will see a smile and a look of remembering this silly, unique gem.  You'll never look at your local neighborhood paperboy the same way... "},{"Title":"Hilarious from start to finish!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classic in the Savage Steve Holland arena of movies. John Cusack plays a character whose luck can't seem to get any worse...and then it does, repeatedly. Unrealistic plot twists involve walking dinners, exploding parents, and a father whose attempt to 'speak the lingo of his son' falls flat short on meaning and long on funny. This is the theme movie for anyone who thinks that failed suicide attempts really CAN be funny, and the cast of characters includes plenty of kids we remember from high school, as well as nightmare parents that make us all realize how great our own parents were!  "},{"Title":"$2, I want my $2!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is hilarious.  Just the basic concept of it all.  A maniac paperboy, a pair of Chinese guys that broadcast his life through the neighborhood, a brother who learns how to pick up trashy women from an offer on the back of a cereal box.  It's just the best.  Not realistic, but that doesn't matter.  Just so wickedly funny.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I own.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  Truly a pick-me-up when I need one.  Feels just like high school was...only not as bad.  Makes me feel better about my high school days!  A good one for a large group.  "},{"Title":"Just too cool","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had so much going for it, it's totally unreal. Cusack's Lane Meyers is deadpan funny. Ricky (from Head of the Class) is a riot. Lane's younger brother is the man Lane wants to be... and don't forget - 2 dollars! "}{"Title":"learned how to spell","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anything but a typical and cheesey 80's movie.  Not only does it let us all go back and relive high school, but it makes us laugh at all the crud we had to go through those four (or in Charles' case, seven) years.  The acting wasn't that great, except by Cusak and Armstrong, and they were the onl1y ones who really needed to give a strong performance.  In a nutshell, it's Dazed and Confused on acid gone comedic. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie about the joys of growing up","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Enter Lane Myer. A likable, amiable type guy who seems to have a world of problems. His obsession with his current girlfriend Beth, his wanting to make the school ski team, his having to deal with a family that seems to define dysfunctional itself, and his having to deal with all the problems beyond his front door.The story, in essence starts off with his girlfriend Beth breaking up with him because she wants to go out with someone more popular Roy Stalin, the captain of the ski team. With the help of his friend Charles de Mar (who has been going to the same high school for seven years, knows teens, but isn't a dummy), Lane attempts to win back his lady love Beth. However, he is constantly outdone by Roy at every turn. He even tries going out with other girls and fails there also.Feeling like life has nothing left to offer him, Lane decides that suicide is the only answer. After his repeated failures in this area, he meets the new French exchange student next door, Monique. Although he is still hung up on Beth, he starts to find that Monique appreciates him more for who he is and not what he could be. The fly in the ointment is the house where she is living. This mother and son ( Ricky) team could definitely qualify for the screens strangest family. As Lane puts it, Ricky spends all day snorting nasal spray. It seems that Ricky has eyes only for Monique and wishes to pursue her, however, she has no interest in him whatsoever.The story continues on through the same misadventures until the climatic scene where Lane challenges Roy to ski the K-12, the deadliest slope in the valley and one that Lane never can seem to get the hang of. I'll let you watch to see the conclusion.The running gag throughout the movie is the paperboy who constantly hounds Lane for the $2.00 he was jilted out of.Also, be prepared for great music and some pretty hilarious visual effects as Lane let's his imagination run wild.This is definitely a keeper and gives John Cusack a great jump off point for his next movies. A must see if you just want to sit back, forget about things, and laugh until your ribs are sore.Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Score 100/100","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the quirkiest movies to come out of the 80's, mixing an off -beat plot with surrealistic humor.  John Cusack stars with Curtis Armstrong in this comedy about a guy who's horribly depressed and trying to commit suicide, each time failing.  Some of the highlights include his flunky friend (played by Nerd veteran Armstrong) and a horribly unrealistic skiing match. "},{"Title":"Better Off Forgotten.","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better Off Dead (1985) Dir Savage Steve Holland / Cast John Cusack, David Ogden Stiers, Kim Darby, Diane Franklin, Curtis Armstrong Pitiful comedic waste about hope, which is difficult to take seriously given that every character in this film is a full blown moron. John Cusack plays Lane Myer whose girlfriend breaks up with him in favor of the bullying ski champion. In answer to this he makes several attempts to commit suicide but one wonders if that was just Cusack trying to distance himself from this crap. Suicide is not a funny topic so when the film plays this theme up for laughs, it is disturbing. David Ogden Stiers plays the one character worth watching here. He plays Lane's frustrated father whose battle with the paper boy has him making failed attempts to protect his garage windows. Kim Darby plays mother who cannot cook and this becomes an over the top joke that drags on like overcooked food. Curtis Armstrong was so good in Risky Business so it is a shame to see him reduced to Lane's jello snorting best friend. Diane Franklin plays a foreign exchange student who is living with a mother / son combo that is another poorly executed array of warped personalities. With all this hassle one would think that Beth, Lane's ex-girlfriend would have a personality but she is as lame as the rest. Theme regards moving ahead of emotional tragedy but unfortunately this film is better off not seen. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Classic Cusack!","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lane Meyer (Cusack) fails to get over that his girlfriend Beth dumped him. After contemplating suicide, he meets a beautiful young french woman, Monique. For some reason, John Cusack dislikes this movie. Not sure I understand the reasoning, but I think this is one of his best movies and one of the most iconic. I prefer The Sure Thing, but this one is great. It has some terrific black humor that has the ability to make anyone laugh. Cusack gives one of his most memorable performances. Kim Darby is great as Cusack's Mom. Diane Franklin is enjoyable as Monique. If you're a Cusack fan like I am, go and see this one as soon as you can8/10 "},{"Title":"genius","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THE funniest movie ever made and sadly the least known.For whatever reason, this movie slipped past recognition by the majority, and has faded into obscurity; yet many of the great pieces have been stolen (borrowed?) by other movies, such as Men at Work, to the proclamation of Sheer brilliance; yet this is the originator, and best, of all of them.John Cusack shows where his real talents laid in comedy - his perfect timing, dead-pan facials and vocal intonations make the character believable yet totally out there.Savage Steve Holland created a masterpiece here - with wonderful integration of fantasy/thought displays (via animation etc) and observational comedy (the class home work scene struck such a chord with me, and maths classes when I was a kid) as well as damn-right absurdism. His follow-up work (One Crazy Summer) was slightly recognised by a few, as a clever romantic-comedy, yet this far exceeded it in every way. But the genius behind both has been relegated to the world of TV programmes. A total waste of talent. Just like John Cusack doing gangster movies etc their forte is obviously here in the world of inspired and brilliant comedies.If you do one thing in your life, make 90 minutes available to see this - preferably with friends when I watched this with my elder brother (a straight-laced scientist) seeing tea spray from his nose as John Cussack's dinner crawled off his plate made the humour all the more appealing. 11/10 at all levels "},{"Title":"A true teen comedy, Nepolean Dynamite is better off dead(lol sorry)","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that this movie is way better then Nepolean Dynamite, just like Ferris Bullers' Day Off. It is the best teen movie out there because it shows the comedy of teen suicide. Plus it has one liners... but they're not annoying like Nepolean Dynamite.It's one of those movies that is funny because it is showing the life of a teen and his mind around his girlfriend dumping him, while there are hilarious happenings that are important to the story too. Like the evil paper boy who wont stop at anything, EVEN A CAR WASH AND FALLING OFF A MOUNTAIN! just for two bucks that the main character owes him. Also there is the guys that keep racing him at the same stop light. And then there is the foreign-exchange student that he falls for but is in the hands of this fat, ugly kid and his obnoxious mother.Plus you have Dan Schneider from the Revenge of the Nerds movies to make it better. The fact of the matter is that this is a comedy teen classic that i think the critics should have given better reviews to (in Delaware it got **1/2 of ****). "},{"Title":"Great teen comedy","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Must be the best movie in this genre.Contrasts real characters to a surreal world. Perhaps the other characters are seen through Lane's suicidal eyes? Or in his imagination, like the drawings that come alive?  It doesn't matter, just suspend your disbelief and watch, because it's mighty funny.My favorite scenesLane is in his gifted math class when the teacher asks for some incomprehensibly abstruse homework. The other kids pull out thousand-page computer print-outs, accordion folders, books by Descartes, index card files...... meanwhile, Lane has a couple pencil scribbles on a crumbled piece of paper, and he can't even uncrumble it because of the chewing gumLane tries to commit suicide ... fails, ends up falling into a trash truck. Two black construction workers see him, and one offhandedly comments imagine throwing away a perfectly good white boy like thatAfter Lane loses his girl, everyone in the world asks him if they can ask her out ... including his teachers and Barney Rubble.Lane's brother orders books like how to pick up trashy women and how to build a space shuttle out of household appliances .... and they really work!What else can you say? The humor is sharp and offbeat, but ultimately gentle, and just plain funny.I loved the movie when it came out, and I still love it now. "},{"Title":"An Extremely Overrated Piece of Crap!","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I never saw this when it came out in 1985, it seemed lame at the time. And now at long last it is every bit as lame as I thought it was. In the years since it's release I've read accounts of how funny this movie is. It is low budget crap that is one lame scene after another. John Cusack was a relatively new actor on the scene when he starred in this turkey. So I can understand how he took any role he could get in his salad years. The demure Diane Franklin was a favorite of mine at the time. She is seriously underused here. David Ogden Stiers and Kim Darby seem brain dead in this outlandish farce. This movie makes a case for why bad screenwriters exist. "},{"Title":"If you gotta see one 1980s teen flick, this is THE one to see!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It seems obvious that those responsible for this movie were schizophrenics. This alone can account for why the movie seems like two different films melded together AND why the humor is so bizarre and gut-bustingly funny! The biggest downside of the film is that it has so many of the dumb 80s clichés from teen films--without the main plot, the film actually would have scored a 9 or 10! The whole business about having to ski the K-12 was just lame and got in the way of all the wonderful weirdness! My advice is to watch the film and then try to ignore all the plot--you're better off,...really.So what was so weird about the film?! Well, apart from John Cusack, his ex-girlfriend and the evil rival, all the other characters are almost like a combination of a normal 80s teen movie and a Salvador Dali creation! I really don't want to ruin all the many, many, many surprises, but you've got to see such things as the family's Christmas presents, the interesting things Lane's brother does throughout the film, the paperboy from Hell, the scene where Mrs. Smith blows up, and so many more strange bits here and there. And, most of the strange little vignettes that are irrelevant to the plot are GREAT--except for the claymation part that just seemed dull (for better claymation, see HAPPINESS OF THE KATAKURIS).This is inspired lunacy that unfortunately barely missed being a grand-slam because of some dull plot elements and a stupid claymation dancing hamburger. BUT, because of all the weirdness and fun, this is a wonderful film that can be enjoyed by kids or those who lived through the 80s and want to relive old times and laugh at the clothes and music! "}{"Title":"Half bizarre and half straight teen comedy but one you remember","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The 80's was full of rather bland teen comedies such as Pretty in Pink and the dreadful Revenge of the Nerds series. Here we get one of the nerds, Curtis Armstrong but i suspect that he was merely in this movie to give it some clout, as the lead John Cusack wasn't really a household name yet. When you look at the movie Curtis Armstrong's screen time doesn't even amount to 5 minutes.The rest of the movie is sort of interesting because of the style of the first half which is kind of offbeat considering that Cusack's character, Lane is ten times more realistic than the rest of the characters. His mother, who cooks rather disgusting meals belongs in some kind of 50's sitcom and almost all her lines are written like she is talking to herself and not interacting with anybody else. And who could forget that pesky little paperboy who keeps showing up and demanding 2 dollars. That scene has almost been parodied to death on various spoofs through the 90's and 00's.The director, Savage Steve Holland, did not have a prolific career but you certainly can't deny that he made some movies out of the ordinary and I am glad that I can remember this as being one of the more satisfying experiences at the movies because usually 80's movies were extremely formulated. John Cusack may not have been a official member of what was known as the Brat Pack and this film certainly is a notch below the Breakfast Club. However, since he succeeded where they failed, I doubt that he lost much sleep over it. "},{"Title":"Top quality 80's comedy","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The 80's were a great time for films. Though much of what came out of the decade is now considered stupid kitsch and not worth much, some of the films remain a really good time and it's refreshing to see a movie that never takes itself seriously in this day and age; when there seems to be an unwelcome feeling that only A-grade material can truly be accepted. Better off Dead is a surreal and inventive comedy from a man calling himself 'Savage Steve Holland', that depicts teen life. Better Off Dead can be summed up as a series of genius ideas strung together around one young man's ordeal after splitting up with his girlfriend. Of course, some of the jokes are extremely lame (don't forget, it was made in the 80's), but the ones that work tend to work brilliantly and there's many funny moments in this movie. As mentioned, the plot follows Lane Meyer; a young man that is obsessed with his girlfriend. Well...until she breaks up with him because he's not popular enough, not good looking enough and doesn't drive a very nice car. And not only that, but she's left him for the captain of ski team; and he's a guy that isn't going to let Lane get away without being ribbed about it...If I were to sum up Better Off Dead in a word, I would use the word 'odd'. How many films can you think of that includes dinner walking off the plate, someone's mother being blown up and a living hamburger that has it's own girlfriend? I wager not many. While at times the film does become a little too weird, it's absurdity helps the plot as it helps to enforce the bewilderment that being a teenager can come with; and this helps to get the film's point across. Naturally, the film features an assortment of odd and wacky characters and this is always a good thing in a film of this kind. John Cusack takes the lead role in a time before he rose to superstardom, and it's roles like these early ones that shows why he did make that transition. Cusack leads the film with great charisma and always keeps you entranced with his character. This especially helps when it comes to the more touching scenes of the movie as it enables you to feel for his character and therefore get the full benefit of the scene. While Better Off Dead wont be winning any awards, it's still a wickedly entertaining movie and if you're a fan of kitschy fun movies, you cant go wrong here. "},{"Title":"I want my two dollars!","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wanted to write a review about Better Off Dead months ago, but, after I watched it for the first time, I immediately became busy doing other things. So, I forgot about the film for a while. But now I'm ready to offer my opinion about this memorable little gem. I've actually known about Better Off Dead for years, but I had no urge to watch it. That's because the DVD cover for the film does not look interesting to me. I also had no interest in John Cusack's work before I watched Better Off Dead. But later, when I decided to watch a number of 1980s teen movies, I saw the original poster for Better Off Dead (which looks much better than the DVD cover) and decided to watch the film. There are teen movies that the entertainment industry keeps telling us about, like The Breakfast Club (1985), and it's these films that people are familiar with. But I discovered that the more memorable films are the ones that don't get advertised and that don't appear on lists of the top films. So, if you're curious about a film that isn't praised by critics, you should still see it. You'll probably discover that it's a good film, regardless of what critics say. My recommendation is to never listen to film critics. I also recommend staying away from those official lists of the top films. Anyway, I had no expectations for Better Off Dead when I began watching it, and I didn't even know what it's about. Needless to say, I was immediately surprised because the film is very funny from the very beginning to the very end. There isn't really a dull moment. The film is so entertaining that I watched it in one sitting (something that I rarely do). The animator Savage Steve Holland wrote and directed Better Off Dead, so he's the one who deserves most of the praise. But there's also a good cast. John Cusack is likable as the normal, depressed, somewhat lazy high school student Lane Myer. Cusack wears an expression of hangdog gloom for most of the film, and this makes the ridiculous situations that Myer get into that much funnier. Myer has problems at home and at school. On top of all that, his girlfriend of six months, Beth (Amanda Wyss), dumps him for the handsome and popular Roy Stalin (Aaron Dozier). Quirky performances by Curtis Armstrong, Daniel Schneider and Diane Franklin also help the momentum of this teen fantasy. Franklin is especially memorable as Monique Junet, a French foreign-exchange student. Much like Lea Thompson, Franklin is nice and eager to talk about her 1980s film roles in real life. I can say that Better Off Dead isn't really about anything. It's only an unusual, very funny coming-of-age story filled with jokes and outlandish incidents. But people (including me) don't seem to care because it's still funny and charming. I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Half 80s teen comedy, half insane","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Savage Steve Holland, who went on to create the insanely wonderful Saturday morning cartoon series Eek! the Cat, combined two 80s genres - John Hughes romantic comedies and gag-a-second movies like Airplane! to create one of the more unusual teen comedies of the 80s. The movie stars John Cusack as a jilted teen pining for his ex while oblivious to the absurdly perfect girl across the street, the two girls falling into the classic 80s stereotypes of the cold blonde and the magical, quirky brunette. Cusack is more emotionally unstable than a Hughes protagonist, spending much of the movie in inept attempts to kill himself. He also has to deal with living in an insane world. His mom makes weird gloppy dishes that crawl away on their own power, a newspaper boy seems to be the beta version of the Terminator, Cusack's best friend snorts all his food. The movie is frequently hilarious, resulting in a minor classic. "},{"Title":"Simply the best...","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Simply put, this is the funniest movie I have ever seen in my entire life. (and in 58 years, that's a lot of movies) The casting is superb, all the actors chosen for these parts were brilliant. If you are ever sad or in a bad mood, have this movie handy to throw on, and you will forget your troubles, at least for a little while. How those actors managed to get through their lines without constantly cracking up is beyond me. And while all the actors and their characters are terrific, Kim Darby will you leave you with your sides aching. Also, David Ogden Stiers is very well suited for his part. Curtis Armstrong, a stitch, Diane Franklin, adorable, Laura Waterbury, OMG, no spoilers, but a running joke between my late husband and I for years! And John, just the best. Buy this movie - laugh!!!! It's the best medicine. "},{"Title":"The 1980's Were The Best Years Of My Life.","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Growing up watching the great movies Hollywood released from 1978-1990, were packed with imagination. Many of them were B-grade movies with next-to-nothing budget, directed by unknown directors whose careers depended upon the Box Office successes of these films.Some would later go on to have cult status. Predator 1987, Highlander 1986, The Fly 1986, Conan The Barbarian 1982, Home Alone 1990, Robocop 1987, Die Hard 1988, Re-Animator 1985 and many more movies. Note that some of these films have bigger budgets.Moving on to the film, Lane Myer(a very young John Cusack at 19 years), is your average teen hooked onto the girl of his dreams, Beth (Amanda Wyss, 6 years older than Cusack). However in life, things do not go as planned - he is dumped by his girlfriend who hooks up with the guy Lane hates the most the arrogant and bullying captain of the high school ski team, Roy Stalin (Aaron Dozier).Soon he looses interest in life and plans to end it once and for all. However every time he tries, he is unsuccessful. Lane's family is concerned for his welfare, so his father arranges a date for him. This also proves a dead-end for lane, as his date is not at all interested in him.A sequence of events ensues which puts Lane face to face with a foreign exchange student Monique Junot (Diane Franklin, 23 years). From then onwards, things start to take a turn for the better.The title suits the film. There are plenty of hilarious moments in the film which will keep you well entertained. This film is rated PG, but generally the whole family can sit down and enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"I'd be Better Off Dead...","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better Off Dead is the most underrated great comedy of all-time, just about. It's definitely a top 100 great comedy. Better Off Dead is the most epic and under-appreciated and forgotten great John Cusack film that this first movie and early starring role for Cusack might be his best movie to his name, and nobody knows that, except for me, and now you! John's best movies all star John Malkovich, Con Air, Being John Malkovich and Better Off Dead. Better Off Dead doesn't star John Malkovich, but 2 outta 3 ain't bad! I must mention Better Off Dead is from the '80s, as it is a requirement for any '80s movie that you may be talking about, because the '80s is the best decade of all-time, 2nd only to the '90s. The street racing Asians are sure fire classic and the paperboy who wants his 2 dollars is just as hilarious. John Cusack is hilarious in this and the man is perfect for the part. What a gift to us movie lovers. John Cusack, yeah. John Cusack is a cute boy. He's not a boy that's cute he's, yeah. Diane Franklin is very attractive as the foreign French student Monique, and it's unclear why she did not become more of a famous star. I found her very appealing and much nicer to look at than the girlfriend. Kim Darby is good as the family mom. Booger, from Revenge of the Nerds is funny as hell as the friend. What's his name? Elizabeth Daily sings a super rad and totally gnarly song in Better Off Dead called Better Off Dead.I'd rather be a fool! I'd be lost with someone new. I'd be better off dead, than to live without you! I've been searching everyday, trying to find another way. I'd be better off dead, than to live without you! "},{"Title":"Very Odd, Sometimes Unnecessary","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A teenager (John Cusack) has to deal with his girlfriend (Amanda Wyss) dumping him among family crises, homicidal paper boys, and a rival skier.Apparently John Cusack hated this film after it came out. Maybe he still does. Most likely he has moved on, focusing more on the dozens of other great films he has made since 1985. Anyway, not sure what the hate was about. The film is definitely weird and unlike most of the teen comedies of the 1980s, but it is by no means a bad movie.The cast alone makes it appealing, with Cusack alongside the amazing Diane Franklin, Kim Darby and Amanda Wyss. Sure, some scenes could have been trimmed or cut to improve the pace, but overall it is a solid entry into the world of 80s comedies. "},{"Title":"laughing out loud","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better Off Dead is a film from 1985 starring John Cusack - and he was a baby in this one.Cusack plays Lane Myer, the son of an insane mother (Kim Darby) who makes horrific recipes and gives out TV dinners as gifts; and a long- suffering David Ogden Stiers. His little brother is a weird genius who is making a satellite using household appliances that will take him to the moon.High-schooler Cusack is madly in love with Beth (Amanda Wyss). He has her likeness on all of his hangers. When she dumps him for the more popular, blond, good-looking, obnoxious Badger (Scooter Stevens), Lane decides to kill himself. I won't describe what happens as a result of each attempt, but he tries hanging, jumping onto a highway, and carbon monoxide poisoning (one of the funniest scenes ever).Lane believes, along with his friend (Curtis Armstrong) that if he can just ski the treacherous K-12, he can win back Beth. When he meets a French exchange student Monique (Diane Franklin), she picks up on his lack of confidence and wants to help.I was laughing at loud at so much of this - it's absolutely hilarious. Cusack is fantastic as a clumsy kid who feels inept. The always quirky Curtis Armstrong is a great sidekick, and Dan Schneider, now a huge TV writer and creator of shows, is fabulous as the social misfit Ricky, who has appropriated Monique as his girlfriend.Sadly, the woman who played Ricky's overbearing mother, Laura Waterbury, developed Alzheimer's and died at age 66, in 2013.There are so many little touches in this film that help make it so funny - Lane trying to find a radio station is one, the foreign guys who keep trying to race with him (one speaks English using a Howard Cosell voice and narratives), Ricky's mother's injury, Lane's date with the girl who wears an antenna on her face and last but not least - his brother's creations - it's priceless.There are too few laughs in films today - comedies have been dumbed down considerably since the '80s. For real laughs, see this one. "},{"Title":"crazy wacky 80s teen movie","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cartoonist Lane Meyer (John Cusack) has a strange family in Northern California. His father Al (David Ogden Stiers) struggles against the psycho newspaper boy Johnny. His mother Jenny (Kim Darby) is a crazy cook. His little brother Badger is a genius mute. His best friend Charles de Mar (Curtis Armstrong) is a weirdo who keeps trying to get high. His girlfriend Beth (Amanda Wyss) dumps him for the douche ski team captain Roy Stalin (Aaron Dozier). Roy also keeps Lane from getting on the ski team. Lane continuously get challenged to race by two Japanese brothers, one who speaks no English and the other who speaks like Howard Cosell. Lane keeps trying to kill himself and then he is befriended by French foreign-exchange student Monique (Diane Franklin). He also saves her from her host's weird creepy son.This is a crazy weird addition to the 80s teen movie. It oscillates from silly stupidity to hilariously funny. It's surreal weirdness. And they throw in some fun lines like, That's a real shame when folks be throwing away a perfectly good white boy like that. The only drawback is that Lane doesn't talk to Monique until the second half of the movie. They need to get together sooner. There is so much wackiness. Some works really well but others do fall a bit flat. Cusack is a terrific teen star who can roll with all the craziness. "}{"Title":"tgchan says YES!","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" www.tgchan.plOh man... good old 1985... The year when I was born...Let's see if the movie is as good as I hope it is!Damn! John looks so young here... it makes me feel like a grandpa... LOL 5min and I am already laughing my a** off xDI love its exaggerated and somehow stupid humour, it is simple yet funny. The whole movie is weird, in a good sense of its meaning of course, but the most weird or maybe the most creepiest thing is... the mathematics teacher... you'll see it, you'll know what I am taking about! Somewhere from a middle of the movie same jokes stopped being funny for me, but I have still enjoyed watching it.Overall, it is a decent comedy and it's still being funny in 2014! (oh by the way! French girl is a cutie!)tgchan's rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Better off renting this instead of suiciding","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I must give points for the awesome script, and inventive ideas that add to the sharp humor, this enthusiastic comedy brings. It retains a comedy style of it's own, that sits between normal comedy and slapstick, as well as some great performances, one from Kim Darby like you've seen her before. David Ogden Stiers is very good, while an unrecognizable Schneider as the virgin dork neighbor guy and nasal sniffer is great too. Curtis Armstrong as suicidal Cusack's dorky and jello sniffing friend (he's not the only one) is another asset of humor to this very funny, and well meaning comedy, with some underlying messages. Lane (Cusack) has suffered a bad blow, where smaller other ones follow. Lets face it, nothing hurts more when your sweetheart dumps you. Cusack's beautiful girlfriend has left him, for a better looker and skier. This really brings him down, as this extra hot cutie, is virtually his lifeline. There were so many smart funny touches in this flick, e.g, moving jello, green bacon, live lobster cooking, odd Christmas gifts, and one pi..ed off paper boy, well played. His bike even comes equipped with skiers. I even liked the opening credits, over a short cartoon sequence. Also, it has one classic unforgettable line from two tree loppers, regarding human waste, with mopish Cusack, bummed down in the back of a garbage disposal truck. It almost deserves Oscar status. Cusack is just adequate in this role, really I've never thought much of him as actor, while Diane Franklin adds some spice as a foreign exchange student who becomes Cusack's new love. I really liked this movie for it's comedy smarts and it's inventiveness. Sit in for a night of intermittent laughs throughout (not everyone will find it funny) as Cusack will show you, there are reasons for living, even if at times, that light at the end of the tunnel, can seem pretty bleak. Great ending score, and the pacey title song sung by an unforgettable 'Valley Girl' face, I liked too. Holland's follow up, 'One Crazy Summer', came three and a half months later. What happened to this guy? Just another rental, that made eighties movies, a treasured time. "},{"Title":"A must-see movie","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" About a guy who wants to commit suicide(but never goes through with it) because his girlfriend(Beth) whom he is very obsessed with , dumps him for a more popular guy. He desperately wants her back but when he meets his neighbours' French exchange student then he starts to realise that Beth may not be as great as he thought she was.I love this movie, every character is bizarre and quirky which is what makes this movie amazing. Also, at some-parts there is a blend of live action and animation, which is really cool as well. If you have that kind of off-beat sense of humour-and even if you don't usually- then you'll probably still enjoy this film. It's an essential one to own in your DVD collections. "},{"Title":"Requires a Certain Quirky Sense of Humor to Enjoy!","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hilarious cult comedy from the 80s. On the surface, it's strangely weird and even ridiculous, but those with a dark or quirky sense of humor or at least an understanding of that kind of comedy will love it. It's definitely not mainstream comedy and many of the laughs don't come easily for the average viewer, but if you have the right kind of personality for this brand of humor, you'll just love it and will be laughing all the way through this film. Cusack's dead- pan delivery of the line I'm really sorry your mom blew up Ricky has got to be one my favorite things uttered on screen. I read that Cusack hated this movie but I think he was perfect for the role and it's one of his best films ever. For those viewers who hated this film, to each his own, but for everyone else, don't let bad reviews prevent you from seeing this classic. You might end up loving it. "},{"Title":"Well, honk my hooter!","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a fresh and hilarious teen comedy, one of the more original ones from the 1980s. This viewer is now wishing he'd watched it long ago when it was new. Its off-the-wall sensibility keeps it unpredictable; it's also dark in places but not overly dark, and it populates its story with memorable characters. Gags range from a demented paperboy hassling our hero over a measly $2, a sleazy yet ambitious younger brother who longs to score with trashy women and build his own spacecraft, a mother constantly cooking up WEIRD things in the kitchen (Boiling bacon? That's a crime!), a portly neighbour trying to hook up with a lovely French exchange student, and our main character, Lane Myer (an engaging John Cusack), despondent over his girlfriend (Amanda Wyss) dumping him for an incredibly obnoxious athlete (is there any other kind?), prompting him to contemplate various means of suicide.The cast is great fun to watch. Cusack is a great lead; too bad he's supposedly disowned this movie. 80s babe Diane Franklin is adorable as the French gal with hidden talents. David Ogden Stiers and Kim Darby are fun as Cusacks' parents. Curtis Armstrong does more Booger-esque shtick as Lanes' buddy. There's a couple of familiar faces in the supporting cast, too Dan Schneider, Yuji Okumoto (whose character learned to speak English by watching Howard Cosell), Chuck Porky Mitchell, Vincent Schiavelli, Steven Williams, Taylor Negron, and ever appealing Elizabeth Daily in a musical appearance. Sometimes the movie gets a little tiresome, but overall it has enough spirit and imagination to make it consistently enjoyable. It even has a cute hamburger video (set to the tune of Everybody Wants You by Van Halen) created by clay animation specialist Jimmy Picker. There are also some amazing stunts on the ski slopes.Marking the filmmaking debut for Savage Steve Holland (whose story here is supposed to be somewhat autobiographical), this has fine energy and begins and ends in style. Highly recommended.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Silly, Sweet and Shrewd, It's the Moviegoer's Eighties in a Nutshell","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Starring an in-his-element John Cusack, there's no question why this one's still remembered so fondly today it's a great embodiment of everything one could expect to see from a zany '80s teen-geared comedy. Although Cusack plays his role with a typically dark slant (and many of the jokes are similarly themed), the film's general outlook is upbeat and silly, which makes for a tasty pairing. Occasionally it ventures too far into the realm of the absurd, such as the scene where Cusack's character daydreams a romancing pair of claymation cheeseburgers (which, naturally, pantomime to Van Halen), but it's also those dalliances into surrealism that provide many of its best moments. Funny as both a dated glimpse at life in the mid-eighties and a timeless relation to teenaged heartbreak, it's enriched by a sweet romantic subplot and a vast array of colorful supporting characters. "},{"Title":"Sheer Genius","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a pity Savage Steve Holland didn't do more flicks. What he did with Better Off Dead was take the whole John Hughes 80s teen angst comedy and put it in full TILT mode. Everything about this movie is off center, from Layne Meyer's (played by John Cusack) total obsession with a heartless biotch of a g/f who dumps him (he has a picture of her on all of his shirt hangers), to the Chinese guy who taunts Layne while doing a perfect Howard Cosell imitation, to the insane paper boy obsessed with his two dollars, to Layne's younger brother who becomes a ladies man after reading a book on how to pick up trashy women (he also manages to build a space shuttle out of household items..again, after reading a book on it). There's even some trick skiing thrown in (it's set at a ski resort town). Yes, the end of the story is predictable (he gets the girl..the RIGHT girl); it's the way the movie gets there that's so warped. If you're the type of person that takes everything around them seriously including themselves, skip this movie. But if you like stuff that's stupid, silly and BENT (as yours truly does), definitely check this one out. "},{"Title":"Ranks up there with some of Johns Huges' best movies.","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better off Dead isn't quite as good as The Breakfast Club or Ferris Bueller's Day off, but I actually think it's better than 16 Candles and Weird Science. It does the two things that all John Hughes movies do really well. Have the quirky comedy that is really funny, and have the teenage kids actually act like teenage kids.It's interesting to see Dan Schnieder back in the 80s when he was just acting instead of working on shows like All That, Amanda Show, Drake and Josh, Zoey 101, and iCarly. He also makes me feel better about my weight, because at least I'm not as fat as him. The film is just funny, it gets all the quirky elements of being a teenager down that you can't help but laugh. And like I said earlier, it does a good job of showing how hard it is to be a teenager. Teens have to worry about their future, friends, love life, school work, peer pressure, and most have part time jobs. Like I said, it doesn't match Breakfast Club or Ferris bueller, but I like it more than 16 Candles and Weird Science. "},{"Title":"Surreal Teen Angst Flick","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dumped by Beth, his girlfriend (of six months), Lane Meyer (John Cusak) no longer wants to live . . . until he tries to kill himself. Then he always has seconds thoughts, just a moment too late. Fortunately, Lane is a failure at suicide as he is at everything else.Then he catches the eye of a French exchange student who may be a lifesaver. But don't worry, this is no American Pie. The version I saw had no nudity apart from swimsuits and a little in actual sexual situations (as in the time Lane and Beth are making out in a station wagon while vandals are stealing the tires). Believe me, in this movie the last thing Lane wants is a relationship with food.Lane and the bully who stole his girlfriend finally face off at the climactic skiing scene to prove who is the better man. But this movie is so unpredictable you can't even assume Lane will best the bully, or whether he will want Beth back if he does.It sounds like one of the drearier John Hughes vehicles or even a stupid Hot Dog -- the Motion Picture; but Better Off Dead is really a surreal romp through high school, where a geometry teacher (Vincent Schiavelli) is listened to with awe and laughed at with genuine delight when he cracks jokes based on mathematical formulas. This is a world where bike-riding gangs of paperboys roam the streets, shaking down customers for two dollars, and where Lane's little brother makes a fully-operational laser and learns the secret of picking up trashy women.Better off Dead is too weird to be taken seriously for one moment, and you might think this undercuts the emotional unpinning of the story. Who cares if it does? It's hilarious. Even the bullies, who steal Lane's girlfriend, are funny and surreal.David Ogden Stiers plays Lane's clueless father, while Lane's mother (Kim Darby -- True Grit) is such a rotten cook she gives her family frozen entrées for Christmas presents. Lane's best friend is the brain-blown Charles De Mar (a scene-stealing Curtis Armstrong) who wonders at the street value of snow he finds on a mountaintop and, hearing another friend snorts nasal spray, says, Where can I score some? While Better Off Dead is not a classic of the teen-angst genre like Ferris Bueller's Day Off -- unlike Ferris, Dead is almost impossible to prize out of the '80s -- it is surprisingly funny and though it sounds like a perfect dark comedy there isn't really a mean bone in its body. "},{"Title":"For an 80s Teen Comedy, this is not a bad movie at all","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this movie back when I was a teenager and it is one of those movies that I remember watching just because. My friend purchased a copy of it and I watched it and realised that it is actually a very good movie. It is quite funny and pretty way out with a number of the characters (especially the main character and his family) being larger than life. Some will claim that this is quite excessive and makes for a bad comedy, but I think rather it appeals to people with a certain twisted sense of humor (like me).The movie opens with the main character getting up and we quickly learn that he is obsessed with his girlfriend. We know that he is obsessed because his room is plastered with her picture, and he sleeps with one, and her face is on all of his clothes hangers. Unfortunately, she would rather date the stuck up snob of a ski captain. When he finds this out he becomes suicidal, but he knows that life really isn't all that bad and changes his mind at the last minute, only to have something happen that triggers it anyway (such as his mother bursting into the room, knocking the stool over and thus mostly completing his attempt to hang himself).There are a lot of weird things in the movie, such as the two Japanese who race everybody, one not speaking a word of English and the other having learnt English off of the wide world of sports. His mother is just simply strange (she cannot cook, even though she claims that she can, and she has an obsession with wearing bizarre costumes) and his brother his a technological genius who is able to pick up more women than he can. His father seems sane and boring, but he is obsessed with his garage, and freaks out because it keeps on blowing up. There is the girl that dates the entire basketball team, and the team communicates only in grunts. Finally there is the paper boy who is obsessed with getting his $2 that he rides his bike down the most dangerous mountain in the town and goes flying over at cliff (and still survives).This movie is basically about obsession and pushes them too such an extreme that it is basically laughable. There is the main character's obsession with Beth, the ski-captains' obsession with himself (which is destroyed when he is beaten by the main character), the main character's friend, who is obsessed with drugs, and because there are less illegal drugs in the town than in the Pope's bathroom, he tries everything else (such as snorting snow from the mountain). The movie really doesn't outright say obsessions are bad but rather it portrays it in a light in which we simply see them as an absolute absurdity. Still, it is a great movie.Favourite quote tis a damn shame when folks go and throw away a perfectly good white boy like that. "}{"Title":"Harold and Maude","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Now that's a real shame when folks be throwin' away a perfectly good white boy like that. &#x96; Black Guy (Better Off Dead)John Cusack established his persona as a Gen X icon with The Sure Thing, the tale of a down-and-out teenager whose life goes from bad to worse after losing his girlfriend to a popular, good looking ski captain. Deciding that life's not worth living without the woman of his dreams, our hero repeatedly attempts suicide. Each suicide attempt, of course, goes comically awry.People forget that Cusack spent the 80s as the poster boy for teenage angst and humour. He managed to pull off being a dork whilst still being cute and cool; think of him as Ferris Bueller with bad luck. Better Off Dead plays to Cusack's strengths as an emotionally shut down depressive (it's Grosse Point Blank the teenage years) and an excellent orator of deadpan humour and detached one-liners, but the film suffers from the usual stereotypical characters and situations that plague most of these teenage romance movies.Still, the film possesses a fairly strong cast, has some good gags, and a quirky sense of humour, director Savage Holland frequently nose-diving his narrative into nonsensical, surreal, wacky and fantastically absurd sequences. Examples the film features dancing hamburgers, ten-year-olds with hookers, and ends with a spaceship blasting out of a house. Realism be damned.7.5/10 &#x96; A cult hit in the 80s, Better Off Dead is nevertheless nowhere near as good as Hal Ashby's Harold and Maude, the film it most resembles.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Wacky take on teen angst","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is no such thing as a bad John Cusack movie. Better yet, this is a pretty darned good Cusack movie, one of his first and not what it seems on the surface. The plot is familiar, high school swain loses gorgeous girl friend to stud, is challenged to win her back in an athletic contest (skiing.) So far, so predictable. But then strange things start happening. Green ooze, stuffed with raisins, is a typical family dinner whipped up by Cusack's ditzy mom. A Japanese drag racer thinks he's Howard Cosell. A ten-year-old discovers the secret of talking to trashy women. And newspaper delivery boys become a kind of legion of the damned. Don't try to fathom it. Just go along for the ride. Or the slalom. "},{"Title":"One of the smartest and best-written movies from the '80's","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie on VHS back in the 80's, and it became a staple in the htownsteve catalog. I've seen this movie hundreds of times, and it never gets old. The writing is brilliant, and John Cusack shows what he's going to become. Some of the lines are well-known (and oft-quoted)by my peers, as BOD is a staple amongst us. If you are looking for gratuitous nudity, look elsewhere. This is quite possibly the greatest 80's movie sans nudity. The only question I have is this Whatever happened to Savage Steve Holland? I've seen his Bio on here, and i love Summer School also; but Disney Channel?If anyone is on the fence on this one, and needs a kick in one direction or the other, here ya go It's freaking funny, and it still stands true today! (I'm sorry I blew up your Mom, Ricky...........) "},{"Title":"John Cusack was still a teenager in this teen movie.","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A nice example of a silly but funny teen movie from the 1980s.John Cusack, still a teenager, is Lane Meyer, who has the prettiest girlfriend in school, but she decides to dump him because his car is ratty and he just doesn't have it like some of the popular guys.So Lane gets depressed, even thinks of killing himself, but when he considers the finality of it backs down.Along comes French student, the American actress Diane Franklin as Monique Junot, who appears to speak no English. She is staying with a grotesque mother/son family, just a couple of houses down from Lane. She and lane take an interest in each other.Later when they are alone Lane finds out she speaks English well, but with a thick French accent. She pretended not to so her host family would leave her alone.There is an embedded story about Lane trying to make the alpine ski team, and the neighborhood newspaper boy who wants to collect his Two Dollars.As it turns out Monique Junot is both an accomplished skiier AND knows how to work on cars, and gets Lane's 1967 Camaro running. Naturally he makes the ski team and he gets the French girl. "},{"Title":"A Finer Achievement in Comedy...Seriously","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a relentless, balls-to-the-wall comedy, plain and simple. Although it does introduce aspects of romance, even that is presented through a, if not several, comedic devices. Off-beat jokes, dark humor, running gags and a fantastic use of props fly nearly non-stop throughout this movie. It'd be foolish of me to say they all hit the bulls-eye, but so often do they hit the board you'll be in hysterics regardless, even past the first showing.John Cusack (Lane Meyers), in one of his first leading roles, is absolutely fantastic here. His everyman appeal definitely breaks through, and you'll find yourself rooting for him, despite the nature of the circumstance. Past Cusack, almost every actor in this film deserves a mention. From the love-interest that is the French foreign exchange student to the formidable paper boy, this cast here is absolutely excellent, and each lend their hand to a unique style of comedy.In retrospect, a lot of the humor here may be lost to the 80's, but it remains almost perfectly quirky, dark, and at times genius, that makes this, above all, a downright funny movie.The request for two dollars has never been so grim. "},{"Title":"Too awesome","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Human language cannot describe the experience that is this movie. It seems like one of those movies that was designed to be seen while high, but it's so warped that even the very act of watching it alters your dopamine receptors to the point where you become high. It starts out like your typical 80's John Hughes teen comedy, but as you're watching it, you realize that all the standard elements of those comedies have been mutated into something hitherto unknown. There is the love interest, but she speaks only French for half the movie. There's the popular jock rival, but instead of being the captain of the football or basketball team, he's the captain of the ski team (!?). There are the school bullies, who in this case are a couple of Asian foreign exchange students in matching tan suits, one of whom speaks no English and the other of whom can only speak English like Howard Cosell. And just when all this is getting too weird to believe, then come the dancing hamburgers. Once the dancing hamburgers enter the screen, you are no longer watching a movie, but have entered some sort of higher plane of consciousness. The hamburgers make sense; you don't even feel the need to question them. Amazingly, the madness does not lull after this, but maintains itself until the very end. The actors seem aware of what sort of dimension they're in and have far too much fun with their roles. This is an under-appreciated mess that similar efforts like Not Another Teen Movie have tried to be and failed. 7/10 "},{"Title":"TOO Good!","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Excellent 80's movie. I don't think it could've been much better. It was cliché, but in a very good way. A lot of people might remember the south park episode with the skiing in Aspen, which was heavily influenced by this movie. The director chose a very good cartoony style for this movie, which went very well with the movies plot (e.g. the overblown suicide attempts, and the various larger than life characters). As a child this movie basically taught me about dating and was definitely one of my favorites then, and even now. I recommend this to any fans of the John Hughes movies of the 80's, as well as the Harold Ramis films. "},{"Title":"John Cusack at his put-upon best!!","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No one can play put-upon better than John Cusack. With his puppy dog eyes set in his long face, he evokes sympathy even when the situation doesn't call for it. He put this quality to good use in Better Off Dead, when his character, Lane Meyer, is dumped by his shallow girlfriend and suddenly life seems very overrated. Better Off Dead is a hilarious and surreal look at the emotional roller-coaster of teenage life. Lane's life sucks His freakishly oblivious mother (Kim Darby) is the worst cook who ever lived (everything she makes is green, or moving, or both). His weird, mute little brother Badger (Scooter Stevens) is smarter than he is, as evidenced by his brilliantly executed do-it-yourself kits. Throughout the movie, Lane is pursued by a psychotic paper boy desperate for his two dollar tip (boy, two dollars actually meant something in 1985), and Japanese foreign exchange students who learned English from Howard Cosell. Lane's only real friend is Charles, a cheerful drug addict and seven-year veteran of the tenth grade. Being dumped by his beloved girlfriend Beth (Amanda Wyss) sends Lane over the edge to attempt suicide, yet there is hope for our hapless hero. He'd find it if only he'd notice Monique (Diane Franklin), that cute French girl who just moved across the street&#133; A cult favorite for several years, Better Off Dead both captures and parodies teenage angst. One scene depicts every student's nightmare the realization you didn't do an important homework assignment while everyone else has not only completed his or hers, but has it perfectly organized in accordion folders as well. Not to mention the iconic scene where Lane takes a humiliating job at a grease spoon diner, complete with rubber pig snout and ears. The entire cast play their parts with tongue-in-cheek aplomb, but Cusack owns the movie. For John Cusack at his sad-sack best, check out Better Off Dead. "},{"Title":"classic teen comedy","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a wildly inventive teen comedy that is completely absurd and yet very realistic at the same time. The emotions it conveys, the little details about teen life in the 80s are very, very legitimate, while the gags and humor are completely over the top and bizarre. I remember the first time I saw this, I was probably about 8 and it was on TV and I was completely in awe. I had never seen anything like it. From the bizarre animated opening credits to the hilarious claymation Van Halen music video, its obvious that Savage Steve Holland was a very individualistic and extremely creative filmmaker. This film still holds up not only as a fun 80s movie but as a great comedy, period. The humor hasn't aged like the hair and clothes have. An excellent comedy, recommended to all! "},{"Title":"John cusack...laugh-out-loud riot!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You gotta see it. It's one of John Cusack's first movies. (He was in The Sure Thing, One Crazy Summer...Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil...) The humor is situational, physical, and dark. Lane Meyer (as in Oscar Meyer?) is a mis-fit teen who finds true love in a blonde cutie. But she's only after the alpha Male. Lane, I love you, but you're a dork. This movie was lots of fun, lots of laughs. Watch it if you like absurdity. Watch it if you like John Cusack. Watch it if you've ever been a teenager who is misunderstood. A later release by Savage Steve Holland, One Crazy Summer, starred basically the same character with bigger names, but this one was better. Pop some popcorn, grab your drink, sit back, and laugh. "}{"Title":"A Classic 80's Film","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When you're doing a retro-80's DVD weekend, naturally you'll have Ferris Bueller, 16 Candles, Revenge of the Nerds, War Games and My Cousin Vinny. Please consider adding Better Off Dead to this list. Yes, it is an offbeat, quirky movie, but it is done with a huge sense of fun, as if the characters actually liked each other. Yes, there are plot holes big enough to drive a truck through, but who cares? This is the perfect It's raining, and there is nothing on TiVo worth watching type of movie. Relax, put it on your DVD player, and pass the popcorn. You won't remember any of the plot line, but you'll find yourself quoting it for the next ten years! Suddenly in an office meeting you will say Gee, Ricky, I'm sorry your mom blew up.... or He tried to put his testicles all over me!. But don't blame me, blame my little brother. He's the one building a space shuttle in the garage....Happy 1985! "},{"Title":"Cusack!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have probably seen this movie 20-25 times and it never gets old. JOhn Cusack is and will always be The Man. This is one of those 80's movies that you just love having around. Everyone can relate to some part of this movie, except for maybe the Asian Howard Cosell. WHether it's the outcast, the nerd, or the bully, we have all been there. Curtis Armstrong goes down as Thee 80's Sidekick and David Ogden Stiers has to be the most unaware Father in America. Throw in a guy who can't get over a break-up, a French girl who likes the Dodgers, and the anti-Martha Stewart as a mother and you have one of the best 80's teen movies ever. And lest we forget, a ruthless paperboy. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Mid 1980's teen comedy","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this in the movie theater a long time ago and I watched it again this past weekend. John Cusack's cute girlfriend breaks up with him and he wants to commit suicide. He has a wacky family, wacky neighbors, and a wacky best friend. Not only does he have to overcome his own problems, he has to compete in a ski race with the guy who is now his ex-girlfriends new boyfriend.This is a black comedy, similar in vein as Weekend at Bernie's. Some of the lines and situations in this are wonderful. All of the actors perform very well. Directing was also very good, especially the setups and the payoffs of the jokes. The actors who play Cusacks neighbors, Ricky and Mrs. Smith, are some of the best comedy characters ever written for the screen.If you haven't seen this one, it is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The International movie of hilarious","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lane Meyer is having a bad day. First, he doesn't make the ski team and then his beloved girlfriend dumps him. He didn't do his homework and then he has to work in a sloppy fast food restaurant. Lane tries several ways to make his life better but hanging, jumping off a bridge, gassing and setting himself on fire all fail him.Then he meets Monique and when she helps him, he realizes that he is better off alive. I really liked this movie and thought that the most hilarious part was where the mother gives that horrible Christmas gift to her family. The other part I thought was just a riot was the part where Ricky gives his Christmas gift to Monique and she goes outside and laughs at it.If you give this movie as a gift to someone, it will be better than the gifts that anyone gave out in this movie. "},{"Title":"The hyper exaggerated world of Lane","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The hyper-exaggerated world of the high school drama is obviously the crucial element to its half-hearted success, its bitter comedy and cynicism. Better off Dead rarely strays from those themes, and if not, usually adds new and funny elements to them. We have our dysfunction family &#150; complete with wacko brother, insane Sundays and a mad paperboy mafia. We have our central focus of the drama &#150; the hero wishes to take his life since he has lost everything, or so he seems to think. Of course, he finds that life is not lost, that his obstacles can be overcome, and that the hero of the film must win, in the end. Apart from the cheap photographic techniques of the 80's, the movie is largely well done and the comedy is times effectively. The dialogue seems to follow well, and we see that much of the male high schooler's life is mush driven &#150; that is to say, literally and figuratively. Some bold new elements arrive when twists to the storyline and thrown in. For better or for worse, the plot plays out pretty obviously, and Lane (Cusack) realizes that the confines of high school rarely reveal true life. I just wanted to thank you for everything. Merci buckets RATING 8/10 "},{"Title":"Too detailed. No life.","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The person (who I will refer to as you) who did the goofs for the movie must have had nothing better to do than point out ALL those mistakes it made. Sure, it's not a big budgeted film, but it did very damn good for the time it was made. It's not made to show mistakes, it's made to make you laugh. And that is the only thing you should have done with the movie.And to fill my ten line quota... I thought Better Off Dead was an outrageously funny movie. With all the one-liners, funny antics, and the paperboy, it was the perfect movie. It's the kind of movie that, when you think you're just finished laughing at the last joke, you begin to laugh at another, only to rewind it finding out that you missed about 50 more good jokes between laughter.And for the one who pointed out the movie mistakes The lines in the baseball field at the end of the movie wasn't from the paperboy showing multiple takes, they were tracks from the Camaro as it made its way across the field. They don't need multiple takes for a scene as simple as riding a bike to a car. "},{"Title":"Funniest black comedy ever","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is still my favourite movie - and anyone who hasn't seen it, should. On the surface, it's an 80s high school romantic comedy ski movie, but it is as classic a screenplay as Ferris Bueller, and in my opinion much better. Better Off Dead is jam-packed with recurring gags that make you laugh out loud because of their originality - it's just so well-done! This is John Cusack's quintessential performance as a hapless, honest romantic - if you liked Grosse Point Blank or High Fidelity, you should see this film. If you like dark and funny at the same time, you should see this film. If you're still not sure, you should see this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the 80's","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Saw this after the recommendation of about 34 friends.Lane (John Cusack, well known for looking like Paul Whelan) is a pretty typical high school kid. Life is going great until his adored girlfriend Beth dumps him for the school jock, best known for his skiing exploits. This sends Lane into a deep, suicidal-level depression. Things keep getting worse as his 12 year old brother starts picking up older women, his best friend gets hooked on nasal spray, his parents go even more insane, his paperboy starts stalking him and a couple of Japanese guys harass him for a car race. It seems there's no hope for Lane until he meets a french exchange student, who despite speaking poor English, becomes a good friend. When she helps him rebuild his prized car wreck, Lane is back baby. Full of motivation, Lane decides to challenge Beth's boyfriend to a ski-off, at the fabled K9.A great movie full of laughs and some great one-liners. Sure, it's dated a bit now, but one of the great comedies of my generation. "},{"Title":"Amazing film, but I only remember ONE line.....","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know there was skiing, an underdog nerd, a gorgeous teenage girlfriend who dumps him for the jerk ski captain, a big race, and one hysterical scene after another.John Cusack's best role ever by far.But anyone who has ever seen this film, will remember, to their dying day, the infamous quote I WANT MY TWO DOLLARS!!!!Amazing film.I can't say enough.This is the film that Revenge of the Nerds and many others of the genre tried to be.Demian Slade should have gotten the Oscar for that role and that quote. "},{"Title":"about the movie better off dead.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Life suck's when your not there I would recommend this film to anyone especially teenagers who like the comic retroactive movie scenes. Because it is a good family, comedy and all the characters will make anyone laugh. And because of the characters create a sense of realism that I think many people go through the same problems in their teenage lifetime. I have seen this movie about a dozen times at my house usually with my friends but this time I watched it alone, because Louisa left. No matter who is with me it will make laugh, and will put my in a good mood. I thought the foreign exchange student was a good character she knew how to do every thing. For example cars, skiing, and is smart and tricky the way she keeps her silence when she not with Lane. She is cool too because she likes the dodgers (that is a baseball team.). The first because is that the movie is funny, for example when he was depressed because of his girlfriend dumping him he kept trying to kill himself but all his methods failed because of his unawareness. Like when the foreign exchange student pushed on the gas forcing lane to race the Chinese guys in his piece of crap car. Then they end up going into road construction and landing in a Hugh whole that had ducks on it when they were going to school. Or the part when Lane dresses up like a kamikaze person and finds primer (gas like substance) in the garage and was going to drink it. However, Ricky's mom drinks it first and then goes to like a cigarette and blows up. That is funny right.Well the second because is that the realism is throughout the movie. Like some problems, that Lane goes through is breaking up and that is always a hard thing to go through especially with your first love. He is depressed, feel like suicide is the answer. Few others are, having people pick on you at school or having trouble driving. In addition, sports that can makes a person stressed pretty good too.Plus the movies comedy is not the only thing to the movie. Lane is also starting too fall in love with the foreign exchange student, so there is some romantic scenes that have some more sense of humor in them. If I could play and instrument like Lane does I would play it for my girlfriend, it would get on her good side.I like this movie because of the comedy it made me laugh all through the movie. Better Off Dead captures the bad teenage years and makes hilarious. Also the story plot is unique, and I like that in movies. I did feel like I could relate to it. In addition, I like watching these movies because they can teach me some lessons. "}{"Title":"Soo funny...what other film could include an ardvark coat?","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was just hilarious.  We all know how stupid and dumb(pardon my French) movies in this genre normally are, but this movie is sooo great.  Some lines of Better Off Dead are soo drop to the floor funny(Buck up little camper, we'll beat that slope...together).Also, the characters are very original and so classic.  Lane's mom and her oddness, the paper boys(two dollars), and Charles...hehe...go down that way really fast, if something gets in your way, turn.There was something that kind of bugged me about this movie.  Monique(the foreign exchange student) is somewhat fake.  I don't really know how, but she just got kinda annoying after she began to speak.  But i guess I also needed the element of true romance in this movie. Ehh...i loved it anyway...i highly recomend it "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  BoD is a light hearted comedy that centers around the exploits of Lane Meyer (Cusack) and his girl troubles.  The core of this movie is your typical high-school boy loses girl, boy meets girl story, but for some reason it works really good here -- mostly because the movie is genuinely funny.  There are one-liners and gags that my friends and I still refer to after all these years (TWO DOLLARS!).Highly recommended for anyone.  (8/10) "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this movie","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has always been my favorite.  A lot of younger kids today don't even know it exists.  They tell me Half-Baked is funny, but it didn't rank with the constant tie-in comedy of BOD.  Never uneventful, and the comedy carries on throughout the flick.  Similar to Savage's other movie One Crazy Summer with Cusack, Demi Moore & Bob-Cat...but BOD is better. Even tho I grew up in the 80's, I really disliked a lot about them.  But there have come some great flicks from that era. I more like the 70's and enjoyed the SS Camaro in BOD. Insane quote  He likes corn "},{"Title":"Predictable, but Very Funny Comedy","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lane, a very obsessed guy, loses his girlfriend to the most popular kid in school.  He attempts to commit suicide (a few times) and eventually decides to try and win her back.  Very funny with all kinds of things from two Oriental guys who always want to race, singing hamburgers, and a paperboy who will do anything to get two bucks.  Highly Recommended.  *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Best Teen Movie Ever","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the best teen movie ever, and a great movie all around. It plays on the cliches of the genre, but adds a bunch of quirky twists and hilarious moments. A great script with good acting also help. A lot of things are going on in certain scenes, so keep your eyes peeled. You will be rewarded. Better Off Dead is extremely funny and clever. "},{"Title":"Two Dollars.... I want my two dollars..","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so you're in a video store and you're trying to find a good comedy. The problem is that nothing seems worth watching. There's predictable romance/comedies, the gross-out teen comedies, And then there's Savage Steve Holland. He's insane. His movies, cartoons, and television serials are insane. Better Off Dead... is one of Holland's best films. It's got lots of odd humor, a nice love story to go side by side with a messed up love story, and singing/dancing hamburger patties. It's worth renting, and if the humor is up your alley, it's worth owning. "},{"Title":"Truly an awesome spectacle to behold!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the all-time classic comedies.  John Cusack is a genius, and Savage Steve Holland has created a masterpiece.  It is truly an awesome spectacle to behold.  The characters and the writing make this the victory-hungry stallion of comedies. "},{"Title":"Hilarious........minor spoilers ahead.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like John Cusack a lot so I bought this movie knowing I would like it. I didn't like it.......I loved it! It's pure 80's comedy. I couldn't stop laughing after Laine's mother opens the door while vacuuming and knocks him off the steps after he decides not to hang himself. There's just something about John Cusack--he's got incredible acting talent. I also loved the part when he makes fun of his brother for trying to build that laser gun and the brother turns around and blows up something about 2 feet away from Laine. Oh yeah and all the cereal and cat food spilling all over the floor. CLASSIC.  "},{"Title":"A terrific 80's film!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is wonderful, as always, as Lane.  There are a couple of slow points, but the flow of the movie is not really interrupted. I love the soundtrack (totally 80's!)!  I would, highly, recommend this movie to everyone.  Lots of laughs! "},{"Title":"Savage Steve Holland","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why doesn't Savage Steve Holland make more films? There are moments of chaotic random comedic greatness. The scene in Lanes kitchen when his mother is boiling something akin to an octopus, or when rickey's mother explodes. Or rickey jumping to capture an escaped balloon. It sometimes seems that Holland is as concerned with the background action in a frame as he is in the main action. Good stuff. "}{"Title":"Definitely in my Top Ten!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I first saw this movie at about age 10 (as you can tell, during the 80s I was too young to truly experience the wonder that was the 80s, but in this case that doesn't really matter.) Thus began my love affair with John Cusack. The absurdity of Lane's situations, coupled with classic deadpan delivered only as Cusack can, made Better Off Dead worth seeing again and again. Wonderful supporting cast, especially Curtis Armstrong as Charles DeMar, David Ogden Stiers as Lane's dad, and Vincent Schiavelli as the physics teacher contributes to the success of this movie. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Teen Angst Movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Now THIS is a teen comedy.John Cusack is absolutely gut busting hilarious as Lane,a teenager who has but two loves  Skis and a girl named Beth.Prepare to hate the paper boy and thank God your Mom could cook. To tell anymore of the story would be a travesty because everyone deserves to see every bit of this little gem for themselves.For those of us that grew up in the eighties this is a must see,the rest of you sit back and look at how silly we were at that age.Priceless. "},{"Title":"I Love John Cusack","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All classic 80's movies are great, but Better off Dead is probably one of my absolute favorites.  With the young newspaper delivery boy who only Wants his 2 dollars to Cusack's mother's cooking, this film is so entertaining. I don't usually laugh out loud at most movies but I definately did during this one.  Fun for everyone...I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A favorite in our family","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS!  A delightful, jocular tale of teenage trauma.  The story of Lane Meyer requires no deep thinking and minimum emotional involvement to enjoy.  You only need sit back and keep the smirk on your face.  The plot follows the hapless Meyer as he futilely tries to regain the affections of his ex-girlfriend (who dumped him), and the even vainer attempts at suicide when his numerous attempts at winning her fail.  Interwoven within this sorry state of affairs are some very well set-up jokes that reoccur throughout (the indefatigable paper boy, the genius little brother and his escapades, the mad oriental drag racers, etc) and some memorable, risible scenes (the postman who litters the street with mail, the mom who buys her family TV dinners for Christmas).	My wife and I fell in love with this movie as young adults and we have successfully turned it into one of our children's favorites also.  In fact many of the show's lines have become family catchphrases in our home `Two dollars', `You like raisins', `Go that way really fast and if something gets in your way&#133;turn', `You wash your hands on your own time' `I've been going to this high school for seven and a half years&#133;I'm no dummy', and one of the all-time great lines in comedy `I'm sorry your mom blew up, Ricky'	Yes there are some juvenile and downright silly moments, but they never stray out of context and their detraction from the film's merits are venial.          "},{"Title":"My grandmother dropped acid, freaked out and hijacked a bus full of penguins.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You really can't beat Steve Holland when you are looking for a hilarious film with a true element of teen angst and frustration.  Lane Myer, a semi-crazy high school student gets dumped by his girlfriend, Beth, for the captain of the ski team.  With the help of his jello snorting pal played by Curtis Armstrong, Lane is determined to ski the K-12 (a very large, dangerous mountain) to win back Beth...or commit suicide.  With lots of laughs and great, likable characters, this is definitely recommended highly.  "},{"Title":"Foolish 80's Nostalgia = Love for this film )","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lazy Sunday Afternoons... Are made for films like this. I love this film for it's quirky humor, pathetic character's, and last but not least -- John Cusack. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so cute! I absolutely loved Cusack in this. Its sweet, funny and all around great. If you loved Airplane! Then you will love this. The addition of Porky's own bad boy and Nerd's Armstrong moves this movie into a classic category. I highly recommend! "},{"Title":"80's comedy at its finest","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie again yesterday for the thousandth time, so I realized I had to finally comment on it.This movie depicts Cusack's struggle with the break-up of his girlfriend and how we tries countless times to end his life but never manages to succeed. Along with his break-up, Cusack has the continuous struggles with the persistent paperboy, the Japanese hot rod's, the ski captain, and his dissociative parents that make his everyday life a bit more miserable. This was the movie that put Cusack at the top of teen actors in the 80's. Along with Cusack, it has a genuinely funny cast, Curtis Armstrong from Nerds and Risky Business, Ricky from Head of the Class, and Chuck Mitchell from Porky's who all add an edge of humor to an already kick ass comedy. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorite films that I watch over and over.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is just a funny film.  The premise is that Lane Myer (John Cusack) is suicidal now that his girlfriend Beth has decided to leave him for the class ski-jock.  The story line is basically an excuse to go from gag to gag, and the gags will make you laugh 80% of the time.  If a gag leaves you flat, don't worry, another will come along shortly and will probably make you at least smile, and sometimes belly laugh. Depending upon your sense of humor, there are quite a few scenes in the movie that would be defined as your favorite.  For whatever reason, I enjoyed the breif scene with the less than attentive mailman the most, but there are at least 10 more scenes that are close.  I confess that I have to look pretty hard to find a John Cusack movie that I don't like (Con Air comes to mind), but this, along with Gross Pointe Blank are my favorites, with this getting the slight edge.  I can't really give it higher than an 8 because the movie is far from perfect, but I have enjoyed the movie more than movies that I may given a higher rating. Catch it on the comedy channel when it comes around (I don't think very much, if anything has been cut out).  You will probably recognize half of the cast from somewhere.  Curtis Armstrong is awesome in this movie Lane...I've been going to this high school for 5 and a half years. I'm no dummy. "},{"Title":"Pitch perfect comedy","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead scores maximum points for one reason it is the funniest teen movie ever.  John Cusack rules the screen in his best role until Grosse Pointe Blank.  The man makes us believe that he is this close to suicide but brought back from the edge with the love of a beautiful French foreign exchange student.  From start to finish, the bench mark for teen comedy.Perfect for all ages! "}{"Title":"How many of us can relate to this?","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Have to agree with nearly all of the comments on this site! It's a silly movie, but sadly I could relate in one way or another with most of the events. Glad to see that more than a few folks thought the garbage truck line was hilarious. I'd forgotten about I want my two dollars. A good movie if you want a little light entertainment. I think I knew at least one Lane in my high school years! "},{"Title":"Most accurate description of teenage life, also very funny.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie. Not only does it have silly, impossible, unrealistic humor, but it also creates a High School life that feels exactly like what I had to go through. At first it seems like the main character can't get anything right, and always feels like an idiot. He always screws everything up and constantly considers suicide, but he then realizes that his troubles aren't near as bad as they seem and that nothing is worth his life. It has a serious topic but is a very fun movie, and is never depressing, as most movies with this topic are. Also, I don't know about you but in High School I felt like I was this kid. Sure, I didn't ski or look like him, but this kid goes through the same problems as I did and shows that he could suceed over it and have a good life after all. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!!! ;Þ","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This really is my fave movie ever! I love John Cusack as a teen guy here. This movie is HILARIOUS!! Johnny the paperboy is frightening, Badger the kid brother is funny, Monique is funny, Lane is funny, Charles Du Mar is funny, every single character is funny. If you watch this, I guarantee you'll spend the whole time laughing, and you'll want to share it with all your friends. I know that's what I did. I...want...my...TWO DOLLARS! lol bubye "},{"Title":"Fantabulous","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so there's this highschool kid, Lane, overloading on vulnerable charm and silliness, yet he almost takes himself seriously after being dumped by his flaky girlfriend and degraded to working at a (hilarious) pork fastfood place. This is one of his John's earlier film roles and he is pitch-perfect and an absolute joy to watch. John uses Lane to excuse his wacky humility and truly unique sense of self to make this movie a classic, as far as an 80's teen comedy/romance can be. 'Better off Dead' is Writer/Director Savage Steve Holland's film debut and he has my utmost respect....this film captures the pain and pleasure of being a self-absorbed kid (as everyone has been at some point) in a world with no pity, and it does this with so many bellylaughs and sensitive sarcasm that it remains throughly interesting, and you can't help but relate and you can't help but feel delighted. If you dig this movie, check out 'Sixteen Candles', 'The Princess Bride' and 'Clueless', their common bond is endearing sarcasm and perfect leads.        "},{"Title":"one of the hopeless","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie probably isn't really all that hot.  But I love it.  It's got a great sense of humor, with it's use of some running gags and other things. John Cusak is awesome as usual, and it's basically one of those hopeless romantic movies that gets me all sappy...and...yeah. Go rent it.  It's also shown on Comedy Central fairly frequently. "},{"Title":"Best 80's movie I have ever seen","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 7 years old and I have liked it ever since. 13 years later and I can still sit down and laugh at it. How many movies can do that. With his mother It's got raisons you like raisons which is a quote still used, To opening X-mas presents and wondering if it's going to be a TV dinner.Just remember while skiing if you see a tree turn. I have made People watch that movie with me and the found it funny,and witty. Besides it's got one of the best actors of the time John Cusack in it...Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie isn't you're normal, run of the mill, teenage comedy.  It link's teen-stars of the sixties with the up and coming stars of the eighties.  This is slap-stick humor at it's best.  If you liked this movie, then you must see  One crazy summer!  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my high school days, this was one movie that I could not get enough of. Today it is still funny as can be. John Cusack is great as a desperate teen at the end of his rope. Many classic 80's lines from this flick are well worth remembering. The paper boy situation is the highlight of the film (two dollars...). One of the best comedies to emerge from the 80s. "},{"Title":"This one goes to 11!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  The humor is irreverent and quirky to say the least and the laughs never stop.  Anyone who ever felt insecure or depressed about themselves as a teenager can completely relate to Lane Myer's plight.  Just rent, or better yet buy the movie!  On a scale of 1 to 10, I give it an 11+    "},{"Title":"Silly?  Sure, but good for laughs","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead is a truly fun movie.  If you're one of those people who has to have absolute realism in a film you just won't appreciate this one.  But if you're life is looking down and you'd like to raise your spirits with a harmless laugh and a happy ending, Better Off Dead may be just the ticket. Also  check out the woman (Elizabeth Daily) singing at the New Year's party.  She was Dottie in Pee Wee's Big Adventure and the voice of Tommy Pickles in Rugrats          "}{"Title":"Legendary film!!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!! John Cusack shows that he really does belong in comedies. I find myself stealing lines from the movie nearly everyday. If you think your life is bad, watch this movie!! Cheers me up without fail! The ultimate Christmas movie!! "},{"Title":"Strongly Recommended - Nonstop 1980s FUN!!!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favor and rent it.If you have already seen this movie, do yourself a favor and seeit again.This is one of the 1980's movies that made John Cusack acultural icon of sorts. His performance as Lane Myers iswonderful.The soundtrack, starring the likes of Rupert Hine and HowardJones, is outstanding.And the writing and direction - by Savage Steve Holland (whoseprimary interest is animation) is great. It's quirky, fast-pacedand slightly surreal.I would have to give this movie a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The best teen movie of the 80's","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is completely hilarious.  Non-stop absurdity.If you haven't yet, I recommend watching the John Cusack trilogy of Better Off Dead, Say Anything and Grosse Pointe Blank next time you've got a few hours to kill. "},{"Title":"The End All Be All of 80's Teen Angst","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be the absolute best of all the teen movies made in the 80's.  It's total fluff, but really funny fluff!  I still laugh as hard now as I did when I was 14 when he says Gee Ricky, I'm really sorry your mom blew up.  Other good, early John Cusack movies were The Sure Thing and Say Anything.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films ever!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie just has some of the funniest scenes ever.  It's also kind of cheesy in certain parts and can look alittle dumb, but that's part of it's cult charm.  Some quick not-really-spoiler highlights, one of the side stories is about a foreign exchange student who gets stuck living with the biggest nerd ever created.  The nerd, Ricky, is just so classically gross, you'll be in stitches with this one.  There are just so many funny things in this movie.  And John Cusak is great.  In fact, I'd say the whole cast on this one is great.  I still have it on tape and love to re-watch it.  This is a cult keeper. "},{"Title":"Just go and rent the thing.  You'll be ok.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead has some of the funniest things I have ever seen in a movie. I found it to be truly enjoyable, without being overly cerebral.  Here is a movie that you can just let your body watch while the rest of you concentrates on just exactly which combination of 25 things to laugh at. This movie has a handful of great one-liners, tons of sight gags, and just a pretty hilarious plot.  I feature this film on my Top 10 comedies list. "},{"Title":"People always says They used to make things better. B.O.D. proves They did.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Do I really need to say anything? If you have seen it, I don´t. If you haven´t... Well, of course you have... "},{"Title":"If you would believe this stranger, you would watch it.","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, this is simply a great movie.  It is hilarious.  I think that this is one of my favorites.  I saw it many moons ago, but it was great.  You know, they really knew how to do comedy back in the 80s, and this is one of the reasons why.  I don't understand why movies just aren't as funny as they used to be.  So, if you are looking for something crazy and at the same time memorable and funny, rent this movie.  You won't be let down.  I won't go into the plot at all, cause if you haven't seen it I don't want to ruin it for you ) "},{"Title":"I couldn't describe it better.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When it comes to the 80's, I remember movies, music, and clothes. Mainly because I wasn't really an active member of society, having only been alive to experience eight years of it. But when I think of the movies, I think of John Hughes, Amy Heckerling, and Savage Steve Holland. This film is a staple of great 80's movies. Not only does it include some of the most random jokes (why would someone throw away a perfectly good white boy like that?), it is one of the only two legendary John Cusack is a normal guy and Curtis Armstrong is his wacky friend and it was directed by Savage Steve Holland films. The other is One Crazy Summer, if you haven't guessed. Sure, they are both generally the same movie but with slightly different settings, and sure they both have the exact same moral, but who cares. They both make you feel great and are real fun to watch. Oh, boy. I got nothin' else to say. Good day. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So called Comedies of today often attempt to have an emotional plot, with humor thrown in along the way, but all too often end up emotionless and unfunny, in essence failing miserably in all respects. Better Off Dead is no such film; Lane is a relatable protagonist, and his friends, family, and rivals are all very human. The plot is unique and over the top, but grounded in a solid emotional foundation that we can all understand. The characters are a bunch of weirdos, but in the best possible way, and they find themselves in one hilarious situation after the next. Today's filmmakers could learn a lot about film from this gem of the 80s. "}{"Title":"My 6th favorite comedy of all time.","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For me this is the 80's. The zany misguided 80s with all its clueless moms and dads, its crazy clinch teens and the unrelenting quest for true love. John Cusack was born to play this role, no one else has the guy who is much smarter than he appears persona down to an exact science. There are probably more laugh-out-loud moments in this movie than in any other.The suicide attempts and everyones total lack of acknowledgment of it. The paperboy from hell. The friend Booger who has a way of precisely nailing the utter ridiculousness of any situation. The genius brother who can make a space shuttle out of spare parts. The girlfriend who is all consumed with popularity. The obnoxious jerk adversary. What a comic gem of a movie.... 10/10 "},{"Title":"I'm living in the Eighties -- I have to push, I have to struggle","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Steve Holland first wrote a pretty much run-of-the-mill film script for an 1980ies teenage audience, about an average small-town high school kid getting dumped by his superficial girlfriend for a jock, getting into all sorts of capers with his family and peers, until finally finding true love in the ever-lovin' arms of a foxy French exchange student.Then, as a director, he whacked the plot up eleven notches with as many absurd elements as possible -- such as the hero being pursued by a paper boy who's collecting his two dollars, animated sequences where hamburgers break out in song and dance, or his mother preparing space aliens for dinner. This took this movie out of the ordinary and makes it amusing and watchable after all those years, and put it at least into the same ballpark as other classic teen comedies from the same era. A very young John Cusack is remarkable as the lead character, and I also liked the actor who plays his stoner friend.On the other hand, the movie is often gimmicky and somewhat lacking in the plot department -- as I said, the underlying story is somewhat unimaginative and stolid. Overall, not as good as Ferris Bueller's Day Off, but still. "},{"Title":"A gloriously wacky and off-the-wall one-of-a-kind 80's teen comedy riot","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sadsack Lane Meyer (John Cusack at his most endearingly goofy) sinks into a deep depression and becomes suicidal after he gets dumped by his luscious girlfriend Beth (dishy blonde honey Amanda Wyss). Unbeknownst to Lane, true love exists right next door in the fetching form of sweet and adorable French foreign exchange student Monique Junot (the delightful Diane Franklin). Writer/director Savage Steve Holland brings a highly inspired, distinctive and idiosyncratic off-kilter comic sensibility to the standard concept of adolescent angst and those uniquely traumatic years spent in that special brand of hell called high school. Holland crams the film with a wonderfully oddball wealth of hilariously surreal gags Lane's mom makes ghastly food that's as inedible as it is unidentifiable, two Japanese guys in a souped-up car constantly challenge Lane to a race, the persistent psychotic paperboy who really wants his two dollars, Lane's precocious younger brother orders a book through the mail so he can pick up trashy women, the hot babe who dates the entire basketball team, a claymation hamburger rocking out to a cool thrashin' song, and everyone asking Lane if it's okay to take Beth out on a date. Cusack's affable screen presence and considerable charm hold the picture together; he receives excellent support from Franklin, David Ogden Stiers as his hapless, long-suffering dad Al, Kim Darby as Lane's blithely clueless mother Jenny, Curtis Armstrong as Lane's zany stoner pal Charles De Mar, Chuck Mitchell as mean, slobby restaurant owner Rocko, Daniel Schneider as grotesque fat toad Ricky Smith, Aaron Dozier as arrogant ski champion Roy Stalin, Demian Slade as the deranged Johnny Gasparini, and Vincent Schiavelli as beloved geometry teacher Mr. Kerber. Elizabeth Daily makes an electrifying appearance singing at a high school dance. Rupert Hines' quirky score hits the groovy spot. Isidore Mankofsky's sparkling cinematography likewise does the trick. The bouncy 80's rock soundtrack totally smokes. An absolute gut-busting offbeat hoot. "},{"Title":"At times it seems like the typical teen comedy...then it takes bizarre twists.","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes, this movie follows the typical teen romantic comedy type formula, but it adds a lot of weird stuff in it to make it more original and a bit demented. Kind of like the mother added this and that to the one meal she cooked, granted the one ingredient she mentioned was normal enough...raisins. The story, guy who seems likable enough has just been dumped by his girlfriend. Sounds normal enough, till you realize the girlfriend seems to date just about anyone and everyone. Well guy wants to win her back so he is going to try to ski this deadly run that the one guy his ex seems to be dating a bit more than others is an expert at. There you go, sounds simple...throw in a cute foreign exchange student and you have your typical teen romantic comedy. Though it is not as cut and dry as that as our hero must overcome an obsessed paper delivery boy, a strange introverted guy and his loud mouth mother, a fairly normal dad but odd mother, a brother who gets the ladies and builds super science fiction stuff, a friend who snorts everything but drugs because their town apparently does not sell them, a part time job at a burger joint, a drawing that takes a life of its own, and many other strange happenings. Add to that the fact from time to time our hero tries unsuccessfully to commit suicide and you have your very strange, but funny teen romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"one of the best eighties comedies","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" unfortunately this comedy with john cusack is often one that is overlooked, I saw it back in the eighties and loved its weirdness and black comedy.John cusack plays a guy who has just been dumped by his girlfriend and so wallows in self pity and is always looking for ways to put an end to his life, which never go to plan. Also has the little guy in it from 'moonlighting' who is excellent as cusacks junky mate, always looking for his next high. There are so many little ongoing jokes in it, such as the paperboy trying to get his 2 dollars back (even going so far as to follow cusack down the side of a mountain on his BMX) and the lil brother and his obsession with cereal box offers. All in all its a very enjoyable silly comedy. "},{"Title":"Undiscovered Gem (for a lot of Europeans at least)","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie appears to be quite popular for a lot of people in the US but apparently it had too many obscure cultural references to warrant a theatric distribution in most of Europe. I heard high praise for it every now and then even though I'd never seen it released anywhere.It's a bit of a shame as it is indeed a bit of a gem like the ZAZ movies (Airport! and the like) were in their time. Quite far from the usual cretinous teen high-school movies, it creates a new genre all by itself.Now I finally saw it for the first time at 38 so it can be fun even without the nostalgia bit kicking in that has been mentioned by a lot of others. The sheer creativity and crazyness of the moviemaker is in itself reason enough to see the movie. Several times even.As a native French speaker though, it is quite irritating to (as usual) have the French character portrayed by an actress who obviously doesn't speak a work of the language and who invents a kind of generic foreign (to a US audience at least) accent. It is a minor annoyance though and doesn't spoil the film. The poor girl does her best, plays the part well despite that big handicap and I suppose the budget didn't allow for a language coach anyway ) Anyway a great little movie that will come as a refreshing surprise to all those who want a change from the preformatted internationally distributed Hollywood stuff. "},{"Title":"As mad as a cricket bat on a football pitch!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm so glad there is finally a British DVD of this one. I first watched this (and Holland's other nutty comedy, One Crazy Summer) on VHS back in the eighties when I was fourteen or thereabouts, and I thought they were both really funny - now I'm in my thirties, I revisited this one (still no DVD of Crazy Summer, unfortunately) at the weekend and it's even better than I remember it! It's very eighties, very bizarre, very free-form and great fun. To give you some idea of what to expect from this film - green bacon, dancing hamburgers, sex-crazed obese geeks, funny animated sequences, random stupidity, botched suicide attempts, exploding Divine lookalikes, snow-snorting, aardvark coats, Howard Cosell impressionists and the subway weirdo from 'Ghost' as a math teacher. If that doesn't whet your appetite, consider this - it's probably the only film in history where people fence with ski-sticks. Go and rent it now. If you like good, clean, eighties fun, this won't disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Favourite funny flick of all time","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a John Cusak fan because of this film ... this film is still side split tingly funny after all these years.. John Cusak is SO funny as lane Myer. I still say I WANT MY TWO DOLLARS to myself every time I hear the words two dollars, and sorry just how lane would say it when he would do something to embarrass himself. I don't buy many DVD's but I ordered this and it's coming from the US (I'm in Australia) and I can't wait to get it. See this if you can, it's just the best. especially the It's a pity when white folks be throwing away a perfectly good white boy like that, or go that way really fast , if somethings gets in your way, TURN which is said by both Charles and Monick to lane independently ... "},{"Title":"a personal viewpoint--slight spoiler","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I paid $10 for the DVD. A cheap price for a cheaply made movie, but....This movie is truly raw. From the stiff actors to the stiff dialogue, this movie is not for the perfectionist. But this movie was quietly, insanely hilarious! Every scene has some sort of hilarious anecdote. This is by and far the only movie I'll ever own that has John Cusack in it. This movie appeals to the depressed teen in all of us. If you love Ferris Bueller, you'll like Better Off Dead... the protagonist's life is kind of the the opposite of Ferris. The funniest character is the little brother, personally. Either him or the paperboy. Watch it, and you'll see why! "},{"Title":"SAVAGE STEVE ROCKS!!!","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny in a way that other films aren't. It is not obvious it is a comedy. The acting is so serious that you feel like it;s meant not to be silly. I love this style. It is evident in his other Film One Crazy Summer. I am a filmmaker myself and this was a huge influence to me. It showed me something different.I love the large number of characters. It makes it so much more fun. The pacing is perfect leaving the overall film a wonder to see. I don't find much of Steves humor in the projects he's been doing lately, but the more family oriented films are a little different anyway so they can't really be compared.This film is unique in content and success. I believe some people won't like a movie like this because it is too weird at times. This is what I love about it. There is no other film like it. The closest thing is what the Farely Brothers have been doing lately. Something About Marry, Dumb and Dumber are brilliant films in their own right.A word of advice, if you haven't seen Better Off Dead, go see it.Jason  "}{"Title":"Sublimely Wacky","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Cusack is, and always has been, one of America's most underrated actors.  He's done comedies (like One Crazy Summer and Grosse Point Blank), dramas (like Identity and Runaway Jury) and action movies (like Con Air).  That in itself shows what a range he has, and his face is so expressive that every nuance of emotion comes across as perfectly natural.Better Off Dead, one of John's first in a starring role, is an incredibly wacky movie, with a predictable plot but enough crazy characters and hilarious lines to make it worth seeing over and over again. It's always depressing when people come up to you and ask you if they can ask your ex-girlfriend out now, but when such people include  your MUCH OLDER teacher, your mailman, and Barney Rubble....John does such a great job playing the lovable loser here; we know that everything will work out eventually, but it's a great ride.Just look at the supporting cast  the shallow-as-hell girlfriend, and the stereotypical blonde jock she dumps him for.  The druggie best friend.  The absolutely clueless parents.  The smarter kid brother.  The horrible neighbors from Hell.  The Japanese brothers.  Lane's boss, who just happens to be Porky!  All memorable, and all hysterical.  And of course, let us not forget the most determined and fearsome paperboy on the face of the Earth!And last but not least, Diane Franklin as the scrumptious French exchange-student Monique.  I mean, that image of her skiing down the mountain in that cute little pink outfit.... the stuff that teenagers' wet dreams are made of.9 out of 10.  See it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, prequel to High Fidelity...kinda","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I consistently found myself laughing at this movie. There are so many great one-liners which I often quote. I also noticed that this almost seemed like a prequel to High Fidelity which obviously has different characters and different actors, with the exception of John Cusack, but it was essentially the same storyline. Even if you disagree with me in that perspective, you have to agree that it is a great movie. John Cusack's acting is very good in both, as is the case in all of his movies. He seems to have mastered the dejected, desperate man-seeking-woman character as he has mastered his other characters. Indefinitely one of the greatest, underrated, and generally unknown '80s movies I've ever seen.  "},{"Title":"This is my favourite movie of all time.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is brilliant b-grade comedy. It is one of the most quotable movies with Two dollars Christmas! You know - the international language Go that way really fast, if anything gets in your way - turn Gee I'm really sorry your Mum blew up Ricky et al.I recommend you watch it for a pick me up. There's some great intertextual references. There's Van Halen. There's a shiny black Trans Am. There's Howard Jones on the soundtrack. There's dancing hamburgers and kamikaze chips. There's romance. And most of all there's Charles De Mar played by the wonderful Curtis Armstrong.Watch it - it's brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Very random, very cool.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel lucky to have this when it was first released in theaters. Non-stop laughter, from the first scene! >From the paper boy, the gourmet meals Lane's mother makes, the K-12, to the street races.David Ogden Stires and Kim Darby are the best parents a twisted teenager could ever have. You might notice the vocalist of the title song at the high school dance is the voice of Tommy Pickles in Rugrats.It's a good laugh from beginning to end. If you need a good laugh, this is the movie for you. Once you've seen it, you'll want your two dollars, too!  "},{"Title":"Best movie of all time.","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I fist saw this movie when I was not sober. I feel in love with it at the point where Lane's food slides off his plate. I watch it once a week at least, and show it to everyone I know. Everyone who I have shown it to have liked it or loved it. I think that this movie represents exactly everything that an 80's movie should be, and do. It's got skiing in it. It is like falling into a pit of insanity, and the more you watch the crazier it gets. Booger is great, John Cusack is great, Ricky Smith is excellent (he looks like this kid that won home coming king when I was in high school). Watch it more then once. It only gets better. "},{"Title":"One of the most creative movies of the 1980's","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie exists on another plain of reality. The charm and soul of this picture is the fun and pure zany-ness of it. It's very much a live-action cartoon. There's not much to say about it then it's funny as hell. Savage Steve Holland should make more movies, and direct less episodes of 'Lizzie McGuire'. *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"The exact stereotype of an 80s teen comedy.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead is about Lane, a depressed loser (95% of teenagers) whose girlfriend leaves him because, well, he's a loser.  He tries to find ways to kill himself until Monique, an exchange student, changes his outlook.  All the while, he must prepare to ski against Roy, the token high school jerk.This movie started so many cliches it's not even funny.  Many people don't even realize that a lot of jokes which seem overused now started here.  South Park even recently made an episode that was like this and every other teen comedy in the 1980s.  You can be seeing this movie for the first time and still recognize many plot elements now used ad naseum.  A good early film for John Cusack. "},{"Title":"Funny!!!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead... is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. I mean I was just bored out of my wits one day so I decided to watch some television. I surfed through all the channels and I finally came through this movie. I was on time because it just started. I was really bored so I said what the hey I'll try watching this and to my surprise it was funny and sweet. John Cusack did an outstanding job. He was so funny. And Diane Franklin was gorgeous in this movie. Anyway, I recommend this movie. If you haven't seen in yet. You should!!!  "},{"Title":"Classic comedy from the 80's","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie delivers the laughs with a poignant look at growing up in American suburbia.  John Cusack is a genius as Lane Myer, the down-and-out everyman who's just been dumped by his girlfriend in favor of the ski-team captain.  Lane tries to win her back by becoming team captain himself, and comedy ensues as he is hindered by a demonic paperboy, his dysfunctional family, a creepy neighbor and his overbearing mother, and a voyeuristic mailman.I honestly can't get enough of this movie.  It's truly a classic with lots of funny moments.  Kim Darby is especially hilarious as Lane's mother, clueless about her children and inept in the kitchen.  One of the best scenes is when she dumps some unknown substance on his dinner plate, and it begins crawling off the table by itself.I don't really understand how someone could compare this movie with One Crazy Summer.  That was a good flick, but in no way compares to Better Off Dead. The comedy is better, and the plot is more cohesive.  Plus, just having Booger (Curtis Armstrong) in the movie does it for me.Get this movie. "},{"Title":"Insane fun!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly the oddest little movie that still manages to rank in many people's top ten lists of 80s movies.  There are so many random things going on in any given frame of it, I think it's pointless to try and describe them all.  It's better to keep them as a surprise.Just know this.  If you love the ZAZ series, and especially if you miss the Eek the Cat cartoons, and you haven't seen this movie yet, I don't know what to say to you. "}{"Title":"John Cusack + Savage Steve Holland = great comedies","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better off dead... and One crazy summer should be considered the films that launched John Cusack's career. And with good reason.The guy was hysterical on both films!In the first movie, he plays a loser. In the second one... he plays a loser, too. It's just the way Savage Steve Holland makes a semi-deep, semi-comical study of loser stereotypes, and merges them all into John Cusack, who, in appearance, really does look as a loser (at least in these films). Curtis Armstrong delivers a good performance as Cusack's sidekick (pretty much like Bobcat did on the second one), but lets be realistic about this both movies define Cusack *perfectly*. He seems born to play the character.I prefer this movie to Summer, though, just because of the dinner scene And for dessert... *french* fries! "},{"Title":"Cusack has a bad day..","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack stars in this inventive comedy in which he plays a teen who gets dumped by his girl, is being chased by a crazed newspaper delivery boy, being challenged by two Asian men in cars, one who learned english by watching Howard Cosell, and is being harrassed by a skier, who happens to be the one his girl dumped him for. With all that, he is feeling a little suicidal. After a few tries that dont work out, he challenges the skier to a race down a treacherous hill..  Has a lot of great moments in..especially the hamburgers...Also good acting by Cusack and the lovely Diane Franklin who looks every bit the sweet french girl on a scale of one to ten..8 "},{"Title":"Fresh, funny, gloriously self-indulgent wish fulfilment","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story of Lane's life is almost a compendium of a male high school student's fantasies every wishful daydream, every fear, every self-pitying reverie.  -A certain kind of male high school student, anyway.  -Oh, very well, if you must know me.  In so much as I (ahem) remember.  It helps that Lane is not the most dazzlingly decent human being in the world.  Sure, he's likeable.  Sixteen-year-old boys (and very likely, although here I'm in less of a position to know, girls as well) are all pretty dismal people, and Lane has his good points.This was Savage Steve Holland's first feature, and it matters not a whit that he's a little uncertain on his feet as a director.  You might think, for the first fifteen minutes or so, that the comic timing is not quite right.  But you'll soon get the pace.  I'm amazed at how many times I find the gags funny; they're all so good that Holland can afford to over-milk them on occasion without us caring.  The jokes are at once daringly original and somehow true to life.  For instance Mr. Kirber's class.  In your typical high school movie classes are so anarchic it's a wonder most of the students can read; at least half, and at most all, of the students don't want to be there.  But ALL of Mr. Kirber's students (with the exception of Lane) LOVE his class.  They hang on his every word, they laugh at his every joke, they're fascinated by every aspect of his subject (geometry ... I think)... but this isn't just a reversal joke, for the torment Lane endures in this class of people all more motivated than he is not at all uncommon.Kirber is played by that weird-looking guy who was ubiquitous in the late 1980s, yet whose name no-one seems to know.  I've just looked it up, and it's Vincent Schiavelli.  Take a look at his filmography.  Already you remember having seen him half a dozen times; you'll be surprised how many more times you've seen him without realising it. "},{"Title":"A quote that stands out...","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a simple-plotted movie, cheesy, and weird, but it's great!  You can say around someone, Give me my $2!, and if they know that line...)My all time favorite movie, because I like the subtle surrelism in it.  BTW, I tried to look up the town/zip code, on the package his little brother gets, and they don't exist...I tried ) "},{"Title":"Creative and silly, but overwrought with '80s cliché","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" They don't get more typical '80s teen comedy than Better Off Dead. Savage Steve Holland's debut feature even goes so far as to have the main character challenge the jerk jock to a ski race in front of the entire school down a supposedly untamable mountain. Basically, that either makes you want to throw on a pair of leg warmers and freak to some synth pop or it doesn't. Those who hold '80s comedy in high regards will likely consider Better Off Dead a treasure, everyone else will be amused and eternally grateful that era is gone and never coming back.Everyone can at least be grateful to this film for launching the career of would-be teen icon John Cusack. Though he wouldn't cement his legacy in that decade until Cameron Crowe's 1989 film Say Anything, he's an instantly likable softie with a tough exterior as Lane Meyer, a teenager whose girlfriend with which he was unhealthily obsessed has left him for the high school's ski team captain to better serve her reputation. Life seems to do nothing but suck after that for Lane, who half-heartedly attempts suicide to comical results.Filling Lane's universe is a kooky family along with a space case mother (Kim Darby) and peculiar science wiz little brother, a demon child paper boy who has come to collect, a best friend (Curtis Armstrong of Revenge of the Nerds fame) who will snort just about anything and a big-boned dorky neighbor who's turned a French exchange student (Diane Franklin) with an eye for Lane into his personal pet.Some of these characters and gags are just off-kilter enough to work, particularly the clueless mother and her terrible cooking and Lane's little brother Badger who's constructing a space ship from homemade parts, but others like the recurring paper boy gag are terribly forced and unfunny. Such is '80s humor.Holland also uses a few out-of-place techniques that would work better as integral parts of the story. Instead, they come off as odd side ventures. One is when Lane animates his ex on his sketchpad in the lunchroom and it starts talking to him, the other is when Lane takes up a fast food job and imagines a Frankenstein creation sequence that results in an anthropomorphic talking pork burger. Such is '80s humor.With a 50-50 joke success rate, the impetus moves to the story to win out with heart, but down the stretch it clings to the overused '80s mold of boy discovering a new girl and then triumphing over the jerk, etc. And please don't call me out on spoilers; you know what's going to happen in this movie 20 minutes in, that's how obvious the pieces are. You simply have to be the type person who loves to eat the '80s up like comfort food to see Better Off Dead as more than just an amusing film.~Steven C "},{"Title":"Halfway There","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remembered this movie with great affection. Just saw it again. Sadly, memory editing had elevated it enormously. What's really all wrong in this film, and it's wrong from start to finish, is that the bizarre, utterly surreal moments never quite work, or fit in. John Cusack is fine as the boy but he's also a very natural presence (and you never for a moment believe that he cares for the idiot girl who dumped him, but that's another story). So you'd think his youthful deadpan would highlight the insanity, but it only adds to the flatness. It's like the insane scenes - the mother cooking a moving sea monster, the claymation hamburgers, the psychotic paperboy or the math class in ecstasy over their teacher and the impossible work, among many - are coming from a different movie. And they infuse no manic energy, which such scenes must do in an otherwise light, ordinary tale. You just stare and wait for the normalcy to begin again. Kim Darby, Ogden Stiers and other actors seem very much like they themselves were not directed in how to react. Only the neighbor's annoying mother conveys the necessary, other-worldly presence so badly needed. Nor is the film helped by the blatant and irritating use of classic Hughes teen angst props, like the drug-crazy, nerdy friend or the obligatory comic Asians. All that said, BOD is watchable. All it needed to be very good was less ambition and much tighter pacing. And a script without 'funny', Twilight Zone asides that die on the screen. "},{"Title":"It's Silly...","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Definitely NOT an overrated film, a little underrated, actually. The film stars John Cusack and if I am not mistaken this was his debut? It looked like it for he was only a teenager (or playing a teenager) when they were making this film. I rented it and watched it in the period of a short time. It's very funny and surreal (dancing hamburgers, how original!). I think what I liked best is that they very much mocked Dan Schnieder (Nickelodeon producer who created crap like ZOEY 101 in the US) they made him a fat, jerky kid with glasses, nasel spray and an overprotective mother. It's silly, really but kind of cute, okay, not THAT cute. John Cusack is as always, a great actor doing stunning and memorable things on screen and whoever that mysterious actress who played the exchange student was did a wonderful job of it. So yeah, watch the movie, but only if you feel like it... "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Surreal","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better off Dead is definitely one of John Cusack's better 80's teen movies and far superior to the dull 'Say Anything'. The surreal situations and characters (the dreadful cook mother, the homicidal paper boy, Lane's best friend) are wonderful and recall the best work of the Coen brothers, while Cusack's hangdog performance is excellent, standing alongside 'the grifters' and grosse pointe blank as one of the best of his career. It stands as one of the most interesting and original teen movies to ever grace the genre and it is a great shame that writer/director Savage Steve Holland never hit these highs again, spending the remiander of his career languishing in TV hell. I cannot praise this film enough.**** out of five "},{"Title":"A holiday classic","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You might be confused by my summary of this movie, but viewing Better Off Dead has become a holiday tradition for me and my family. It has a nice segment of the movie set around the family's gift giving at Christmas, and it sort of gets you into the mood on Christmas Eve for what lies ahead. I'd encourage anyone to pop this movie in and watch family members gather around to join in with laughter.I've probably watched BOD about 30 times, and it's the only comedy in my collection that has never gotten tired. I grew up in the 80's and would never say that BOD captured the Zeitgeist of that era; it's farcical and way over-the-top, which is half the beauty of the film. The characters are hilarious. There are so many gags and great lines, and it only has one or two examples of potty humor, unlike a lot of comedies now that rely almost exclusively on it. John Cusack played the role very well, as one might expect. I will say that I didn't appreciate it as much on the first viewing when I saw it with my middle school friends in the theatre, but it has gotten better over time. Anyone who watches it at least two times, will start to realize why it's a cult classic and one of the great gems of the 80's cinema. I hope Savage Steve Holland is getting some good residuals out of this. Please Savage Steve, come back and direct some more.  "},{"Title":"It Grows On You....","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was when it was released in the theatre.  I was not impressed.  I was 15 years old and I thought it was a bit slow.But then, something happened and like The Waterboy (Adam Sandler Vehicle) the darn thing grew wings!While BOD isn't the funniest movie in the world, it IS one of the most QUOTABLE flicks I have ever seen.  This movie has grown legs and has developed such a cult following simply because of great three-liners such as TWO DOLLARS!...sorry Johnny, I don't have a dime....  I didn't ASK FOR A DIME! TWO DOLLARS....CAAAASH!  and of course, my favorite....from Beth, the complete shallow stuck up ex-girlfriend of LANE MEYER (Cusack) ..I think I need to go out people that are ya know...better looking, drives a better car....And of course, the nostalgia, which is the main reason why most of the people giving this movie an A+ is because we are giving our 80's teen memories an A+.  I bet you most of us are all over 30. YIKES.I hope the DVD has some juicy bells and whistles. Okay, maybe just a few never-before-seen deleted scenes....7/10 "}{"Title":"A Stellar Disappointment","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie did a spectacular job of failing to live up to my expectations. It just wasn't that funny. At all. Perhaps three lines were funny, but they didn't exactly redeem the mess in between them. Maybe I'm old-fashioned in my desire for a cohesive narrative structure, but even the South Park spoof of this movie had a more coherent plot. Making fun of fat people and those with headgear, sniffing strange substances, and obsessing over sex all come together in a relatively successful 80s triumvirate of banality. Save your $1.67 and rent The Bad Seed instead. It's much funnier, and it doesn't even try.  "},{"Title":"The smartest comedy I've ever seen!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My childhood friends and I have a term for a film like this.  They are called Old Time Sake movies.  That is... a movie that reminds us of what it was like to be a kid again.  Movies that encompass that realm range from comedies like Fasttimes At Ridegemont High, Breakfast Club, Secret Admirer, to action films like First Blood, Raiders and Commando to other comedies like Stripes, Back to The Future and Ghostbusters.  Better Off Dead fell into that category because it was a film that we used to watch a great deal when we were fifteen years old.  John Cusack was iconoclastic in our adolescent books because he was in Sixteen Candles, The Sure Thing and a few other films that we admired when we were young.  We admired and laughed at Better Off Dead because it was funny.  I can still remember seeing the commercials for Better Off Dead when I was thirteen.  The one scene that they always showed in the trailer was when the black city worker says  Now that's a shame, white folks be throwing away a perfectly good white boy, or something to that effect, as Cusack was being whisked away in the back of a garbage truck.  I mean, make no mistake about it.  This was a funny movie when you are a teenager.  But now that I am an adult, this film is not only funny, it is probably the smartest teen/funny/reality film I have ever seen.  From what I know, Savage Steve Holland only had a shelf life of two films in Hollywood and that is because even though his two films probably did alright, no one could truly understand the true genius behind his work and his vision.Better Off Dead is about a guy ( Lane Myer )that has been dating a pretty girl named Beth for six months, which in highschool is like the Silver Anniversary of dating.  On the day of ski tryouts she dumps him for Roy Stalin, the captain of ski team and the only guy who has skiied the K-12.  He also plays guitar, sings and is a pretty good looking guy.  After she dumps Lane, he tries first to commit suicide, then get her back.  To make matters worse, he has a mother that improvises when she cooks so that his meals look more like jello, whether they are bacon or steak or toast and jam.  His father dislikes him at the moment because he has purchased a car that sits dormant on the front lawn.  His father is also reading teen psychology books and is trying desperately to communicate with him using the latest colloquial terms.  His dad of course screws them up by saying things like  Right Off instead of Right On.  His little brother never says a word but buys books on how to pick up trashy women and how to build a rocket using household items.  This works for him, Lane can't even seem to get his homework done.  Lane also has a friend named Charles DeMar, played by Booger, from Revenge of The Nerds.  He can't take anything seriously and his life revolves around drugs.  At one point, while at the top of the K-12, he remarks, This mountain is pure snow!  Do you have any idea what the street value is of this mountain?  There is a paper boy that wants his two dollars for papers that have been owed to him and to make matters even worse, everyone wants to date Beth now that they have broke up.  Then there is his science class that loves homework more than any highschool class should be allowed to and his next door neighbour is a geek that has a foreign exchange student living there and he is constantly being challenged to a race by two Oriental motorists that always seem to find him at stop lights.  Also, Porky, from Porky's hates him because he has been in two accidents with him yet he is now his boss at his hamburger chain.  There are enough ideas in this film for ten movies.  There really are.  What is so unique about Better Off Dead is that it coyly makes fun of everything that we knew about when we were growing up.  There is not one situation in this film that you can take seriously but at the same time, every situation rings true in so many ways.  We may not have experienced all that Lane does growing up, but in a strange way, many of what the film says is true.  It just has a completely twisted way of looking at it.I don't think you can appreciate this film until you are much into your twenty's.  You can enjoy it and laugh at as a kid, but you will not fully appreciate it until you can understand it's brilliance.  I watched this film for the first time in about five years just last weekend and I could see more this time.  I could appreciate what it was saying and how it went about saying it.  This film makes fun of every single institution that we held sacred as teens.  And it does so in such a smart way that I can honestly say that this is probably the best teen comedy I have ever seen.  John Hughes is a genius, but for different reasons.  Holland is a genius because he can take a Hughes film and turn it upside down and parody it to the point of insanity.  This is that film.Old Time Sake films are films that bring you back to a time when you were young and somewhat carefree.  These films are fifteen years old and they make us laugh because they are funny but also because they remind us of sleep-overs on a Friday night.  When watching a film like this, only have chips and pop, never beer and peanuts, because that's what we did when we were kids.  Nostalgia can be found in abundance with films like this. What a trip!10 out of 10- if you have not seen this film in sometime, believe me, it will hit in ways you never knew existed.  You will laugh until it hurts.  I did! "},{"Title":"Great Cartoonish Fun!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Savage Steve Holland is a warped genius!  This film is total goofy, loopy, cartoonish fun....nothing more, nothing less.  This film is full of delightful surprises, some gently dark humor, wacky ideas and gut-busting laffs that spring up everywhere.  I especially got a kick out of the two oriental guys who always challenged John Cusack to race and provided running commentary of the action through a P.A. system in their car....IMITATING Howard Cosell!!Rent this one with Holland's other films....One Crazy Summer and How I Got Into College for a solid night of silly fun! "},{"Title":"80s quirkfest that never really works","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've seen bits of this before, and it always seemed amusing. Watching it in whole, though, I was very unimpressed. It has a very unique and quirky sense of humor, but, in my opinion, it hardly ever works. John Cusack plays a teen whose super cute and popular girlfriend dumps him for a jock. He spends the rest of the movie moping while cute French exchange student Diane Franklin starts to fall for him. The movie tries to set itself apart from the John Hughes comedies with its oddness, but in reality it reinforces the same stereotypes that every other 80s teen comedy does. Some of the cast is amusing, especially fat dork neighbor Dan Schneider, whose mother hosts Franklin almost as if she's ordering a male order bride for her social outcast son, and Kim Darby as Cusack's spaced-out mom. Curtis Armstrong pretty much reprises his role as Booger from Revenge of the Nerds as Cusack's best friend. I barely laughed at all during the flick. Even stuff that seemed amusing wasn't doing anything for me. I've seen Holland and Cusack's followup film, One Crazy Summer, and I remember liking that one better. "},{"Title":"Better Off Watching again and again","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sitting in my flat one night restless and unable to sleep, I decided to watch Better off Dead, a film I had not seen since my carefree days as a Youth in the glorious 80's. Well I'm glad I did! Better Off Dead Is without doubt one of the funniest films ever made, from the moment Lane's Mother accidentally. nearly hangs him while she is hovering, I was hooked. This film manages to capture everything that was good and bad about your Teenage years in the 80's in a very. very funny way. Bizarre as they are I can Relate to all of Lane's situations and problems from the Cotton Buds scene to the trouble your first love brings. There are so many scenes and quotes from this film that had me laughing and I still laugh at them after numerous viewings 'It gets Better the more you watch it' All the characters in the film are Hilarious from Lane's family his wacky neighbours Ricky and his Mom. I don't want to spoil the film for anyone by saying anymore except just watch it and enjoy... And then watch again and you too will be hooked... Here is some of my favourite quotes 'Come on my little Buckaroo', Gee, I'm sorry your mom blew up Ricky ... guess she'll have to lay off the Spicy foods for a while, 'Buck up little camper, we'll beat that slope Together', Right Off,  Do you have any idea what the street value Is of this mountain, Fat, drunk, and stupid is no way to go through Life, son, 'Everybody will be wearing one', A got it for my Christmas' .. Ps ... I never slept all night due to laughing and watching twice. "},{"Title":"Holland puts John Cusack on the Map","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Northern California teenager John Cusack (as Lane Meyer) gets dumped by his hot blonde girlfriend (Amanda Wyss). This could be because Mr. Cusack takes a shower with his dirty socks on, and blow dries them to wear another day. Cusack decides to commit suicide, believing he'd be Better Off Dead than without Wyss. But, he never seems able to get the deed done. Parents David Ogden Stiers and Kim Darby are clueless. Aspiring drug addict pal Curtis Armstrong (as Charles de Mar) is unable to help.Luckily for Cusack, cute French foreign exchange student Diane Franklin (as Monique Junot) moves into the neighborhood. And, you know what that means. A delightful girl with a firm grip, Ms. Franklin can also fix cars and ski. The reason Savage Steve Holland's hapless comedy flopped upon release is because nobody bothered to tell audiences you were supposed to drop acid about six hours before the movie. Fortunately for the film, people have become innately trippy over time. No bad flashbacks here.****** Better Off Dead... (8/23/85) Savage Steve Holland ~ John Cusack, Diane Franklin, Curtis Armstrong, David Ogden Stiers "},{"Title":"Cusack Actually Plays A Teenager","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Cusack played so many teenage/young adult roles that sometimes we forget he actually was a teenager in some of his movies. Better Off Dead...was one of them. The film is a quirky combination of Cusack's usual put upon everyman character, several good supporting actors, and nicely written scenarios that eschew formula until the denouement. Cusack stars as a teenager who has to deal with weird families (his own and the neighbors', who are harboring an attractive French foreign exchange student), the loss of his super-hot girlfriend to the dumb school jock/jerk, the inadvertent drag races initiated by two Asian classmates, and the abuse of his employer while working at Pig Burger! Whew! First time writer/director Savage Steve Holland keeps things hopping unconventionally with funny dialog, gags, and even a bit of some animation. Cusack is enjoyable as always, and the large supporting cast is just fantastic. David Ogden Stiers is good as a father battling a sadistic paperboy, Kim Darby is hilarious as a mother who can't cook, and Scooter Stevens is funny as the proverbial genius little brother who shows up Cusack. Laura Waterbury is screamingly funny as the mother of Ricky (played by Dan Schneider), a portly would-be Romeo rebuffed by the live-in French foreign exchange student played by Diane Franklin, who later takes a shine to Cusack. Even the usually sinister Vincent Schiavelli, as a high school teacher, is funny cast against type. The only faults are the much too old Curtis Armstrong as a classmate and the ultimately conventional wrap-up. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"For Two Dollars More","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Most of me watches Better Off Dead... and thinks about how cool and funny it is. But there's a piece of me that wishes it was something more, a launching pad for the genial gonzo of director Savage Steve Holland, for whom this was both a hello and something of a goodbye.Dead... was Holland's baby all the way, a playful recounting of growing up in privileged Greenwich, Connecticut, here renamed Greendale, California, and being rejected by his dream girl because, as she so delicately puts it in this movie, I really think it's in my best interests if I go out with someone more popular, better-looking, and drives a better car.Holland's male lead, John Cusack, gets an early chance to flash and narrow those expressive eyes of his at every twist and turn. And what twists and turns! His character, Lane Meyer, must contend not only with his old girlfriend and her new impossibly-dashing beau, the only person ever to ski the legendary K-12 run and live, but a mother who cooks green bacon, a father who tries to talk hip to him by reading from a 1970s handbook, a paperboy who stalks Lane for two dollars like Freddie Krueger, a job at a burger joint where washing your hands is considered wasting company time, and two Asian brothers in mustard sports jackets who challenge Lane to a series of drag races at various odd moments.One speaks no English, the other learned English from watching 'The Wide World of Sports.' Lane explains. So you tell me... Which is worse speaking no English at all or speaking Howard Cosell?What makes Better Off Dead special, first of all, is how surreally funny it is, playing very loosely but working most of the time by following one impossible twist with another. Coming out amid a rash of '80s teen movies that suffered from excessive navel-gazing and pretenses at being taken seriously, Better Off Dead works more in the Airplane! vein than like, say, The Breakfast Club. Holland keeps things light even as his film knowingly dials into teen angst.I love the scene where Lane finds himself sitting terrified in a math class where all the other students laugh and applaud as teacher explains the three cardinal trapezoidal formations. Haven't you ever felt so alone and lost in school like that? Holland was just coming into his own as a movie director, and pulling out everything he could think of.Not all of it works. There's a claymation sequence involving a hamburger coming to life Frankenstein-style that stops the movie cold for five critical minutes, and Holland leans too much on the obnoxiousness of a mother-son duo who bother a French exchange student Lane takes a shine to. Sometimes you think of a line from another 1985 movie, This Is Spinal Tap, about that fine line between stupid and clever.But the overwhelming impression I come away with is that Holland was a real talent of his time who deserved more of a chance to turn his youthful angst into comedy. He got a couple more movies to direct, including one with Cusack, but they were not successes and he was limited to TV work after that.Is life fair? No. Is life funny? Yes, especially when presented the way it is here. Better Off Dead makes you glad to be alive. "},{"Title":"Off-beat 80's teen comedy","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A teen film with a difference, Better off Dead is like a cross between a John Hughes film and a Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker production.John Cusack is in top form, as he plays the role of Lane Meyer, a young guy who has just been dumped for the school stud by his dream girl, Beth. Diane Franklin, as gorgeous French exchange student Monique, steps in to help young Lane find his feet.There are some absolutely hilarious scenes in this movie, and Savage Steve Holland mixes them well with the drama. Unfortunately not everything works in this off-beat film, but the material that does is great in a wacky, very funny show.Monday, July 19, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Better Off Dead (1985)","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so typical of the 1980s teenage comedy classics, like Ferris Bueller's Day Off, or Fast Times from Ridgemonth High. It has your typical teenage protagonist, who can be either a complete loser geek, or on the flip side, the coolest dude in school. The plot would typically be about him getting his girl, or trying to win back his girl, against simple odds, in ridiculous madcap situations.A very young John Cusack plays Lane Meyer, a boy who loses his girl Beth to the school's ski jock Roy, who is the only person alive to ski the K-12. Frustrated by Beth's throwing of their 6 months relationship, Lane tries to commit suicide, only that he becomes unsuccessful in his attempts.Of course, you cannot keep our good man down, and he slowly rediscovers his self belief and confidence, courtesy of a new romance with French exchange student Monique Junot.The cast is relatively huge, starting with the Meyer family - a father who can't get proper respect, a kid brother who is the family genius, and a mother who's cooking is of strange colours and can walk around on its own. You also have the loud mouthed neighbour with her overweight son, a nasty diner employer, a wicked and persistent newspaper delivery boy, two Asian brothers who like to race Lane, and of course, Beth and Roy.The jokes come in hard and fast, and varies from slapstick, to wit. I particularly like the scene where Lane and Beth first met, with the totally insane touching of the nose and ears stemming from reading too much of the opposite sex's body language. You'll probably be able to identify with some of the situations too, the pains of growing up.In all, Better Off Dead is one of Cusack's early movies, which seem to suggest that he's a master at playing non-conventional characters, as seen from his filmography. Definite must watch for his fans.Really barebones version of a Code 1 DVD. "}{"Title":"Good movie, funny at times, entertaining throughout","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Savage Steve Holland's teen movie from the 80s left me just as pleased as watching something like Ferris Bueller which was more uplifting, but both films were entertaining 80s films that are not exactly perfect in style (some flat characters, exaggerated scenes, situations that are not believable), however a lot of films were like this in the 80s, Ferris Bueller, Fast times at ridgemont high, etc.. This film is about a teenager, Lane Myer (Cusack), who is dumped by his girlfriend he is obsessed with and has to cope with it. The film is written and directed decently by Savage Steve Holland. The cast gets it done, Cusack was good but still not his best here I think, probably because the script was a bit lacking, i liked Cusack's acting more in more recent films such as High Fidelity, but he was good here. The rest of the cast was nothing special except for Diane Franklin who gave a good performance as a french exchange student that lives across the street from Lane. I liked this film it was entertaining, it wasn't perfect, definitely had some flaws, but it was a good movie. 8/10 #216 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"One of the best teen movies ever made in the 80's","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Contains lots of teen themes.. The Girl you want. The Car you want. Parents that are just plain weird. The Guy that is better (or so you think) than you. The Job you hate. The younger brother that seems to have it all going on. A lot is happening in the side plots like the mailman who sorts your mail for you. The paperboy mafia who wants his $2., etc. The animation scenes are great in a crude pre-Eek the Cat sorta way. Anyone who had a mother who was not a great or even good cook can find the humor in the Christmas exchange scene or the scene where the green goop crawls off the plate and our hero Lane Meyer has to be excused. Way too much going on in this movie to convey the total greatness of the whole interconnected plots in less than the required 1000 words. I would still consider this a great stay at home date movie even now. One more note  In the scene where Lane Meyer and Charles De Mar are on top of the K-12 and Charles De Mar states that this is a pile of pure snow.. Notice after he snorts said snow off his stove top hat that for a sec or so it looks like the #42 on top of the hat. Happy ending for the end.. Of Course. "},{"Title":"WOW, I was 15","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When this was first released I was 15 and when I first saw it I had just turned 16 and had gotten my junior operators. Looking back I am amazed that I lived past that to my 17th birthday. I am ashamed to say but I had a lot in common with Lane. Unpopular in school, picked on by the jocks, had my GF dump me for the same jocks, went totally anti-social and a little but psycho and suicidal after that. Met a girl who though we never became a couple became a great friend then and still is, and we still talk, I mentioned having seen this movie and she started laughing as she had seen it on HBO at the same time I had, and had been thinking the same things I was. You she if Lane had been cast as a female lead it would have been her, but she also fit Monique as she was in foster care and her brother wanted to date her, so she played dumb. If you want a good movie to bring back some memories from Highschool good and bad then this will do it, this has to be one of the best coming of age comedies I have seen, and is as good now as it was 20 years ago. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special, But It Is Likeable","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the few good things about the teen-based films of the 1980s may have been the cinema's discovery of John Cusack. Easily one of the best and most under-rated actors in Hollywood now, Cusack made his presence first felt in the mid-1980s as he paid his dues in silly teen flicks. Here he plays a loser who has just lost his girlfriend and tries several times to attempt suicide to escape his miserable life. Of course he fails with hilarious results and finds reason to live in the hopes of getting her back while unwittingly falling in love with a French foreign exchange student. A hilarious film that is not bad for the genre, but there are still too many shortcomings for the movie to be a total success. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Alive","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You have to love any director who goes by the name Savage Steve Holland.  He's only done a handful of films, but fortunately one of them is `Better Off Dead,' one of the better teenage comedies of the &#145;80s.What sets `Better Off Dead' apart is its quirkiness.  Three examples  The treacherous mountain hero Lane Myer (played by John Cusack) must ski down is named not K-2, but K 1-12.  Myer works at a drive-in that sporting the motto, `Everybody Wants Some.'  In the middle of a scene two burgers suddenly break out in a rendition of the Van Halen hit by that name.  And one of Cusack's many nemeses in the film is an Asian teenager who learned English by watching the Wide World of Sports.  So naturally he sounds like Howard Cosell.The cast is fine, especially Cusack, David Ogden Stiers and Kim Darby as his parents, and Curtis Armstrong (in typical slop/whacko fashion) as Cusack's best friend.The only problem with the film is Cusack's failed attempts at suicide.  It's difficult to judge a 1985 film with 2001 sensibilities, but suicide has never been a funny subject, and it's hard to envision Cusack's character being so shaken by being dumped by his girlfriend that he would contemplate taking his own life. Regardless, the movie is worth a rental.  "},{"Title":"high school love and hijinx","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Really funny show about a fickle high school girl who dumps her beau for a more popular guy. The dumpee spends the rest of the film trying to get this airhead back, which shows how intelligent he really is. This leads to all manner of adventures and mishaps which keep the viewer in stitches. One of Cusak's better movies.  "},{"Title":"Better Off Dead...","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charming 80's comedy about a dumped teen who meets and eventually falls in love with a French exchange student. Great casting of unknown-at-the-time Cusack, who excels perfectly as the troubled teen. Directing debut for Holland.  "},{"Title":"Savage Steve Has Some Issues to Work Out...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...and Better Off Dead (and its companion piece, One Crazy Summer) are his way to do it.  John Cusack's Lane is your average, low-esteem high schooler, bouncing from one strange, exaggerated high school scenario to another.  It doesn't remind me of high school (the kids in Lane's math class are _way_ too smart, even the jock-types!).  This isn't even remotely realistic, but it's hilarious through sheer exaggeration.  Don't forget Lane's mother and her weird Christmas presents. Diane Franklin and Cusack make a cute couple, David Ogden Stiers is hilarious as Lane's long-suffering dad, and Curtis Armstrong is just zany.  Lots of great off-the-wall dialogue and scenarios.  "},{"Title":"Not that funny...","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw One Crazy Summer and and that movie was hilarious. Then I heard about Better Off Dead and I read it was a lot like One Crazy Summer so I thought it would be equally funny. But it wasn't at all it doesn't come close. Better Off Dead seems it's trying too hard to be funny and I didn't enjoy it at all but One Crazy Summer has much more interesting characters I give Better Off Dead 2 stars.   "},{"Title":"Sublime silliness to the extreme!  Cusack cult classic","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  BETTER OFF DEAD (1985) **** John Cusack, Diane Franklin, David Ogden Stiers, Curtis Armstrong, Kim Darby, Daniel Schneider, Amanda Wyss, Vincent Schiavelli, Taylor Negron.  Savage Steve Holland's fiendishly black comedy about suicidal Cusack (in his funniest role ever) love-sick to end it all with some truly uproarious moments.  Funniest line Gee Ricky I'm real sorry about your mom blowing up and all.  Best running gag vendetta set paperboy I want my two dollars! "}{"Title":"Is it just me?","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Is it just me?  This movie makes NO sense to me...something must have been up with the writing, or the editing because i never understand the plot of this film.  Is it about a ski match? Is it about a lost love and a new found one? Is it about dancing hamburgers? What?   I think it has a few funny moments, but i wouldnt say any of these 80's teen comedies were ever very funny enough to be a classic.  I admit its fun to see old John Cusack doing the same shtick. "},{"Title":"Not a very good John Cusack movie!!","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm A BIG John Cusack fan; Hot Pursuit, Sure Thing, and Grosse Point Blank are 3 of my favourite all time films. So imagine my excitement at finding a Cusack film I hadn't seen, on Play.com, namely 'Better off Dead'. How disappointed can you be?? Animated burgers, weird paperboys,and freakish characters made this a film I really just wanted to end after about half an hour. The fat gimp boy is irritating, Monique's French accent is very poor, and the guy out of Moonlighting laughs too much. Cusack is fine, but the film is far too surreal in parts for my liking. If you like mental films and you take lots of drugs, this is probably for you. Unfortunately, I don't. At least it only cost me £7.95!! "},{"Title":"A great, positive movie","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. It's got lots of zany humor and colorful characters, and it also contains an upbeat, positive message. It deals with teen suicide, but it doesn't at all condone it. John Cusack's character feels lonely and worthless and tries to kill himself, but in the end he gets a second chance at life like George Bailey at the end of IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE and eventually gets a new girlfriend and a happier existence. When I was in high school, one of my teacher's sons committed suicide by hanging himself. It was a tragedy, especially since his parents never expected him to do that. They still commemorate the anniversary of his death. If more people learned how to have hope and faith like John Cusack did in this movie, they'd realize how stupid suicide is and that they have a lot to live for. So I think the movie delivers a very positive message in saying that no problem is too great to overcome. "},{"Title":"Original But Bizarre.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Cusack plays Lane Myer, an unhappy high school student who has just been dumped by his beloved girlfriend, and becomes confused and despondent. He must also deal with out-of-touch parents(Kim Darby & David Ogden Stiers) and a electronics genius younger brother, who is trying to build a spaceship in the back yard. He then decides to commit suicide, but can't quite decide how to do it...Strange comedy(to say the least!) is undeniably funny at times, and Cusak is appealing, but film is so far off-the-wall, that it leaves the house altogether! Originality will only get you so far; there has to be some grounding in reality! Still, this does have its moments, and a surprisingly good heart, despite its premise. Once seen, it wont be quickly forgotten... "},{"Title":"Better off dead A bad Movie that grows on you.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Better off Dead was a B movie, but the story of the French exchange student saves this ill-serious film. Most comedies aren't worth watching, just like most Horror films are disagreeable. If most of us were asked what our favorite movies were, they would be the unread films, like Once upon a time in Mexico, or something nobody else approves, like, The Legend of Billie Jean. Better off dead starts off like other B movie comedies, and then becomes a more serious film. It isn't king of all thought, but if you like movies that do not require comment, then Better off dead is the movie for you. ~ Tyrone Quin. Http//groups.msn.com/Thedarkknight/ "},{"Title":"Lively, unsophisticated teen comedy","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead is a silly, unsophisticated teen romantic comedy romp with the comedy working much better than the romance. An okay and lively flick without a dull moment, BOD is a fun little taste of early Cusack which falls somewhere between Sixteen Candles and One Crazy Summer. "},{"Title":"Odd 80s Cusack Vehicle","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This type of film has vanished; a fossil record that includes Weird Science and Real Genius. Maybe they haven't vanished, rather, like the intended audience, Better Off Dead&#133; type films have just matured and evolved into the species that includes Being John Malkovich. This film defies the logic of the 80s teenage romantic comedy; a system that you will find in the typical John Hughes film of this time. There is not a better actor than John Cusack that could play a lead role in an off-the-wall 80s suburban fantasy; for Pete's sakes, a skiing team? Around John Cusack's Lane Meyer, revolve a bevy of delightful, exotic characters. The writing is acceptable, but the vision and imagery is colorful and robust. For this reviewer, this film is infinitely more excellent for peripherals of the Lane Meyer plot line. "},{"Title":"THE ABSOLUTE WORST MOVIE EVER MADE HONESTLY","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most bad movies make you laugh, not because they're funny, but because how bad they are.This one is so bad, you can't even laugh.  I actually felt like i was going to vomit after watching this movie.  I suppose this movie is used in film analysis courses to show how NOT to make a movie.Especially watch for the actors who portray Lanes parents and Charles.  They are trying soo hard to be funny I kind of feel bad for them.The writing/directing by Savage Steve is absolutely horrible.  I wonder how anyone involved in the making of this movie ever went on to make any other ones.  The script is horrific.  The only Savage thing about Steve is they way in which he makes movies, with no regard to the physical health of the viewers after watching them.  Extremely savage indeed.I wonder how John Cusack ever became famous after being in this movie.  I wonder how anyone could ever think it was funny.  I wanted to kill myself more than Lane did by the end of it.For anyone who is looking to throw up, just watch the Everybody Wants Some scene.  Be careful though, it could honestly kill you. "},{"Title":"A bit odd at times, but overall funny.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This John Cusack movie is overall pretty funny. Some good jokes, funny situations, and the homicidal newspaper boy that chases John Cusack's character around even onto a baseball stadium at one point. It's worth recommending, but not neccesarily great if you know what I'm saying. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but not as good or funny as One Crazy Summer","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Better Off Dead is a pretty good movie, but the humor isn't as good as in One Crazy Summer. One Crazy Summer has a nice feeling to it while you watch it, but Better Off Dead still has some laughs, and is pretty entertaining. I give Better Off Dead **1/2 out of ****  "}]