[{"Title":"Dude the Koff  Word !","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"73 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Although others might disagree, I strongly believe that there are far too many beautiful moments in this film that do demand mention and critique · Close you eyes and LISTEN to the last few seconds of the credit's score. That is one *enraged* horn.· There are lots of chubby and scruffy-haired men  in The Army in this movie.· In the 1st back-shot, there is obviously no gun on the first hijacker that approaches the caravan. In the next two shots, there obviously is a gun strapped behind him.· Dudikoff does a lot of bunny hops and touchdown-dives in his first battle sequence for no apparent reason.· Black Army Dude  Gets shot in the back with an arrow AND gets stabbed in the stomach with a sword. Later, when Black Star Ninja orders his men after Joe, can be seen getting up and walking off the set. (*)· The First Truck that Dudikoff helps out in the first shot leaves with its back flap open. Later, it's tied down.· Ninja's carefully sliding down palm tree's like Ghostbusters's· (*) ALSO  The second arrow that the Palm Tree Ninja fires at the 2nd Army dude is in the scene before he fires it.· Not even his commanding officers seem to know Joe's name or rank.· Everybody makes a big deal about Joe being the `American Ninja' but no one mentions that Senior Ortega only hires Phillipino Ninjas. What's up with that ?· `He Posses great SKILLS.'· Happy, light-hearted music during the 'Romancing The Stone' moment when Joe cuts the Cornell's  daughter's miniskirt.· Ninja look over bush. Ninja look under bush.· Joe hangs out with The Cornell's Daughter and the movie turns into an Irish Spring commercial few a few terrifying moments. Joe looks sincerely nervous, confused, and sexually frustrated during this awkward moment.· `Have you ever heard of Nijistu, Sir ?...Well, according to witness testimony and evidence, this massacre was the work of Ninjas.'· `Ninjas ?'· `Yes, Sir.'· Senior Ortega  The Frenchman ? Dude, come on ! Make up your mind !· Joe does a great lazy-ass, pansy, salute and then 90-degree exit, stage left.· `Date of Birth  Unknown... But at age 16 was sent to reform school for almost killing a man.' Now, wait a second. If you don't know when you were born, how can you tell when you are 16 ?· `Construction crew found him in an island off the Pacific 6 years ago, knocked unconscious by an explosion where they were blasting a road threw the jungle.'  Remember this quote. That means that all of the flashbacks to when Joe was a VERY pre-pubescent child, was only `6 years ago.' Ninja time-warp paradox.· As is mentioned before, Senior Ortega, in a very Austin Powers moment, likes to describe his plans allowed in front of the Mr. Mijagi Guy.· Color-cornated  ninja running through the swing set of death traps.· The chubby Army troop that Jackson leads in March is pretending to, but really isn't, mumbling any type of military drill march.· `We left all the glory boys in Vietnam.'· `Ain't this a bitch ? I've been instructing martial arts in the Army for many years now.....'· When Jackson presses Joe about his kung-fu origins, Joe answers that, `It's a long story.' He then proceeds to describe that `long story' in 4 sentences  13 seconds flat.· `I knew I touched something again.'· Joe gives Jackson a manly head-nuggie in a very Top Gun oily-bicep moment.· Charlie asks Joe how he plans to get off the base without the MP's noticing and Joe is like, `Well, check out that huge ramp that someone conveniently  left right next to that wall.' Whomever was Dudikoff's stunt double that day earned their pay the hard way. Watch that landing in slow motion and try not to cringe. Our friend, the horn, is also back with a vengeance.· Senior Ortega feels not only comfortable explaining  his plans aloud to the Mr. Mijiagi Guy, but also in giving assignation commands in front of his waiter.· Just as Joe's commanding officers don't know his name or rank, Joe never has to identify himself when showing up for duty.· When hosting Saturday Night Live, John Goodman had this great `Ninja Community Collage' skit where he tried unsuccessfully to train his class of ninja to attack their enemy all at once, instead of one at a time. They even sampled clips from `American Ninja 3'. Only after viewing this movie a few times over can you appreciate the brilliant humor of that skit.· Ninja in a box !· In the Indian Jones / Lethal Weapon / Cape Fear moment, Joe hides under the truck. From his vantage point, you can see that as they pull into the warehouse that the driveway is empty. In the next shot there are 4 ninja (3 left  1 right) standing in the driveway.· Bonus points if you catch the Black Star Ninja's bald spot !· The Ambushed guard is very obedient when Joe stuffs him into a barrel.· Just as the are random ramps around the base, there are also random ladders next to the barbed wire fences of the stockade.· When caught in an arm lock, Joe just kind of blows off the Black Star Ninja.· ½ hour later, Jackson signals Joe in the motor pool with his truck's headlights.even though Joe is only a few feet off-stage to our left.· `You gotta trust somebody, sometime !'· Jackson drop kicks one dude's rifle then throws down a great , `Peace !....never mind.' sign.· The Segarant's exploding car. Like a Pinto in heat.· `Without this shipment, this county will fall to the Communists !'· Bonus points if you can spot the Cornell's bald spot.· Close your eyes and listen to Joe kick people in the nuts.· The Mr. Mijagi Guy pops up again and we have a flashback back to `when I was 6' which, according to the previous information, was `6 years ago.' Which means that Joe is now 12 years old and in the Army because `at age 16 he was sent to reform school for almost killing a man.' Ninja time warp paradox.· `Beware the Black Star Ninja. He just saw Jedi last night for the 15th time and is biting it's plot, big time.'· As mentioned before, we are in store for a great massacre royal. Every extra gives performances above and beyond the call of duty, but honorable mention does go out to · 2nd person that Jackson shoots on balcony who drops his weapon and climbs FORWARD, over balcony.· Dude who suddenly appears on the hood of Jackson's jeep than just as suddenly pushes himself off.· Guy in the corner of the roof who throws his hands up in the air and waves them just like he just don't care.· Ninja flamethrower ! Ninja wrist machine gun ! Ninja laser !· Joe jumps onto a real helicopter with a front rail. Later, a toy model helicopter with no front rail is blown up by Jackson.· Like I said, this is a priceless movie filled with many a beautiful moment, only a few that I have shared with you here. Anyone who is serious about being a director/ editor should study this film intently for 72 hours and then write their own thesis. Myself, I pledge to you, the good people of the imdb.com board, that when I become Quinten Tarinatino famous (or at least Kevin Smith successful) to hunt down and employ Michael Dudikoff in a cameo role in EVERY SINGLE one of my big-budget films. It's the least that we owe him for his contribution to our art form.· Strength and honor -· Bolger.  "},{"Title":"Ninja A-Team","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" If you are watching this movie expecting anything more then action then you're a bit touched in the head. Action indeed, but a special form of action! IT'S 80'S ACTION! All that's missing from this show is I love it when a plan comes together, as offered by the immortal Hannibal Smith from The A-Team as played by the venerable George Peppard.Make no mistakes. This movie is le grande fromage, but it is fun. Even the super evil ninja with the cute little star tattooed below his right eye is downright adorable. Who doesn't like cute ninja's? Even those with lasers? Highly recommended (if you have enough booze and detach yourself from any form of realism). Fun. "},{"Title":"Sure it's not Lucas or Kubrick it's b action movie take for what it is!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Amercian Ninja is a gulity pleasure if anything. The film has some decent fight scenes and some good B movie acting. Mike Dudkoff and Steve James are some smooth pimps in the movie bringing it to the man as only they can. If you like 80's karate movies then check this out. "},{"Title":"A ninja today, keeps the doctor away.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" A new army recruit proves to have Ninja skills which he then uses to fight hi-jackers and ninjas. Nobody seems to be impressed that the soldier saved the equipment and saved the colonel's daughter, just upset he got people killed. However this is because high officials in the army are in on the scam. Also the black-star ninja looks to do in our hero. American Ninja is one of those movies they just don't make anymore. The action sequences are well staged (Although edited poorly) and there are enough cheesy moments to make American Ninja just lovable. For example the part where the black star ninja pushes over a palm tree which then falls near Dudikoff's love interest. Also the climax has so much goofy action and ponderous zen philosophy (I dare anyone not to smile when Dudikoff says Then he must die!) that the movie is even more fun now than it was in 1985.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"Mildly diverting '80s action","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Most people today have forgotten, or just don't know, that AMERICAN NINJA did quite well (for an independent film, at least) when released to theaters, grossing 35 times its 1 million dollar budget. The sequels (that were released to theaters) didn't do as well, the chief reason probably being of Dudikoff's performance. For his first starring role, Dudikoff is pretty underwhelming in the lead. He has a blank expression in his eyes a lot of the time, and other times he seems plain nervous, as if he doesn't seem to know what to do. And it's clear that he was far from an expert in martial arts, seeing that the choreography has him doing pretty simple moves much of the time, and that for the most part he does only one or two moves before the editing cuts to another angle.Most of the action (with or without Dudikoff) isn't terribly spectacular, and many viewers will probably get a little impatient between action scenes, since the movie isn't wall-to-wall action. Still, the movie never gets to be seriously boring; there are a few decent action scenes, and the goofiness of ninjas bouncing the story around does give the movie an entertaining cheesiness. Plus, there is the presence of Steve James, who (despite his limited time) really gives a likable and entertaining performance, and gets to show his genuine martial arts skills. He got to show more of all this in the sequel, which unsuprisingly is a significant improvement over this entry. "},{"Title":"mindless fun","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Yes this is unrealistic and far fetched and whatever word you wanna call it, but its fun.  Dudikoff is a speechless loner in the army.  In the first five minutes a convoy is hijacked and big Mike defends everyone all by himself, one of many good, if unbelievable, sequences in the movie.  Several times Dudikoff is asked to dispatch small armies of ninjas and even though its too Superman-ish, they're nicely choreographed, so you just sit back and shake your head smiling.  There's also good chemistry from Dudikoff and James, his buddy through the whole thing.  And this probably sets a record for most crushed testicles in a movie, as there are several moments when theyre grinded with heels, knees, or palms.  I still laugh 14 years later when James gives the saw to a bad dude (or was he saying sir?).  According to Joe Bob Briggs, this set a record for most deaths in a movie with over a hundred.  Even without counting that wouldnt surprise me, though some movie expert claims that Chuck Norris' Invasion USA holds the record for most dead, which came out the same year.  What a double-bill that would be. This gets my vote for best martial arts film of the 80s. "},{"Title":"chop socky action","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  For those who know Michael Dudikoff, he most-likely became a household name thanks to this movie. Who knows where he would be today had Chuck Norris not passed on the film. (Probably busy as a child psychologist since that's what he originally wanted to be). This is a film I virtually grew up with as a kid, thanks to it being on cable seemingly every other day. Anyway, Dudikoff finally got his shot at headlining a movie with this cheapo chop socky flick about an Army G.I. in the Philippines going up against a secret Ninja army and an international weapons dealer. Dudikoff is at his most wooden in the this part, but as someone who's a fan and has see nearly all his movies, I can see the progression of him as an actor over the years, and he has certainly improved since this movie. Steven James co-stars in the first of three collaborations with Dudikoff, and the two work well together, but they're basically the best part of the movie. There's the usual B-movie acting, ranging from stiff to lame over-the-top performances, but pretty co-star Judie Aronson fares well. Of interest only to chop socky fans. "},{"Title":"An hour and half of my childhood.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think this should be required viewing for any male child 13 years or younger. I have no idea how many times I saw this movie growing up, but it is easily over 15 times. Maybe twice that. It has everything a boy who plays with action figures could want, NINJA's, G.I.Joe's (for god sakes his name was even Joe), lasers, flips, sai's, cat's claws, wrist lasers, machine guns, sword fights while in knee deep water (fights in water are always WAY cool), buff dudes with muscles, motercycles, a chick, characters with a disrespect for authority, a butterfly knife being flipped back and forth as Joe cooly leans against a truck, guys getting kicked in the nuts, did I mention flips? Anyway it goes on and on. All the cheesy effects make it all the more fun to view. I just watched the DVD after not having seen it for a few years and I just caught another good effect. When Joe and Patricia jump off the roof, there is an obviously inflated balloon on the roof that they land on. I remember my brothers and I putting sweat wrist bands on our hands as a child and pretending they were the cat's claws thingies that the black star ninja and Joe had.  We had some awesome battles.  I was probably a ninja for at least 3 Halloweens when I was a child as well.  I was an army guy for another few Halloweens.  I was the coolest. Anyway American Ninja rocks. By the way I don't know the name of the movie (I'm sure I could find it out here on imdb easy enough if I cared to look) but a few years back I was flipping throught the channels and I came across a movie where the Michael Dudikoff and Mark Hamill were fighting.  Luke Skywalker fighting the American Ninja!??! I kids dream come true. So go see this movie.  Or even better, show your young son, nephew, or whoever this movie. "},{"Title":"He...Possess...Great...Skills.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When asked at school What do you want to be when you grow up? most kids answer fireman or astronaut.  To hell with that, I wanted to be the American Ninja.  As far back as I can remember I wanted to be the American Ninja.  So, I finally picked it up on DVD the other day and let me say this is one of the corniest action movies out there, but I still love it.  It's one of my fondest childhood dreams.  As unrealistic as it may seem, Michael Dudikoff stills kicks ass, as does the late, great Steve James.  Dudikoff single handedly takes out an entire private army of ninjas.  It's better than Commando.  It's definitely not for the serious action audience.  But here's the real kicker, the villain who is hijacking military equipment to sell to the highest bidder is only making 4 million dollars.  That's really not that much money for all of the trouble he's going through.  Did he only go to one bidder or what?  Oh well, it's all about fun, right?  My friend came up with the suggestion that we should get all of the eighties martial arts stars and have a huge battle royal.  To which I replied Well, Dudikoff and Steve James would team up with Ralph Macchio to win the thing.  Check out jedibolger's comments for a hearty laugh. "},{"Title":"An 80's action gem","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The 80's was the time for action movies like The Terminator, Missing in Action, Die Hard, Red Scropion, First Blood, The Punisher, RoboCop, The Running Man etc. American Ninja is another 80's action movie and like the other action movies it's great fun to watch. It's got great martial art scenes and great action scenes, the acting in this movie is fine. It's also interesting how the American take on the Ninja genre is different to the Chinese take on the Ninja genre, (The Ninja Squad, Ninja Terminator, Golden Ninja Warrior etc.) Both takes on the Ninja genre are entertaining to watch.American Ninja is a 80's gem of an action movie that doesn't disappoint with the action and violence. American Ninja spawned four sequels which were American Ninja 2 The Confrotation, American Ninja 3 Blood Hunt, American Ninja 4 The Annihilation and American NInja V.American Ninja is a great action movie that should be seen. Check this out. 10/10 "}{"Title":"American Ninja- Definition of movies of the 80's","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" American Ninja is and was one of the best movies of the 80's in my opinion, you can just feel that. This film didn't really make ''it'' to the top, it was a low-budget film, didn't really got popular let's say but ya, it's really a film worth seen. Why you must ask? This movie had it all, a great introduction (the main character, sub-characters), they show the main character, they show his attitude, everything, by that you can have an idea of how he is basically. And after they move on..passing on the action ''moments'', our character Joe Armstrong and many other of his comrades get ambushed in this type of forest, he fights back against them, his friends get killed..and then he falls in love with the colonel's daughter.And then the story proceeds..other people start to bully him because they thought he was trying to act as some sort of hero, he then fights one of the ''leaders'' of those guys and after that they become like friends. As you see, this film had it all, it had Romance, Friendship, Fights and well the rest..you just have to see how the story goes. I know the film might sound boring but don't, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great action!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I know that Cannon films have a bad rep, but I find a few of them enjoyable.  This is one of them.  At first, it might remind you a little of an episode of the A-TEAM, but the action is brilliant and the performances from a cast of little-known actors is rather good.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!Michael Dudikoff is great as the monosyllabic Joe, the American Ninja of the title, and Steve James is great as Jackson, the corporal who takes a shine to Joe after Joe bests him in a fight.  The other characters are all rather two-dimensional.  The villain, Ortega, is a particularly  bland character.  Just your run-of-the-mill drug lord, with big ambitions.   His number two, the Black Star Ninja, is much more interesting, as he is a ruthless warrior.  You just know that he and Joe are going to face off against each other in the end.   Yes, there are cliches in here, the biggest one being the fact that Ortega's supposedly mute gardener turns out to be the sensai who raised Joe and taught him his skills.  Needless to say, this sensai trains Joe for the final big battle when the odds seem stacked against him. The martial arts action is actually very good.  I was telling my brother how some people had slammed the martial arts here.  He believes that they meant that by the standards of Hong Kong action movies, the martial arts here was so-so.  But I think that for an American martial arts film, the action is very good.  This is a great action movie, through and through. "},{"Title":"Chop-Socky!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that well-defines the Chop-Socky film era of the 1970s and '80s. A rebel ninja/Army Private beats the crap out of about 5 billion ninjas. This movie should really be re-titled Ninja Holocaust. I mean, they die after a couple of punches! These are supposed to be ninjas, not garden slugs! Regardless, the fight choreography and soundtrack are awesome, and the acting, of course, is exactly the opposite. This movie is a must-see for martial arts film fanatics. (Even though Jackie Chan aint in it). "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First of all, this movie has many bad sides to it. Initially, the whole ninja-stuff is totally ridiculous. This means that this is a movie you just don't take seriously. If you want to do that, stop reading and watch something else instead. But if you like B-action movies from the 80's just for the fun of it, you'll enjoy this entry to the genre. It's hard to explain why it's so entertaining, since Dudikoff doesn't even make good fight scenes. It's still fun. I guess that Steve James' part in the movie helps a lot in guiding the film in the right direction. The last scene is more 80's than anything else. James handles the machine-gun almost like Arnold did in his prime time. "},{"Title":"Several notches above the usual Cannon fodder","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is, surprisingly enough, an interesting, well-made action picture, an astonishing feat for something coming from Cannon Films (especially the well-made part), tightly directed by Sam Firstenberg, who handles the action scenes expertly. Michael Dudikoff and Steve James work very well together as American soldiers stationed in the Philippines who stumble upon a racket involving corruption, murder, black-market deals between Filipino gangsters and American officers and a ring of ninja assassins. Well acted by Dudikoff and James, but Judie Aronson is annoying as their commanding officer's daughter who inadvertently gets mixed up in the goings-on, playing her as a spoiled Valley girl--after a murderous attack by ninja killers on an army convoy, she's more upset that she got her expensive shoes wet than at the fact that a dozen or so GIs had been killed. The fact that Dudikoff and James finally drove off the ninjas, thereby saving her life, means nothing to her, and in fact she gets angrier at the two of them than at the ninjas responsible for the massacre. It's a totally unrealistic portrayal, and she doesn't get any better during the rest of the film. Her annoying performance is a small price to pay, however, as the rest of the film is quite good, although it does tend to lag in spots. Firstenberg keeps the pace exciting, though, and the many action scenes are extremely well done. The success of this picture inspired Cannon to come out with a string of sequels, none of them anywhere near as good as this one and most of them adding to Cannon's well-deserved reputation for turning out cheap, sloppily made swill. This film is definitely an exception to that rule, however, and more than worth a look. Check it out, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Easy to ignore this film --- too easy. Dig deeper","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Superficially, we have a made-in-the-Phillipines B movie with the Golan-Globus imprint. Just to be clear, in case you are new to the chronicles of B movies, Golan-Globus was a came-from-nowhere production team which tried (with some success) to emulate the feats of similar come-from-nowhere studios which, in the 50s especially, in the teen sub-genre, were astonishingly capable at stealing Hollywood's lunch. This review is not the place to review the oddball list of their productions, except perhaps to note that it included some films LIKE THIS ONE which enjoyed a financial and critical notoriety far beyond what the production values would have suggested. The story is worthy of note. An American is trained by a master in the ancient Japanese art of Ninjitsu. Not necessarily new as such (something similar was on the table in Bloodsport for example) but at the time, when western audiences were just beginning to understand that their notion of a fight was vastly inferior to what eastern audiences had been watching for decades, it was, in its own strange way, noteworthy. Two more points. The film, warts and all, had its moments. Not talking Spielberg, of course, but parts of it were fun. And even more interesting was how the theme would not die. Run an IMDb search for american ninja and you will be deluged with all finds of later iterations on the same theme. In other words -- and this was a peculiar talent of Golan-Globus -- they connected with the audience on a scale beyond the actual offering. For this reason, I gave this film a higher rating than most, and suggest it is worth a watch, especially for students of the genre. "},{"Title":"Don't hassle the Koff.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" American Ninja does do its job as an action film, delivering excitement in respectable doses, whether it's in the form of firefights, chases, or fight sequences. It made Michael Dudikoff into a star in the genre, and gave rise to a series that lasted several years. The low key Dudikoff stars as Joe, a young man with no memory of his past who as a soldier in the Army is stationed in the Philippines. He gets himself into trouble by unleashing his deadly skills, eventually getting wind of a plot by traitors into supplying rebels with Army equipment. He battles a money hungry villain, Ortega (Don Stewart) and a formidable Black Star Ninja (Tadashi Yamashita) and is attracted to Patricia (Judie Aronson), the daughter of his Colonel (Guich Koock). Dudikoff fares better when he doesn't have to open his mouth, having a decent presence on screen but at this time not having a lot of experience as an actor. Aronson, whom people will recognize from either Friday the 13th The Final Chapter or Weird Science, looks absolutely great. Stewart and Yamashita are capable villains (although it's a riot how a man with a name like Ortega has a French accent), but it hardly needs to be said that the performer in this movie that really commands your attention is the charismatic Steve James as Jackson, a fellow soldier initially hostile towards Joe but warming up to him after a confrontation where Joe proves his prowess. Fun location shooting, rousing music by Michael Linn, and a decent pace help to make this enjoyable, as well as the appealing performance by John Fujioka as Joe's mentor. The movie works even better, though, once you stop to think about all the little laugh-out-loud moments (not intended to be that way, of course) that create a very appreciable amount of levity while most everybody on screen does their best to look serious. It's the little things that truly help to make this movie a hoot. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"He possess great skills","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Yep, an American who's a ninja. That's the plot. Good isn't it? Well it's only part of the plot, as it's a love story at heart and about one following their destiny. To hide it, just add bad ninjas. A super bad black star ninja (a deadly performance by Tadashi Yamashita). Army men. Corruption. The Philippines. Steve James. Old ninja mentor. Whinny Colonel's daughter. A French (I think?) crime kingpin. Ninja magic. lasers&#x85; and so on. Hey there's nothing simple here. You get what you get. Cannon productions deliver an independent b-grade, comic-strip action fodder. Enjoyable, fast-paced, no-nonsense and just so random. It's hard not to like. Michael Dudikoff looking square, although you wouldn't say that to his face. His loner character Joe; is out there to impress (although he won't admit --- Glory boys like you get people killed.), as his concentration never falters&#x85; completely staring down at anyone who stares back. He says quite little (letting the martial arts do the talking and getting by with his tingling ninja senses as he seems like a hard man to kill yet alone wound)&#x85; but he wouldn't need to. As he becomes best pals with macho Steve James. Who can talk. But they weren't the best of friends at first, but after their excellent little martial art combat display. Respect is gained. But he's not quite there yet in his training. Surprises wait. His lost memory waits. He's mentor waits. His final lesson waits. Love waits. Destiny waits. This epic waiting game erupts in its big-bang climax.There's so much going on. Does it make much sense? Who knows, but it's a war of the tip-toeing ninjas. Not only we get black dressed ninjas, but many colours of the rainbow; Red, yellow, blue and orange reverting to particular training codes. Well only the black dress get to do the good stuff. Awesome, if over-the-top martial arts. Swift, agile and blistering set-ups&#x85; well it's clunky. Also the drama is evident; a soldier in a monotone manner Oh, my god. After seeing a dead solider with a ninja star in the forehead. Dramatic power at its best. But stunt-work is just as game. There's an explosive high-speed&#x85; ah slow-speed jeep chase that ends with an almighty explosion when a jeep taps a tree. It's a wonderful sight.Formulaic action, but they sell it and sell it well. Brainless enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Ninjas? Yes Sir!","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Now this is what we're talking about! Much imitated but never duplicated. A true classic of the action genre.Pvt. Joe Armstrong (Dudikoff) is a troubled loner sent to an American army base in the Philippines. He doesn't say much, and he really doesn't want to play hackysack with his fellow officers. On a routine truck convoy, baddies kill some of Armstrong's fellow officers, and Armstrong escapes with Col. Hickock's spoiled daughter Patricia (Aronson). While Patricia falls for Joe, the remaining officers on the base blame him for the tragedy. At first, they disparagingly call him karate boy, but he eventually wins their respect and the friendship of Cpl. Curtis Jackson (James) due to his excellent fighting skills. He has been training since he was a boy, but has amnesia and doesn't remember a lot of his past.As it turns out, an evil gun runner, Ortega (Don Stewart) is in cahoots with some of the army brass (including the Fred time to make the donuts guy lookalike John LaMotta as Sgt. Rinaldo), and there is only one obstacle to his newest million-dollar deal Armstrong! Fortunately for Ortega, he has a large Ninja training camp on his vast estate. So he sends his army of Ninjas after Armstrong, Jackson and Patricia. When Patricia is kidnapped, Joe goes into full ninja mode and it becomes ninja vs. ninja in a fight to the finish. Will they be victorious over the nefarious ninja army? It's no wonder Cannon and director Firstenberg put Dudikoff and James back together shortly after this in Avenging Force. (1986) They work very well together, especially here, with the gregarious, charismatic Jackson and the mysterious, belligerent Joe. The climax puts the Rambo-like machine-gun shooting of James with the smooth Ninja-ing of Dudikoff with his never-ending supply of clever moves. It makes for an excellent combination that can't be beat.That's what's great about American Ninja - it's high-quality action fun that seems to put pleasing the audience as its number one priority. Why can't more movies, especially today, do this one simple thing? Please the crowd! What's so wrong with that? Well, we're proud to announce American Ninja simply does just that. It's not uncommon when you watch it with people to hear yells of Yeah! Awesome! and the like. You've heard the title American Ninja so many times, for such a long time, you probably don't realize how good it is. You just have to watch it to see why it's withstood the test of time so well.Comeuppance Reviews fan-favorite Richard Norton appears in a short, small role - but in the credits he is only recognized for stunts. But if you watch carefully, you can spot him as a soldier in the film.For Fun with a capital F - go with this great classic that is deserving of its fame and status.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Tarzan Meets Star Wars","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Young Michael Dudikoff like young Lord Greystoke was abandoned in the jungle on a Pacific island as an infant. But instead of being raised by the apes, he fell into the hands of a Japanese soldier who was still living there because he hadn't heard the war was over. And like young Luke Skywalker it turns out he fell into the hands and learned the fighting skills of a Ninja.Good thing because they were separated and the young kid came down with a case of amnesia, but those fighting skills didn't go away. The orphaned kid, now named Joe Armstrong enlists in the Army and gets himself stationed in the Phillipines. Meanwhile his Obi Wan Kenobe played by John Fujioka gets rescued himself and goes to work as a gardener on the estate of planter and terrorist go between Don Stewart using a cheesy accent that seems to vary between French and Spanish.As these things happen everybody meets and Dudikoff both solves the mystery of part of his past and saves the commanding officer's daughter from the bad guys in this Golan-Globus Production. Charles Bronson was getting a bit long in the tooth now and Golan-Globus needed a new star for their action flicks. Michael Dudikoff filled the bill quite nicely and made quite a few films for them including several American Ninja sequels.This film is all action and Dudikoff dispatches bad guys at a record pace. What he doesn't do, Steve James does doing his best Rambo imitation and showing his considerable martial arts skills.The film has enough holes in the plot to drive one of those army vehicles through you see in the story. But that's what the ticket buying public doesn't care about. Dudikoff certainly looks magnificent stripped to his fighting clothes. No wonder so many sequels were made. "}{"Title":"A treat for B movie action fans.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" MICHAEL DUDIKOFF plays a young soldier named JOE ARMSTRONG who is a loner that does not talk much, has no family & carries a rep of almost killing a guy, Joe drives trucks for the army & during one of his rides him & his fellow drivers, trucks are hijacked. Swinging into action, he decimates the entire team of bad guys & some evil ninja's in the process, his fellow teammates die however & he returns to a somewhat cold reception not only from the Colonel, who's daughter he saved, but from the other soldiers as well, one of which is STEVE JAMES, but after earning their respect during a fight with James (That's how you earn respect in movies like this) Joe discovers that the Colonel is in cahoots with a millionaire bad guy named ORTEGA & in attempting to stop him, Joe finds himself fighting against a squad of ninja warriors & a renegade Black Star ninja who has plans for our hero. American Ninja was a fun action B movie & really not much more, despite some good martial arts scenes, Dudikoff's character is just to shallow & uninteresting, acting more like a traumatized youth than an actual hero & the enemies he's forced to fight barely prompt him to break a sweat & the climactic fight scene between him & the Black Star ninja was kind of disappointing, considering the fact that he appears to be pretty indestructible to anyone he fights but seems to be having problems with the hero, the rest of the actors do quiet well however & fans of action films should find much to love, the direction by SAM FIRSTENBERG is okay too. Not boring & it has some interest, if only the lead hero could have been more appealing. Followed by four sequels starting with the slightly better American Ninja 2 The Confrontation*** stars "},{"Title":"The historical first part! Not Great but stiIl entertaining...","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" So here we are. The beginning of it all. The American Ninja series started right here and what pleasure these movies gave me back in the day.Well recently I found my VHS tapes of the series and I am now watching them all over again to remember old thrills and go back to when I really didn't care about a good plot or great acting.As a kid I just saw movies for fun, and these guys were my heroes.Anyway, I still find these movies very entertaining today.Our hero is Joe. A man of few words, with an expression of stone that suffers from amnesia and is a ninja even if he is American and doesn't have a clue of where or how he learned the art of killing. You got to love this premise. Joe finds out there's a conspiracy inside the army at his base to steal weapons and sell them to.. well bad guys. Of course the villain uses ninjas for the dirty jobs. Its now up to Joe and his friend Jackson to stop this and clean the corruption thus saving the day.The movie however is not as funny as it could be. There should be a lot more action and some of it unfortunately is at night with really bad lightning. Also some scenes are just badly done, especially from Dudikoff. It's a shame. The script is also too serious, making a failed attempt at romance and trying to build a believable story, something not possible! After all we got ninjas all over! After a while the film slows down and just turns a little boring.However there's always a fantastic cliché villain with a bad accent and an evil expression that keeps repeating 'kill the American'. That always made me laugh!Steve James is also a big help. He has charisma, acting talent and a physical ability far beyond Dudikoff that is just bad in everything. He has no expression, shows no emotion and just stares at the camera looking.I have to say.stupid. James has the best action scenes, the most amusing moments and just steals the show. This would happen a lot of times when these two actors worked together.American Ninja is more interesting since it's the start of it all. It has many flaws still it's an entertaining martial arts flick, with nice locations and some OK action.I still like it today and I have no problem admitting it. Guess I have the right attitude. It's a close to mediocre film as are the rest of the series but I'll always remember them as some of my past favorites. "},{"Title":"Simple, silly and harmless entertainment","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is either good or bad depending on your point of view. Its low budget. The plot is basic and obvious. The end result is known by the time the plot is revealed. But all that said, the main actor is cool. The film is great if u go in expecting nothing, as I do with all films. The camera-work is lacking as with everything else but it is an 80's movie and therefore nothing can be as well done as a movie from 2003, but I would also say that it is much better than some of the movies produced today. "},{"Title":"semi-decent film","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty phony and the choreogprahy was also quite corny. The acting and storyline keeps the movie semi-interesting considering the fact that this was one of Dudikoff's first action films. I would not see this movie more then once unless I had a friend that wanted to see it. The film in itself is worth watching if you can stand some impossible martial arts choreography, for example, in one scene Michael Dudikoff is being shot at with bows and arrows and he just happens to catch one. The sound effects are also very poor, however, the filming and acting help to keep the movie interesting. The camera work is pretty good but the choreography just ruins the film. If there was good martial arts sequences in this film then it would be very good.  On a scale of 1-10 I rank this about a 5 just for the good filming and acting. If you get a chance check this movie out sometime just to say you've seen it. Thank you.  "},{"Title":"GI JOE  A Real American Ninja!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  American Ninja is about an army soldier named Joe (Micheal Dudikoff) who ends up taking on a group of weapons smugglers who are led by the Blackstar Ninja (who butcher's the English language) and Senior Ortega (who's French by the way).  At the same time Joe manages to p**s off the Seargent and the Colnol (who are obviously in cahots with the bad guys).  He also finds time to make friends with the army's Martial Arts instructure, Curtis Jackson (Steve James), and to make-out with the Colnol's daughter.The plot may be thin, but this is still an entertaining movie.  What makes this movie great is the actions scenes between Joe and the Ninja's, the hilariously bad acting (with the exception of Steve James), and the hilarious dialogue (ex. Blackstar Ninja- My men fell to kill him in the jungle.).I give American Ninja 5 out of 5! "},{"Title":"well, the best of the american ninja films","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  i think, that it was a cool movie. the ninjas are really cool this time. personally i think that curtis jackson is the real star in the movie. but if you like ninjas , you have to watch this movie. ps steve james, we miss you. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever...not really","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Movies are all about entertainment. If you're an action movie fan and want to be entertained, you can't ask for more. Sure the acting isn't up to par, and the set design and plot are weak, at best; but the choreography rocks, and so does this movie! "},{"Title":"You want action,come get some!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  What can i say about American Ninja,it really does have all the elements of a truly great action film.We have Michael Dudikoff as the ninja of the title taking on all comers in the ninja ranks and winning.It has an eighties soundtrack to die for and with the standard of acting on display,laughs are never very far away.Although it may be more of a cult classic than a true martial arts great,it deserves to be watched with tongues firmly in cheeks and cynical minds open.Be prepared for the thrills and spills of American Ninja. "},{"Title":"The action says it all","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie while browsing through some channels and I could not stop watching. The action in this movie is...well... horrid! All the Ninja's are weak! In the end when they have some girl in hostages, the U.S. forces(?) were SHOOTING at the guy holding her at gun point!! I mean come on...Plus, the bad guy could not hit the broad side of a barn with his gun!!Check out the exploding (non moving) helicopter at the end! EVERYONE MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"A fine ninja movie since Enter the Ninja","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie is like dynamite! I mean it's not your usual ninja action film. An amnesiac soldier named Joe(Michael Dudikoff) fending off ninjas single-handedly is on the fly. And you got this cat named Curtis Jackson(Steve James,1952-93) who knows good fighting when he sees it. When he fights Joe, he got what was coming for him. Iliked the part where he says to Joe that his moves are too perfect, he knows he got somebody who can really kick butt. Having no memory of one self is frustrating, but when the clues start coming on, it's rumble time! The big take down was the best part of the movie, I like the part when Jackson took on the big rebel after he kicks the gun away from him, he got the claws to the conjones and was completely immobilized by Jackson. They when the heroes and the winners of the movie, if the Col.(Guich Kook,Carter Country) had been more helpful than greedy, he would've lived a lot longer. Such as life. This movie got a lot of action, and it's never boring. You'll get a kick out of it. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"more action/ less talking","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Maybe the scripts are not all that, but I definitely liked the action and the plot. Of course the character Joe Armstrong (Michael Dudikoff) is a person of few words,but he has a lot of (fighting/defense)action to give, and that's the part I like, and that why like the first two ninja movies,including 'Avenging Force'. I like the way he keeps himself to himself,reserved,and mysterious. It kind of reminds me of Clint Eastwood, and Jean Claude Van Damme, and Steve McQueen,who I admired for their action,and less talking. "},{"Title":"Wait for the ninja!","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" American Ninja is a simple-minded little Kung-Fu action flick that is here simply for entertainment, no more no less. And let me start off by saying that American Ninja is by no means a film to be taken to heart, it's cheesy and hokey and is pumped full of the most annoying sword sound effects since The Street Fighter, but, American Ninja can be a fun little 80's flick that will keep you on the edge of your couch cushion for an hour and a half if you view it with all your logic in suspension.What I love most of this film is..... It gives me what I expect. Ninjas, ninja training, ninja action, and the icing on the cake the epic battle between Joe and the leader of the ninjas.... The Black Star Ninja! Tadashi Yamashita as black star tears up the screen and in one scene, some other ninjas in a fight not equaled by Bruce Lee or Jackie Chan-fast and ferocious! This movie singlehandedly made me want to be a ninja throughout my childhood! Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dudikoff to the rescue...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The first action scene alone is worth watching this 1985 movie over, as unarmed American soldiers take down Filipino mercenaries armed with Automatic weapons. It stars with a blast, literally, and just keeps getting better. I mean, ninjas in the Philippines, does it get any better than that?This movie has it all; stereotypical villain, martial arts, goons unable to-hit anything more than an inch away, lots of action and of course ninjas! Granted this is not Shakespearian cinema, but it is still entertaining for the campy thing it is. And it was also a trip down memory lane to my childhood.American Ninja is predictable to the core, sure. But it still has an entertaining enough storyline. The background story of Joe doesn't make much sense. But all this can be looked past because this is, after all, a ninja movie! You know that when someone snatches your arrow out of its trajectory and breaks it that you have found your arch nemesis.As for the action and martial arts, taking into consideration that it is from 1985, then it was adequate and did what it was supposed to. However, if you haven't seen the 1980's ninja movies, and only watch todays martial arts movies, I believe you will not be impressed with American Ninja.In all its cheesy, campy self American Ninja is an entertaining enough movie if you want to kill some time with a no-brainer movie. "},{"Title":"Only OK with a time machine","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I remember the days when I would watch just about every action junk that was created. If it had some guns, good. Some martial arts, great. Some Ninjas, awesome! I am far more demanding these days. I don't expect a great story, but I do expect good action. And this movie just doesn't have it.I can still enjoy movies from that era. Commando, for example, is a movie that is still good today. Yes, there is plenty of fighting in American Ninja, but it is so terrible and poorly choreographed, that it won't provide any entertainment, unless you are one of those people that gets amused by how rubbish it is. It is so easy to knock out these supposed Ninjas that you begin to wonder if you could it yourself. The only Ninja thing they have about them is the funny outfit. So, watch this only if you have a time machine and can go back go the time when this movie was fun, or if you're feeling nostalgic about action from those days... "},{"Title":"Firmly in the so bad it's good category","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The title of my review aside, I adore this film.When American Ninja was released on VHS back in 1986 Ninja fever was rampant. Even in the sleepy little village where I lived in England, every single boy of my age dreamed of being a ninja. The school playground was rampant with us wannabe assassins in duffel coats!In the aforementioned little village we only had one video shop, I spent weeks and weeks in a state of despair on Saturday afternoons, as we would go there only to see the dreaded Film on loan tab attached to the box. Eventually we finally turned up one afternoon and it was there...With no Film on loan tab on it! my life was finally complete and we took it home. My parents were never really into the whole film ratings exist for a reason thing. Incidentally, neither were the parents of pretty much all my friends, ahhh...The 80's, these young un's today don't know what they missed. Saturday evening finally came and American Ninja was inserted into the top-loader...As I sat eating my Vesta curry, My life literally changed in the following 90 minutes, I learned more than any teacher could ever show me at school, Joe was literally a god! This guy could do anything...Beat anyone! Most of my friends had already seen it and we were all finally on the same Ninja wavelength! We practiced Joe's moves, disappeared in a cloud of smoke (England gets a lot of fog in Autumn/ Winter) behind the school canteen, jumped over the tyres in the playground as part of our ninja training school.Watching it back a couple of weeks ago (now I am 38) It is total crap, but total crap of the highest order. I thought ninja's were actually, you know, supposed to be elite assassins. Here they seem to get away with being pretty mediocre to be fair, they miss the easiest targets, and are usually knocked out by a punch or kick that does not seem to really connect (or even come close in some cases). Joe comes across like he has something stuck up his backside most of the film (maybe constipation?)and the whole thing is just laughable.But laughable in the best possible way.Thank you Golan Globus and Cannon films, thank you Michael Dudikoff and Steve James, thank you the guy who did the music.I am indebted to you all for this slice of my childhood that I can also enjoy now I am a grown-up, albeit in a different but still entirely satisfying way! "},{"Title":"Was this for real?  Why did I just enjoy that?","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" American Ninja is the definition of a cult favourite. It reeks of the 80's (which I love) and I've never really spent any time with Kung Fu films but I have a feeling it definitely channels that demographic of film. American Ninja was a theatrical release back in 1985 and when you watch it now you wonder how that is even possible. Something like this would never make it theatrically nowadays. American Ninja is everything that makes a bad movie so great. Ridiculous stunts, overacting, underacting, and a main cast that THINK they are so bad-ass and completely serious about these roles that you inadvertently find yourself loving every minute of it and investing yourself in these ridiculous macho heroes. The American Ninja series has been on my to watch list for years. Now that I have some extra time on my hands I started it and it was everything I expected it to be. The stunts and special effects are borderline terrible and yet they're doing the best they can with what they're given. The sub-plot of the mysterious origin of Joe Armstrong is sort of silly and unnecessary but I get they're trying to make this as serious as they can and that isn't easy.What can you really say about Michael Dudikoff? He never made it to A-Lister and hardly is a B-Lister. He had no martial arts training at all going into this film which makes him an odd choice. Somehow he's watchable but mostly for morbid curiosity sake. He is so bland and trying so hard to be brooding and serious. He's so bad that he is perfect in this movie. Steve James is awesome. What else can I say? Like Dudikoff, he is awful. He acts bad but he is so high energy and so much more charisma than Dudikoff. They work together though but James is just train-wreck enough to not be able to not like! Judie Aronson is the romantic interest and she is okay but she is there for a single purpose and does that decently. John Fujioka is Dudikoff's mentor and he is quite good but a very small role without a lot of screen time. Don Stewart is an okay villain but this movie desperately needed a really bad-ass villain considering its an 80's action movie.Sam Firstenberg is an expert at this type of movie. His directorial list is a what's what of silly absurd B-Films that I have no doubt he thinks were fantastic. His direction isn't terrible and like I said earlier this might be the perfect homage to the Kung Fu Genre. The story isn't bad, in fact, its simple and straight forward with plenty of action even if that action is ridiculous. This type of film is a whole genre in itself and you have to respect it for that. If you're someone who gets together with friends and watches and the worst of the worst and has a great time doing it then American Ninja should be HIGH on your list. I intend on making my way through all five of these (although five apparently has nothing to do with the first four despite having a returning actor who changes characters...fantastic!) This series is one to watch and just laugh. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Generic mid 80's action film.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This film comes straight from the 80's action mould. And not the good mould that Top Gun came out of.The loner with no memory but super ninjistu skills and his army buddies face off against generic European bad guys and Black Star Ninjas.The good guys win, the girl falls for the guy and everybody lives happily ever after except the non American ninjas and the Sensei of the good ninja.The fact this spawned four sequels must have been part of some tax dodge by the producers.If you are looking for an action film from 1985, give Rambo First Blood Part 2 a look before you watch this.Featured on Episode 55 of The Emerald Reprobates Podcast "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It's Die Hard for ninjas. There ain't no such thing as too much Michael Dudikoff, baby. The real centerpiece of the film is its acting, mainly that of Dudikoff. I really like this type of film, as it reminds me of French movies where it's more about the characters and their environment. This is a story about a place most people might not be able to conceive. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. Against this backdrop, our hero must fight on. Great performances help to enhance this amazing story of ninja warfare and violence. I give it a rating of 7 out of 10 because it's flawed but good. "},{"Title":"One of the better Ninja Movies","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It was about a young man who was enlisted in the Army after given a choice of prison or the service, after nearly killing a man. The young man, Joe Armstrong, doesn't fit into the service at all in the Philippines. He quickly becomes a thorn in both his sergeant and his colonel's sides after he disobeyed a direct order to allow a group of rebels hijack military equipment. However, he wins over the colonel's daughter, after he saves her life from the local rebels and a group of Ninjas. He also befriends his drill instructor after the instructor tested out how good of a fighter Armstrong really was. An person he befriends is a Private named Charlie. Soon, Armstrong's sent off to drop off deliveries, and he realizes that he is a target of a Ninja Assassination Plot. It was a good plan to place the setting in the Philippines, because there was a lot of corruption going on. If you want to know how it ends, watch it to find out. "},{"Title":"American Ninja 1","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" American Ninja(1985), starring Michael Dudikoff as the main character Joe Armstrong, is cheesy yet entertaining. This action/romance film is directed by Sam Firstenberg who specialized in ninja action films in the 1980's. Found alone and unconscious with total amnesia on an island in the Pacific Ocean, orphan 16 year old American Joe Armstrong(Michael Dudikoff) has joined the Army rather than go to jail for nearly killing a man. While transporting military weapons and the colonel's daughter his convoy is attacked by ninja. After saving the girl Joe must find out who is behind these attacks and discover who he really is along the way. The main bad guy, Senior Ortega(Don Stewart), steals and sells military grade weapons with the help of someone on the inside and his own personal ninja army. When things start going wrong for him he starts to get desperate. Ortega tries to kill Joe multiple times, but he doesn't know that there is someone in his midst that is helping Joe. This enjoyably cheesy movie follows Joe Armstrong as he battles Ortega and his ninja army while trying to figure out his own past.Sam Firstenberg made some of the best movies I've seen to date so check out a few of his other movies such as CyberCop and American Ninja 2 The Confrontation. "}{"Title":"Dumb But Fun","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Master of the squinty glare Michael Dudikoff rescues cute Army brat Judie Aronson from ninjas, with help from sidekick Steve James. One of my favorite dumb '80s action cheapies from Cannon. What's there not to like? Terrible stunts, laughable usage of Army surplus equipment and uniforms, and some of the worst directing and editing ever on film. Lots of continuity errors and mistakes. It becomes a sort of drinking game after awhile. Take a drink every time you see a goof. Still, despite so many flaws, it manages to be extremely entertaining. Fans of Cannon movies will love it. It's one of their best. Dumb, mindless popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"The best movie of Michael Dudikoff","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie started the career of Michael Dudikoff . Earlier he appeared in TV series and few movies , the most notable are Enter the ninja ,Tron , Uncommon valor  andBachelor party . It was American ninja  (original title &#x96; American warrior &#x96; they even made few trailers and movie posters with that title) that made Dudikoff a star . Well , at least in the 80's he was kinda popular , although he never became a huge star like Stallone , Schwarzenegger or Norris. He was a star in the B-movie range. He quickly was forgotten in the 90's and now not too many people remember him today . Up to this day American ninja is his best and most recognizable solo movie. It's also the best movie of the franchise . Dudikoff appeared also in part 2 and 4.It's also worth noting that ninja movies were very popular in the 80's &#x96; Enter the ninja , Revenge of the ninja , American ninja  series are only some of the most known titles . Now it's hard to find action movie with ninjas . Too bad , but that fact makes American ninja more attractive.The movie was made by Cannon pictures , so don't expect big budget . AN is full of mistakes , unintentionally funny moments and overall is far from being a quality action movie in terms of acting , story and action scenes . You could easily call it a trash . But you know what ? It's a FUN thrash movie. It has a certain charm . It feels like a movie made by a group of friends who were very enthusiastic about it. I know it's not a really good movie , but I can't hate it. The simple reason is because they don't make them like this anymore . Take for example the scene in the warehouse . It feels like taken from arcade game ! It's so cute and fun. AN is cheesy , but in enjoyable way. Michael Dudikoff has some kind of James Dean charm in his role and a silent charisma. There is an aura of mystery around him and he's sympathetic . Overall , it's a good role and probably his best performance. Steve James is also good here as Dudikoff's partner . The friendship between Dudikoff and James is done well , the romance is OK.Overall with the right attitude you should have fun with this one old school action movie Otherwise , just give it a pass. It might be too old school and low budget for you. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Vintage 80's action cheese","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Happily eschewing logic and pretense in favor of loads of exciting and well-choreographed fights, punch-ups, and explosions, this film comes across like a cheerfully ludicrous live action comic book in the most breezy and entertaining manner possible. The slight story centers on loner martial artist army soldier Joe Armstrong (a likable performance by Michael Dudikoff), who almost single-handedly thwarts a gang of nefarious bad guys and lethal ninjas who are involved in an illegal arms operation. Director Sam Firstenberg, working from a perfectly absurd script by Paul De Melche, relates the eventful narrative at a constant zippy pace, treats the silly material with admirable seriousness, and stages the plentiful rip-roaring action with abundant go-for-broke flair and skill. The enthusiastic acting by the pumped cast keeps this picture humming The gorgeous Judie Aronson adds lots of sass and humor as the feisty Patricia Hickock, Steve James registers strongly as the rough'n'tumble Curtis Jackson, Don Stewart positively oozes as slimy head villain Victor Ortega, and Tadashi Yamashita cuts a menacing figure as the ruthless Black Star Ninja, who uses such things as smoke bombs, poison darts, and even a portable wrist laser gun (!) in his game, yet futile attempts to take out our hero. Hanania Baer's slick cinematography provides an impressive high-gloss look. Michael Linn's energetic score hits the stirring and spirited spot. Best of all, this flick gets right down to rousing brass tacks from the start and rarely lets up for 95 wildly kinetic minutes. A hugely enjoyable romp. "},{"Title":"First of Good Action Series","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Golan-Globus and Canon films made few memorable movies in the '80s. This series is one of them.The story's formula holds true to Golan-Globus' action, martial arts formula. It's an interesting mix of ninja, US army, and action. I like this series more than Chuck Norris' Missing in Action series made around the same time by Golan-Globus. While the action is less realistic, the style, and location is more glamorous. Michael Dudikoff is a pretty good actor as far as action movies are concerned.The movie is pretty high quality considering its budget. As usual, Golan-Globus film has good cinematography, and the scenes are beautiful. But unfortunately, the movie is - boring. Somehow, the story doesn't flow very well, and gets trying as it gets further into the story.The series gets better as it progresses until American Ninja 3. Then American Ninja 4 is bit of disappointment, so this series is bit of hit and miss, but it's an original concept that's held up to the test of time. "},{"Title":"He Possesses Too Much Great Skills In My Opinion","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" When I was young back then, action movies were my kind of films and the American Ninja starred by Michael Dudikoff and his sidekick Steve James were one of my favorite cheesy action movies of all time. Back then Ninjas were considered cool and unstoppable especially the one playing the lead roleGoing into this movie, I really enjoyed it very much and it was very impressively made considering the budget that they had for this film. The fight scenes were entertaining to watch and Dudikoff's fine performances was what made the movie great and he really pulled it off well. I think that the reason why he played the more of quiet character type in the film was because of the script (where the director felt that it would be better for the man to let his skills do the talking for him) and not because of his camera shynessThe late Steve James along with the other actors also did an impressive job in making this movie and apart from a simple mindless action ninja butt kicking story, I don't see anything else that is wrong with this filmThe only complaint that I could come out with here and also in the sequels 2 and 4 was that Michael (or Joe) looked TOO invincible in this film and made all the other ninjas (even the main ones) look like schoolboy amateurs and after a while it tends to bored the audience or fans like meStill however, I would recommend this to anyone who just wants to spend two to three hours of their time watching some mindless but yet still fun and cool movie "},{"Title":"American Ninja - 3 Stars","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Joe Armstrong is drifter forced into the military finds himself stationed in the Philippines. After his convoy is attacked by ninjas (that's right ninjas in the Philippines) Joe finds himself hunted by this mysterious group of ninjas, and the United States Army seeking his court marshal. Can Joe survive and prove he is an American Ninja? American Ninja should be listed on very VH1 I love the 80's special. Every once of this movie screams 1985. From the big hair to 1980's TV show special effects (American Ninja must have hired the special effects guy from A-Team) to ever present crotch rocket. American Ninja is at one with the 80's.The major problem with American Ninja is that it's a child of the 80's. American Ninja doesn't transcend to new generations. It's stuck in 1985. The sets, the script and the characters are just believable to today's viewers.That being said Micheal Dudikoff did a good job as Joe Armstrong. His acting was believable for a 1980's film. His acting had a few wholes in it, but mostly good. The character I love to watch the most was Cpl Jackson, the black Rambo of the 1980's. Really I know that last sentence wasn't pc but it was the truth. For some reason in the 80's Hollywood felt the only way to connect with the African American community was to copy other characters and replace them with an African American actors. I guess Hollywood forgot about amazing African American actors such as Sidney Poitier and Bill Cosby from the 60's and 70's. I feel characters like Jackson where huge stumbling blocks for African American actors. All in all, American Ninja was great in 1985 but didn't transcend to today's audience. Sunday, May 23, 2010...written by John Richards for http//aroundthemovies.com "},{"Title":"it's not Hamlet","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" while this 80's martial arts cheapie from Cannon films(produced By Golan/Globus) won't win any awards,it's a decent enough time killer with some good if not spectacular action sequences.it's not boring at all.in fact,it moves along at a pretty good pace.and as long as you know what you're getting you shouldn't be disappointed.Hamlet,it ain't,but it doesn't pretend to be,and none of the actors involved in it do either.it's just cheesy fun.and as far as Cannon films and producers Golan/Globus go,there are a lot of movies in the stable much worse than this.i for one,quite enjoyed it for what it is.for me,American Ninja is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Another gem from Cannon Films.","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Just when you thought director Sam Firstenberg could not take ninja films any further, we were treated to this spectacularly brilliant cheese fest in 1985. Michael Dudikoff, fresh off his stint in Bachelor Party, was cast as Joe.... The American Ninja!!! Did it matter that Mr. Dudikoff had absolutely no martial arts training before this film? Certainly not. They only wanted a guy who looked like James Dean, didn't have to say much, and could act like he had a chip on his shoulder. Dudikoff more than fits those criteria. You have to feel for Steve James, though. He actually was a great martial artist, but had to play the sidekick role. At least in the two installments of this series I've seen.The story centers around our hero the mysterious Joe who is a newly arrived private at a U.S. Army base in the Phillipines. At least that's where they filmed this. Most movies about the military refer to their characters by their last name. Not here. I don't recall us ever learning what Joe's last name is. But nobody knows much about the young man. He was found on some Pacific Island as a young boy with no family or memories of one. Raised in reform schools until he almost killed a man at age 16, Joe clearly needed some discipline, and the army is where he ended up. Curious however that the army has no knowledge of Joe's date of birth, yet they know how old he was when he almost killed a man! The film is filled with goofs like that! Anyway, Joe was apparently trained as a ninja while still a boy! And could you believe the guy who trained him actually works as a gardener on a plantation near Joe's army base??? As Elaine would say on Seinfeld.... GET OUT!!! Turns out the owner of this plantation is also stealing arms from Joe's base and selling them to the highest dirty bidder, too. And this plantation is also the training ground for an army of evil ninjas, too!!! Sounds like we have a Golan/Globus production here! Can Joe stop the sale of these arms and defeat the ninja army and their leader??? Honestly, you get what you pay for with this movie. There is a lot of action, and some of it is compelling. Despite Dudikoff's lack of training, he almost pulls it off. At least we get to see Steve James flex his muscles between stealing every scene. Judie Aaronson of Friday the 13th IV and Weird Science fame is here to provide a plucky love interest. She does fine with her character and comes off kind of like Jane in a Tarzan movie. The musical score is made from old Missing In Action pieces, and some outrageously over the top horn playing. Some of it sounds like Chuck Mangione's Feels So Good on crack. The film even has jeeps that will explode after slightly tapping a palm tree. Trust me. It's an hour and a half of your life that you probably didn't need, anyway! 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Ninja Without A Cause","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The whole time im watching Michael Dudikoff acting i cant help but think how much he mirrors James Dean perfectly. There is a total Rebel Without A Cause thing going on here and its pretty awesome. He is the complete loner of the barracks trying to fit in but nobody wants him at all. A misfit with not much to say, but when he says it, its important and magnificent! His co-star Steve James is like a more awesome version of Plato; He's black, he drives a motorcycle (not a wimp scooter), he knows how to use a gun, and he doesn't shoot puppies. Together they confront the mighty clockwork of the evil ninja army by using their super cool skills and awesome good looks to take down the evil French Leader and his super ninja army and save the day, bada­ss rebel style!! "},{"Title":"Dudikoff is moved to violence using his deadly skills in this action- adventure in comic book-style","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This action art-martial movie is starred by the ranger Armstrong(Michael Duddikoff), a new soldier from an American base in Philipines islands. At the beginning he fights against corporal Jackson(Steve James), but early they befriend. But the colonel's daughter(Judie Aronson) is kidnapped and the prime suspect is a nasty villain, a gunrunner with a private army formed by violent Ninjas.The criminal ninjas worn in black, hooded, wielding a Katana on the black and using Shinkaisen, a metallic star they throw.Armstrong encounters ample reasons and opportunity to utilize his deadly skills trained by a Ninja master(John Fujioka).Armstrong along with Jackson go to evil's haunt and wipe out a passel of heinous nasties.This classic-Ninja film is a violent and gripping story plenty of action and fights. Michel Dudikoff who is beefy as ever plays a tough ranger soldier forced into action and metes out his own justice when his girlfriend is abducted. The film is co-starred by Steve James(1952-1993), a bouncing and muscular actor, he habitually performed pal to action-stars; as, Michael Dudikoff,( three times American Ninja 2, Avenging force), Chuck Norris and David Carradine, but unfortunately he early died. Furthermore appears John Fujioka, who trains Dudikoff in the Ninjitsu art-martial and he'll repeat in the following movie. Atmospheric musical score is composed by Michael Linn, made by means of synthesizer and appropriately adjusted to action.The picture is interestingly written by Gideon Amir, also producer, along with the usual, Menahem Golan and Yoram Globlus, from Cannon productions. The motion picture is acceptably directed by Sam Firstemberg, he's a low grade specialist on art-martial and Ninjas sub-genre. Followed by various sequels, starred by Dudikoff , later substituted by David Bradley, such as ¨American Ninja 2  the Controntation, Ninja 3  Blood Hunt, American Ninja Annihilation, American Ninja V¨. Rating  Passable and entertaining. "}{"Title":"A true martial arts classic","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I give this movie 10/10 and it's worth every point. It's the best ninja movie ever made. I've watched many other ninja films and they all were disappointing. This movie has a good plot, fighting scenes and of course, ninjas. Not like many other ninja films, this one really have a lot of ninja fighting scenes. It ain't suppose to be Oscar-wining drama or something. It's just fun to watch. All actors did a great job. Steve James was funny and Michael Dudikoff was deadly. They both make a great team. This movie has everything that a good martial arts movie need. So if you are looking for a perfect ninja movie, look no further more, this is it. "},{"Title":"semi-decent film","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty phony and the choreogprahy was also quite corny. The acting and storyline keeps the movie semi-interesting considering the fact that this was one of Dudikoff's first action films. I would not see this movie more then once unless I had a friend that wanted to see it. The film in itself is worth watching if you can stand some impossible martial arts choreography, for example, in one scene Michael Dudikoff is being shot at with bows and arrows and he just happens to catch one. The sound effects are also very poor, however, the filming and acting help to keep the movie interesting. The camera work is pretty good but the choreography just ruins the film. If there was good martial arts sequences in this film then it would be very good.  On a scale of 1-10 I rank this about a 5 just for the good filming and acting. If you get a chance check this movie out sometime just to say you've seen it. Thank you.  "},{"Title":"Best of the series, but even that don't save this being a turkey","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Ninja films were into overload in the late 70s and into the 80s...the main influence of this has to be the James Bond movie, You Only Live Twice - and perhaps less so to the Seven Samarai movie.But of course the American Ninja movies are renowned for their badness, and this doesn't disappoint - but in fact, this movie is quite possibly the best in the entire series, but unfortuently it doesn't save this film from being a turkey.There's the moody, lone-ranger GI-Joe type action hero (Joe Armstrong) who is a ninja boy and grows up to use Ninjitsu in the army or something.  Anyway he gets involved with, and subsequently messes up a strong relationship between the island's resident Drugs Lord and the Army and politics (this idea would be re-done to better effect with American Ninja 2).Fighting all the conspiracy, Joe takes out the ninjas - including the Black Star Ninja...parallels to the Star Wars trilogy may be apparant, but to be fair it isn't a Star Wars rip-off, its just plain bad.Unlike other ninja films, the ninjas actually attack at night!!!  This is fantastic, but unfortuently the night attacks don't last long and we're left with ninja's dying left, right and centre - just like Stormtroopers.Anyway the movie is pretty bad all the way through, until the end fight sequence between the Black Star Ninja and Joe Armstrong on the ninja training course.  Its quite good, but is ruined by how the Ninja uses lasers, machine guns, and other items - all from the same wrist watch - who is this guy think he is? Inspector Gadget.Overall 3/10 "},{"Title":"classic 80's ninja flick","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I used to love this movie as a kid. Fancy moves,colorful ninjas and all kinds of weaponry. With a more recent viewing I may add to the list that it's also Poorly acted and somewhat beyond the line of reasonable belief suspension that movies normally are given credit for. Better than the normal ninja movie,but best left as a 500 AM movie (which is what I'm watching right now) but still quite enjoyable even if only for nostalgia. If ninja flicks really do it for you,I highly suggest The_Hunted with Christopher Lambert. "},{"Title":"holy crap my life has flashed befor my eye's","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  this is the best movie i have seen in a long time.I love this movie (because michael dudikoff is in it)It has all a movie needs, i think all should see...I will feel sorry for you if you do not.American ninja bursts onto the screen with an endless onslaught of martal arts action! Joe armstroug, a us army privert stationed in the Philippines, is over come by a sinister ninja warrior.Suffering from amnesia, joe soon discovers he was trained in the art of ninjitsu as a boy.His skills become the number one weapon in the plan to rid the country of the evil black star ninja and his followers.Choreographed by celebrated karate world champion MIKE STONE, the thrilling battles provide the greatest action seen in any Karate film. "},{"Title":"A porn movie without the porn.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so bad, it is beyond words. The acting is so pathetic, it hurts to watch, and the whole thing is obviously set in the Phillipines because it was cheaper to hire extras and rent the drug baron's mansion for a couple of days there, instead of in Japan. Never mind that it throws any logic the script might have possessed right out the window. The acting is about as good as the one you'll likely find in a porn movie, but rather than be a lame excuse for tying together the sex scenes, it is here used to tie together the fighting sequences.This movie is hardly able to stand up to a bad episode of the A-Team. The script, for example, is stupid beyond words. Some examples- The mandatory european-accent bad guy has a ninja training camp in his back yard (no, not on some secluded island far away from prying eyes. Literally his back yard). They basically run around and jump off springboards. Always a valuable combat skill.- When part of a convoy that gets hi-jacked, the hero starts hitting one hi-jacker, then another. Meanwhile the other 25 or so with automatic weapons just look at him walk up to one after another and beat them up without as much as turning off the safety on their guns.- In the end, when the good guys storm the bad guy's mansion, suddenly explosions go off at random intervals and places. Which is a pity, seeing as nobody have cannons or even grenades. I assumed it was just the ninjas starting to self-destruct. "},{"Title":"Damn, that was a good film!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When my friend told me to go see this movie, I said to myself This is probably the worst film that was ever made!  Mark my words, this is probably one of the finest movies put on celluloid.  Did you see that dude that played the good guy?  Michael Dudikoff?  That guy was awesome.  I remember the part where the bad guy pointed a gun at him and Dudikoff just started running away, and the bad guy kept shooting at him trying to hit him.  But Michael Dudikoff is thinking You can't hit me, I'm invincible! That guy couldn't hit Michael Dudikoff because Dudikoff was just super fast. Like a ninja.  Hence American Ninja.  The only thing I didn't think was right was why did they have a Russian actor playing an American Ninja?  If they wanted to keep him, they should have renamed the film Russian Ninja. That would have made more sense. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Michael Dudikoff stars as Joe Armstrong a martial artist who fights ninjas who are stealing weapons from the U.S Army, in this entertaining yet admittedly brainless martial arts actioner, which is hampered by too many long pauses without action, but helped by some high energy action setpieces as well as Steve James' performance.  "},{"Title":"The music alone made this movie... suck","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have seen cheesy kung fu fight films.  Living in Taiwan they come on in lieu of sitcoms in America.  I have seen movies make fun of themselves, but this film belongs in the sad category of fight films that try too hard with awful actors, awful props, and awful music to be taken seriously. I seriously felt pity for the person who composed the music for this movie. How sad it must be to be a composer who has to churn out crap like what I thought should have been titled Generic Ninja Fight Scene, Op. 1 or Variations on A Bad Guy Pointing a Gun at a Girl's Head When Backed into a Corner or the daring Flight of the Helicopter. Then the fight scenes were over and the credits rolled.  Those actually had me in tears laughing.  If the special effects weren't proof enough that this was low-budget, the fact that only two or three of the crew members, presumably locals which although good for the much-needed Phillipino economy was probably done solely to save money, have ever done anything since this series of movies.  They rented equipment, despite making sequels to this movie.  That was pretty funny too. The thing that really had me going though, was not the music (which left me half expecting an animated Sargeant Slaughter from G.I. Joe to pop up), but the ending...I suppose this would be a spoiler if there was really a plot to spoil, but when the American Ninja drops the girl into Jackson's arms and then takes off his mask, I wanted to see him jump off the roof and Jackson drop the girl to catch him.I think that would have been the perfect punchline for this joke of a movie. "},{"Title":"Very okay","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThere is some good action in this Golan-Globus production ,plus some engaging chemistry between Michael Dudikoff and his black partner.However,from this and previous work,it has to be said that Dudikoff would serve better purpose as a carpet salesman than an actor and the story really lacks structure.*** "}{"Title":"Ludicrous","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This review contains a SPOILER---The movie is an American Ninja mysteriously trained in the martial arts. He falls for the Colonel's daughter and turns from the most hated grunt on the post to the People's hero at the end of the film. This film is extremely cheesy and very poorly researched. It is good for folks who do not care about plot development or reality. Good for kids under 14. The military errors in this film is comical. I remember during my three years in the military, us privates were not required to salute or call NCO's Sir, the film does this in various spots. The colonel's hair is way too long on the ears. The Master Sergent's moustache was against military protocol in length. On the post, the Colonel was the only officer around. Not one other officer was shown walking around the post. You had idiot ninjas brandshing swords against troops with m-16's, rather poorly made.Folks this filmed reeked. Michael Dudikoff is not really that bad of an actor he just has lousy scripts. The ninjas were more hilarious than dangerous. Avoid this film "},{"Title":"so bad it's good","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't stop laughing, I caught this again on late night TV. I suppose you think you're some kind of hero for bringing my daughter back alive No Goodhaha.  "},{"Title":"Ninja dating movie","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie for first time ninjas who are dating. If you're trying to impress some cute little ninjette I would highly recommend playing this masterpiece. Its one of those special movies that allows you to miss large sections of it without interfering with the plot.Also I was wondering, where does a Teal ninja hide? Are ninjas color coded like this? Is this normal? If I were attacked by one of these yellow or orange ninjas I would die of laughter before succumbing to his sword.And I finished my black star ninja test the other day, it was multiple choice, It went pretty good. I found there were a lot of questions on how to sneak around and look evil. Its all about the eyebrows and the attitude. Basically, the movie could have been better if 1. There was no color coded ninjas (or the color coded ninjas could combine into a super ninja). 2. Joe died in the first two minutes and Patricia had to avenge him 3. Miscellaneous monkeys were scattered throughout the file 4. Patricia didn't talk and Patricia was replaced with another character 6. The French guy was also a black star ninja 7. Chris Tucker, Whoopi Golderg, and Chris Rock were added as comic relief 8. Ninja strengths came from miticlorians. "},{"Title":"Unintentional comedy...","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Ask a thousand people what the greatest unintentional comedy of all time is, and they will almost invariably tell you Battlefield Earth or Plan 9 From Outer Space. They're wrong. American Ninja has those two turkeys beat down for a number of reasons, not the least of which being a script that was quite clearly not thought through. While I fully support the B picture industry for keeping slobs like Michael Dudikoff in work, a little work on the product would have gone a long way.For those who give a rat's posterior, my next few paragraphs will give away significant parts of the plot.First of all, when we are given some background information on the titular hero, we are told his date of birth, next of kin, parents, and so forth, are all unknown. I don't know about you, but I expect the US army to take fact-finding about its personnel a little more seriously. They also manage to screw up the continuity of dates quite effectively, although I don't remember quite which dates were screwed up and when. This is actually one of American Ninja's less obvious flaws.It has been pointed out before, but a common failing of many martial arts films is that when our heroes are confronted by large numbers of antagonists, said antagonists attack one at a time. More recent films such as The Matrix Reloaded defy this convention, but just about every film from the 1980s has the audience screaming, hey, why don't you attack all at once???. Martial arts films tend to be a lot more impressive when the fights are more extensive than one-on-one.The central premise was originally a joke, but in light of recent events where the US army cannot crush a mob of insurgents simply because they won't delegate to the specialists, it seems strangely ironic. Phillipino renegades are stealing weapons from the US army's local division for sale to wealthy clients. Never mind that such a theft would prompt the army to give the local businessmen responsible, or even believed responsible, an aerial rectal exam, this is a cheesy 1980s action film, after all.By far the funniest part of the film is the climactic battle, however. As Joe and Jackson turn combining posing and fighting into an art form, evil Ninjas start to explode for no readily apparent reason. I agree with one previous commentator in that this film should have been called Ninja Holocaust, because I'm willing to bet a total of at least three hundred evil Ninjas bite it during the film's running time. On top of that, the Black Star Ninja starts fighting with rocket launchers, laser beams, and all sorts of ridiculous implements that are not only poorly thought out, they're flat-out poorly executed. You'll never see a laser beam effect that looks cheaper.What tops it all off is that the film takes itself so damned seriously. During the scene when Joe is meeting up again with his old mentor, I dare the viewer not to laugh at the hideous dialogue. Not that I know any modern practioners of Ninjitsu, but the logical part of my imagination has a hard time believing that they have spoken like this at any time in their history. During this mentoring scene, I half expect the old guy to tell Joe he must prove his manhood by cutting his own head off with a blunt plastic spoon.In all, I gave American Ninja a 1. This is a special score in my system in that it is reserved for the worst, most appalling, most offensive films I've ever seen, or films that make me laugh without even bothering to try. American Ninja is definitely an example of the latter. "},{"Title":"Tired, formulaic martial arts nonsense &#x96; a long, long way behind Bruce Lee","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" American Ninja is a tired martial arts potboiler from the Golan-Globus production team (a pair of Israeli profiteers who unleashed various terrible movies on the world during the 1980s). This one tries to make an action hero of the handsome but thoroughly talentless Michael Dudikoff who, prior to this film, was best remembered for playing a dumb-ass named Ryko in the comedy Bachelor Party. Virtually nothing about American Ninja works, from its appalling score to the utterly routine action sequences. The performances are generally terrible, there's nothing original or interesting in the story department, and even the requisite martial arts moves are far from dazzling. In fact, the only thing that saves this film from the dreaded 1-out-of-10 rating is Steve James's amusing turn as the hero's sidekick. It's not an example of great screen acting by a long shot, but James does manage to embrace the absurd tone of the film with his tongue-in-cheek performance.At an American army base in the Far East there have been a number of ambushes resulting in the loss of military hardware. During a transportation of equipment, more American soldiers are attacked by a number of deadly assassins wearing ninja costumes. The ninjas try to kidnap the Colonel's daughter Patricia (Judie Aronson), who is tagging along, but an American private called Joe Armstrong (Michael Dudikoff) steps in to save her. Joe is a loner and none of the other soldiers know much about him &#x96; in fact, he doesn't know much about himself, as he has suffered from amnesia since he was quite young. He does know that he possesses incredible martial arts skills, and occasionally has flashbacks during which he recalls being trained as a boy by a mysterious Japanese mentor. Joe discovers that the army supplies are being stolen by a corrupt businessman, Victor Ortega (Don Stewart), who includes arms dealing among his list of misdemeanours. Ortega has a private army of ninjas guarding his lair and Joe has to take them on in order to put a stop to the bad guy's nefarious plans.The movie had a relatively cheap budget of $1,000,000 and grossed about ten times that amount. It is hardly surprising that Messrs. Golan and Globus were able to carry on churning out this kind of rubbish if 80s audiences were content to keep lining their pockets in such a manner. Everything about American Ninja shows signs of shoddiness. Dudikoff seems to have difficulty delivering the most straightforward of lines, and his expression barely changes during the course of the movie. The action scenes are simply ludicrous, with staggeringly inept bad guys &#x96; on this evidence even Dolly Parton could whoop their asses in a fight. The film even attempts to incorporate a few plot twists in the latter stages &#x96; with certain good characters turning out to be allied with the bad guys &#x96; but these twists are both heavy-handed and unsurprising. On the whole, American Ninja is thoroughly low-grade trash with nothing to recommend it. "},{"Title":"A few more clunkers...","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled upon this last night, not having seen it in years, and, oh, dear. I quite liked this film when I was a kid (I preferred the sequel, which is on TV tonight, but I'm too scared to even attempt viewing it). Anyway, there were loads of things that caught my eye, and I was going to point them out here, but I've noticed that loads of people have beat me to it (the jeep-tree explosion, the toy helicopter, the ninjas queuing up for a shot at Joe), so I won't bother. Here, however, are a few that seemingly went unnoticed1) The flashback first, no way is that kid 6. Second of all, how does climbing a tree and slicing coconuts constitute intense ninja training? I climbed trees all the time when I was a kid. I ate the odd Bounty too, does this make me a ninja?2) The finale is reminiscent of that of UK gameshow The Krypton Factor. Thrilling.3) The music is stolen from 70s cop show CHiPS. Spooky.And yes, I miss Steve James too, but, other than I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, he didn't make a single film that didn't blow. "},{"Title":"Cough","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I can't quite decide whether American Ninja is supposed to be a spoof  or a movie trying to take itself seriously, either way it's just laughable.I couldn't quite understand what I was watching when I saw this movie. What I saw was pathetic acting, pathetic special effects and above all absolutely appalling choreographed fights and where the hell did they get the stunt guys from? They loved their OTT stunts. The fight scene's between Dudikoff and the ninja's looked more like something out of Power Rangers. Some of the stunts that the ninja do are so OTT...it's outrageous.But the best is yet to come. Bring on Steve James who plays Curtis bad ass Jackson. I don't know what kind of character James is supposed to be portraying, but he certainly loves (or should I say badly attempts) to show off to the camera by doing his amazing drop rolls and showing off his amazing martial art choreographing (hence the sarcasm). As much as we all love Steve James, when it comes to  fight choreographing he tries too hard. Snails could probably pull off quicker moves than James. It would have Bruce Lee spinning in his grave. As for Michael Dudikoff who plays Joe Armstrong. I admit he's not a bad martial artist, but it would be nice if he had more than one facial expression throughout the movie.And the ninja's? Well what can I say? Absolutely top quality? breath-taking stunts? fantastic sword play? Amazing foot work? These are some of the comments I'd love to say about the ninja's in American Ninja, unfortunately...they come nowhere near the mark. What are these ninja's made of? cardboard? Each one looks like they have about as much training as I do in cross stitching. They constantly charge towards Dudikoff, sword above their heads, ready to strike, then instantly get cut down, this may sound ok, but it would be nice if they all didn't do the same move! You can easily tell they are just amateur stunt men in ninja outfits.Overall, a badly choreographed, poorly acted action movie..if thats what you want to call it. For more laughs check out it's sequel American Ninja 2 The Confrontation absolutely gripping stuff.2/10 - simply for comic value. "},{"Title":"Cheese doesn't cut it!","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  'American Ninja' is an action, martial arts film and nothing more! The plot is so ridiculous and laughable and the characters are extremely cheesy, especially Joe (Michael Dudikoff), that you know that film is just about fighting! 'American Ninja' has plenty of action and some good fight scenes- I never grew up with the 'American Ninja' series as some people did- so I was never a fan! The direction, story, cinematography and acting are all bad in 'American Ninja and take second place to the action, fight choreography and stunts- granted it was low-budget though! Nevertheless, this is nothing in comparison to some other martial art films (notably Jackie Chan's) where the stunts are better, and the plots are slightly better! Although, 'American Ninja' doesn't try to pretend than it's anything other than a action film- it's still very bad and there is no humour to subsidise its ludicrous plot!  ** out of *****!   "},{"Title":"American Karateca","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"                 For many year I saw this movie as a real movie of ninjas but after study more about this culture I can only think this is just another karate film.              A black shinobi and some weapons doesn't make a ninja, it's much more than that. The ninja are the most dangerous warrior of the japan because they are trained in every aspect of life to survive to anything, killing whatever try to stop them.               This movie is not a about a ninja warrior just about a clown trying to be something he cannot even understand.                "},{"Title":"Oh no more, please!","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I am NOT surprised to see how many Americans actually liked this ... oh no I can't say movie for I risk to offend the producers of the porno movies ;) This ... production is an total disgrace, shame for the guild, what else ... laughable parody of itself. It is full of first grade errors like dead body standing up at the first scenes and amazingly Watch-me-how-I-try-to-hit-you-then-die so called Ninjas. As a man trained in marital arts myself I must say that the fight scenes are most than laughable, they are just pathetic. Anyway folks, if you're just as brainless as it is this crap, this is your movie for the evening.  "}{"Title":"Imbecile soldier saves imbecile girls from imbecile rebels","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The plot is very basic, but acceptable A young US soldier, having studied Asian martial arts, puts this to good use in defence of the general's daughter and falls in love with her. Unfortunately, the three main acting parties' (soldier, girl, rebels) combined IQ amounts to 3 One point for the soldier, one for the girl, a large number of Ninja fighters have to share the third point among them to be able to lose against the former two. "},{"Title":"American Ninja","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  High octane action with Dudikoff as an American solider who single handedly takes on an army of martial arts mercenaries in the Phillipines. For die hard martial arts fans only. Followed by numerous sequels.  "},{"Title":"Dudikoff and James the Gibson and Glover of ninja movies","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Michael Dudikoff, who reminds me of a kung fu-fighting JamesDean, and the late, big Steve James team up and kick ninjakeister in this outrageously tongue-in-cheek martial arts film.The laconic Dudikoff plays Joe Armstrong, a soldier stationed inthe Phillipines who possesses ninja powers and single-handedlybattles a whole ninja army and eliminates them all as if theydidn't take their ninja skills seriously! And Steve James playsCurtis Jackson, Joe's army buddy who provides our hero withgung-ho advice.Dudikoff and james make a great team because of their chemistry.Their relationship reminds me a bit of the thing Mel Gibson andDanny Glover had in the Lethal Weapon flicks. They act asantagonists first, but when the going went tough, the two leadsbecome buddies. Sure, the action sequences in this film are ridiculous, becausethey all seem unrealistic. Just how can one man take on dozensof ninjas by himself? Not even Rambo can handle that without thehelp of his guns! But hey, this is Hollywood. Anything canhappen, no matter how quee "},{"Title":"The 3rd best ninja movie of all time!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie since 1986 or 1987. It's the 3rd best ninja movie of all time. Lots of action. It's by far the best in the American ninja series! I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"what?","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" What crack are you smoking? This movie, while gloriously entertaining, is awful! The action scenes are so obviously fake it's kind of sad. The colonel's daughter is painfully irritating. The ninja training camp is so hilarious it is almost not worth mentioning. And when Joe puts the bucket over his head and beat up the other army guy, I just about peed myself. I could go on...Entertaining, arguably so. Good, no. Well made, certainly not.As a commentary on America as empire, it's actually pretty good. Joe as a typical white conqueror isn't all that surprising, especially in the context of mid-1980s American cinema. "}]