[{"Title":"Another under-appreciated gem","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Do not go gentle into that good night, Old age should burn and rave at close of day; Rage, rage against the dying of the light. - Dylan ThomasThe senior characters of this modern day fable took this poem to heart.When we first meet the motley group, they are as many of us dread one day becoming. Kept in a nursing home, days filled with vapid activities like shuffleboard or mah-jongg, whiling away hours floating in a deserted swimming pool, watching people your own age drop like flies. When that changes through the magic of alien technology, they become, if not the picture of reckless youth, at least a semblance of the people they were once upon a time, proving the old cliché you ARE only as old as you feel. In that, it's a good lesson for people heading into their golden years or even those of us just having midlife crises. We can't help but grow old. But it's up to us whether we want to BE old or merely mature.For a science fiction movie, it would appear to have few special effects. This is an illusion. There are quite a few effects shots, although the variety of effects is rather limited. The glowing aliens are quite good except for the all too familiar hand movements by Caprice Rothe, who first did the job for E.T. Still, by and large the effects are impressive and convincing even when compared against the latest films of the 21st century. Even more impressive was the poolhouse, which was hastily constructed purely as a setpiece for the movie. It looks absolutely real, as if it had sat there among the Florida palms for decades.Tahnee Welch, daughter of the seemingly ageless Raquel, was wholesomely fetching here. Whether she was a limited actress or merely underplaying the role is for others to decide. Ron Howard wisely kept Steve Guttenberg's role limited, focusing mainly on the older characters. A little Guttenberg goofiness goes a long way. Also present are the standard Howard family repertory, with brother Clint as the nursing home attendant and father Rance making a brief appearance as a detective. Much as already been said about the excellent performances of the older cast members. This was, after all, the role that finally won an Oscar for Don Ameche. But they're slowly slipping away from us, one by one. First Jack Gilford, then Ameche, then Jessica Tandy and recently Gwen Verdon. At least we'll have this movie to remember them by. Maybe they weren't at the peaks of their careers, but quite possibly the roles they fit most comfortably.Two attempts to cash in on this movie failed. Both 1987's *batteries Not Included, starring Tandy and Cronyn, and the 1988 sequel Cocoon The Return flopped. Neither had the genuine warmth of this original. Ron Howard showed good judgement in turning down the chance to direct the sequel.As for the musical score, it's one of James Horner's better works, mixing symphonic grandeur with childlike wonderment. Alas, he does fall into old habits and reuse some bars and measures from his Wolfen and Star Trek II scores.It's a shame this movie never found the audience it deserved. I first saw this in a shopping mall four-plex a couple of weeks after its release. There couldn't have been more than 20 people in the entire theater. The whole movie holds up remarkably well in the 16 years since, except for the break dancing. My god, has it been 16 years already? Where can I find some Antarean life force? "},{"Title":"Charming fable that's still fresh","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon is a charming science fiction fable by the underrated Ron Howard. Howard is an amiable, frequently baseball-capped figure who, in the 70's, became a familiar face through his 6 year stint as Richie in TV's Happy Days. Cocoon followed immediately after Splash! (1984), another successful fantasy. It exchanges the Tom Hanks figure featured in that film with a similar one played by Steve Guttenberg, another romantic innocent. But whereas in the earlier film Hanks had a central role, here Jack Bonner (Guttenberg) has far less prominence. This is perhaps because of Guttenberg's modest acting abilities, but principally so the narrative can focus more securely on the characters that matter &#150; the community of senior citizens facing their twilight years at the Sunny Shores Retirement Center.Cocoon's achievement as a film is all the more remarkable when one reflects upon the scarcity of active, old people in American cinema, let alone a group of them presented so positively in a state of sexual re awakening, then led to such an upbeat conclusion. Behind this apparent optimism, however, the thoughtful viewer can still reflect on some final doubts and uncertainties. The central circle of old people, around whom events turn, together prove a fine acting ensemble. Arthur (a still svelte Don Ameche), Ben (Selwyn Wilford Brimley) Jo (Hume Cronyn), Bernie (Walter Gilford), Alma (Jessica Tandy), Bess (Gwen Verdon) and the others are a convincing unit, squabbling, relating and facing the end of their lives with cantankerous dignity which is entirely convincing. Tandy and Cronyn were married in real life. Many of film's most poignant moments of the film spring from the relationships between these people. The quiet passing of Rose for instance, and her husband's grief by her bedside. Notable too is the wooing by former song and dance man Ameche of his new lady love, a process during which he shows no lessening of time-honed screen courtesy and assurance. During the opening of the film, Arthur and Jo's witnessing of an unsuccessful resuscitation is a stark reminder of the mortality of the principals, sadly off and on screen. Cocoon was a last hurrah for many of the elderly cast (although one or two survived advancing years to appear in the terrible Cocoon 2(1988)).The other major character group are the Antareans. Here too a refreshing leap out of the stereotypical is taken as the aliens prove reasonable, non aggressive and forgiving &#150; perhaps characteristics inspired by Spielberg's influential and amenable ET (1982) or the religiosity of Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977). Jack Bonner's near hysterical reaction to their initial unmasking ('If you try and eat my face off you'll be very, very sorry'), his following conversion then inevitable dalliance, are all handled with an effective lightness. Even Howard's depiction of an alien orgasm on screen as Jack romances Kitty (Tahnee Welch) without touching, in the life giving pool, is done sensitively. It is perhaps the most striking moment of its sort in Science Fiction cinema since Woody Allen's Sleeper (1973). Cocoon is a film in which sexual energy is equated closely to an amplified life force and is seen as both positive and welcome. Both young and old feel the replenishment of their passion, directly or indirectly, in connection with the cocoon tank. Here the items retrieved from the sea are settled at the bottom, somewhat ominous reminders of a life to come. The title itself is suggestive, not only of the typical dormacy of a chrysalis, but of impending rebirth such an object heralds. As the oldsters rejuvenate with the 'fountain of youth', they find new meaning and value in their lives, a belated development which even leads to the sad break up of families. The desire for life can be selfish, even when healthily expressed, and some prefer to 'stick with the hand nature has given' them.The Antarean's recovery of their 'ground crew' is what brings them to earth. While their leader's account of them having originally lodged themselves in what was Atlantis is slightly hoary (their bases apparently having sunk during the 'first great upheaval') the film wisely seers away from too much alien hardware. Apart from the pretty device on the deck of Bonner's boat, and the splendours of the returning mother ship, very little technology is glimpsed. The Antareans are certainly strange, but lacking much hard evidence of their difference enables the audience to relate to them easily. Even their unskinning, as they emerge as their true, shining selves, is a wonderous event, a shining transfiguration with no implicit threat to humanity.These are aliens associated with whiteness and with life, forgiving and considerate, exhibiting 'christian' values. They radiate and float like angels when emerging from human covering, and their ship takes the departing OAPs up into the light. Hollywood readily associates such light with the rewards of heaven (for other examples of the brilliance bestowed upon the departing see The Frighteners (1996) or Jacob's Ladder (1990). Substitute the pool of life for baptism, the smiling Walter (Brian Dennehy) for a prophet, and Cocoon's alien spaceship might just as easily be the Gabriel leading the faithful to paradise. But what of the end of the film? Is it really as happy and as affirmative as it first seems? Bonner has made great play with his responsibility as a skipper in an earlier scene with Kitty. At the conclusion he might, therefore, reasonably be held to account for his loss of a cargo of elderly transportees. At least one extended family is broken up by their leaving. And Walter has to return home, his mission a failure, together with a boatload of unexpected guests. At the least the final ascension is a complex event, leaving some tensions unresolved. That Cocoon manages to hold all these elements together in a satisfying whole is one reason to seek it out. To enjoy a warm hearted family film is another. "},{"Title":"Much more than just another alien film","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite movies, for a variety of reasons A) It treats the theme of aging with such tenderness and doesn't reduce the older characters to props, B) It evokes questions about the supernatural/the possibility of life out there, and C) The location (Florida) looks so pleasant and inviting. I have loved this film since I was a child in the 80s, and it is still one that I watch over and over (and I still cry at the same spots every time). I have to also say that--in my opinion at least--the characteristic feature of every great movie is a great score/theme melody. Cocoon definitely has it, yet without feeling epic and overpowering; the same plucked melody chimes in quietly at all the right moments in the film, lending a profound and quiet connection with each character (even the extra-terrestrial ones). There are moments in this film where, if you don't shed a tear, there must be something wrong with you. Highly recommended film -) "},{"Title":"A different breed of science fiction, with the warm touch.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  COCOON is not at all similar to every other science fiction movie (the ending is a pure exception), but this uses fantasy and magic as a way to express a heartwarmth feeling. What happens when the good elderly citizens of a retirement community discover the fountain of youth? It's movies like this going away from the perilous trap and concentrates deeply on our human characteristics. A large cast of older stars, including the late couple Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy, contribute to the warmth and amusement of a non-violent sci-fi picture that is a breed apart from the rest. They act as if they're young again with incredible energy, and the moments offer the kind and gentle possibilities that wouldn't redeem this as science fiction, but it is. Ron Ritchie Howard gives this a whole new acclaim for internally giving us the human spirit that lies within an outside force. For those who crave hard on science fiction, COCOON is a slight misunderstanding due to the light-hearted story it has to offer. What's more entertaining than seeing old folks push over the limits of their acting potential? As Wilford Brimley once said in Quaker Oats commercials, It's the right thing to do.. Which also means COCOON is the right movie for showing off a different dimension of our feelings inside. And different is right! "},{"Title":"Movie to make you think.","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movie about some adventureous older people who discovered the fountain of youth. Of course, as with anything too good to be true, the fountain turned out to be a life support tank for aliens! The life support tank was a swimming pool which contained some mysterious energy to bring back ancient alien comrads which were contained in some large seed-like pods. The mysterious energy also had the ability to give life back to the elderly humans who stumbled on it. Of course the aliens discover that the older people are having a good time with with this scenerio. To say more would be to give away the important messages the movie is trying to present. May not be the best movie ever made, but far better than average. It showed both the young at heart and the old, even though all of them were physically old. I'm not that old but it makes you appreciate what getting old is about. Remember that when you see an elderly person, some of them may be old but some of them are more alive then people much younger. Don't just respect them but indulge them. Ron howard rarely disappoints. "},{"Title":"Interesting and thought-provoking","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Made 20 years ago with some former well-known actors, this film has stood the test of time very well and delivers a very interesting and thought-provoking story about the mortality of man.A group of people in a retirement village discover a neighbouring swimming pool which is out of bounds, but they have fun in it nevertheless.  There are some strange objects lying on the bottom of the pool, but even more strange is the fact that after swimming there the old folk feel transformed and the vigor of their youth returns to their bodies. This makes for some light comedy as their hormones begin to take over.These old people have a very serious decision to make and it is not an easy one. This is probably the best part of the film. Should they accept or decline the invitation? Having made the decision there is no turning back!  We ask ourselves...what would we do placed in their circumstances? We feel very much involved. Thinking it over, isn't this proposal very much like what the Christian churches are promising us?The final memorial church service by the sea is such a fitting ending and the little grandson David gives such a knowing smile as he raises his eyes to the sky. "},{"Title":"Let's swim in a pool that has weird boulders dumped into it","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Some seniors find the long sought-after Fountain of Youth by accident, just by regularly sneaking into a neighbor's pool. I don't know if I'd swim in a pool that has moss-covered boulders tossed into it, but these guys do, and find their youthful vitality returning.Unbeknownst to the men, aliens on a mission have rented the neighbor's place, and set up the pool as their base of operations. Fortunately, these were post-ET/Close Encounters beings, so they had benevolent intentions.Great cast of some familiar faces, and the screen chemistry of the cast members is wonderful as they range from highly emotional to contentious in their interaction. The nursing home residents are marvelous in portraying their renewed joy of life. Don Ameche is dashing with the ladies, and acts the role of a youthful character very well. Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy, Mareen Stapleton, and Wilford Brimley are all great. However, the movie is certainly not all a feel-good warm fuzzies type of story; there are some sad tragedies that occur as the plot moves forward. My one criticism is that the film lacks the courage to address its central theme, the idea of eternal life, only skirting its ramifications. Only one character rejects the idea, but generic platitudes (like belonging here) he says explain nothing of his reasoning. The film doesn't analyze the people who desire immortality enough, either. We get a few morsels about missing baseball, fishing, and grandchildren. But this shallow analysis gives insufficient insight to this infinitely critical decision the characters are faced with.It's an interesting tale, with a bittersweet message about our own mortality. A well done production that has you wishing the best for the characters, and contemplating what you might do if you were in their shoes. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film completely surprised me first time. I thought it was your usual silly alien film - but it is so much more then that - and if it is possible the brilliant Ron Howard makes it all believable. Two things stand out among all else - the fantastic score (one of the best I have ever heard) The superb ending - which was one of the most original endings - possibly ever.I just can't say enough about just how good this film is.As far as performances go I was particularly surprised by the acting of the senior citizens especially Jack Gilford as the miserable old codger Bernie - I love it when he completely breaks down and softens after spending an hour and 20 minutes as the most awful old man you could ever have the misfortune to bump into - the transformation was immediate but so believable - and I personally think that performance was worthy of a supporting actor oscar.Also Brian Dennehy, Wilford Brimley, Don Ameche and Steve Guttenburg were also excellent.An all round fantastic film which everyone can enjoy - all ages "},{"Title":"Sweet film that probably means more today","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" 1985's Cocoon, directed by Ron Howard, asks - would you give up the emotional, mental and physical pain of growing old if you could? Baby boomers today feel that death is optional and seek out whatever it takes to make them feel and look young - so if Cocoon came out in 2008, it would perhaps resonate even more.The story takes place in a rest home inhabited by a group of friends Arthur (Don Ameche), Benjamin (Wilford Brimley) and his wife Marilyn (Maureen Stapleton), Joseph (Hume Cronyn) and his wife Alma (Jessica Tandy) and a perky red-head Bess (Gwen Verdon). The guys have taken to going to an abandoned pool house and swimming - without permission, of course. Then the building is rented by a man (Brian Dennehy). This same man also rents a boat from Jack Bonner (Steve Guttenberg), who is down on his luck and can use the money. He watches Jack, his beautiful assistant Kitty (Tahnee Welch) and some other people skindiving and bringing up huge silver packages. These packages are then dumped into the pool. After the men swim there one day, they find themselves suddenly rejuvenated and start having sex, staying up, nightclubbing and having more energy. Meantime, on the boat, Jack has gotten a look at Kitty getting ready for bed...and notices that she removes her skin as well as her clothes and glows in the dark.This movie has many poignant moments - Alma coming to grips with the fact that her husband has always cheated, and the saddest of all, when Bernard (Jack Gilford) who has been violently opposed to the whole idea of the pool as a fountain of youth, desperately brings his wife there.Howard cast this with an eye toward man's normal immortality - children - with Raquel Welch's daughter and Tyrone Power's son, Tyrone Power Jr. as Pillsbury - while telling the story of people who have a chance at a different kind of immortality. Both Power and Welch bear strong resemblance to their famous parents. The old-timers in the cast are among the greatest actors of their generation and sadly, we've lost nearly all of them now. Only Wilford Brimley remains. The film revived Don Ameche's career, and the cast returned for a sequel, Cocoon The Return. A wonderful film to see the old stars in a very touching story and to ask yourself - if you had the chance, would you take it? "},{"Title":"Early Ron Howard Entertainer.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Six elderly people (Oscar-winner Don Ameche in more of a lifetime achievement award, Wilford Brimley, Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy, Maureen Stapleton and Gwen Verdon) start swimming at a locked up housed swimming pool that has strange pods in it and then start doing things that contradict their ages. Of course the pods really house aliens from another planet and they are the reasons for the fountain of youth. Ron Howard's sympathetic and clever direction saves this uneven project that starts out as a pure comedy and then turns into a rough drama as the clock ticks away. Brian Dennehy and Steve Guttenberg shine in smart supporting roles. 4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was totally fantasy. However, it does give the meaning of the word fountain of youth. Being a senior citizen isn't always have to be a pain. Most enjoy life, while others tend to sulk about being old and useless. Three seniors(Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley, and Hume Cronyn) venture out to an abandoned indoor swimming pool and the guys seem to feel like their teens. However, they get scared off by some aliens who happen to be friendly. Unknown what's in the water these guys feel vibrant and alive. The other alien encounter is on the boat of Jack Bonner(Steve Guttenberg), who totally freaks out when he peeps on the young woman who sheds more than just her clothes. In the same pool scene, she shows her power to Bonner. And I liked the part where he says, If this is foreplay, I'm a dead man. Hmmm.... sex with an alien, interesting. I also like the part where Ameche's character does a little break-dancing. It goes to show that old folks can get down with the young. It was also very heart-warming, and I think it deserves more credit than it should. Other than that, I enjoyed it very much. 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon could have been very depressing and parts of it are very emotional and sad but beautifully handled. It deals with subjects that are quite difficult to sell - being old, facing the death of loved ones or coming to the end of your own time. However thankfully its also very funny contains great well rounded characters and has some great music from James Horner. Steve Guttenbergs character owns a boat and does crappy tours but is struggling to make ends meet and is down on his luck. Enter four mysterious strangers asking him to take them to a certain point in the ocean with no questions asked. He agrees and while spying on the pretty female played by Tahnee Welch (mmmmm!) he finds out they are actually Aliens retrieving Cocoons containing their friends that have lain at the bottom of the sea for thousands of years. Intercutting with this we have the story of an old peoples home and a group of friends biding their time until death takes them as it takes the people around them one by one. Three life long friends (Ameche, Brimley and Cronin)sneak into a local pool and relax but one day find the pool full of cocoons. After their swim they gain a new lease of life - they all get their libido back, their health and their sense of joy in life. I won't go into detail but what made this an enjoyable film for me was the characters. Each of the friends had their own background, their own questions and concerns as to what was happening and their new lease of life had a different effect on each of them. For example I loved how Hume Cronins character at the beginning was dying of cancer - you felt sorry for him as a sick old man, then when the pool cures him you find out as he gets his sex drive back he has an eye for the ladies and cheats on his wife and that its not the first time as he has treat her badly this way before. I also loved the relationship between Wilford Brimleys character and Barret Oliver. You felt a real grandfather - grandson bond between them. Special mention to the other friend in the group - the eternally grouchy Bernie who refuses to go in the pool or let his sick wife. After the old folks run rampant the energy from the cocoons is drained and the pool stops working its magic - then Bernies wife dies and he Carry's her to the pool begging for it to bring her back. Its pretty heart wrenching stuff for the likes of me. Thankfully though although sometimes I did have a tear in my eye there was some laughter to go along with it. The interplay between the old folks is very funny and its a joy to see them change from old codgers to teenagers overnight and I find Steve Guttenberg amusing as well. Overall I found Cocoon a very entertaining film. Emotional, sad, beautiful, funny and above all memorable. Sadly most of the cast is gone but through their work they live on. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  With an all-star cast and a really good story, this film can hold its own against nearly any other. These are all veteran actors and their performances in this film reflect their experience. In short, this is a very well-acted, written and directed film. The story is a touching one, with elements of all sorts of emotions and human interactions. There is real depth to the story and the film can be watched on one of several levels and enjoyed on each level. If you're looking for just a good entertaining story, it is that. If you want to delve deeper into various aspects of human behavior, those elements are all present as well. This film is well worth your time and it's entertaining, too! "},{"Title":"Pleasant sci-fi","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  The premise of this fine science fiction movie is plausible, and its cast of veteran actors makes it a real joy to watch. Don Ameche, who is making a comeback after all these years; the husband and wife team of Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy who have played together for ever; Wilford Brimley; Maureen Stapleton and the rest of this wonderful group make together a great combination. I first took notice of Brian Dennehy and his imposing presence in this movie, and he fits well in all his roles, good guy, or bad guy. I enjoyed watching its third re-run years after having seen it for the first time, and enjoyed it just as much. Maybe it's because I'm nearing 80 and I relate to those guys. It seems to be on its way to become a classic, despite its oft repeated ending. "},{"Title":"A feel good movie!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that just makes you feel good to be alive!It deals with the issues of aging, dying, dealing with a loss to loved ones. Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley, Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy, and many more, bring this film alive!In the question of our we alone, is frankly answered in this movie. When aging friends decide to break into a house, for a friendly swim in the swimming pool, they get more than they bargain for. It turns out that the pool contains something that their bodies can't resist. Something that turns back the hands of time.I'd continue more onto the plot, but I suggest that you read up some more on this title and check it out for yourself.It contains great acting, comedy, drama, and hell, even some romance!A feel good movie for anyone of all ages. I recommend this as a must see. 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"You know you're getting old when ...","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" ... you're older than Ron Howard!And you had a crush on Gwen Verdon when she played Lola in Damn Yankees.You know you're getting old when you put on Cocoon and keep waiting for the Marx Brothers to make their appearances.You think you are watching Cocoanuts. But you aren't quite sure because the last time you saw it was in its original theatrical release.Just before The Crash.All you can remember is it was set in Florida.And they kept trying to sell you some land.Which you bought.This movie is set in Florida, and you figure it must be Cocoanuts because what else could those things be in the pool?Then, 15 minutes into the film, you fall asleep.You dream of an enchanted evening in the South Pacific and think you're still in the Marines.Then Harpo finally appears.Playing a harp.Good night, and sweet dreams. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable ET-inspired fable.","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take The all-star veteran cast is the selling point, but it's also a sweeping story about life and love. Ever since audiences were awe-struck with Steven Spielberg's heart-warming and crowd-pleasing E.T. THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL, many rip-offs and knock-offs tried to duplicate the success of the film (What blockbuster hit wouldn't). It's easy to consider Ron Howard's COCOON as a part of this cycle, but this is a very different tale all together. Sure it has aliens (that clearly looks like guys in an alien suit surrounded by animated lights) that came in peace. Sure it has a kid with a mother very worried of him suddenly running-off. Sure it clearly wanted to be the classic that E.T. was. But COCOON also has fine acting (by a veteran, all-star cast), a touching story and some very humorous and sometimes uplifting moments that make it a spellbinding tale.COCOON is much less a sci-fi movie than it is a drama, and a brilliant one at that. Howard provides both humor and touching tear-jerking moments and handles them both very well. Then it leaves the all-star cast to give the performances of their career (Don Ameche is at his peak when he boogies like John Travolta in one scene). The story concerns the arrival of peaceful extra-terrestrial beings, disguised as normal human beings, who aid the help of a skipper (Steve Guttenberg) to find one of their friends trapped in the ocean floor. Upon finding them, they are placed in a small swimming pool the next day. Coincidentally, a couple of elders swim in the pool, who are then endowed with youthful energy, giving them a chance to enjoy the last remains of their life they way they wanted to.As played by one of the best acting veterans he can handle, Howard's fantasy is a funny, poignant and simply charming fairy tale for the older set packed with laughs (seeing these old guys and gals party about like a couple of college buddies are warm and funny) and heart-breaking drama (the scenes where they discover the perils of time and age can't help but be tear-jerking). Howard is especially good at handling the film with originality, not looking at E.T. even for a minute. It ain't a flawless classic as the other film is, but it is nonetheless a very charming movie that much deserves a revisit.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Cocoon","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I must admit I tried watching it once and got bored or tired, but seeing it again I'm glad I gave it another chance, it is a pretty good science-fiction fantasy. Basically Arthur 'Art' Selwyn (Oscar winning Don Ameche, who I knew did the voice of Shadow, the golden retriever in Homeward Bound The Incredible Journey), Benjamin 'Ben' Luckett (Wilford Brimley) and Joseph 'Joe' Finley (Hume Cronyn) are three ordinary old men living in the home, and they are annoyed that their swimming pool isn't heated. Meanwhile, Jack Bonner (Steve Guttenberg) has his boat hired by three ordinary looking people, Walter (Brian Dennehy), Kitty (Tahnee Welch, daughter of Raquel) and Doc (Mike Nomad) for three weeks, so that they collect some special underwater things, what look like rocks. These rocks, or rather cocoons, are put into their house swimming pool, and not long later Art, Ben and Joe are trespassing while they are gone to use the pool. After using the pool, they are discovering they can do more physical things they could not before, in other words, they are feeling young again. By accident, Jack discovers that his three passengers are aliens wearing skin suits, they call themselves Antereans, and they are on Earth collecting cocoons containing their friends, Jack agrees to help them, and knows they mean no harm. As the three old men embrace their new found youthfulness, they also discover the secret of the Antereans, and also the other old people in the home, especially Bernard 'Bernie' Lefkowitz (Jack Gilford) and Alma Finley (Jessica Tandy) wonder about (or do not want to be part of) this fountain of youth, and when all the old people (except Bernie) jump into the water to soak in youth, this is what kills the aliens inside the cocoons. So in the end, since they have absorbed the youthfulness of the alien cocoons, all the old people have a tough decision to make, stay on the Earth, or come with the Antereans to their home world to live forever, so all except Bernie decide to go with them. Also starring Maureen Stapleton as Marilyn Luckett, Gwen Verdon as Bess McCarthy, Herta Ware as Rosie Lefkowitz, The NeverEnding Story's Barret Oliver as David, Linda Harrison as Susan, Tyrone Power Jr. as Pillsbury, Clint Howard (Ron's brother) as John Dexter, Charles Lampkin as Pops and Jorge Gil as Lou Pine. I don't think Guttenberg is as bad as the critics think he is, the special effects are impressive, and I can see reasons why Ameche won the Oscar, a good film. It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Very good! "},{"Title":"Story about aliens and their positive effect on some older people on earth.","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is about aliens who bring cocoons that hold other aliens to the ocean for a while and then must retrieve them and return to their home planet. The aliens change their appearance to look like normal people so as not to be detected. They hire a boat to retrieve these cocoons from the ocean. The retrieved cocoons are then stored temporarily in a swimming pool. A residential community for older people is located near the pool where the cocoons are being held. Some of the older residents decide to break into the pool area and go swimming. The effect these cocoons have on some older people and the efforts of the aliens to not have their identities revealed is the main storyline. The interactions of the older people and the aliens is the body of the movie. There are some twists and turns making this movie funny, serious, and generally enjoyable. This is a feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"A rare and truthful focus on the elderly makes Cocoon a nice film","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Very few films have been made with seniors as the main characters. It seems that Hollywood producers are convinced we prefer to see younger people on the screen -- and they're probably right. Cocoon is a rare elderly-focused take on the fountain of youth concept, an ancient motif that's enough proof in itself that humans desire young age, whether in general or at the movies. Although science fiction, Cocoon is simple and mild-mannered like its lovable old protagonists. It might be light on drama but it's big on heart.Loaded with stars from yesteryear, among them Don Ameche, Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy and Gwen Verdon, one could say Cocoon was an '80s alien movie made specifically for an older crowd. And that's fair -- they deserve it. It's as if director Ron Howard was hoping to give his cast some of their youth back in letting them take prominence in the film, based on a story by David Saperstein and screenplay by Tom Benedek. It's not riveting sci-fi material but it prompts an honest conversation about aging, one that in reality someone of any age could understand and appreciate.The film takes place in a senior living center in St. Petersburg, Florida. As part of their recreation time, three of the senior men enjoy swimming in the abandoned pool just through the woods around the center. When a strange group of people come in and buy the old house and rent a boat at the dock, the stubborn old guys still come to swim in the pool, only it appears the people are storing rocks in the water. They swim anyway and find that with the rocks in the pool (actually alien cocoons) that they feel energetic, rejuvenated -- and younger.Howard's film is easygoing. There is not a lot of suspense or gripping conflict. Instead, you watch and get a kick out of the way these seniors and their wives behave having been affected by the water. Their sex drive, for example, reappears to comic effect and there's general misbehavior. They all come off as bigger children and each have a different reaction to this cheating of age. Thus the film's core conflict of whether it's right to defy nature appears and guides the rest of the film. It's a replacement for any major form of antagonism.Cocoon is touching because the story is very frank in portraying these seniors as having nothing to live for but each other and whatever remaining family they have. When you're that old, a chance at prolonged life is like being granted a whole new world of opportunity whereas you're just biding time when you're old and physically and mentally unable to do the things you used to.There have been better stories, better special effects (although this one an Oscar in 1985) and better science-fiction films, so Cocoon is best appreciated as a unique film about old age, something movies rarely focus entirely upon.~Steven CVisit my site! http//moviemusereviews.com "}{"Title":"..lovely fairytale for older folk (me)..","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I've read all of the other comments and agree with all of them, plus ! I give the movie Cocoon a 10, because it's silly and fun, touching and realistic, well-acted and directed by Ron Howard. Dave Saperstein's script is a little nutty, but delightful. I didn't see who wrote the score, but it's lovely.Don Ameche deserved his Oscar, and some of the other cast-members should have been nominated, too - if for no other reason for the long number of years they gave to movie-goers in this country.Wilford Brimley (Ben) really held the story together, and did his role well, especially in scenes with his grandson. Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy have appeared in more roles than all these guys put together, and certainly added brilliance to the story. Maureen Stapleton and Jack Gilford were very good. Gwen Verdon - that fabulous dancing-lady in many Broadway shows - was painted like a young gal and had the most modern coifs......looked good and was great in the dance sequences. Chita Rivera paid her the highest compliment just this week for KCET's fund-raising program - said dancing with her was one of the highlights of her career.Young'uns, it is my opinion that older people defeat their sexual prowess by accepting the general public's denigration, themselves - but, I'm glad those guys found the fountain of youth and enjoyed it while they could. NOW, although he was the youngest actor in the cast, it is also my opinion Steve Guttenberg's character was sexed-up to the hilt.....lots of scenes without shirts, always tight trunks, lots of pretty-boy shots.....I was certain his boner was going to hang-out of his shorts at any time.....it was constantly visible.The cinematography of underwater scenes of Atlantis were gorgeous, and the camera was used effectively to show how the cocoons were taken out of the water and put back in it. Wouldn't we all like to find such a magic pool? The return of the spaceship was used effectively for the few alien aspects of the film, and certainly gave Brian Dennehy the opportunity to cap a well-played role. Another added excitement was the grandson being on the boat, wanting to go - then realizing his life was with his mother. All those Coast Guard boats were a lead-up to the thrill of the boat being drawn-up into the spaceship.....maybe they WERE going to heaven.......Not one violent scene in the movie, and EVERYONE loved it. What a feel-good movie!, and one for all people to contemplate how they'll handle their old-age........how you do really IS in your head. I'm 82-going-on-18 and loving it all. Congrats to all involved in getting this movie to the screen - it's a gem, and I recommend it to everyone...... "},{"Title":"An uplifting and highly entertaining adventure","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very likable movie about a group of elderly people who come across what seems to be a fountain of youth. From the very first time that I have seen this movie it has deeply moved me. The whole story is wonderful and the characters are all portrayed by an ensemble of wonderful elderly actors. This film is extremely heart warming and it always brings tears to my eyes!! This is definitely one of Ron Howard's best and most under-appreciated film. If you enjoyed films like E.T., and Starman, Cocoon is a must see. I guarantee anyone that they will be glad they gave it a try after viewing this film. ****1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Why aren't there more films like this?","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cocoon is a unique movie in many ways.  It is hard to categorise as just a sci-fi or just a comedy.  It successfully melds many different genres.  It moves effortlessly from light-hearted comedy to touching drama.  Full credit should go to Ron Howard's confident and sincere direction and the support he gets from the ensemble cast.  If you like comedy or sci-fi this movie is well worth a look.  Note particularly the excellent score.  Hollywood needs more movies like this! "},{"Title":"What Can I Say?  I love these people...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cocoon has got to be just about the CUTEST movie I have ever seen!  What's cuter than a bunch of older people running around, dancing and hanging out with aliens?  Although I'm not a big fan of Wilford Brimley, he and Maureen Stapleton did a great job with their roles!  I'm also not a big Steve Guttenberg fan... but he's so funny whenever he finds out that he's on a boat with aliens.  I never accused you of being dishonest!  I accuse you of being from another planet... BUT AN HONEST PLANET!  Jessica Tandy & Hume Cronyn are one of the cutest couples I have ever seen!  They always do such fantastic jobs, especially Jessica.  (Who else do you know that can play old lady with alzheimers/lady in nursing home who tells stories about people who barbeque dead bodies/lady being attacked by birds?)  Jack Gilford is great in his role as the crabby Bernie.  And of course, Don Ameche and Gwen Verdon... how awesome are they?!  (Especially Gwen... just watch her dance in this movie... I'd like to be able to move like that at 60!)  Like Jessica and Hume, they are always great in whatever they do!  Funny how every time I hear Don's voice I think of a golden retriever... and every time I hear Gwen I want to break into a rendition of Whatever Lola Wants.  o)  Thumbs up to Ron Howard for his direction!  These people look like they're having such a ball... be sure to catch this movie next time it's on! "},{"Title":"Forgotten 1980's Classic","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A movie I consider an underrated classic of the 1980's Cocoon, just gets better with age.Plot In A Paragraph A group of aliens led by Walter (Brian Dennehy) and Kitty (Tahnee Welch) return to earth to retrieve cocoons containing the people they'd left behind from an earlier trip. These cocoons had been resting at the bottom of the ocean. They hire a boat from a local captain Jack (Steve Guttenberg) who helps them retrieve the cocoons. Once retrieved, they stored these recovered cocoons in the swimming pool of a house they'd rented in a small Florida town. Problems arise when three elderly people, Art (Don Ameche) Ben (Wilford Brimley) and Joe (Hume Cronyn) from a nearby retirement community have been secretly using the pool, and who discover a new lease of life after using the pool with the cocoons in it.All the lead cast are brilliant and Brian Dennehy is as excellent as always. Every time I see him on screen I warm to Steve Guttenberg, and I can't help but wonder what happened to his career, and looking on here, he didn't make a movie from 1990 (A sequel to 3 Men & A Baby) till 1995. Which is forever in Hollywood.The film marked the first collaboration between director Ron Howard and composer James Horner. Horner would go on to compose the music for many films directed by Howard. "},{"Title":"Absolutely sublime","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's an absolutely sublime film with a stellar cast of actors playing the elderly characters, particularly Don Ameche (who won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for the film, only his seventh in 36 years, at the age of 77), Jessica Tandy (another elderly Oscar winner but for Driving Miss Daisy), her husband Hume Cronyn and Wilford Brimley (the only one still alive, sadly). The younger actors are well cast too such as Brian Dennehy, Steve Guttenberg, Tahnee Welch (who is a better actress than her more famous mother Raquel) and Barret Oliver.The film has an excellent script and explores its timeless themes very well. You certainly don't have to be the characters' age to appreciate the film or even relate to all of their experiences. Ron Howard, one of the best directors of his generation, does a sterling job with the material. Not many films then or now focus their attention almost entirely on characters (particularly ordinary ones) in their 70s but it was a gamble that paid off. These days, I don't think that Hollywood would be willing to take the risk.Only 50 when the film was made, Brimley was decades younger than most of the film's other stars but he looked older than he was. By way of comparison, he was 27 years younger than Gilford and less than 11 years older than Linda Harrison (of Planet of the Apes fame, who it was nice to finally hear say more than one word!) who played his daughter in the film. He may have played an elderly man but he is seven years younger than Roger Moore, who played James Bond for the last time in A View to a Kill which was released at much the same time! One thing that I loved particularly loved about the film was that the elderly people act like real people. Most of them are just as confused and apprehensive about life as far younger people are. Often in films and TV, elderly characters are either on life support or have no personality outside of the fact that they're old. In this film, they're all individuals and behave as such. Art Selwyn - played by the simply wonderful Don Ameche - is my favourite character. He is basically a well-meaning cad (for want of a better description), an older version of the kind of character that Ameche often played in the 1930s and 1940s.I've always thought that 1985 was the best year for kids, teen and family films and this is my favourite of all the ones that I've seen with the exception of Back to the Future. "},{"Title":"We don't know what forever is.","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens, disguised as humans, rent Steve Guttenberg's boat to help them recover some alien cocoons from the ocean. Then they store them in the bottom of a swimming pool next door to a retirement home. A group of oldsters from the retirement home take a swim in the pool and find themselves feeling youthful and reinvigorated.Charming, pleasant, and touching film from Ron Howard that's a showcase for a fine cast of elderly actors. Don Ameche, Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy, Maureen Stapleton, and the other oldsters are all great but Wilford Brimley is the standout. It could be argued Steve Guttenberg is only in the movie to give it some youth appeal, to say nothing of his 'sort of romance' with Tahnee Welch (daughter of Raquel). But he doesn't detract from things at all and is likable throughout the picture. It's a truly unique and wonderful movie. One of the many classics made in the '80s, a decade that is vastly underrated by film snobs. "},{"Title":"The cast of seniors makes this a special film","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading many of the reviews here, I wish to compliment our reviewer FilmFlaneur, who really seems to get what this film is about. Even the title of his review -- Charming fable... -- hits the nail on the head.I think what some other reviewers need to refocus on is what story did Ron Howard decide to tell us? After all, there are many directions this film's basic premise could have gone in. For example, it could have become a science fiction film, but instead, Howard told a story that only depended on a science fiction substrate. The real focus here is actually human life ON EARTH. How do humans react to growing old.What a wonderful ensemble of actors portray a wonderfully interesting group of old codgers. The gem, of course, was the almost forgotten Don Ameche...for my money, one of the most underrated actors in American cinema; what a joy to savor Ameche's acting here, and to rejoice in a career renewed. Wilford Brimley...not a favorite of mine...is just right here. Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy, a real-life married couple that always brought joy and dignity to their roles. Jack Gilford, interesting as always. Gwen Verdon, another mostly forgotten actor who did very nicely here. So how are these old folks going into that good night? There's all variations here...just as there probably would be in real life.The aliens' characters are less well developed. I've never been a fan of Brian Dennehy, but he does nicely here as the leader of the aliens. Tahnee Welch has a decent amount of screen time, but it's a plot device, not the development of a character. Interestingly, Tyrone Power, Jr., son of Tyrone Power, is another of the aliens, but he mostly just stands around looking not as strikingly handsome as his father.The special effects here are pretty decent, especially considering that this was filmed nearly 30 years ago. Some of the special effects impressed me, others did not. But the special effects people did their jobs to help tell the story effectively.I found the ending a bit of a let down. I guess we just had to have faith that the seniors made the right decision to go with the aliens. It would have been nice had Ron Howard done a sequel to tell us the next part of the story. Steve Guttenburg, as the skipper of the yacht, is just kinda left there in the Gulf Of Mexico in a rather difficult legal position. What happened to him? So much more of a story could have been told.But, I'm not complaining. This was and is a satisfying film. A gem. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Good, Light-Hearted Sci-Fi Flick!","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley, Hume Cronyn, Steve Guttenberg, Jessica Tandy and Brian Dennehy star in Ron Howard's 1985 sci-fi film. This takes place in St. Petersburg, Florida where we meet senior citizen pals, Art (Ameche), Ben (Brimley) and Joe (Cronyn) who discover a way to feel youthful again when they swim in a pool energized by alien cocoons. Dennehy (First Blood) plays alien, Walter who is trying to save his friends inside the cocoons and take them to his home planet, Anterea. Guttenberg (Police Academy) plays boatman, Jack who is hired by Walter and his crew to retrieve the cocoons from the ocean discovering they're aliens and Tandy (Driving Miss Daisy) plays Joe's wife, Alma. Soon, Walter loses one of his friends as do Ben and his friends making a deal for them to come with him to Anterea where they will never get older or die. Howard's brother, Clint and father, Rance also appear. This is a good, light-hearted sci-fi flick with a great cast & excellent score by James Horner I recommend. "},{"Title":"Never Gets Old (No Pun Intended)","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon was the first big movie Ron Howard directed after Splash. I grew up watching this movie. I've continued watching it (probably over 100 times) and it never gets old! It throws out that question what would older people do if they found the fountain of youth? It's too bad I have to travel back to 1985 to find a truly uplifting film. A movie you can watch that will lift your spirits, and although highly unlikely, is made believable by the great acting that actually landed Don Ameche a Best-Supporting Actor nomination that same year. Cocoon also starred Jessica Tandy, Hume Cronyn, Wilford Brimley, Brian Dennehy, and Steve Guttenberg. I love this movie...always have always will! Reviewed by AN/NR 11-14-11 "}{"Title":"New Spring in their step","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The Citizen Kane of Ron Howard's directorial career has to be and still is Cocoon. It's a film that combines fantasy and science fiction better than any ever done before or since and it's the most life affirming item you'll ever see on the big screen or small. It also gives some of our older players some really fine roles and brought an Oscar late in his career to one of the class acts of Hollywood.The citizens of one of thousands of nursing homes are just whiling away the end hours of their lives and in Florida there's more of these homes than most places. Three of those citizens are Wilford Brimley, Hume Cronyn and Don Ameche. One of their activities is to go into an indoor swimming pool in a vacant house next door.But those activities are interrupted when four strangers, Brian Dennehy, Linda Harrison, Clint Howard, and Tyrone Power IV rent the place. It's that swimming pool that interests them. The quartet also rents Steve Guttenberg's boat and they bring up some large size boulder type rocks which they place in the pool.Our senior citizens keep going into the pool even with the rocks there and pretty soon they're noticing some marvelous changes, in Hume Cronyn, the most marvelous of all as his cancer goes into a complete remission, mystifying his doctors. That leads our group now joined by wives Jessica Tandy and Maureen Stapleton for Cronyn and Brimley and companion Gwen Verdon for Ameche that these are some special people.Special they are, humans they're not as the quartet shows them they're aliens in human body suits. And after some heartache and tragedy for both earth people and aliens, the aliens offer these old folks a chance never given to any humans before. For that you see Cocoon for.This is the kind of film that you can watch over and over and still feel good about yourselves and feel good that there are others out there in the vast universe who've played the game of life and have mastered the rules. There are so many other science fiction films that show monsters and other worldly creatures coming to earth with the most malicious of intentions. Cocoon is such a refreshing change.Cocoon got two Oscars in 1985 for special effects and a Best Supporting Actor Award for Don Ameche. In a sense it was wrong to single out Ameche because all the senior citizen players cut some fine characters that you'll remember and enjoy. But Ameche was always a class act in Hollywood, a person you'll not hear an unkind word about written or spoken by his contemporaries in a career that lasted from the Thirties to the Nineties. It was an award for a lifetime more than anything else.One of those characters also was Jack Gilford. There's a famous classic Twilight Zone episode which also takes place in a senior citizen home where the residents there are given the same chance as these people are. With a lot less attention I might add. Gilford fulfills the same function as Russell Collins did in The Twilight Zone, the one who stays behind because he can't bring himself to take the step necessary.Who knows how long or if humankind will approach what these aliens have, but in many ways Cocoon offers a peak into an existence more fabulous than ever portrayed on film before. "},{"Title":"Another Ron Howard Masterpiece!","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" What a story! The story of this movie is believable and grabs you! The inner concepts are thoroughly shown in the movie and serves as a decent thinker. Though Guttenberg's performance lacked...Brimley, Dennehy, Ameche, and Welch played their characters flawlessly! Hope and a greater appreciation for life are huge in this film which make it so good. The film leaves you with a great feeling for the future and what lies above us. The quarky comedy throughout does work and actually helps lowering the seriousness of the lives lost to a bearable level for all ages. This could have been an awful wreck but Howard and the actors turn this movie into a grand family classic from the 80's! "},{"Title":"Cocoon (1985)","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie in theaters in 1985. I never forgot it. It is really a great movie that has stayed in my mind all this time. When I saw the opportunity to buy it at a discount, I grabbed it. Tonight I watched it again, and being my age, it inspired me again. The love the couples have for each other is tremendous and the camaraderie of the friendships is truly something that few have ever experienced. I really love that the older you get does not mean that life is gone. I got a hard-on, you got one too God that made me laugh and think. Why should life end just because we get old? I have always believed we were not alone in this universe. As Jody Foster says in Contact Do you think there is life on other planets? Her dad replies I don't know, Sparks. But I guess I'd say if it is just us... seems like an awful waste of space. I have always believed there are others out there. This movie only inspires that belief and nurtures the thought that they don't want to harm us in any way. They are explorers just as we are. They want to learn and you know&#x85;there is nothing wrong with that. "},{"Title":"Classic movie of all time!","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently learned that this film was directed by Ron Howard. Being a fan of his movies, Ron Howard tests his skill in making this sci-fictional film as realistic as possible. 'Cocoon' as the title of the film goes centers on a group of senior citizens who get unexpected vigor on swimming in their neighbor's pool. A superb cast and Steve Guttenberg of (three men and a baby)fame giving that comedy punch. It is a all time family entertainer. The concept original and considering lot of sci-fiction movies emerged in the 80's , this film still stands for three things- oldies coming in form, exploring the unknown and last purpose in life. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Pretty decent light sci-fi, kind of like E.T. except with old people instead of children. Brian Dennehy plays an alien come to Earth looking for cocoons left in the ocean a long time ago by their race. The cocoons they find are placed in an indoor pool next door to an old folk's home, and a few rascally old men (Wilford Brimley, Hume Cronyn and Don Ameche) sneak in and use the pool. The water has become rejuvenating, and the three men, along with their wives on subsequent visits, become reinvigorated. Steve Guttenberg plays a ship captain whom the aliens hire to take them out to sea, and Raquel Welch's gorgeous daughter, Tahnee Welch, plays one of the aliens for whom Guttenberg falls. Don Ameche somehow won an Oscar for his role, most likely for a silly break dancing sequence which he obviously did not perform. In my mind, Jack Gilford, as the guys' buddy who refuses to go into the pool, is the best actor in the film, though I don't think anyone deserved an Oscar nomination for it. "},{"Title":"A nice little comedy, science fiction drama.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, how many movies even fit the bill as a comedy, science fiction, drama movie? Probably this, the sequel to this and that movie that also has Jessica Tandy in it Batteries not Included. This movie is nothing all that great, but is still a nice little movie to watch. Seniors find a pool to go swimming in, the waters though seem to have a very positive effect on them as they feel young again. The catch here is that the pool is being used by aliens to help rejuvenate fellow aliens left on the planet so long ago. There are twists and turns here and there and many nice performances by some older actors and actresses of their time and you get Steve Guttenberg before he became a very overused actor in bad comedy movies. It is nice seeing the older people feeling young again, and it is also a bit irritating to see them go berserk at the end and causing so much destruction. The story takes a interesting shift near the end and the aliens and the elderly work together to do some good and the aliens make them a nice little offer. I though the movie ended rather well and did not call for a sequel, but one would unfortunately be made three years later. I prefer to see this one as stand alone and dismiss it for what it is, a cheap attempt to catch a little magic again. "},{"Title":"You know, I can't remember the last time I really took a risk.","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I generally get a kick out of stories wherein old timers (and for perspective, I'm almost there myself, already am by some reckoning), find renewed enthusiasm and vigor from a mythical fountain of youth. This one however only took me half way to the finish line. Maybe it had to do with the involvement of space aliens and giant pods, but more so I think with the virtually one sided opinion expressed by most of the central characters that giving up everything they have to live forever was the 'right thing to do' (sorry, that's just the way it came out, I wasn't thinking of Wilford Brimley's commercials).The set-up with Brimley's character you see, seemed to be pointing entirely in the other direction. The relationship with his grandson begged for a thorough soul searching moment in which Ben (Brimley) would decide in favor of staying put to share in the the joys of watching his fishing partner grow up and become a man. Sure, there was that one moment of doubt that was discussed with wife Mary (Maureen Stapleton), but it was dismissed rather quickly. Ultimately, I came away feeling that Ben's decision was somewhat selfish. Additionally, the way the picture ended, with the young boy gazing happily heavenward, didn't ring true for me. After all, he would grow old and die someday, while his grandparents were tooling around the universe in immortality.Without the whole alien pod subtext, I think the picture would have shown greater promise. There's nothing wrong with experiencing the sublime and magical, and if it makes you feel young again, so much the better. There may be 'better' things to do than running around the backyard with my own grandson as he tries to squirt me with his water gun, and falling down when he 'gets me'. But I don't think I'd want to give that up for a shot at living forever if I had to miss the experience.I'm reminded of a 1962 Rod Serling 'Twilight Zone' episode titled 'Kick the Can' that also took place in a nursing home. In that one, a senior citizen believes he's found the secret of youth in playing children's games. As in Cocoon, there's another resident like Bernie (Jack Gilford) who remains a hold out, in favor of acting his own age. The story ends when the old man realizes he missed his opportunity to be a kid again, as he watches his friends skip off into the darkness to revive their youth. That mere twenty five minute story holds a lot more poignancy for me than Cocoon, and as support, I've remembered it for forty years since I first saw it. "},{"Title":"Well-made sci-fi heartwarmer","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It is upon films such as this Ron Howard has painstakingly constructed his reputation for being a safe pay of hands in Tinseltown. It's a film brimming with fun and pathos, tension and romance and an old school cast of really wonderful actors around their 70s.Cast-to-type Steve Guttenberg unwittingly helps a group of 'scientists' to retrieve the eponymous cocoons from a Florida bay and falls in love with one of the group played by (the lovely) Tahnee Welch. The twists of the subterfuge that Brian Dennehy, a sensible actor, downplaying his unimportant role, and his outfit operate under are nothing compared to the revelation that the residents of the local retirement home have been enjoying rejuvenating benefits of the cocoons. Don Ameche, Hume Cronyn and (the more robust) Wilford Brimley are the charming, vibrant trio of friends who must make tough decisions when the scientists have to take the haul off with them. Touching. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A film that is enjoyable and wonderful","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Even if it is not the best film ever,it is a delightful and enjoying film for anyone in the family.Basically,it is about a group of seniors who are harmless and one day stumble upon aliens disguised as human beings who are from another galaxy who are using a luxurious poolhouse as their base of operations in order to get back some of their fallen comrades bodies who were left behind a few thousand years ago.There is a great casting to this film that includes the likes of Don Ameche,Hume Cronyn,Wilford Bremley,Brian Dennehy,Steve Guttenberg,Maureeen Stapleton and Jessica Tandy among others as well as being directed by Ron Howard.One thing that is unusual about this film is that it won both the Oscar's it was nominated for including Best Supporting Actor-Ameche and Best Special Effects. "},{"Title":"Eighties fluff fantasy that is cute but nothing spectacular","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon by some is considered utter eighties classic and its understandable why. There isn't a lot like it. You have a cast of movie and theater greats past their presumed prime all getting together in a movie that is essentially about aliens. Plus you throw in the eighties camp acting great Steve Guttenberg, and you got yourselves a bonafide hit!! I happen to think that as cute and fluffy and perhaps even classic that it is...its not that great but Cocoon fulfills a certain entertainment quota with a really strong cast, with really terrific chemistry. Its like an ET for adults. Certainly you can't doubt the talent of director Ron Howard who has done some amazing work in his time although Cocoon was really one of his early hits following Splash. I think Cocoon hits the familiar note of what life in the eighties was like. The eighties was a time when people wanted THINGS...material goods, youth, vitality, freedom, it was like a materialistic hippie movement and Cocoon plays on that premise. Leaving behind family, friends, everything you've ever known so that you can have no sickness and eternal life is well worth it with just a little bit of sadness. And the idea that being old SUCKS.The cast of Cocoon is nothing short of brilliant. Playing the elder crew that find eternal life are Don Ameche, who won an Oscar for his role as free spirited and spunky Arthur Selwyn. I think the Oscar is a little much but his character is still blast. The incomparable Wilford Brimley as level headed leader Ben. Hume Cronyn as spirited womanizer Joseph Finley, who probably gives one of the best performances. He was nominated for an Oscar in 1945 and if anyone deserved one for Cocoon I think it'd be him. Oscan Nominee Jack Gilford as the sour and doubting Bernard Lefkowitz. Multiple Oscar nominated Maureen Stapleton as Ben's beloved wife. Oscar winner Jessica Tandy is terrific as Cronyn's spirited and scorned wife. The younger crew are played by Steve Guttenberg as the slapstick, comedic boat captain, the amazing Brian Dennehy as the mysterious head of the alien crew Walter, the very sexy and perfect eighties movie girl Tahnee Welch as one of the main alien crew members and the object of Guttenberg's affections.The cast works so well together in kind of a silly story but its still a feel good cutesy kind of deal. The young cast just mesh so perfectly with the older cast and everyone is terrific. I could have done without Guttenberg, one of the most over rated and over used actors of the eighties. He kind of made serious moments a joke and it just felt like he was demeaning all the talent in this film. The film does have some emotion behind it but its just kind of surface emotion before moving on to something. Cocoon won't ever be ground breakingly brilliant but its cute and fun and apparently Oscar worthy but it probably seemed like the most opportune moment to bestow Oscars on an aging but brilliant cast. If you haven't seen Cocoon then of course you should but likely you won't be blown away by it. Its just okay. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Genuine feel-good movie","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Light but entertaining fantasy about a small group of elderly citizens who discover that the abandoned house next to their home contains a 'fountain of youth'. One must suspend disbelief for this film. On managing that however, Ron Howard presents us with a quite often funny and occasionally moving motion picture.Ron Howard manages to tie the unlikely story together very well. Performances from Don Ameche (who won an Academy Award) and Wilford Brimley are quite enjoyable. James Horner's music works well also.A genuine feel good movie, which unfortunately gets a little tired after a few re-runs.Sunday, May 24, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"heart-warming","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Coccon is a heart warming movie about some old people living out their last few days of happiness in a retirement home . However things take a change when a few of them sneak into the pool next door and find their youth rekindled . It has a mix of everything this film , in places it will make you laugh , cry but in general it will keep you entertained . The cast all performed well and the film followed through nicely . A few minor flaws but i was willing to let that go just for the sake of light entertainment . This film can be watched and enjoyed by people who are not fans of the sci-fi genre but all in all a moving film , check it out if you ever have spare time . "},{"Title":"Great Entertaining Film","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie again on TV.   While many people may view this film and consider it a movie about a bunch of old people and some aliens, that is only part of the story.   This movie is deeper than that with a underlying theme about life and death.  Is it better to live a regular life on earth or to live forever and forsake your family and loved ones to achieve this immortality?  This ideal is exemplified by the character of Bernie (watch and see).  The rest of the movie is full of lighthearted humor and some very moving moments that will bring tears to your eyes.  Outstanding movie with great special effects for its time.   8.5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film with the family on Christmas Eve. The christmas tree was lighted and the snow fell outside. It was such a feeling. A wonderful film, with and surprising ending. If you have seen X-Files, you know that you never get to see the spaceships and what's happening to the abducted people. In this movie you see it WITH and happy ending. "},{"Title":"4 out of 5 Stars","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Directed By Ron Howard his directoral debut.I thought this film was great , The late Don Ameche gave an excellent performance along with Wilfred Brimley , Jessica Tandy , and Hume Cronin , but I believe that Bruce Rymshaw in his movie debut gave a stellar performance ( oscar nominated )Their were so many stars in this film , It is hard to say who did the best acting job , But the film itself was very good , and I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Cocoon","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a warm little movie and it has its own moments. Actors are doing a great job and looks like they have had really fun making it, which makes it more enjoyable to watch. I would also like to thank James Horner for composing an interesting piece of movie music.  "},{"Title":"I Accuse You From Being From Another Planet. An Honest Planet!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"   CONTAINS SPOILERS        A sci-fi movie fabulously done! Meet Art (Don Ameche), Ben (Wilford Brimley), and Joe (Hume Cronyn). They live in a senior citizens home in Florida. They like to go for swims in a near-by indoor swimming pool. They're also somewhat old and feeble.         At the docks, a young adventurer sea captain, Jack Bonner(Stevie Guttenberg) is without customers and money, then along comes a man named Walter (Brian Dennehy), and with him are three other counterparts, including Kitty (Tahnee Welch). They rent Jack's boat, and are on a secret mission. One afternoon, Art, Ben and Joe discover Walter buying the estate where the pool is, so they think they can't swim there anymore. At sea, Walter and his counterparts bring odd looking objects from the ocean. They look like giant rocks, but they're really cocoons. Art, Ben and Joe decide to swim in the pool whilethey're gone because when they viewed the cocoon rescuing, the old men figured they were dope peddlers. Some cocoons were in the pool and when they swam in it, they felt very energized. Art appeared at hisgirlfriend Bess's (Gwen Verdon) house with flowers in hand and wearing a tuxedo. Ben got in the shower with his wife Mary (Maureen Stapleton), and Joe's wife Alma (Jessica Tandy) was amazed at his newfoundenergy. The men figure that pool could help some friends of their's, Bernie (Jack Gilford) and Rose (Herta Ware) Lefkowitz. Bernie is a scroogy old curmudgeon and Rose has Alzheimer's.           One night on the boat, Jack discovers something weird about his friends they were aliens. They were shiny beings wearing human suits. Jack panicked and tried to drive back to land, but the boat wouldn't cooperate. Walter explains his plans to Jack and he slowly understands. Walter, Kitty and their friends are Antareans from the planet Antarea. But one day, when Art, Ben and Joe take Bernie to the pool, they get discovered. Joe becomes ill with a deadly disease and Ben and Art really want to help, so Ben goes over and talks to Walter about it. He says it's okay to use the pool so long as they don't touch the cocoons. So the men invite their wives and they have a pool party. Rose wants to come but Bernie won't allow it.            One night, they all go bowling and Joe doesn't want to go home, so while everyone else leaves, Joe goes on a date with a soda fountain lady. Alma finds out and leaves Joe, and the next morning, Bernie opens his big mouth complaining about the fountain of youth, so now everyone in the home rushes over to the pool.Too many people causes a disruption in the water's life force and an Antarean inside a cocoon dies. Walter is saddened and in disbelief over the events of that day. But that's not all, Rose passes away and Bernie is very saddened. The old folks agree to help Walter get the cocoonsback to the ocean because the Antareans must leave the next day. As a way of saying thanks, Walter says they've got room for them on the ship and promises they will all live successful lives forever. No getting sick or dying. The old folks wanna do it but gotta tie up some loose ends on earth first. Art withdrawls all his money and distributes it among people. Joe makes amends with Alma, and Ben describes where he will go to his grandson, David.             The night of departure soon arrives. All the senior citizens come, except for Bernie because he feels he belongs on earth, so they're ready to go but Jack's boat won't go. Finally they fix it and head off, but a dozen feds are on their tail. They lose them in the fog and the Antarean ship arrives and lifts Jack's boat aboard, Jack watches from a life raft, then they fly away. Back on land, they're all assumed dead.          This is a very good movie. It has it's funny moments and it has it's sad moments. The veteran actors are good. Don Ameche won his Academy Award® for this film. His character, Art Selwyn, though hedidn't stand out like everyone else's, he was unique. I guess because he was the only person who didn't have anything wrong with him.Well, Cocoon is followed by a sequel Cocoon II The Return.WHERE ARE THEY NOW? Well, Jack Gilford died shortly after Cocoon's sequel was made. He succumbed to stomach cancer and died in1990 at age 81; Don Ameche succumbed to prostate cancer and sadly diedin 1993 at age 85; Jessica Tandy succumbed to ovarian cancer and died in1994 at age 85; Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn were married in real life.Cronyn is still alive today, he's 90 and he's done some made for TVmovies; Gwen Verdon died of natural causes in 2000 at age 75. WilfordBrimley is still alive, he's diabetic and makes television commercialsfor diabetic centers. Steve Guttenberg hasn't done much, neither has Maureen Stapleton who is not related to Jean Edith Bunker Stapleton. And that's all there is to "},{"Title":"DVD version missing parts from theatrical release.","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the movie when it was originally released, and recently purchased the DVD to show my teenage sons. I was upset when I discovered the DVD was missing the whole pregnancy issue with Gwen Verdon's character, and much of the discussions between the characters about why they should or should not go with the aliens. I would have at least expected the DVD to contain the deleted scenes. I encountered this before with the movie BIG where they changed the ending after the initial release, and didn't include the alternate ending on the DVD. I would think when a DVD is released, they should at least include deleted scenes and alternate endings for the people who saw it when it first came out and enjoyed the version they saw. If they had been true to the original version I would have given it a ten, not a six. "},{"Title":"heart felt movie with legendary actors","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the Sunny Shores Villas Retirement Community in St. Petersburg, Florida. Art Selwyn (Don Ameche), Ben Luckett (Wilford Brimley) and Joe Finley (Hume Cronyn) sneak into the mansion next door to swim in the pool. They are slowly losing against time. Jack Bonner (Steve Guttenberg) is a struggling boat owner. Walter (Brian Dennehy), Kitty (Tahnee Welch) and their group hire Bonner and his boat. Then they rent the mansion next to the retirement home. The old men sneak into the pool and discover that the new people have put in egg shaped boulders. They find themselves rejuvenated.Directed by Ron Howard, this is a real feel good movie. It doesn't hurt to have acting legends doing some 'heavy lifting'. There is a real heart in their story. Guttenberg is almost comic relief as he drools over Tahnee Welch. That's perfectly understandable. The plot is somewhat like 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind'. The older characters are not simplistic. They have fallibilities and nobilities. They make the movie great. "},{"Title":"Lightly entertaining","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A lightly entertaining comedy-drama from Ron Howard. Interesting plot that isn't very watertight. Feels very loose and slapped-together. Whole movie, in fact, lacks the gravitas necessary to make it a classic. Starts to feel like a chase-caper toward the end.Performances are so-so. Wilfred Brimley does a solid job and Don Ameche got a Best Supporting Actor Oscar and most of the performances are fine, just some seem very unconvincing. Tawnee Welch is particularly bad, and Steve Guttenberg should really stick to B-grade comedies.So, quite disappointing for such a well-known movie. However, not all bad. It keeps up a decent pace, is never dull, concept is reasonably original (if not sound) and does pose some interesting questions about life. Watchable. "}{"Title":"Loved the old folks","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like this movie. It has so many reasons and opportunities to veer off course but Ron Howard deftly keeps it on the right track. I think he does so by focusing on the story and the main characters. While you have plot lines regarding aliens and the fountain of youth, the major focus was on the old folks, as it should be. Howard casts veteran actors in what should have been the twilight of their careers (except for much younger Wilford Brimley, who was actually in the early stages of his career) and gives them a script that asks them to be real people. Not old codger, one dimensional caricatures, but real folks with real backgrounds and real fears and real issues in their lives.Normally, older actors are only allowed to service plots that focus on the young. Movies are seldom about them. Too bad, because I thoroughly enjoyed seeing this group work. They take you inside their world where they have fun, fight, hurt, deal with aging bodies, ponder the life and their legacy, make mistakes, and even (shudder) enjoy a love life. Not many movies flesh out senior citizens to this extent. Don Ameche won a supporting Oscar, and I have no real qualms with that; but for my money, it should have gone to Jack Gilford. An unsympathetic character up to this point, his moment in the pool trying to bring back his beloved Rosie ranks as one of the saddest and most heartbreakingly poignant things I have ever seen in any film. There are fewer people, especially younger ones, who know what it means to love someone over a long lifetime. Gilford shows what it means in a totally convincing way. And there's that James Horner score helping to yank the tears out of you. Other reviewers have commented on the alien plot line and it's all relevant to what happens in the lives of the main characters. With an E.T. + Close Encounters vibe, it could have been the downfall of the movie. Credit to Howard for finding that right balance and basically not getting in the way of what his cast was so capable of doing. "},{"Title":"Sweet and interesting without achieving its main goals perhaps ?.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a tough one to call because it's such a heart warming film, it doesn't fail to have the viewer firmly onside with the older generation and their dovetailing lives. Yet to me it feels confused with it's core heart, was I meant to feel sorry for the older generation?, was I supposed to feel that the young are foolish for being afraid of old age ?, or is it merely a fable to urge us all to embrace old age?. I can't help thinking that director Ron Howard wanted to make a statement of sorts here, yet it gets lost in its sugar coated sentimentality.That said, the film is still a winner to me, it's great to see a cast of old timers showing the way, Don Ameche best supporting actor winner, Hugh Cronyn, and Wilfred Brimley light up the film with great vigorous performances. The plot of the film sees a group of aliens led by Mr Reliable Brian Dennehy come back to earth to pick up some cocoons they had stored for the millennia at the bottom of the ocean. They use a swimming pool in an empty house next to an old peoples home to further store the cocoons. Three of the residents from the home like to sneak into the empty house to take a swim in the pool, even tho they are bemused by the cocoons in there they swim away and start to feel really invigorated, their lives are about to change.This sets us up for an array of funny scenes as the old boys find that sporting prowess is back, their once dead sex drive has returned much to the delight of their respective partners, and yes they can break dance with the best of them !. Obviously all doesn't stay perfect for very long as the film brings in a downturn of events, this wonderful thing can so easily go wrong if abused and not kept secret, and then ultimately the old people blessed by this alien gift are asked to make a life changing choice, the finale plays out nicely with a chase sequence that ups the adrenalin quota, and sure enough it's coated nicely in syrup to bring about a thought provoking ending, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Discovering the fountain of youth","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen Ron Howard's Cocoon (1985) for about twenty years and am so glad I purchased it recently.On the surface the film's about elderly folks at a retirement home in Florida unknowingly discovering the fountain of youth via a pool on an adjacent property. A peculiar group of people rent the property to store boulder-like objects they take from the bottom of the ocean. As such, the pool acquires healing powers and restore's the old folk's youthful vigor, to say the least.Steve Guttenberg stars as the likable protagonist, the boat owner/operator who helps the people get to the objects in the ocean, but he has no idea what's really going on. The stunning Tahnee Welch -- Raquel's daughter -- plays one the members of the peculiar group to whom Guttenberg takes a liking. Unlike Raquel, who's known for being a bit biyatchy, Tahnee shines with a winsome disposition. Brian Dennehy is also on hand as the leader of the odd group, and he does very well.Most great movies have a deeper subtext, and so it is with Cocoon. The story is a commentary on aging, death, grieving and the yearning for eternal life. The people of the peculiar group are types of angels or, better yet, the redeemed in glorified bodies. What they offer is the gospel, the key to eternal life in the new heavens and new earth, the home of righteousness (2 Peter 313). By the redeemed in glorified bodies I'm referring to the glorious bodies that are promised to believers at the time of their bodily resurrection (1 Cor. 1542-44); these bodies will be imperishable, powerful and spiritual (not carnal) in nature. Believers will be able to defy gravity with these new bodies, walk through doors and teleport from one place to another, all of which can be seen in Jesus Christ after his resurrection.Needless to say, Cocoon has an incredible subtext. But it's not necessary to get so deep. This is just an entertaining movie with a good heart. More than that, it's inspiring.The film runs 117 minutes and was shot in the Clearwater/St. Petersburg area of Florida and the underwater scenes in the Bahamas.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Cocoon","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" An E.T. fairytale for the elderly with a rejuvenating therapeutic gambit for visual and subconscious entertainment and a belated fulfillment to slam the ageism towards the senior. Setting against a Sci-Fi backdrop, the special effects might not be cutting-edge even at its time (in a post-STAR WARS era, it is an insurmountable pinnacle, the same could be deduced now are in a post-AVATAR era), but serves benevolently to entice the concentrations and unleash a wacky but improbable plot of the expedition to the mystifying eternal longevity. The extra- congenial extraterrestrial Antareans are merely a wishful thinking, as human behavior has no exception will spoil their plan to rescue their companions sooner or later, their counter- behavior is inexplicably dumbfounded to be taken seriously. The film has locked two Oscars, one for the visual effects, another is an utterly surprising Best Supporting Actor win for Don Ameche (whose pivotal showcase is a stupendous street-dance stunt in the film, apart from which there is scant room for him to testify his flair), which could be divined that it is no more than an acclaim to the film's pandering penchant for the demography as most academic members are over-50 white male, this film might help them to mitigate the fear of aging uselessly and hopelessly. Anyway the entire prestigious cast has stuck together to make the indulging fantasy more refreshing than off-putting, ironically the film itself has not aging too well, unlike the characters in the sanitarium, after a minimal 27 years span, it seems that the film backfires on Ron Howard and the team behind it, who in my opinion is an excellent Hollywood hack than a venerable filmmaker. "},{"Title":"A lovely film about friendship and laughter in all our ages","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a lovely, not-to-be-missed, golden-era style Fountain of Youth comedy and drama -- just add a touch of aliens! The incredibly talented cast of actors portraying the old folks all breathe wonderful life into each scene. Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley, and Hume Cronyn do especially fine, natural portrayals here, as does Jack Gilford, although his role is more that of a single-note character. Maureen Stapleton, Jessica Tandy and Gwen Verdon do stellar work here as well. This is a warm, lovable film about friendship and laughter in the face of aging. Mongo's Rating 8.3 stars in a 10- star world. That's the Upside -- and this charmer of a film is nearly all so. The Downside? Steve Guttenberg nearly poisons the film with his sticky, clownishly hollow portrayals. He nearly brings his reverse Midas touch to bear here as well, but remains at the far edges of tolerability. Still, your nausea-meter may be pinging in the red, dangerously so, during his unavoidably numerous appearances.) "},{"Title":"this movie brought back memories...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie brought back memories for me as i grew up in St.Pete where the first was filmed (the second was in Miami), so i cant help but watch it every time its on TV, especially the scene at the Woolworth's where Don Ameche picks up the waitress, i used to eat there as a kid, bowl at the bowling alley, etc. but i never try and pick apart movies, they are fiction,meant to be enjoyed i do occasionally enjoy a flub and i thought the first was much better than the second, and of course thats why they had to leave some of their friend behind so there would be a second movie, and i think Ron Howard did a fine job, r PSi was really surprised to see that the hottie from planet of the apes was in this movie, although i have yet to figure out who she is in the movie "},{"Title":"Good Fountain of Youth premise","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon was a good sleeper movie for it's time. Take a bunch of old, washed up actors and throw them together in a film that turns out to be entertaining to all ages.Wilford Brimley is great and so is Don Ameche, Hume Cronyn and Jack Guilford and Brian Dennehy and Steve Guttenberg. The old guys (and gals) seem to all work well together. I loved the storyline and the humor and the touching, sad side as well. Those of us who have or had grandparents at the time can relate to their aches and pains and wish that they really could live forever and never get old and never die. WOW...what a planet that would be!!Most movies dealing with the elderly turn out to be depressing or boring, but this hit home with everyone. It gives everyone who is sick or aging hope. "},{"Title":"Pleasant fantasy","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of senior citizens (which includes several legends such as Wilford Brimley, Don Ameche, Jack Gilford, Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy) discover a so called fountain of youth that actually helps them to relive their lost youth. However, this fountain of youth is really an alien race's breeding grounds. An endearing fantasy for all ages with plenty of elements and scenes of comedy and drama. Much, much better than Cronyn's and Tandy's later alien fantasy film teaming Batteries Not Included. "},{"Title":"Precious Cargo","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Extraterrestrials land in Florida and, instead, become victim to desperate, elderly Earthlings wanting to cling to the beauty of love and life.  Their are no real villains in this film and, because of this, only adds realism to a story that deals more with humanity, than it does a 'flight of fancy.'Cast Maureen Stapleton's trembling lips speak volumes. A motley crew of veteran theater and big-screen actors given a worthwhile opportunity to effectively emote and stand center-stage, in what I consider to be a winning swan song vehicle (today, some of these actors are no longer with us).What should have ended up on the cutting-room floor May the Force be with you!--Steve Guttenberg's farewellDirector Ron Howard did miracles with material that, unlike the film Close Encounters of the Third Kind, moves the human spirit and treats its actors like three dimensional beings, and not pawns to be foisted smack-dab in special-effects that threaten to take over the entire picture.Ameche took home the Supporting Actor Oscar.  If you ask me, the entire supporting cast should have been given a Herscholt Humanitarian Award.Rather than your ears and eyes, listen and watch Cocoon with your heart.  The film's climax is a metaphor, and it's up to the viewer to decide what type of metaphor this is.  "},{"Title":"Cocoon","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Splendid film about a group of oldsters who find their utopia in a place out of this world. Touching performances all around, especially from Ameche, who won an Oscar. Lovely score by  James Horner and thoughtful direction by Ron Howard uplift and overjoy. Followed by a sequel in 1988 with the same cast.  "}{"Title":"Inspired by a Classic","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon is a fine example of how films have everything to do with their predecessors. Ron Howard, the director, acted as a child in a Twilight Zone episode and his film Cocoon could almost be a feature length remake of another Twilight Zone episode called Kick the Can, which is very similar in concept, mood and effect, except it has no element of outer space aliens. This is not a criticism though, the story idea is a classic one and well done in its updating. For many viewers much of the appeal came from the appearance among the cast of former matinée idols, an approach which has also worked well in a number of other films made since the end of the Golden Age. "},{"Title":"Often sweet, endearing sci-fi film","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ron Howard's Cocoon is one of his best works as he brings a story full goodness in a dramedy with good actors and fine visual effects.  The story- a group of seniors discover a fountain of youth (distributed by the cocoons) in they're swimming pool and it changes all of their lives.  Fine cast assists a lot in this fantasy that has some good original quality on it's side.  Oscar winner for Don Ameche (best supporting actor) for his role as a old guy and another for the visual effects.  A "},{"Title":"Old dogs, late fall, and watermelon wine...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  A line outta an old Tom T Hall tune from the 70s kinda runs like that. Reminds me of this film. I remember it as warm, honorable, with a great performance from Ameche and a real eye opening one by Wilfrid Brimley. Tahnee Welch was quite nice too of course.There was a time in the 80s when if you compared Steve Guttenburg with Tom Hanks, you really wouldn't have been far off the mark. About the same age, seemed to have summer comedy hits most of the decade, likable talents whom you hoped would go onto better things. Odd that Guttenburg wound up doing stuff like Police Academy 4 and then vanished, while Hanks got Big and then Gumped his way into megastardom. But at the time Coccoon or Three Men and a Baby came out, you'd be hard put to stick the star of Splash, Dragnet and Bachelor Party over Guttenburg. He did a good job in this one too.*** outta ****...kudos to Jack Gilford and Brian Dennehy too. Ditto Verdon and Tandy too, of course. "},{"Title":"If You Fill It, They Will Swim.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like Field of Dreams you ought to get a kick out of this Twilight-Zone fantasy too. They both follow a similar trajectory. Similar, in fact, to Twilight Zone's Kick the Can episode, in fact, from which both may be derived. The director, Ron Howard, hasn't taken any chances here in this sentimental, mildly amusing, mildly thought-provoking story, but then he rarely does.This expedition from Antares (looking quite normal on the outside) comes to Earth to retrieve some cocoons left behind earlier when their planet was about to be turned into a monstrous prune -- something like that, anyway. It doesn't matter.They retrieve the cocoons from the ocean floor and stash them temporarily in the swimming pool of a deserted Florida mansion. The pool is being secretly and illegally used for wading by a three old dudes from a neighboring retirement community, Wilfred Brimley, Hume Cronyn, and Don Ameche. Without anyone's seeming to realize it, the cocoons are infusing the water with some elan vital that is exponentially more powerful than Geritol and Viagra combined. The boys don't begin to actually look different but they regain, let's say, both their youthful vigor and the turgor associated with it.Instead of sedate dances at the club to old-time Glenn-Millerish swing music, they go to discos and Ameche does a break dance, wowing the audience. Soon their wives begin enjoying a dip or two as well, and the couples wind up climbing trees and chasing each other through the mangroves.There's a younger couple too, a girl from Antares (Tahnee Welsh) and the owner of the boat that the aliens have hired (Steve Guttenberg). They fall for each other. The problem is that underneath these plastic exteriors, the Antarens, Tahnee Welsh included, are diminutive bilaterally symmetrical beings with tiny mouths and big eyes and they glow with the blinding, eyeball-coagulating light of an arc lamp. This presents certain problems, as you can imagine, when the young man inquires of Welsh, How do Antarens, um, express affection for one another. Not in the way you think, she replies, and we can feel the guy's heart sink, but we show ourselves. Well, that doesn't sound too bad, especially when Welsh begins showing herself by ridding her plastic body of its hampering outer garments. But then, alas, it gets kind of twisted because the rest of what she shows him resembles one of those huge spinning wheels made of fireworks that one sees at the climax of a Fourth of July picnic. Call me old fashioned but I think it helps to be less than ten years old to appreciate that particular mode of affectionate self display.Tahnee Welsh can't act, unfortunately, but looks good just walking around. The three old dudes -- and their wives, and Brian Dennehy -- do quite well. Don Ameche practically renewed his career with this film. And Jessica Tandy STILL looks fine. One of the Antarens has a wordless part and is a ringer for Tyrone Power, probably because he is Tyrone Power, Jr.The cocoons are being drained of their mojo because of all the humans sucking up to them. The leader of the Antarens generously offers to take a few humans along with him back to his planet. Some go along. Some insist on playing out the hand they've been dealt, not shuffling the deck again. (It's kind of like Burt Lancaster's character in Field of Dreams, stuck in the present.) I don't know that I particularly blame the risk-averse old folks who decide to hang back and not live forever. Who would want to be a bus boy or an assistant professor for one thousand years? Anyway, it was a successful movie. It must have been because there was a sequel, meaning that the committee of MBA's sitting up there on Antares decided to greenlight another installment because there was probably another nickel left to be squeezed out of this Fountain of Youth fantasy. "},{"Title":"Watch It For Don Ameche!","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Ron Howard's ambitious but mostly bland 'Cocoon' has some interesting moments, but is mostly a lazy film, that lacks sharp writing. However, Don Ameche's Oscar-Winning Performance is fabulous. 'Cocoon' Synopsis When a group of trespassing seniors swim in a pool containing alien cocoons, they find themselves energized with youthful vigour.'Cocoon' has attractive special effects & some interesting moments as well. But, the excessive running-time of nearly 2 hours seems a bit too stretched & even the writing isn't engrossing enough. Ron Howard is a master at his craft & he directs 'Cocoon' with his usual memorable style. Performance-Wise Besides Ameche, who owns the film, its the amazing Maureen Stapleton who lends wonderful support in the narrative. Brian Dennehy also is good. On the whole, 'Cocoon' is an okay watch. "},{"Title":"Feel good science fiction comedy","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Cocoon is one of the science fiction movies made on the popularity of Steven Spielberg's E.T. . The other are John Carpenter's Starman , John Badham's Short circuit and Matthew Robbins Batteries not included. All are family friendly comedies that have good special effects , humor and heart.Cocoon is a lighthearted comedy about serious issues like getting old , immortality and death. It's one of those rare Hollywood movies where old people are the main hero's of the story. Sure , there is Steve Guttenberg here , but he's a supporting character and a comic relief for the teenage audiences. I also like the appearance of Brian Dennehy (Rambo  First blood) and sexy Tahnee Welch.Don Ameche , Wilford Brimley , Jessica Tandy , Hume Cronyn and Jack Gilford &#x96; the old generation actors are the stars here. They have good chemistry together and really make you care for their characters.I don't think that Don Ameche deserved the Oscar for his performance. I like him , he's a good actor and he's good here , but the Oscar feels here more like a tribute for his overall career than for this particular performance.The special effects are great even after all those years (they won Oscar). Sure , some of the effects do look a little fake now , but most of them are outstanding &#x96; for example the alien in the cocoon . Add to that a great music by James Horner (a little too sweet maybe) and prepare yourself for audio-visual pleasure.As I mentioned earlier this movie isn't one that takes itself too seriously . It tells important truth &#x96; you're as old as you feel. Yes , aging and death are painful , but you should use life to the maximum and live with dignity to the end.I recommend this movie to everyone &#x96; especially old people . People who like darker and more serious science fiction movies might be disappointed with this one , but anyone with open mind and heart probably will enjoy it. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"E.T. remake but for the elderly audience","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The freaking Life on Mars psychosis of the 80's. First Close Encounters of the Third Kind, then E.T., then this. Common. And the music it's so... how to say, 'you have to believe'. May I suggest this kind of scenario works better for kids than for adults.Spoiler alert.And where are those grannies going to go? How would you know that that big interstellar ship won't break in the way letting those folks flying in the middle of the galaxy with no medic care and soap operas reception? Really. I know for a fact that there's no Champs Elysees on planet Antarea. Anyhow, the film is saved by the - for once - very nice and slow to get angry E.T.'s, admirably nice and easy going. And to call Tahnee Welch sweet and hot is just to use more pleonasms than is needed.Cocoon is cheesy and careless, and in my book also useless. How better would have been to dump the martians, and just let it be a history for older people with a similar scenario. That's what I would've bought. "},{"Title":"New Beginnings","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Three men living in a retirement home in Florida discover an indoor swimming pool on a private estate next door. The moment they hit the water, they feel strangely but wonderfully rejuvenated. Things are fine until the owners get back. Meanwhile, a local marine tour guide struggling to make ends meet comes across a group of people willing to hire him and his boat. Things are fine until he discovers they're not quite what they seem.The best sci-fi films are often those that have nothing really to do with sci-fi, but use the genre to tell a story in ways that would be otherwise impossible. The core of a sci-fi film has to be about people if it's going to resonate with the audience. This is just what 'Cocoon' does, dealing with issues familiar to us all - life and death. If another shot at life came along, what happens next? Equally, the film explores what life can become for people post-retirement, the 'can' being emphasised, because 'Cocoon' has a positive message. Life is what you make it, and only you can decide whether it's time to lie down and wait for death, not anyone else. But if you're not used to making that effort, it can be scary to take risks.With a cast of people like Don Ameche, Brian Dennehy, and Jessica Tandy, you know the acting side of things is in good hands. The only weak link in the chain for me is Steve Guttenberg, whose breathless nervous clowning works great in the likes of 'Police Academy' and 'High Spirits', but feels out of place here. Maybe it's because he's surrounded by older more experienced actors who take things a bit more seriously, but then he's clearly meant to be the youthful comic relief - the same way Barret Oliver is an obvious attempt to draw the youth demographic. A little more confidence in the script would have shown these things to be unnecessary. James Horner has never to my knowledge turned in a bad score. This one has the sound of his grandiose Star Trek II and III efforts, being of the same period, and fitting the drama nicely. Director Ron Howard ensures that even when he's not using Industrial Light & Magic to achieve visual splendour, he's using more down-to-earth backgrounds like sunsets to equal effect.It's rare I come across a sci-fi film I could watch with my grandparents, but then as I said, it's not really about the sci-fi. It's just about *people*. "},{"Title":"A Different Scifi Movie, But Very Good.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a very different scifi movie, but it was a very well-thought, original movie. Ron Howard directed the movie excellently, as usual. The acting was great also, and the movie wasn't boring at all. This is a great scifi movie. I give Cocoon a 10 out of 10!!! ) "},{"Title":"When was the last time that Steve Guttenberg starred in a movie like this?","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Ron Howard's movie Cocoon portrays several senior citizens who, after swimming in a nearby pool, begin to feel young again. The movie is bittersweet, as some of the characters die during the film, but uplifting overall; not a masterpiece, but quite well done. The final shot is really impressive.Not that this is really a part of the movie in general, but one mildly befuddling thing here is the presence of Steve Guttenberg. It's weird to think of him in a such a well regarded movie. Oh well. C'est la vie. The point is that Ron Howard made quite a movie here. It's likely to make you wonder what will become of you as you age. "}{"Title":"Excellent. Good, storng performances!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cocoon is a great movie acted out by some of the best veteran actors of our time! I mean Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley, Hume Cronyn, Brian Dennehy, Jack Gilford, Maureen Stapleton, Jessica Tandy and Gwen Verdon stole the show!!! Don Ameche, Jack Gilford and Jessica Tandy are dead now, but they were very talented actors! Tahnee Welch was good too. But Steve Guttenberg, sorry, dude, you're not that good.  "},{"Title":"Older folks (not) acting their age...","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Retirement home residents are energized by alien pods being stored in a swimming pool. I'm not quite sure what the appeal is, but the sight-gag of an older person acting like a youth of today always brings the house down. Cocoon is a series of these sight-gags underscored with an kindly-alien theme, resulting in one sticky package. Successful with audiences and the Academy (with Don Ameche winning a Supporting Oscar), the film spawned several imitations such as *batteries not included and kept Ameche himself on a roll for awhile, playing wily old codgers. Ron Howard's direction here is sentimental but lively, and the older actors are glorious to see on-screen, but Steve Guttenberg and his broken down vessel are a chore (as is the old stand-by of having the boat's engine give out just when it counts the most). Cocoon rests heavily--frustratingly--on so many old, worn-out clichés that it turns into a witless pie a la mode; yet, it does build up a feeling of good will with its cast, so much so that many viewers don't mind wading through the obviousness of the entire conception just to get to the prolonged happy ending. ** from **** "},{"Title":"In the Spielberg Era","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ten years after Stephen Spielberg released his landmark scifi thriller, Jaws Ron Howard brought out this comedy/scifi entry, Cacoon.It seems once a precedent is set in Hollywood film making, all coming thereafter must either follow in the new  model's footsteps or take up where it left off.  Accordingly, every genre effort after 1975's Jaws began to look alike.  The photography, editing, writing, and directing here all resemble the Spielberg style, even down to the full, rich orchestral score.  And the actors, too, seem to fall in line, caught up in the sytlistic spell of Stephen.  As for the plot situations, writers now seem obliged to create ever more fantastic yarns and effects.  Indeed, when E.T. took off on his bike into space, that signaled a new era in imagination.  Now in the 21st century, we have our heros and heroines scaling 90 degree walls and soaring through tree tops with the ease of skipping down quaint village lanes of yore.Where it will end is anyone's guess, and Ron Howard does his best with Cacoon.  To be sure, it doesn't have the quality of Spielberg's better efforts, but it does try hard -- and the added ingredient of comedy really helps the proceedings. A cast of stalwart veterans combine with more youthful aspirants to create some mixed, yet often interesting, results.    "},{"Title":"Cocoon an unfortunate waste of time!","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved The De Vinchi Factor, so I thought I would check out some of Ron Howard's other films. Sadly, I found the much-lauded Cocoon a complete waste of time.The film's opening is nothing but mindless sex and violence. I can't stand films that rely on shock value, and the genuine misogyny shown here made me want to puke. I understand it's supposed to be satire. But satire works a lot better when there's at least one sympathetic character in a film, and in this film there is none. The attempt to portray Guttenberg, the main character, as a victim of the UFO scene garnered no sympathy from me whatsoever - letting him live was much too kind of the so-called aliens, in my opinion.The sixties/seventies common belief that people need to be liberated by watching graphic sex and violence has been pretty well disproven in my view. All it does is desensitize. Ten minutes into this film I no longer cared about what happened to any of the characters - it would have been a good idea to bring in some of the boogiemen from The Princess Bride and blow the entire world of Cocoon to Smithereens.The film attempts to garner sympathy for the main character by showing him dealt with by the aliens and finally reformed - learning how to behave properly is portrayed as this brutal process that robs innocent criminals of their individuality. Waaaaah.The people who love this movie and worship it as some kind of classic are likely the same ones who refuse to discipline their children, because of course any sort of discipline crushes the spirit. As Wilford Brimley once said in Quaker Oats commercials, It's the right thing to do. The premise of the film is idiotic and its relentless misogyny and violence are disgusting. There are much better films with similar themes out there; don't waste your time with this stinker unless you're a masochist. These movies give the psychos all kinds of fun ideas. God help us all. "},{"Title":"Cocoon-Far From A Boon *1/2","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a classic stinker with a big named cast, mostly seniors who were well past their prime and bedtime in this one.This is quite a depressing film when you think about it. Remain on earth, and you will face illness and eventually your demise.Gwen Verndon showed that she could still dance. Too bad the movie didn't concentrate more on that. Maureen Stapleton, looking haggard, still displayed those steps from Queen of the Star Dust Ballroom, so much more down to earth from 10 years earlier.I only hope that this film doesn't encourage seniors to commit mass suicide on the level of Jim Jones. How can anyone be idiotic enough to like this and say it gets you to think?Why did Don Ameche win an Oscar for this nonsense?If the seniors were doing such a wonderful thing at the end, why was the youngster encouraged to get off the boat? Why did Steve Guttenberg jump ship as well? After all, he had found his lady-love. This would have been a nice film if the seniors had just managed to find their fountain of youth on earth and stay there.Sadly, with the exception of Wilford Brimley, at this writing, Vernon, Gilford, Stapleton, Ameche, Tandy, Cronyn and lord knows who else are all gone. The writers should have taken the screenplay and placed it with this group as well. "},{"Title":"Prune Juice","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" The attempt here was to build something topical around legends legends about Atlantis, the Fountain of Youth, alien visitation...and movie legends. Note how screen/dance legends Fred and Ginger are featured here, and particularly Fred with the Dancing in the Dark connection from The Band Wagon. The late, great Ameche is here to tie all of this together via the big band ballroom dances, and to wink at us with modern b-boy power moves. Otherwise, this is silly. The dialogue openly acknowledges how silly the alien bits are -- the humans don't want to know more about them. And it's a rather tepid morality play, about as dry as a Talmudic discussion. The aliens are plainly post-E.T., and somewhat post-Starman, and have ridiculous 'Tinkerbell' fairy dust trails. The jokes center on virile old codgers, long before Viagra.If Howard were an inventor -- which he isn't -- he could have kept the great references to the classics and revealed as little as necessary about the aliens...something 2001-ish. Awakenings is a smarter example of the rejuvenation of movie classics within a larger movie. "},{"Title":"What an absolute bore","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" I rented this film for old times sack, having viewed it years ago in the 1990's. I did not care for it then, that opinion now, remains unchanged.I think it was supposed to be a bland and silly comedy for whom? Well, that's the question isn't it, because I was 40 when I saw it and now in my maturity, hate it.Why is that? Well, because because the script stinks and is so loaded with bland and absolutely worn out gimmicks and cliques.The characters are not any worth liking and some sort of worthless. The script must have been written by a very beginning film author. It stunk.Well, enough said. I was able to watch it only to the point where these old men begin telling each other about their boners. Click, whirred, rewind, lights out. "},{"Title":"When the Walker Is a Rockin'.....","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" A gooey Ron Howard film about a bunch of old people who go swimming with alien pods and begin to regain their youth and vigor.The film is a who's who of famous veteran actors like Don Ameche, Wilford Brimley, Maureen Stapleton, Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy and Gwen Verdon, but it's all rather embarrassing and condescending -- awww, see, little old people still like to have sex too, isn't that cute?!! A no-hands sex scene between Steve Guttenberg and one of the female aliens in a swimming pool freaked me out when I saw this as a kid.One of the numerous films in Ron Howard's canon that prove what a completely untalented director he is.Grade C "},{"Title":"Brian Dennehy","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone should know that Mr. Dennehy posed as a Vietnam vet for years until someone found out that he never even landed on Vietnam soil. He is a disgrace to the United States and all the men that fought and died for it. The part he played in Rambo (first blood) is exactly the type of person he is. If more people knew what he did to be seen as some kind of hero maybe he would be put up there with the position of Jane Fonda's class of people. Cheap liars and thieves of honor. I hope this information gets around so maybe the next time you see him on screen you will know what kind of person he really is. Thank you U.S.M.C. Vietnam 68-69 "}]