[{"Title":"Stephen King's Cat's Eye!","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of Stephen King's greatest stories in My opinion turned into a live feature film is Cat's Eye! The film has three very interesting stories with some good actors including James Woods, Alan King, Kenneth McMillan, Robert Hays, Candy Clark, James Naughton, Drew Barrymore, Mike Starr, and Charles Dutton! The acting by all of these actors are very good. The stories as I mention are very good and funny in a way though the film is serious. Quitter's Inc is a unique story, The Ledge is arguably the best of the lot but My favorite one is The General. I love the little demon. He is so cute and mean looking at the same time and I am amazed how real looks! Carlo Rambaldi did an excellent job! The music by Alan Silvestri is great! If you like the cast mentioned above and love Stephen King then I strongly recommend Cat's Eye! "},{"Title":"Fun horror/anthology movie","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cat's Eye is another horror anthology movie that I found to be a nice companion piece with Twilight Zone The Movie. The thing that surprised me about this film is that it's a suspense comedy loaded with thrills galore and dark humor. Instead of four separate tales, Cat's Eye has just three, with a plucky tabby cat intervening through all three stories. And all three segments are directed by the same man (Lewis Teague). Stephen King wrote all three segments, with the first two segments based on short stories written by King. The first segment is a black comedy starring James Woods in some of the funniest acting that he's ever done as a man who wants to quit smoking. He goes to a place called Quitters, Inc. This clinic is run by a most unusual doctor played by comedian Alan King. Woods finds out quickly that their methods of trying to make smokers quit are odd. Very, very odd. This story isn't really scary but it's downright hilarious with Woods trying desperately to kick the habit. King is also very funny as the doc. This is a very good segment. But my favorite segment of Cat's Eye is the second one. The late Kenneth McMillan stars as a ruthless gambler who kidnaps a tennis player (Robert Hays from Airplane!) who's been doing a little you-know-what on his wife. McMillan makes a strange bet with the tennis pro walk on top of a short ledge around the gambler's high rise building 50-60 stories up. This segment is a scary one, with a few touches of black humor (even though this segment isn't as funny as the first one). King wrote the third segment directly for the screen. He wrote it for a then very young pre-teen Drew Barrymore (who a year earlier starred in King's Firestarter). Barrymore plays a little girl who takes that tabby cat in to live with her after the cat runs into her house. The reason why the cat ran into her house kitty spotted a little tiny gremlin strolling into the place. The cat comes in and tries to save the day. This segment is silly but fun. All in all, Cat's Eye is an underrated gem. Funny, scary, and entertaining.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"An underrated Stephen King film that's in homage to The Twilight Zone","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King adapted two of his short stories and wrote the third into this screenplay of suspense.   The first story concerns a man (James Woods) trying to quit smoking by signing up for a clinic. That clinic just happens to be run by the mafia and they literally mean quit smoking with a seriously tough employee (Alan King) behind it. Even if it means tampering with your family's lives. The second concerns an again tennis pro (Robert Hays) who takes on the game of his life after having an affair with a mobster who is a gambling addict. The third follows a cat trying to protect a little girl whose being terrorised by a little demon jester. The suspense is good. Alan King is very good as the seriously tough employee and Woods is always good.The second is very good with a surprising twist at the end and the third is a take on of old fairy tales where good triumphs over evil. "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining horror anthology.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lewis Teague's Cat's Eye contains three wry,humorous and creepy stories linked to the cat which roams from one tale to the next.First up there is my personal favourite Quitters Inc.,the story of family man Mr Morrison(James Woods)who goes to a very unconventional place to help people quit smoking and has his life turned into a living hell.Secondly,there is The Ledge,the tale of a washed-up tennis player who is forced to walk around the ledge of a hotel by a rich mobster after the tennis player steals his wife.And finally there is The General,which involves a cat saving a little girl(Drew Barrymore)from a tiny goblin that comes in the night to take children's souls.The three stories are linked together by a cat that traverses from New York to Atlantic City to North Carolina.Cat's Eye is more comic than horrifying.Still I enjoyed it very immensely and you should too,if you are a fan of Stephen King and his works.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Black comedy at its best.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An adaption of three of Stephen King's short stories, the linking theme being a cat whose purpose later becomes apparent.  The first story, 'Quitters Inc' (from the book 'Night Shift') involves the titular company who will go to extreme lengths to ensure their clients quit the weed.  'The Ledge' (also from 'Night Shift') concerns a risky walk around a tall building.  Both these stories are entertaining and filled with excellent humor and strong characters.By comparison the third story, which is the climax to the whole thing, is pretty slow and dull, the only real humor being provided by a miniature troll-like creature.  But this anthology is worth seeing for the first two stories alone, which are masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's From the Works of Stephen King.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye (1985) was another film that was based upon the written work of Stephen King. Two of the three stories were taken form the short story collection NIGHT SHIFT. The movie is actually a decent watch and fans of the original source material will enjoy it as well as the average fan. An added bonus is the fact that the man himself wrote the screenplay!!The movie is about a cat that has many adventures. Along it's way, an image of a girl keeps the cat going to it's destination. Along the way, he meets a man who has a smoking problem who'll go to great lengths to try and snuff his habit and the other is a broken down tennis player who's given a chance to redeem himself by completing a simple task. The cat's final destination is a girl who's tormented by a nasty little dude. WIll the cat affect those that cross it's past? What is that little dude that lives in the hole in the wall? All answers will be answered when you watch CATS EYE!A good adaptation and a nice film. The only thing I didn't like was the silliness of the last episode. Some of the events in the final chapter come off as very contrived and clichéd. Other than that I had no problems. An enjoyable movie.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Cat's Eye My Favorite Stephen King Movie","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although I haven't seen all of Stephen King's films I have seen Pet Cemetery, Cat's Eye, Cujo, It, Carrie, Silver Bullet and The Dead Zone and all of these are great movies but Cat's Eye is my favorite so far.Cat's Eye is a perfect example of a thriller and comedy flawlessly intertwined. The humor is great because it's deadpan therefore it doesn't take away from the suspense of the story at all. This movie is actually three mini-movies all in one and all three are events which the cat either witnessed or experienced.This has very memorable characters and excellent acting by Alan King, James Woods, and a very young Drew Barrymore.Vote 10 (Excellent) "},{"Title":"Entertaining Black Humor","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A trilogy of entertaining black humor.  The first story is the strongest with the best stars.  Alan King is deliciously evil as the head of Quitters, Inc., an anti-smoking group that uses mob tactics to stop its members from smoking.   James Woods is excellent as Alan King's newest client. The middle story is somewhat weaker entry starring Kenneth McMillan as a mobster who makes a lethal bet with Robert Hays after Hays steals his wife from him.  A good story but not as good as the first. The last story is the weakest entry of the three.  An evil troll  is out to steal Drew Barrymore's breath in this silly story.  Our title cat tries to prevent that.  The special effects for the troll doll are pretty good and the ending is funny. All-in-all an entertaining entry in the Stephen King collection of movies. A C+/B- "},{"Title":"deliciously hammy anthology","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cat's Eye is a well-done anthology of three horror stories scripted by Stephen King, joined together by the presence of an adorable gray tabby.  The first tale has James Woods enlisting in a mafia-run quit-smoking program (headed by a deliciously hammy Alan King); the second creates ample suspense as a washed-up tennis pro (Robert Hays) is made to climb alongside a downtown highrise at the whim of a demented gambler (Kenneth McMillan); and the third has our heroic tabby battling a troll that's stealing little Drew Barrymore's breath, in a segment that's actually quite amusing.  As the PG-13 rating implies, the usual extremes of King's fiction are toned-down or removed (although there are a few vicious moments, including a briefly-seen severed head), but the film doesn't suffer from it, and actually gives the more lighthearted, humorous elements a chance to shine.  Definitely worth a look.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Gem of the Black Humor","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A stray cat witnesses weird and suspenseful events in three different cities.In New York, Richard Morris (James Wood) is convinced by a friend to look for the support of the Quitter's Inc. to stop smoking. The unconventional and efficient procedure followed by the company terrifies Richard.In Atlantic City, a powerful professional gambler, Cressner (Kenneth McMillan), makes a mortal bet with the tennis teacher and lover of his wife, Johnny Norris (Robert Hays).In Wilmington, NC, a troll, living inside the wall of the bedroom, threatens the ten years old girl Amanda (Drew Barrymore).These three tales are gems of the black humor, combining elements of suspense, comedy and horror. The first tale is very funny, with the situation where James Wood gets through without previous warning. The second tale is pure suspense, having some funny moments, and is certainly the darker story. And the last one shows a very sweet ten years old Drew Barrymore. The movement of camera in some moments recalls Evil Dead. Cat's Eye is a great entertainment. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Olhos de Gato (Cat's Eyes) "}{"Title":"Suspenseful and twisted, without going overboard","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a great movie for those of you who like movies that have suspense, twisted humor, without being too scary to watch at night. I truly loved this movie, and I even convinced my whole family to watch it (even my sister, and that's saying something).This movie is in three parts, the first two of which are short stories in Steven King's Night Shift, the third being entirely new. Below I described the three parts in brief summaries, only telling up to what the General is aware of. But there are still plenty of spoilers, so be careful reading it.Prolouge- We see a lone cat, known only as 'The General', wandering the streets. After being chased by a dog (Cujo), and nearly hit by a car (Christine), he winds up on his way to New York City.Part One- A man called Richard Morrisson is on his way to an agency called 'Quitters Incorporated', to try and quit smoking. The General is on his way to the same place after being captured by a man from the company. The General is used as an example of the 'treatment' they use at Quitters Inc. Later, General escapes, inadvertently caused by Richard.Part Two- An old rich man known as Cressner is on his way home after visiting the casinos. After helping the General get through heavy traffic, he brings him home, where the cat sees an unusual sight. Cressner placed a wager with Johnny Norris, an aging tennis pro who is having an affair with his wide. Norris has to walk the 5-inch ledge along the top of the hotel Cressner lives. After managing to do so, the General helps him out, and at the same time escapes.*HUGE SPOILERS* Part Three- The General arrives in a house where a little girl called Amanda lives. After much pleading, her parents let her keep the cat. Two nights later, as the General is put out for the night, a troll emerges from Amanda's bedroom wall. This little demon first kills Polly, Amanda's parakeet, then tries to steal Amanda's breath. Fortunately, the General gets back inside and keeps the troll from succeeding. Unfortunately, he wakes Amanda's parents, who believe the General killed Polly. Amanda's mom bring him to the pound after the rest of the family leaves for work and school. That night, the troll comes back, and so does the General. After fighting, the General successfully kills the troll. This time, the parents see what's left of the troll, and let Amanda keep General. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good adaptation of Stephen King.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A movie divided into three parts, each separate story linked by the passage of a cat through it. The first two parts (Quitters' Incorporated and The Ledge) are well done adaptations of two  short stories that are amongst Stephen King's best writing. Admittedly, they read better (you can find them both in the Night Shift collection) because a lot has to do with what the characters are thinking, which you can't really do on screen. However, they come about as close as possible here. The third part of the movie, I think is written specifically for the movie and wraps things up nicely. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, but entertaining","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't consider this be a horror movie. Too be completely honest, I see this more like a comedy. At moments, I thought that it was some sort of parody of the stories written by Stephen King.Quitters, Inc. was the most absurd and random of the three stories. (I mean, even if the Clinic counselor is with the mafia, all what he did just to make one character stop smoking is unnecessarily complicated. What does he had to win anyway doing all that? And at end, why Dick Morrison still acts friendly towards the same counselor, as if nothing had happened?)Everything was so cheesy and over the top in that part of the movie, but that's the main reason of why it was so funny to watch. I can even picture Quitters, Inc. as being the plot of one South Park episode due the absurdity of it.The second story, The Ledge, was the most boring one. It had a couple of funny moments, but I found it to be completely forgettable for most part.The third story, General was the most interesting one, without being so cheesy as Quitters, Inc. Even when it could be seen as something dated by modern viewers, I think it is still worth-watching. I liked the idea of one cat being the hero of the story, opposed to the tired cliché of the evil cat, which became so common in cartoons and horror films. The Troll character reminded me of the movie Gremlins, and yet, I think that it was one of the most interesting characters from this film, which were mostly stereotypes.Cat's Eye without being a masterpiece, at least provides a decent amount of entertainment value that other horror movies lack, specially those that take themselves way too seriously to the point of being pretentious. "},{"Title":"Triple Bill Of Stephen King Night Shifters.","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film consists of three stories linked together by a cat as he survives in the big city on a quest to find a little girl who is in danger.As he searches, the cat has minor input in the first two stories. The first story sees an addictive smoker (James Woods) forced to find a cure for his habit or see his wife face the consequence. Safe and quirky segment backed up by the always watchable Woods on form. The second, and weakest segment, has a wife's lover (Robert Hays) forced by her jealous husband to play a deadly game on the ledge of a tall building. The rewards for survival are obvious, as is the downside. Can he turn the tables you wonder? It's with the final segment that Cat's Eye lifts itself out of mediocrity with a terrifying tale of a child under threat from a troll like demon who intends to steal her breath. Called The General the cat's name given by Drew Barrymore's under threat child it plays on some very basic fears and fables to really gnaw away at the senses.Also notable for lots of King spot the reference points, Lewis Teague's film King doing the screenplay obviously arguably deserves a better standing in the horror pantheon than it actually has. It's true the first two stories barely raise a chill or even a giggle, and Alan Silvestri's score is horrendous and nearly ruins The General at its crucial cat/troll face off. While the effects now look tired and show up to be shoddy on new era technology TVs. But it's still an entertaining film with a pretty neat cast, and of course it gave the 80s one of its best and scariest creatures. 7/10 "},{"Title":"best stephen-king-adaption ever","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...certainly after the shining 1st episode james woods great! 2nd episode great sense of black humour and surprise 3rd episode a tale like a joke, but full of suspense! great! -) "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films ever. King fans will love it.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A stray cat is guided by strange images of a young girl through three suspense stories. In the first segment, the cat is picked up by a clinic designed to help people quit smoking and used as an example to show it's latest client, Dick Morrison, (James Woods,) what will happen to his family if he is seen smoking. In part two, the cat is adopted by a mobster who forces an agging tennis pro, Stan Norris, who's had an affair with the mob boss' wife, to walk across a ledge. This second segment has alot in common with the CREEPSHOW story, Something To Tide You Over, the main difference being that here the hero does not actually come back from the dead for revenge. The last story is some what remenicant of GREMLINS, where the cat must save a young girl, Amanda, (8-year-old Drew Barrymore,) from an evil, tiny troll that wants to suck her life force. I especially liked the way it ended. I think you will, too. "},{"Title":"Could have more substance","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Three short stories by Stephen King, connected somewhat half-heartedly by having a cat appear in each of them. Only in the last episode, the cat is really important, in the others it is introduced arbitrarily. As I read, there has been a prologue to the film that gives the third episode more substance, more sense, as there usually is in Stephen King's horror stories, but the prologue was cut out by a producer. That's a pity because the General episode is really poor this way.The other two are not quite frightening either, but they are nice, based on fine, little insane ideas, but I like such plots. The stories are not world-shattering like some others by King, but they are likeable and creative. This is the right movie to watch at Sunday night, not too early and not too late.  "},{"Title":"Feral cat tales","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three tales all connected with a feral cat who's tough and plucky are what makes up Cat's Eye. The cat has a mission, to get to young Drew Barrymore and save her from an evil troll who hides in her wall.The first story involves James Woods and Alan King with Woods trying to quit smoking and King the head of a therapy group that has some really draconian methods to quit smoking. The cat is used as an object lesson and is tortured. As a cat lover I didn't care for it.But the cat escapes and is next seen in Atlantic City where gangster Kenneth McMillan is going to use some torture himself on tennis bum Robert Hays who's been seeing McMillan's wife on the side. This is not a story for acraphobics of which I'm one.But the last tale makes up for the other two as this plucky cat arrives in Wilmington, North Carolina and is taken in by Drew Barrymore's family. Too bad the cat could not speak lest he could have warned Drew's parents about what lies ahead for their child.As a cat lover I love cat heroes so this inbalanced movie saved the best by far for last. "},{"Title":"Above-average horror anthology with a trio of strong tales","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yet another horror anthology, this time composed of three stories all linked together by a cat. Similar to THE UNCANNY, you might think, and you'd be right; Milton Subotsky's name even finds itself in the closing credits (after purchasing rights to loads of Stephen King short stories). But the thing that differentiates CAT'S EYE from other typical American horror anthologies (I mean the likes of CREEPSHOW 2 and TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE THE MOVIE) is that for once, all of the stories are above average. Usually there's a couple of good ones, or one excellent, and the others being below average, but not in this case. The stories are taken from Stephen King shorts (apart from the last segment, which I can't really remember reading), and there are even a couple of gags for those in the know; a 1958 Plymouth Fury drives past in one scene, while another characters sees THE DEAD ZONE on television and asks who writes this crap?.The feel of the first story, with a terrified man trapped in a nightmare, desperate for a cigarette but unable to smoke for fear of harming his wife, is excellent, and James Woods is perfect in the role. Like all the best anthology segments, there's a twist in the tale and the episode really can't be bettered.The second story is almost as good, and the journey around the ledge makes for some very taut and terrifying moments that will truly make your palms sweat (and it's even more effective if you're scared of heights like I am). Just check out the pigeon moment! Once again there's a twist ending and the segment is very enjoyable, especially the scene where the men wager on the cat's ability to cross a busy road.The cat also features heavily in the final segment, coming off worst again before battling the nasty troll creature. This story is the least original of the three but it's entertaining enough, and even though I'm not much of an animal lover (who am I kidding?) the cat is very cute. Okay, that's it, I've ashamed myself now so I'll make my exit quickly and quietly... "},{"Title":"The best performance by a cat I have ever seen!","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye is one of the better horror anthologies of the 1980s, mainly because there are no weak links among its three stories - they are all on about the same level. The first one, about a drastic way to quit smoking, may be the most memorable and nightmarish one (with a terrific performance by James Woods), but the second one, about a (literally) high-stakes bet, is also well-done, and the third, about a troll who lives inside the wall of a little girl's room, may be slightly too long, but it boasts impressive special effects by the prolific Carlo Rambaldi. The film also features what must be the BEST performance by a cat I have ever seen in any film. I don't how they made him (her? them?) obey their instructions so well, but it feels like watching just another professional actor! Be warned that there is a disturbing scene of animal cruelty at the start, but the cat does emerge as a classical movie hero by the end. A pretty good cocktail of horror and humor - and see how many Stephen King inside joke references you can spot! **1/2 out of 4. "}{"Title":"Mixed bag","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really liked the opening scenes , where the cats is been chased by the dog, which is a reference to Cufo, and they Cristina the evil red car.The first story,QuittersI didn't like this story , I could not watch the cat getting electric shocks.For me that story was hard to watch , I skip the rest of that story.The ledge I liked this story better , as some decent tense, as I am scared of height also liked how the the story came to a end.Then cats ends up in family home, the mothers is not happy but there some kind of small monster in the girl room. The cats saves the night.I thought it was okay story .This was a mix bag "},{"Title":"A little flawed, but acceptable Anthology","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The adventures of a runaway cat trying to find its young owner link three stories together.The Good Stor(ies) Quitter's, Inc-At the request of friends and family, a man goes to Quitter's, Inc., a special group run by a strange doctor that encourages people to quit smoking through violent force. Warned of severe consequences if caught smoking, grave consequences are in store for his family and loved ones. As he gets further along in his treatment, the harder it gets for him to keep his promise. This is one of the better stories. Every minute of this bizarre yet surprising story inspires an interesting paranoiac atmosphere, but it is exaggerated to an extent, where a spy hides in a dresser and awaits the moment when he will smoke, another fakes jogging in front of his house, and a few others, but it's the paranoia set in that make them work well. There is a single sequence where, at a party, hallucinates giant ambulatory cigarettes to the accompaniment of The Police's Every Breath You Take, a song so perfectly suited it could have virtually been written for the film, as faces become distorted and changed to the point that an extreme amount of joy is had through the goofy nature of their appearances. There's a particularly thrilling sequence of events that starts with him crumbling in his car while stuck in traffic, the whole time wondering if he's being spied on throughout his trek. The only part that doesn't work is why would an important firm offer its clientèle the opportunity to torture, rape and kill, while risking getting caught? This aspect is not covered and it is a question to be asked as it seems like a risky proposition. Otherwise, this was a good entry.The General-Finding its long-lost home, a young girl is reunited with her runaway cat, much to her parents' disappointment. While sleeping with her cat, she is soon attacked by a strange troll and the cat leaps to her defense, but the resulting damage is blamed on the cat and is giving away. Racing back, it engages in an intense struggle with the creature for its owner's life. This isn't that bad, and did have some really nice moments. The troll effects are well pulled-off as it looks realistic while also giving it a creepy appearance, as it steals many of the best moments when it attacks its victim while sitting on its chest, a marvelous trick that comes off wonderfully. The climactic showdown is the natural highlight, as it's a nice, long dragged-out fight without getting repetitive or ridiculous, and the foregone conclusion is satisfying. The only thing that doesn't work in this is that the special don't always work. Most of the matte shots are obviously matte shots, as the halo around the objects is painfully apparent and no attempt is made to hide them. It's not enough to lower the rating, but it's still a distracting problem.The Bad Stor(ies) The Ledge-After his affair has been discovered, the cheater is approached by her husband and is offered a deal to save his life. If he can walk around the ledge surrounding his high-rise apartment building, he'll let him go with his wife. Reluctantly agreeing, he sets out on the quest, unaware of the traps he has set to knock him off before he reaches his goal. This does manage to provide the little bit of gore, as we get some bloody bird pecks, a severed head and some gunshots. This almost manages to work because of its simplicity and originality. The camera angles, for the most part, put in perspective the man and pit that wants to swallow him. It's a daunting enough task and he's tempted to fall because of the wind that attacks him and the pigeons who smash his ankle, but when the husband is going out of his way to make him fall by putting traps along his way by spraying him with a fire hose and popping out of nowhere with a loud horn, it's a little intense at times. However, this is ruined by the repetitive nature of the events. It's not that different from any section, as he goes out and then the guy pops up with a trap. After a while, it gets numbing and no matter how suspenseful it is, after the first few traps seen it's acceptable to miss this one with no harm done at all.Rated PG-13 Violence, mild Language and mild animal cruelty. "},{"Title":"Very good anthology movie","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Actually I thought the overall quality for this anthology movie is pretty high. I expected to like it since I am a big fan of Stephen King. It seems that when I take comedy horror lightly, I am able to enjoy it much more. This is much more comedy than horror. In fact only the second story can be considered somewhat of a horror story but the rest are on the comedy side. I also liked the overall light hearted tone of the stories. Obviously this is made for a much younger audience.I was quite impressed with the first two stories and I would have rated it higher but the third story is just not good enough. The special effects are corny, the tone is very childlike and I guess it is intended that way. The scenes between the cat and the troll were just too ridiculous. It is a pity because the first 2 are excellent.The quitters incorporated story was pretty awesome and I was laughing at various points. The party scene being a highlight, I guess I know how smokers must feel when they try to quit. It is hilarious in usual 80s fashion. I also liked the performance of James woods. This is the advantage of having professional talented actors in horror movies instead of some unknown faces. The output is always a level higher than what we can expect in an 80s horror movie.The Ledge was also of high quality. As usual, in stories with this theme, there are many elements which are too difficult to accept. If you are looking for logic. But if you just want to go along with any ridiculous scenario, then you would really enjoy the story here! I had a lot of fun watching the bird pecking at him, the guy holding on to the wall no matter what and the effective twist. It is a nice little ride! Anyway so I loved it overall but I was not satisfied with the third story at all, so I have to rate it lower. I rate the first story 8, second story 9 and the third story 5. So overall I rate it a 7.7/10 "},{"Title":"Three Bizarre Stories","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Strange things happen when this cat appears - like an omen or forewarning of bad things to come - and all this cat wants do is get to the little girl he is wanting to help. The cat leads us to three bizarre tales of horror.The movie is funny (a comedy horror) but the one short story that stands out to me as being the most seriously terrifying is The Ledge. I am very much afraid of heights so this particular segment had chills going up and down my spine - creepy as all heck.If you like short horror stories then you might like Cat's Eye. Other similar movies with short horror tales that are also good 'Trilogy of Terror', 'Gallery of Horror', 'Creepshow' and 'Tales from the Darkside'.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting, at least...","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" While Cat's Eye is by no means a good movie it still manages to be entertaining. I wish to god they'd stop using that horrible actress Drew Barrymore in things though. Cat's Eye is three of horror novelist Stephen King's short stories, the first being about a man who signs up to quit smoking with no idea that the mafia is running the quitting business, the second being a man stuck in a bet for his life with a psychopath sadistically using him and the third story is the little girl who is in danger and the cat tries to save her from an evil troll-lie creature that wants to kill her in the night.Cat's eye is more a silly adventure than much else. It has its comedic moments, my favorite being when the cat escapes the smoking rehab center and the mob guy says, oh fiddlysticks! right loud, and the scene where the man is at a party at home and he begins to envision bizarre hallucinations involving cigarettes. The acting was okay but Drew Barrymore was just annoying, and the soundtrack was great. The cat was pretty cute. Also if you're a Stephen King fan you might notice in the beginning credits the Christine car and the Cujo dog chasing the cat. It's just an entertaining but weird little movie that's kind of fun to watch and passes the time. "},{"Title":"Let's Get Right Into It","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye is a series of three short stories with the only connection between the three of them is a tabby. The first, and best, short story starred James Woods. He played a husband and father trying to quit smoking. He unwillingly signed up for treatment at a company that uses radical techniques to help people quit smoking. Imagine if Don Corleone managed a smoking cessation program. It was a novel concept and a good bit.The second short story starred Robert Hays who is probably best known as Ted Striker from Airplane. He played Johnny Norris, a washed up tennis player who was attempting to run off with another man's wife. This was probably the weaker of the three stories but the intrigue was brought on by the man giving Johnny a bettor's chance to have money, the girl and his freedom.The third and last story starred Drew Barrymore. Yes, Drew Barrymore starred in her second Stephen King written project. Barrymore had to have been the Dakota Fanning of the 80's. She plays a little girl that suffers from nightmares of a monster trying to take her life. The cat, she named General, helped rid her of her problem.Cat's Eye was a decent movie. It is another display of Stephen King's creativity. With three short stories it is all go. In other words, there is little time for character development or meaningless dialog. From the opening credits you are thrust right into the conflict with a resolution not too far behind. "},{"Title":"It'll turn your life around. I guarantee it.","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King fans ought to really have some fun with this series of stories from the horror master. Cujo opens things up with a lively chase of the cat that the movie's trilogy is based upon, while a bumper sticker on a car that comes into view states 'Watch out for me, I am pure evil, I am Christine'. And that's just for starters; in the opening chapter, James Woods is shown watching The Dead Zone, another Stephen King thriller turned into a movie.With their ironic endings, the segments play out like one would expect from Rod Serling's 'Twilight Zone', but with a bit more edge and violence. The opener was probably my favorite, with James Woods portraying a chain smoking fiend trying to quit. I thought Alan King was an inspired choice to play the maniac head of Quitters Incorporated since his character was so far removed from King's normal type of roles. I know one thing, I'll never hear '96 Tears' in the same way again.In the second story, Robert Hays goes out on a ledge to outwit notorious gambler Cressner (Kenneth McMillan) and the way he turns the tables on Cressner may be a little too unbelievable, but it's classic in a King/Serling kind of way. The final story you certainly won't want to have impressionable young minds watch in the same room with you. Man, wasn't that troll about as butt ugly as anything you've ever seen? If I'd have seen this when I was a kid I would still be sleeping with my eyes open.If you like this kind of stuff in the format offered, I would recommend a 1962 flick featuring Vincent Price called Tales of Terror. It too offers a trio of stories, and in making a comparison, it's interesting to note that one of the stories is titled 'The Black Cat'. Which makes me wonder why the film makers for this wouldn't have sought out a black cat for the mere symbolism that it offers in the bad luck department. But I will say this, the tabby they used here was quite the actor. For example, in the final chapter 'The General', does the cat actually act being sleepy, or do they wait to film the cat when it's drowsy? I don't even know why I think of these things, they just come to me as random thoughts to consider. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Horror!","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Drew Barrymore, James Woods, Robert Hays and Candy Clark star in this 1985 horror anthology film based on Stephen King's novel. Three stories revolve around a stray cat seeking to help a young girl. The first tells of a smoker (Woods) joining an agency, Quitter's Inc. and learns it takes extreme measures to help cure their client's problem. The next involves a ruthless millionaire playing a deadly game with his wife's in debt lover (Hays). The final part is with the cat finding young girl, Amanda (Barrymore) and helps her rid an evil troll trying to steal her breath. Clark plays Amanda's mother, Barrymore also plays Alicia, the daughter of Woods' character and King's other characters, Cujo and Christine also make cameos. This is a good 80's horror flick with a decent cast & good score by Alan Silvestri. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Gateway to Stephen King","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS!!! This is a solid movie that takes three stories and condenses them into one movie with a cat as the link that ties them all together. All three are well done and are over before they ware out their welcomes. The first is James Woods struggle to quit smoking. It turns out he only needs the proper motivation. Allen king provides said motivation. Both are very entertaining and more than carry the segment. Second, Robert Hays and the late great Kenneth Mcmillan make a bet. The stakes are high and the tension is kept high. The third segment is from the cat's point of view. In the first two, the cat crosses the paths of the characters and is a small piece of the stories. The cat has to protect Drew Barrymore from a child breath steeling troll. So it plays like a bad ass version of Charlie the Lonesome Cougar. It's a nice clinic on forced perspective and dialog free action. So in conclusion, it's three solid segments, filled with good actors, all with the bonus of keeping them tight and nothing that falls into the splatter category. It is a nice gateway to other Stephen King stories. "},{"Title":"Curiosity Thrilled The Cat","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Iconic horror author Stephen King doesn't just write spooky ghost stories, he conveys edgy nightmares&#x85; And being involved in the mafia &#x96; with or without having knowledge of it &#x96; can be pretty frightening.Enter James Woods as everyman Dick Morrison who, as recommended by a friend, signs up with QUITTERS INC., a white-walled stuffy office that, run by Alan King's shrewd Dr. Vinny, will do anything to make sure you never light up again&#x85; Which includes the coolest scene of the vignette, the first and best of three short stories within this entertaining compilation anthology At home, when Dick starts jonesing at the dead of night (during a crashing thunderstorm no less) he sees something, or someone, in the closet. Turns out those agents are everywhere and even Dick's wife and daughter are in jeopardy.QUITTERS is a tense dark comedy both suspenseful and funny with James Woods perfect in the main role as a smoker suffering hallucinations and putting his family's life on the line for just&#x85; one&#x85; more... puff! Dick Morrison seems readymade for the character-actor's jittery style (Woods had yet transitioned to a leading man in mainstream films). And in this particular case there's a very legitimate beginning, middle, and clever twist ending reminiscent of THE TWILIGHT ZONE.The second story has a tennis playboy in love with a beautiful and vulnerable woman, but not without a price. For when Robert Hays, as Johnny Norris, winds up on the penthouse of a lush building, he's given an opportunity to maybe not die that is, if he walks around THE LEDGE of the skyscraper without falling, he'll get money and his girl, who happens to be the wife of Kenneth McMillan's mob boss Cressner, sporadically peeping through windows and making the already difficult task practically impossible. One hilarious scene has a pigeon pecking Johnny's heels. The building itself is like an ominous character of impending doom, replete with various obstacles and is truly horrifying especially when looking down, down, down. (This is a breezier version of SOMETHING TO TIDE YOU OVER from King's short story collaboration CREEPSHOW involving a sadistic millionaire and his wife's handsome lover put in dire jeopardy.)All these tales are connected to a cat that wanders around from each main character. In QUITTERS the resilient feline meanders into the hands of an agency henchman &#x96; then is put inside a glass room with tin floors and is shocked while vintage rock music plays (showing James Woods what will happen if he doesn't stop smoking). In THE LEDGE the cat runs into the arms of the mob boss after crossing the street, almost getting squashed by traffic; and also winds up on the ledge, sort of a guardian angel to the seemingly doomed antagonist.The entire time the cat's being called upon by Drew Barrymore, the star of the third and weakest entry that takes place in a small town where a lethal but tiny gnome (with bells on its feet) stalks little Amanda in her bedroom &#x96; attempting to steal her breath while she's asleep.THE GENERAL is the only venture not based on a short story but written for the screen. King was obviously influenced by the Dan Curtis TV movie TRILOGY OF TERROR where, in the popular third outing, Karen Black is chased in her apartment by a tiny doll&#x85; So while it's fun seeing the troll and cat battle it out for Amanda's life, the story is one-dimensional and ultimately lackluster.Perhaps Mr. King could have made all of them mafia related. THE CAT'S EYE SLEEPS WITH THE FISHES, perhaps? "}{"Title":"Creepy Yet Interesting!","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lewis Teague's 'Cat's Eye' is Creepy Yet Interesting! An anthology horror film Written by none other than Stephen King himself. Among the 3 stories, I throughly enjoyed the 1st one, titled Quitters, Inc., which features James Woods, in a hallmark performance. I loved how twisted this story was, it really held my attention. And the culmination is unsettling to the core. The Second Story is titled The Ledge, which features a mediocre Robert Hays. It has some thrilling moments, but seems uneven. The Third & Final Story is titled General, which features an adorable Drew Barrymore. This one's pretty spooky & absorbing. The Entire Cat versus malevolent troll is indeed something to watch. On the whole, 'Cat's Eye' works. "},{"Title":"Superb, Engaging and Entrancing","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just like one of King's many books, this film is un-put-downable. The story is paced nicely, and doesn't rely on old techniques.Many refer to this as a Horror novel, but I personally see this as it's own genre, of Suspense, or mix of Genres. Suspense and fantasy. Susantasy?Anyway, I'm rambling. This is a film you need to watch, it's one of King's best, not relying on old jokes or tricks, instead writing its own. I personally played the Stephen King drinking game with this and only got slightly sozzled.The characters are all quite endearing, even though you're only exposed to them for a small period of time.Special effects are of the utmost quality, and the music, while a little dated, is still highly enjoyable and has a nice epic quality.Definitely a recommended watch. Not among the greats, but something about it is just so wonderfully endearing and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not just the eye but the cat's pyjamas too.","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Movies based on the work of Stephen King tend to be very hit and miss. Anthology movies tend to be very hit and miss. So this movie, an anthology based on the work of Stephen King, has a 50/50 chance of being great or terrible. Luckily, while it's not quite up there with Creepshow it is a very good film and a great example of how to adapt Stephen King stories well.Using the cat as the link throughout the stories (and as the main player in the final section), we get a number of sly in-jokes before we really get to the first story, Quitters Inc. James Woods plays a man trying to give up smoking, caught in an increasingly paranoid nightmare as his treatment slides towards extreme measures. Using a lot of wild humour and some great tense moments this remains one of my favourite anthology segments, helped immensely by a stellar turn from the edgy Woods. Some fans may find the humorous moments ridiculous but they don't detract from the surrealism of the nightmare world in my opinion. We then move on to The Ledge, a story all about a wild bet and starring Robert Hays as a philandering tennis coach. Hays has been caught out by the man who's wife he was sleeping with and, for a chance to live, has to make his way all around a very high building on the ever-so-small ledge of the title. Tense, vertiginous and with some pesky pigeons proving very unhelpful, it's another excellent tale. Last, but by no means least, we have a young Drew Barrymore befriending the stray cat that has wandered in and out of proceedings so far. Starting off from the old wive's tale about cats stealing your breath while you sleep we soon find out that something more sinister is afoot and that the cat may ultimately end up saving the young lass, IF her parents do not succeed in their attempts to keep it out of the house.Director Lewis Teague pitches this all just perfectly, allowing a lot of black humour throughout but never skimping over any chance to establish real tension. There is nothing too gory or heart-stopping, and it may well feel like a number of Twilight Zone episodes bundled together but that's no bad thing. He gets some great actors playing things straight (overall) and doesn't make the same mistake some do when adapting King's work - specifically, all of these tales are taut, lean thrill-rides. It's just great fun and you may never listen to Every Breath You Take in quite the same way again.See this if you like Tales From The Crypt, Tales From The Darkside The Movie, Tales Of Terror. "},{"Title":"How to stop to smoke, to lose fear to the heights and to play with dangerous toys","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you want to do all this, you must watch Cat's Eye, another horror fantasy that Stephen King brings us. For those who loved Carrie(1976), The Shining(1980), It(1990) and, specially Creepshow and its sequels, comes this brilliant story of a cat that receives a message from a child. In their voyage, this cat going to see several terrible cases, full of horror and mystery.Cat's Eye, directed by Lewis Teague (Director of Cujo), told us three terrifying stories of Stephen King. The first one about a man who loves smoke (James Woods) and how it was better to continue smoking. The second one told about a guy (Robert Hays) who is the lover the wife of a rich man. The rich discovers the affair and in a particularly high way. The third and last is about Our Girl (Drew Barrymore). The child must fight against an evil doll. But a cat is for her help... Cat's Eye is a marvelous and entertaining, no perfect movie. Full of surprises and thrill situations. Of course is not the best movie about a story of Stephen King (Carrie - i think- is the best one) but still is great to watch, with a lot of interesting scenes. Besides we see to a Drew Barrymore that now we are accustomed to see only in romantic -some of it good- films. This is a good film, that maybe fanatics of horror, King, entertaining or only good films may appreciate.*Sorry for the mistakes ... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Funny, Scary, Entertaining Little Horror Anthology Stephen King Flick","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A stray cat travels from New York to Atlantic City and on to rural North Carolina, and encounters a sinister anti-smoking clinic with diabolical methods, a twisted gambler who wagers the life of his wife's lover, and a little girl with an evil troll living in her bedroom.I love portmanteau (literally carry cover) movies like Dead Of Night, La Ronde or Pulp Fiction, with multiple stories. Why aren't there more of them - the format is ideal for translating a six-thousand-word short story into half-an-hour of film, and this movie is a great example of the genre - fun, exciting and varied. The first piece, Quitters Inc., is the most fun, with a killer premise - what if gangsters decided to get into self-help therapy - what methods could they use. The second, The Ledge, is a classic crime/suspense story in the vein of John D. MacDonald or Joe R. Lansdale. And the third, The General, is a wonderfully creepy little fairy-tale with a terrific tiny monster. Director Teague takes all the best aspects of Stephen King's script and turns in three great tales, quickly dumping the action and moving onto something new as soon as the yarn is spun. He is aided by a terrific cast, with Woods, McMillan and Clark all shining, and great special effects by Carlo Rambaldi. Zestfully shot by legendary cameraman Jack Cardiff (A Matter Of Life And Death, The African Queen, The Vikings, etc) and full of good-natured fun, including plenty of jokes at King's expense; for example, Woods watches The Dead Zone on TV and laments, I don't know who writes this crap !. Whilst this is not Citizen Kane, for what it is, it's a near-perfect little triptych of fun-filled comic-horror episodes, and solid entertainment by a very underrated director. Quitters, Inc. and The Ledge are adapted from King short stories appearing in his 1978 book Night Shift, whilst The General was an original script written for the movie. "},{"Title":"Gwhiz, this cat gets around!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another omnibus is brought to us by horror writer Stephen King after his hit with George Romero with Creepshow (1982), though at the director's helm this time is Lewis Teague. Who directed the fairly good King adaptation of Cujo (1982). Now he's having a stab at King's trilogy of short stories and these second rate tales ain't too bad, because they're given competent treatment. But really they're far from horrifying and could pass for a Twilight Zone episode. The three stories are loosely linked by a charismatic stray cat who's wandering about until it finds it's special purpose in the very last yarn. The first two stories the cat finds its way into the picture by playing a little part in the story, but within each one it's role gets bigger as the film goes on. The intro opens with the cat being chased by a messy looking St. Bernard ala Cujo reference and so the adventurous combination begins.Story 1 - Quitter's Inc. A man who wants to quit smoking signs up with a company called Quitter's Inc. that promises that they'll help kick the habit in no time. But when he finds out the methods they use to stop smokers smoking again it becomes one agonizing fight of temptation.The first story is definitely my favourite because of James Wood's superb, edgy performance as the businessman trying his best to quit. I thought it was the most unpredictable and compelling of the three. The story is strange, but also darkly humorous. When you see the company's slightly disturbing (if funny) solution to the problem when a client breaks the rules, you just can't help but feel the anxiety that's generated. The suspense just torments you by gradually working you up just like that off Wood's character. Your just waiting for the slip up! It's far from creepy or horrifying, but it's very well done.Story 2 - The Ledge. An ex-tennis pro who's sleeping with a wife of heavy gambling man is kidnapped by his goons and brought back to his apartment. His given the choose to either be framed and go to jail or there's a way out by gambling his life by ambling around the five-inch ledge of his high-rise building.The second story has a tight premise and a clever idea behind it. Though, like someone already mentioned it does ring a bell if you've seen Creepshow. It's definitely a more darker one with some gripping suspense and sardonic wit (just like the first tale). The challenge the tennis-pro faces is a glum one as he also has some obstacles to pass. The high rise effects stand up well enough, even though you can easily tell it's a model set. Robert Hays as the ex-tennis player and Kenneth McMillan as the gambler give credible performances.Story 3 - The General Finally the stray cat's adventure has come to a stop, where a little girl wants to keep the cat, but her mother doesn't want it her house. As her mother's mum believes that cats steal little girls' breaths, but unknowingly to the family a tiny troll is actually threatening to steal the girl's breath. Although the cat who the girl named General - is their to stop that from happening.The most nonsensical and probably the weakest of the lot for me. I found it to be rather predictable and slow moving even if it was playful and the most whimsical of the bunch. That can be contributed to the lively monster of the piece. Although he looked more vicious than it acts. Whenever it was on the screen it was the story's high point and the stash between it and the cat (the girl's guardian) was just laughably silly. The nasty looking troll looks great, though. The cat comes into its own with a certain likability here and a young Drew Barrymore gives a fine performance. Expect a happy feel good piece.Honestly didn't really care to see this flick, but a friend lent it out to me and overall, it was somewhat of a decent surprise. It might be standard and quite tame, but there's a gleefully wrapped mood about this professionally handled production. The grafting score is effective and the camera-work has some flexibility about it. And I don't know why, but a song from The Police Missing You, seems to show up every once in a while. A fan of the group I guess. Special-effects are questionable, but don't have a devastating impact on proceedings. The stories in each segment range from about thirty minutes and there are some distracting King references to his other works. I loved the one on The Dead Zone. King's humorlessly wry screenplay equals some good harmless fun and director Teague manages to put that on the screen with a great balance of style.In all, a nice treat for King fans. "},{"Title":"The Stories Are So Enjoyable, But They're Too Short","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before I ever saw this movie I read the short stories in the Stephen King book Night Shift. For viewers who enjoy comparing the entertainment value of the original book to the movie adaptation, they will enjoy watching this film because of the mirror-like matches that the stories in the movie pair to the book. Most people will also enjoy how all segments of the movie are tied together by a stray cat wandering about on its own mission that becomes known at the end of the movie.Unfortunately, whether the viewer is familiar with the Stephen King collection of short stories or not, they will probably find themselves somewhat confused or shallow to this film since the segments are just too short to give any of the characters or stories any depth. Viewers that have never read any of the short stories in Night Shift will probably be wondering what they have just watched, or how the stories come about, whereas reader-viewers that have read the compilation by Stephen King will most likely wish that the movie adaptations were longer and more detailed -- like the book -- to give the reader more of an understanding where the characters and events come from.Being of the reader-viewer variety, I found this film to be enjoyable and engrossing in the diversity of each of the stories and how they are all tied together by the wandering stray cat, but I was somewhat disappointed that this was not broken into three, longer movies to better match details with the book to the screen. Having read the short stories I was probably not as oblivious to the lead-up events that were explained in the stories, but the cuts and substitutions in the movie just don't match the original work.I rate this movie a 6 out of 10. The creativity and imagination to the movie and its segments is obvious and makes it mildly entertaining, but the loss of details and background to the stories detracts from a lot of the clarity and ingenuity of King's original stories. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining films from the mind of Stephen King.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This tells three different stories from the Point of View of a Cat. An ordinary middle-class man (James Woods) try to give up smoking by going to a successful company named Quitters, Inc but this man finds himself stalked by a business man (Alan King) and his crew by making him trying to quit smoking. A crazed millionaire (Kenneth McMillian) pushed an ex-tennis pro (Robert Hays) by making him walking all around the high raise building from a ledge. The cat is trying to protect a little girl (Drew Barrymore) by a little monster troll by stealing kids breath and murdering them.Directed by Lewis Teague (Alligator, Cujo, Navy Seals) made a fun, entertaining, dark humour, tongue in cheek horror film that received an major cult following on video and television showings. The movie wasn't a huge hit in theaters back in 1985. There's amusing performances by Woods, King and McMillian.DVD has an terrific anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD also has the original theatrical trailer and an interesting audio commentary track by the director. There's an amusing trivia that never made it in the final cutThe original opening, When a little girl (Barrymore again) dies in her sleep. She's murdered by a little monster troll and the girl's mother (Patti LaPone) thinking that the cat has murder her daughter. The mother is trying to take the law in her hands by taking a machine gun and trying to kill the cat. That deleted opening scene explains certain plot holes of the film. Watch for James Rebhorn, Mike Starr and Charles S. Dutton in cameos. Screenplay by the novelistStephen King (Maximum Overdrive, Silver Bullet, Sleepwalkers). Joe Dunton Camera Widescreen (J-D-C Scope). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Not to memorable.","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Based on the story by horror author STEPHEN KING, a Cat looking for his way back home guides us through three short suspense stories. One has a guy who signs on with a company that guarantees that he'll quit smoking with their own methods, but when he finds he can't resist a puff or two, he finds out that this company is no ordinary quit smoking federation, since their ways of having people quit are a bit extreme. Another has a guy climbing all around a very large apartment building in the city, on a very small ledge after he is told by a Rich Man who dares him, that if he makes it, all the way to his apartment, he gets the wife, money & all the Rich Man's belongings, but as he'll soon find out, the Rich Man has other plans if he does make it & the last story has the Cat finding a home with a little girl who is being taunted by a miniature sized ghoul that lives somewhere in her bedroom wall, but this kitty ain't going to stand for it! While the last (& in my opinion best) story has a few memorable & entertaining moments, the rest of film is somewhat slow & undisciplined with nothing much scary or suspenseful happening, there is a few edge of you're seat moments during the second story with the guy moving all around the building, but this is strictly for KING fans who will no doubt be satisfied with this film. But if you're not to big a King fan (& I admit I'm not that big a fan, though I do like some of his work) & were curious about seeing this, my advice be that you skip it & rent one of King's other films, since a lot of them were so much better than this one.** stars "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films ever. King fans will love it.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A stray cat is guided by strange images of a young girl through three suspense stories. In the first segment, the cat is picked up by a clinic designed to help people quit smoking and used as an example to show it's latest client, Dick Morrison, (James Woods,) what will happen to his family if he is seen smoking. In part two, the cat is adopted by a mobster who forces an agging tennis pro, Stan Norris, who's had an affair with the mob boss' wife, to walk across a ledge. This second segment has alot in common with the CREEPSHOW story, Something To Tide You Over, the main difference being that here the hero does not actually come back from the dead for revenge. The last story is some what remenicant of GREMLINS, where the cat must save a young girl, Amanda, (8-year-old Drew Barrymore,) from an evil, tiny troll that wants to suck her life force. I especially liked the way it ended. I think you will, too. "}{"Title":"Good if you like comedy","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is not horror, it's dark comedy, which is great for me. Drew Barrymore was very hot and is good in this. Stephen King is smart and clever and makes this movie enjoyable. This entire movie (or short films) is connected by a stray cat who roams around. The first one's funny, the second, hysterical, the third, pretty awful (but Drew is good). The first one is about this dude who's trying to quit smoking, the second, about a dude who is forced to walk around a balcony, the third, about this girl who has a gnome in her room (how dumb). It's really weird but good. I was shocked because Drew Barrymore is in each segment. In the first, she's Our Girl, in the second she's A girl in an advertisement and in the third, she's Amanda(who has a big part). "},{"Title":"Cat on Fire","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Out on the mean streets of New York City a frisky tabby cat, who's later in the movie named General, escapes an attack from a vicious and rabid St. Bernard dog only, like from out of the frying pan into the fire, to end up getting caught by Junk, Tony Munafo, who brings the kitty to this place called Quitters Inc. Being used as an exhibit for clients to show what will happen to their loved one's if they mess and try to smoke again. The manager of the place Dr. Donatti, Alan King, turned out to be worse then even life on the streets for General. After putting reformed smoker Dick Morrison, James Woods, wife Cindy, Mary D'Arcy, on the hot seat or electrified floor because of him secretly, and foolishly, taking a drag General during all the confusion saw his chance and made his escape from Quitters making his way, by Staten Island ferry and I95, to Atlantic City. Living and shearing eats with some of the homeless under the boardwalk. The stray and homeless feline later ends up looking for food on the street. Becoming involved in a bet between a big time gangster Cressner,Kenneth McMillian, and his moll if he can make it across a dangerous Atlantic City thoroughfare without being hit and killed. General makes it across and makes Cressner $2,000.00 richer for betting on the right cat.General again get's involved in something he'd rather have nothing to do with when he's taken up into Cressner's hotel suite. In the suite is this washed-out tennis pro Johnny Norris,Robert Hayes. Norris is having an affair with Cressner's old lady. After being worked over by Cresser's hoods and having a bag of junk planted in his car is Norris given a chance, in another bet by Cressner, to live and not be arrested for drug trafficking by successfully walking around a ledge, from 15 floors up, completely circling the Atlantic City hotel.Norris, despite being attacked by Cressner and a flock of pesky pigeons, makes it across the hotel but is then set up by the double-crossing hood, who doesn't like to lose,to be whacked by one of his hit-men. General sick and outraged by what he saw in Cressner's inhuman actions, he even had his wife's head chopped off to be given as a going away present to Norris, cut across the floor getting the hit-man to miss with Norris, grabbing the silencer. Gunning down his would-be executioner Norris then has the now terrified Cressner, again on a bet, walk the same ledge and meet the same pigeon. This time around Cressner ends up down on the street not up on he 15th floor like Norris did.Making his way to Wilmington N.C General finds who he'd been looking for since he sensed she was in trouble back in New York City little nine-year-old Amanda, Drew Barrymore. Amanda's in danger of being suffocated while she's asleep by a deadly troll hidden inside her bedroom wall. Sensing that General, whom she named the tabby, was there to protect her Amanda tries to talk her parents Hugh & Sally Ann, James Haughton and Candy Clark, into keeping him as a pet. It's later that General is thrown out of the house and then sent to the pound, to be put to sleep, for being unjustly accused of killing the pet bird Polly. General actually fought off the troll who attempted to snuff out Amanda's life as he killed Polly to keep the bird for alerting both Amanda and her parents.Now with the only thing, General,that can keep him from killing Amanda on death row at the animal shelter the troll comes out of his hiding place the next evening to do his deadly work. General having his last meal waits for the attendant at the shelter to open his cage and then makes a run for it, just like he did across a dangerous Atlantic City street. In a pouring rain General makes it back to Amanda's room to confront the deadly troll. This time he's not only going to keep him from killing Amanda and then getting getting away, like he did earlier, but show Amanda's parents that the courageous kitzel came to their home for good not bad like they at first thought.Trio of cat stories by Steven King with a really touching ending sequence between General and Amanda that at first had you expecting the worse only to have confirmed to you and Amanda that General was really the real McCoy. "},{"Title":"Three rather good stories that aren't very scary.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is more of a comedy than a horror and is listed as such here.  It is also an anthology ala Creepshow.  This one though is tied together not by a comic, but rather by a cat (hence the title).  The cat roams through three stories...two of them from short stories by King and a third that was new I think (if it was a short story I have never read it).  The first one is about a man who wants to quit smoking so he goes to a rather different type of clinic.  This one was a short story that was called Quitter's Incorporated.  This one differs here and there to the story, but when have you seen a totally faithful translation.  This one stars James Woods as the one who wants to quit and Alan King as the one who runs the business. Unfortunately, Woods doesn't realize what he has gotten himself into as this was a mob business that uses its techniques it acquired during those years. Let's just say this would be a very persuasive way to get someone to quit. The next story is from a short story called the Ledge I think.  It has Robert Hayes as a man who has been cheating with another man's wife and the other man wants revenge.  He makes Hayes an offer he can not refuse as Hayes must navigate his way around the ledge of a giant skyscraper.  The final story is the weakest of the lot as it stars Drew Barrymore as a girl who is being hunted by something in the walls.  The cat is featured in this story more directly than the others.  All in all a rather interesting anthology, but man why did you have to hear that old Police song so much? "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love Cat's Eye, I would never imagine that Drew could act so well when she was so young, especially in that kind of movie. I wouldn't imagine anyone at that age would even want to be in such a scary/boring movie. But Drew pulled it off. I am proud to be one of her fans!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A very funny movie.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was  a highly entertaining  comedy based on a Stephen King  short story. It is broken down into several chapters. It is heart-warming and like-able. The last chapter, that makes fun of GREMLINS, was very funny and made a nice cameo.  4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"My favorite fight scene (spoiler)","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie contains my favorite fight scene from any movie. The end battle between General and the troll is very artistically done and well acted out by the cat and the puppeteers controlling the troll. I also greatly enjoy the loyalty of the cat, as it risks it's own life and safety for the life of Drew Barrymore. We should all be so lucky as to have such a devoted and protective pet.  "},{"Title":"Another good Stephen King movie as usual","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the first two stories, especially when I read the book, I couldn't put it down. The first story is about a guy who wants to quit smoking. His friend recommends this one place but doesn't tell him anything about the place. The place goes to the extreme by making you quit. The first offense they bring in your wife and puts her in the shock room. The second offense is the daughter, who is in a special school (played by Barrymore) etc. The second story is about a guy who has an affair with a gambler's wife. He is forced to walk around the building which is very high up. If he wins (which he does) he gets the mob's wife(which turns out as just the head)and a whole bunch of money. Instead he makes the mob guy do the same thing that he had to do. Walk the ledge. Of course the guy doesn't make it. The third story is more about the cat and how he finds the little girl who he is trying to protect. However the mother doesn't really like the cat and takes him to the pound. The cat escapes and runs back to the house where a little creature tries to kill the girl.  "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One can complain about the third segment of Cat's Eye being far too different than the first two, but, heck, I enjoyed it anyway. The first segment has James Woods (awesome as always) as a guy who enters a special, intensive program to quit smoking. The motivation the program uses if they catch you, they torture your family. It's quite gripping, but also has a wicked sense of humor. The second segment has Robert Hays (the star of Airplane!) as a tennis pro who, having stolen Kenneth McMillan's wife and money, is forced at gunpoint to walk all the way around a very high ledge on a building. If he makes it, McMillan says he'll let him live. This was probably my favorite segment. It's like if Harold Lloyd's Safety Last was a horror film. The final segment breaks away from realistic horror. It's very silly, but still quite entertaining. It has Drew Barrymore as a girl who is being stalked by a tiny troll. Only her cat (the one who owns the titular eyes, and who has a part in the first two tales, as well) can protect her. If the troll sounds familiar, it's because it was voiced by Frank Welker, who later used practically the same voice for Futurama's Nibbler. The cat is wonderful. The poor thing gets hurt in every segment, but it turns out to be probably the most heroic cat in film history! "},{"Title":"Cool thriller.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this film, I was pleasantly surprised. I was not expecting what I got. Three stories combined into one movie. Cool! James Woods, Robert Hayes, and Drew Barrymore star in CAT'S EYE. A trilogy story combined into one film which follows the adventures of a stray cat.It is really hard to tell you a lot about the film. It is cool and in an unknown way, entertaining. Stephen King does it again. His best work still remains as THE SHINING, but this thriller -although not really, scary, it is thrilling- King does a great job. Keep it coming! CAT'S EYE gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"An above average Stephen King anthology","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye directed by Lewis Teague (who also directed King's Cujo) steps up to the plate again to adapt three of Stephen King's short stories all of which are linked by a stray cat. With a few famous faces (Drew Barrymore, James Woods, Robert Hays and Alan King), this is a funny, suspenseful and a mostly well-made movie. Of note is the constant references to King's other work. In the opening scenes the cat is chased by a bloody St. Bernard (Cujo) and runs in front of a red car with a bumper sticker stating 'I'm Christine' (obviously Christine...). In the segment Quitters Inc. a character is watching The Dead Zone and proceeds to say 'who writes this crap?' In the last segment The General a woman is reading Pet Semetary. All these references should make any King fan giggle and realise this movie is very tongue-in-cheek.The first segment Quitters Inc. is the best of the three (the short story is also extremely good). James Morrison (James Woods) decides to give up smoking by joining Quitters Inc. but at first finds their methods cruel and sadistic. Can he go along with their twisted game or will he fall to temptation? Also starring Alan King, this segment is at times funny and at times creepy with an ending sure to shock.The second segment The Ledge is the second best of the three and is darkly funny. Johnny Norris (Robert Hays) becomes involved with a dangerous man, Cressner (Kenneth McMillian), who loves to wager. However, this particular one is rather twisted. The wager is, if Norris can climb around a ledge at the top of an apartment building he gets money, freedom and his girl. People with fears of heights will hate this segment as the majority of it is filmed up high and at times is very tense. Although in some scenes the special effects look rather dated this one is still a great watch.The last and weakest segment The General with Drew Barrymore is about a troll who lives in the girl's bedroom and tries to steal her breath. However, the cat who we've been following is by her side, trying to protect her. I found this segment to be the worst. I found the story silly and uninteresting, the special effects were bad and it wasn't at all scary or funny.But I don't want to end this review on a bad note because this movie was very watchable and a very faithful King adaptation. It was a mixture of horror and comedy with some good actors and a good score.3/5 "}{"Title":"Some of King's best work","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I got to admit I'm not the biggest Steven King fan, in fact, there are several movie adaptations of his work that I hate. But that's another review. This time we are talking about Cat's Eye. Three stories are all impressive, not perfect, but impressive. Not all of them are completely realistic either. But I got to admit I love the little General monster in the third story, even though they never truly said what the heck that thing was to begin with. A demon, a mutant, what? Other then the truth behind the myth of the cat stealing your baby's breath. Which I always knew was bunk. The second story and no pun there was well written as well. All and all one of King's best stories and best movie adaptations and I would highly recommend it even if you aren't a King fan. 9 STARS out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great movie...classic","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a very good movie...I grew up watching this movie...It helped me sleep at night even though that may sound weird...I believe that even though it is a stephen King movie...It may be a good idea to let your children see it to ease there night problems...I meen it worked for me...But this movie did probably open my eyes to the horror film world of Stephen King...He is a genius i meen come on...he made a Cat look like a hero here...And then he made a Cat look like a monster in SLEEPWALKERS which my opinion is a classic in itself...So 9 out of 10 people a must see!!! "},{"Title":"Not pure horror","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If your expecting a good horror flick don't watch this. This is more like the Stephen King's Creep Show  series mixing horror ,humour and irony together. The Movie consists of of three short stories similar in format to Creep Show except that the stories continue one to another without being introduced. All have the same cat play a critical role in the plot. The first two stories are more humour type with the last one being more horror. Overall if you liked the Stephen Kings Creep Show movies or the horror/comedy House then would recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Three tales of dark comedy.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have one of the Stephen King adaptations that fall into the mediocre category. Those of you expecting horror, forget it. First of all, there's just not much horror. The three stories told are stories about irony and bad nature of humans than about terror. Sure, there are life threatening situations, but the people getting into this trouble were more or less asking for it. In the first story, a man wants to quit smoking and signs up for a program with a shady company, run by a man who would be better of in a mob family. The man who wants to quit,(of course) expertly played by James Woods, knows the consequences for not following the rules are rather extreme, but doesn't quite take the company serious. At least, not in the beginning. The second story is about a man more or less forced into a bet by the husband of his lover. If he manages to walk around a building on the ledge, he'll get a big sum of money, AND his wife. If he doesn't...well. The third is a pretty weak story about a literally breathtaking evil gnome who terrifies a cute little girl (Drew Barrymore, who is still cute now), and has to battle her cat when he threatens her. The overall message is, when you play with fire, you might get burned. Dark humor, yes. Cynicism yes. Horror? Sorry, no. "},{"Title":"A So-So Achievement","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best that can be said is that the first two segments are probably among the best of King's print-to-screen adaptions.  The first segment, Quitters, Inc. is actually pretty good.  The second is somewhat of a rehash of the third segment of Creepshow (except the good guy wins).  The third and final segment just sits there, being a cloying bunch of nothing.  You wonder why they couldn't find another Stephen King short to adapt, rather than put us through this.  Only the well-visualized dwarf/monster brings any interest to the final segment.  You'll be rooting for it by the end. "},{"Title":"A nearly perfect horror anthology film.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King has written some interesting tales, but has also inspired and written some bad and depressing films. Pet Semetary and Children of the Corn are just a couple of his dismal efforts. But, Mr. King has brought one thing to the screen well, and that's the horror short film. Stephen King is the unsung hero of anthologies, being involved with the Creepshow films, Tales from the Darkside, including the movie, Monsters, Nightmares and Dreamscapes, and many more. He's what's keeping anthologies alive, though by a thread, and he's also the one producing/writing good anthology films. Cat's Eye is really an underrated classic of the genre.The film is comprised of three stories, each one featuring the same cat. Story one stars James Woods as Morrison, a smoker who wants to quit for his family. He joins a self help program, but finds soon he has made a mistake. Alan King plays Donatti, the leader of Quitters Inc, and he'll make sure Morrison quits. If he slips, even once, he, and his family will pay. Story two is about a rich gambler Cressner (Kenneth McMillan), and the man that's running around with Cressner's wife, Norris (Robert Hays). Cressner kidnaps Norris, and takes him to Cressner's thirty story hotel he owns. Cressner gives Norris two options. Either he walks around the 5 inch ledge of the building thirty stories up, all the way around, makes it and survives, or he decides not to, and he gets killed. He walks, but will he survive? Story three is Drew Barrymore's chance to shine as Amanda, a little girl who finds the cat and wants to keep it. Her mother (Candy Clark) really hates cats, or at least this cat, and goes through underhanded means to get rid of it. What the mother doesn't realize, is this cat is all that's protecting Amanda from the viscous troll living in her wall.All three stories are great, and each has it's own charm. I'll do a like/dislike for each story. To start with, Quitter's Inc. This was the perfect story to start the film, because of it's somewhat horrific nature, but light tone. It might be the silliest of the lot, but it's also the funniest. James Woods gives an excellent performance, as does Alan King who seems to be out of his mind. The cat has little to do with the outcome of this story, but because of it's involvement in the final two stories, it's fine. The only problem that some people might have with this segment (not me personally), is the sort of non-ending it has. It's more of a Twilight Zone type story than anything else, and similarly, is there to take us along for the ride, but not fully wrap up the story.Segment two, The Ledge is my personal favorite of the three. It's the most tense, but also manages to be funny, and highly entertaining. This one could be criticized for being predictable, but it's still a heart pounding story. By the end, you actually care for Norris, and during the segment, sympathize with his plight. Great performances, though at times purposefully over the top, and an interesting story, with amusing dialogue make for a great second segment.Segment three, The Sergaent, is the most remembered segment. Similarly to the Zuni fetish doll from Trilogy of Terror, we have our third, and most universally liked segment. Drew Barrymore, who actually appears in every segment, gives a believable performance as a child. Candy Clark is a major pain in the butt, and audiences might find themselves saying, No, don't do that...moron!, but that's who her character is. James Naughton plays the father, and he plays the role well, bringing a sensibility to the character. The segment itself is well done. The troll looks great, and the story, and arguably, the film climax involving a fight with the little breath stealing troll is great looking. It brings a little girl's room to life, with giant dolls and huge furniture to cater to the troll's few inch height status. It just looks great though. This is a fine way to end the film, with an overall ending uncharacteristic of Mr. King's normal writings.This is an excellent anthology film. All three stories are gripping, and have leads who know what they're doing. This is perhaps King's best anthology film, just as good as Creepshow. Even non-fans of Steven King may find they enjoy this film. Director Lewis Teague knocked this one out of the park. It's really a great little film.My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. 91 mins. PG-13 for violence and language. "},{"Title":"Dated but darkly delightful","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye is filmed in the same style as Creepshow in that it has obvious chapters. But unlike Creepshow, they are related.This is a rather good work. The work is severely dated, but the stories are still as darkly twisted, malevolent, and amazing as they were when this was made. I won't detail the plots of these stories, save to say the last is my favorite. The General story has been paid homage to in SO many other horrors, and it's nice to touch base with the original inspiration from time to time.This was filmed in 1984 and released in 1985, so that would put Drew Barrymore at about 9 years old when this was done. This was filmed approximately 3 years after E.T. and one year after Firestarter. She was much better in those works, but 9 is an awkward age for girls, so we'll forgive the slip, as she was not bad in this, just not as good as the aforementioned attempts.It rates a 6.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Fantasy. Humor. Terror.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King fans delight. Not as good as his Creep Show, but still fun to watch. Three tales with a feline as the catalyst. A troll visits a young girl's(Drew Barrymore)bedroom and causes havoc. A big time gambler(Kenneth McMillan)wants to get even with the over the hill tennis pro(Robert Hays)who is trying to steal his wife. And a man(James Woods) joins Quitter's Inc. to quit smoking and lives in fear of the consequences. I love how much humor can be found in horror. My favorite scene of all is when the gambler falls off the ledge landing on a horn. I've watched this seven times and will watch again. This is a must for King fans. Other players of note Candy Clark, Alan King and Mary D'Arcy. Funniest line is by Clark when she is trying to capture the cat Come here you furry little bastard. Special effect sometimes lacking, but still a hoot to watch. "},{"Title":"Entertaining dark anthology","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye is an anthology film, comprising 3 Stephen King stories. The first two are from his early collection Night Shift and the third is an original for this film. Quitters Inc is about an unorthodox method for stopping smoking, The Ledge is about an ordeal faced by a philandering tennis pro, and Cat's Eye itself is about a small girl menaced by a troll-like creature when she is asleep.All three stories are very enjoyable, and satisfyingly realised on screen. They are perhaps a little slight in nature, but they were short stories rather than novels, and these half-hour adaptations suit them perfectly none is inflated to anything beyond its actual significance. The cast is good, with James Woods as the beleaguered smoker getting my vote as favourite.I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Stephen King Horror Anthology Film","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anthology film based on several Stephen King stories, all of which involve a cat in some way. Quitters Inc. is about a man (James Woods) who signs up with a company that promises it can cure people of cigarette addiction. But the tactics they use to do that are more than he bargained for. The Ledge is about a millionaire (Kenneth McMillan) who discovers his wife is having an affair with tennis pro Johnny Norris (Robert Hays). The millionaire makes a bet with Norris that if he can travel the narrow ledge surrounding his penthouse apartment, he can have the millionaire's wife. The General is the third story. It's about a young girl (Drew Barrymore) whose cat, named The General, protects her from a troll that comes to steal her breath every night.The first story is the worst. It's unbearably mean-spirited with a truly terrible performance from Alan King. The only thing worth mentioning about it is the Police song Every Breath You Take, and that's a cover! The second story is OK, with some suspenseful moments as Hays works his way around the ledge. But it gets pretty silly. The third story is the best and probably the one most people remember the film for. The cat fighting off the troll to protect the little girl is definitely memorable.Overall, it's a mixed bag but a watchable one. The first segment is very off-putting. I wonder why they didn't just make a whole film out of the third segment. Seems like they could have. Movies have certainly been made on lesser ideas. It's also a movie full of Stephen King in-jokes. Cujo and Christine appear in unmentioned cameos at the beginning, for example. So that's some added enjoyment for King fans. "}{"Title":"Pussy Cat All The Way..","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" 3 'suspense' stories, intertwined with the antics of a really talented cat. I do not know how they managed all that filming, but the cat is simply too good. No CGI then, so it had to be a trained animal. Wow!!That said and done, let us come back to the stories. All three are vapid, with the first bordering on the absurd, the second, being full of pointless, gratuitous violence and the third, R L Stine-type yarn, being more suitable for a kiddie audience than for adults. King is a highly talented author of the horror genre, but even highly talented people can get jaded sometimes, or face writer's block. This film appears to have been written when King was suffering from a similar malady. After reading the credits that the screenplay was by King himself, I was looking forward to a stunner, or at least something creepy. Sadly, this movie joins the list of King's mediocre output, which he gave from time to time, in the eighties.See the movie for the cat, not for Stephen KIng. "},{"Title":"Poor representation of Stephen King's talent","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King's three short stories based loosely around the adventures of a brave alley cat would certainly have made better reading than viewing.Lewis Teague starts proceedings on a reasonably good note with a story about a Quit smoking program which achieves results in rather unorthodox and unpleasant ways. James Woods and Alan King head up the cast in an unnerving and tense segment. Robert Hays follows as a retired tennis player who finds himself gambling for his life with the husband of his young girlfriend.The third yarn sadly spoils things somewhat with the children's fairytale type story of a young girl who is visited at night by an evil troll intent on stealing her breath. Only General the cat can save her. Drew Barrymore gets plenty of chances to look cute, but this weak spooker has little else going for it.Overall Cat's Eye is not highly entertaining and can be readily classified as yet another poor representation of Stephen King's literary compositions on film. Alan Silvestri's music is a bad copy of his superior Back to the Future score.Sunday, May 1, 1994 - T.V. "},{"Title":"one-eyed fun","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This trio of Stephen King stories feature bad acting, clumsy dialogue, silly plots, one-dimensional characterisation and one of the least appealing soundtracks ever made.  In spite of this, it's quite good fun.   The third part is a weak fairy tale of little appeal, but the first story is like a precursor to David Fincher's film The Game, while the second owes much to the legacy of Harold Lloyd.  Overall, the execution is crude, but the nicely-conceived premises make up for it and keep you entertained. "},{"Title":"As subtle as a bucket of lard and about half as appetizing","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen King is undoubtedly a very fine author. When he's writing at his best, his novels are dense, chilling, creepy, multi-textured and intensely disturbing. But when he's not on top form, the results can be disastrous, and CAT'S EYE is perhaps the prime example of King having an off-day. All the subtlety and skin-crawling detail associated with King's greatest work has been stripped away, leaving an incredibly dumb movie that aims for the lowest common denominator and actually hits several target points below it. All the story premises are interesting, but they're very badly handled. In particular, the first and last segments are stupefyingly crass, revelling in childish mean-spiritedness and that emetic brand of cutesy-scary mid-eighties camp horror dreck typified by the despicable GREMLINS and CRITTERS series. Also, the obvious manipulation involved in the scenes with the appealing tabby cat left a bad taste in my mouth - cats are virtually untrainable, and rarely perform to order, so wondering what went on behind the cameras to get the required shots left me unable to enjoy the film even at face value, so CAT'S EYE amounts to little more than an overly simplistic waste of time at best, or a gargantuan insult to the cerebral horror fan's intelligence at worst. "},{"Title":"At no time does my hand leave my wrist. Enjoyable anthology.","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye starts in New York City where a stray cat is caught by Junk (Tony Munafo) an employee of a company named 'Quitter's Inc.' who specialise in helping people stop smoking, people like Richard Morrison (James Woods) who contacts them in his bid to stop smoking. Unfortunately the owner of Quitter's Inc. Vinnie Donatti (Alan King) has some rather radical methods to help his clients, he warns Richard that if he dares light up again his wife & young daughter will suffer...The cat then finds himself in the middle of a macabre bet, millionaire businessman Cressner (Kenneth McMillan) discovers ex-tennis star Johnny Norris (Robert Hays) is having an affair with his wife so he kidnaps Johnny & says if he can walk around the thin ledge around his penthouse apartment he can have his wife...A young girl named Amanda (Drew Barrymore) befriends the cat & persuades her mom & dad to let her keep it, however there is something in Amanda's bedroom that isn't very nice...Directed by Lewis Teague I thought Cat's Eye was a decent little horror anthology. The script was written by Stephen King & he turns in three effective tales although the connecting segments with the cat aren't great & there's no real connection between the stories & the reappearing ghost of Drew Barrymore is never explained to any real satisfaction. The first story 'Quitter's Inc.', which was based on a short story by King in his Night Shift collection, is the second best tale & goes for dark humour more than horror although the only down side to this story is the weak ending after a good build up. The second story 'The Ledge' is again based on a story by King this time in Penthouse & is easily the best segment, there's something very watchable about this story & again it has a dark sense of humour to it, it's the best flowing story & it has that crucial twist end to round the things off nicely. The third & final story 'The General' is the one original story not based on any other work & is easily the worst of the three tales, I didn't think much of the story which is dull & a bit predictable, nothing is explained that well & as a whole I just didn't like it. So in conclusion there's a couple of good stories & one bad one, generally speaking I liked it but I've always liked these horror anthology films.Director Teague does OK, the second story 'The Ledge' has a great atmosphere & some decent tension as well, 'Quitter's Inc.' is pretty dark & funny while 'The General' has a great battle between a Goblin & a cat complete with a cool over-sized set & nice special effects. The film lacks any real gore except for a quick flash of a decapitated head. There are also plenty of cool references to other works by King to spot, during the opening credits the cat is chased by a big slobbering St. Bernard dog straight out of Cujo (1983) another King adapted film directed by Teague, a car has a Christine (1983) sticker on it which again is a horror film adapted from a novel by King, a clip from The Dead Zone (1983) is shown which was also based on a book by King, there is a scene where a character is reading the book Pet Semetary written by King & I'm sure there are a few more in here as well.With a supposed budget of $7,000,000 Cat's Eye sounds like a well funded film, it's well made with good special effects & nice production values. The acting was good, I liked James Woods in the first story in particular.Cat's Eye isn't the best horror anthology out there but it's far from the worst & I liked it if just for the first two stories, I think it's well worth a watch for those who like some humour with their horror. "},{"Title":"Cat's Eye my reflections.","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Three years after giving us the excellent EC-influenced anthology Creepshow, bestselling horror writer Stephen KIng returned to the short story format for Cat's Eye, which offered up three Twilight Zone-style tales linked by a stray cat, which plays a part in segment. A wonderful streak of dark humour, excellent performances, and taut direction from Lewis Teague make for a whole lot of fun.The action begins in New York, where smoker Dick Morrison (James Woods) visits Quitters Inc., an agency dedicated to helping people stop smoking. Unfortunately for Dick, the place is run by mafia-like hoodlums whose radical aversion therapy involves torture, rape and mutilation. A great central turn by the ever reliable Woods ensures a memorable start to the movie. Funniest moment meat-head Junk (Tony Munafo) exclaiming 'Fiddlysticks!' as the cat escapes his clutches.Tale number two, my favourite of the three, stars Robert Hays as ageing tennis pro Johnny Norris, who is having an affair with the wife of crooked Atlantic City businessman and avid gambler Cressner (Kenneth McMillan). After sending his goons to kidnap Johnny, Cressner offers his love-rival a wager he cannot refuse he must walk along the thin ledge that goes around his penthouse apartment or face being framed for dealing in heroin. What follows is a superb exercise in pure suspense, topped off with a nasty shock and a neat twist. Extra points are awarded for the vicious pigeon and that hilarious horn sound effect right at the end.The last story sees the cat arriving in Wilmington, NC, where 8-year-old Amanda (Drew Barrymore) talks her parents into adopting the animal&#x97;which is just as well, because there is a nasty troll in her bedroom that wants to steal the girl's breath, and only the brave feline (now named General) can save her. This one is definitely the weakest of the three, but still has plenty to offer fans of fantasy and the macabre, including an unforgettable malevolent creature, great use of over-sized sets, and an assured performance from the young Barrymore. "},{"Title":"Fun Anthology","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A stray cat is the linking element of three tales of suspense and horror.Quitters Inc was great and provided James Woods with an opportunity to be a terrified victim, in some ways a prisoner of his own vice. I like to think of Woods as a villain, so this was a nice turn around. And we get such a great use of I'll Be Watching You.The Ledge was even better, with a bet that can really only end in death. And the third segment, with Drew Barrymore, it had some of the better fantasy elements you will see in a horror film (right up there with The Gate).Stephen King has a way of making cats the heroes (see Sleepwalkers), and the cat here (General) is no exception. "},{"Title":"Hero Cat!","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lewis Teague directs another film adaptation of Stephen King, this time three short stories turned into this anthology film about a wandering cat who links the three tales'Quitters Inc.' - Amusing(if grim) story about the lengths one man(James Woods) will go to stop quitting...he'd better as it turns out! 'The Ledge' - A tennis pro(Robert Hays) is victimized by a vengeful mobster by forcing him to traverse a high-rise outer ledge, or else both he(and his wife) will be killed. Another amusing but grim outing.'The General' - A young girl(Drew Barrymore) is terrorized by a troll, and the cat finally arrives to rescue her. Slight but appealing story.Overall, film is no classic, but still a pleasant diversion for cat lovers like myself! "},{"Title":"Who would have ever guessed that this cast could do horror so well?","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" With a cast including Drew Barrymore (happy birthday, Drew!), James Woods and Robert Hayes, it hardly seems like Cat's Eye could qualify as a horror movie. But it comes out very well. The movie focuses on a cat somehow communicating with a girl (Barrymore) and coming to her rescue. Along the way, our feline hero meets a man (Woods) trying to quit smoking...but he'd sure as hell better quit, or else. Later, the cat witnesses a man (Hayes) taking an unusual trip around a building. But when the cat finds where the girl lives, that last segment is when the movie really takes off.Overall, this is a movie that you gotta love, even if it gets predictable at times. It will almost certainly make you view cats differently (if you didn't already have an unusual view of them). Another great one from Stephen King. Also starring Alan King, James Rebhorn and Kenneth McMillan. "},{"Title":"Cat's Eye","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" So-so anthology film with a cat linking the three vignettes. The first features James Woods as the victim of an anti-smoking organization and their disturbing, unorthodox ways of healing their clients. The second features Robert Hays as a victim of Kenneth McMillan's nasty millionaire who offers him a way out from his debt to him(Hays also was having an affair with McMillan's wife)if he can make a complete walk around the ledges of a high-rise. Along the way, McMillan toys with him trying his best to aggravate Hays' fall. The third, and worst, feature is about some monster in Drew Barrymore's room that sucks her life force and eats her bird. The cat plays a more major role in this particular one for it must stop the monster before it kills Drew. This film really isn't all that scary despite being set in the 80's and having Stephen King's name draped all around it. The first two vignettes have their moments(wondering if Woods will be able to outlast his hunger to smoke or risk possible harm to his wife thanks to the evil organization's threats;Hays' near-falls and revenge on McMillan), but the third falls flat to be basking in plain silliness. The film really is only moderately successful. I did like the little in-joke with Cujo and getting The Dead Zone in there was sneaky. But, the film just doesn't have that many true thrills to ultimately satisfy the true horror fan as this film takes a more psychological approach. The satirical humor of the first film, I believe, makes it my favorite of the three. "}{"Title":"One third worthy, one third tepid, one third stupid","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Like most anthology movies, Cat's Eye is only as good as the story you're watching. In this case, the cat framing sequences are a fairly lame attempt to link three basically unrelated plots, two of which are thin. The best part of the movie is up first and because Cat's Eye shoots its wad in the compelling and intriguing albeit illogical first half hour, the ultimate movie-going experience is disappointing. The middle sequence is minorly entertaining but even less rational or developed than the first. The last section featuring an evil troll is better laid out characterwise but especially weak in the execution department (miserably primitive special effects) and a bit of an anticlimactic bummer. Overall, the experience gets worse with every story.However...that first section is certainly worth a look. James Woods is highly believable as a chronic cigarette smoker looking for the ultimate fix to kick his habit. Alan King is even better as the deviously convincing motivational mob therapist who helps him to solve his addiction. Forgiving the implausibility of it all, this half hour is highly suspenseful and contains a few nice surprises. It would have made a great half hour twilight zone or tales from the dark side entry. Overall, the movie gets about 5.5 / 10 but that first story is about an 8.5 - 9 / 10 for originality and genuine tension. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A cat is the linking element in three tales of terror written by Stephen King. The third tale starring Drew Barrymore as a young girl who is menaced by a small troll like creature who lives in the wall of her bedroom is the worst of the bunch, despite some decent effects. This tale is slow moving and dull. The other two tales are simply average at best. Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"A film called Product from Stephen King","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Keep moving, folks....nothing to see here. Cat's Eye is a tired retread of select anthology stories from Stephen King's first short story compilation Night Shift, and something is definitely lost in the translation...namely, any shred of intrigue, suspension of disbelief, character development, etc. Three rather brief ( the operative word here ) but enjoyable shorts from King's anthology are threaded together with a narrative line lead by the main character of the film, a cat that wanders from place to place, injecting itself into the lives of people it comes across. Along the way, we're given insight into three mean-spirited, black-humored segments that play like the worst of the Twilight Zone, or the drek of its distant cousin, the Outer Limits.  Moral justice is metered out, adversity is overcome, bad guys with the depth of tissue paper are introduced, steroetypes are on parade and Central casting makes a fortune trotting out no name, no talent B actors to fill in the character holes so that legitimate actors like James Woods and Alan King have someone to deliver their lines to when they turn to talk.Avoid this film. It was written specifically by King for Drew Barrymore, who acts as well as any cute 8 year old juvenile can who is coached the dialogue on the set....'nough said. The filmmakers, particularly director Lewis Teague, are guilty of exploiting her new-found fame at the time derived from ET, and stretching it to mind-numblingly bad exposition throughout the film.Run, don't walk, to better King fare, such as Christine, The Shining or Stand by Me.-Monstergarp "},{"Title":"Once And Future King.","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's three stories stitched together by the peregrinations of a not particularly attractive domestic cat, a gray tabby with black stripes and golden eyes.The cat is not the best actor. James Woods takes that honor in the first episode as a man so determined to quit smoking that he pays a pitiless agency to keep an eye on him, and to punish his wife, Mary D'Arcy, if he should ever try to light up, even in private.Stuck in traffic on a bridge linking Wilmington, North Carolina, with Brunswick County, he searches through the glove compartment for chewing gum and discovers a pack of stale cigarettes. A crafty look around -- the other cars are equally stuck, their drivers distracted -- and he lights up while crouched down below the window. It's no use. The driver next to him is an agency operative.D'Arcy is kidnapped and put into a cage with a wire mesh floor while Woods is forced to watch. Some terrible rock music is piped into the cage, a wind machine does to her carefully arranged hair what a tornado does to a mobile home, and the terrified woman dances around with sparks around her stockinged feet.I found the scene pretty sexy. I don't like seeing people or animals in pain but Mary D'Arcy is one of those beautiful women who looks just splendid in a flowery dress and stockinged feet. And, after all, she's not really being shocked.The first time I saw anything being shocked in a psychology experiment, it was an albino rat, Rattus norwegicus. Whenever I'd read research reports in which rats, dogs, or cats were given shocks on an electric grid, I'd always assumed the current was just enough to make the animal uncomfortable. But no. That rat must have been given a good jolt because he began to shriek like Mary D'Arcy and hop around like nobody's business. Like Njinsky, he seemed to make one grand jete after another and pause for an instant at the top of his leap.The other two stories aren't so hot. In the second, Kenneth MacMillan is a sadist who makes somebody crawl around on the edge of a tall building in Atlantic City. The last story has the cat protecting Drew Barrymore from a fairy-tale gnome who is intent on stopping her breathing while she sleeps, a pathetic fallacy. "},{"Title":"Stephen King does the Twilight Zone","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" These are three tales of horror from Stephen King following a stray cat's journey to help a mysterious girl. In NYC, Dick Morrison (James Woods) wants to quit smoking and goes to Dr. Vinny Donatti (Alan King) who uses outrageous methods. In Atlantic City, wealthy hard-gambling Mr. Cressner (Kenneth McMillan) has a dastardly wager for tennis pro Johnny Norris (Robert Hays) who's having an affair with his wife. In Wilmington, North Carolina, the cat walks into the house of Amanda (Drew Barrymore), her mother Sally Ann (Candy Clark) and father Hugh (James Naughton). Amanda wants to keep the cat but her mother doesn't. Her father says a cat would suck out her breath during the night but it's the tiny evil troll coming out of the baseboards that she should watch out for.This has a bit of Twilight Zone feel. The first story has an interesting premise but like a lot of TZ stories, the premise basically lays out most of the story which always has a twist at the end. The middle story is even less compelling. Normally, I'm a sucker for the fear of heights but the fake facade is shot poorly. Also McMillan is playing it like a clown which makes it less tense and less scary. It feels like a fake cartoon villain. The movie keeps making dumb jokes and fake scares. In the last story, Drew is too annoying begging for the cat. Overall, connecting the stories using the cat seems very manufactured especially since the cat travels down the east coast to do it. "},{"Title":"1 and a half out of 3 ain't that bad","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A cat is trying to make it's way home, as James Woods is trying to quit smoking through drastic means, and Kenneth McMillan takes a wager from Robert Hays to go around a high-rise apartment's ledge. When the cat gets home he has to protect the family that bought him from a troll. This anthology works more then it doesn't. The first story with Woods is ,hands down, the best of the three in no small part due to Woods himself (the man can act in anything). The second story well OK, is a tad to repetitive to be anywhere near as good as the first one. The last tale is a tad better than the second, although I feel that Drew Barrymore, getting to the age where she no longer could get by on merely being cute, gave a worst performance than she did in Firestarter. Wheras the wraparound skits with a cat seeing visions of a needy drew are hopelessly stupid. Creepshow is better, and one can make the case that 1983's Nightmares is better as well.DVD Extras Commentary by Lewis Teague, Cast and crew bios; and Theatrical Trailer My Grade C "},{"Title":"Who let the cat out? Meow!","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye is a (horror) anthology that I deliberately avoided for nearly twenty years, ever since I'm a horror fan in fact, because I always intuitively assumed I wouldn't like it. Obviously this isn't the right attitude to start watching a movie, but even from my most objective point of view imaginable, I still can't refer to this as a successful film. Cat's Eye is practically a one-man Stephen King show. Not only did he wrote the screenplay, with the adaptations of two previously published stories and one written directly for the screen, the film is also stuffed with obvious and not-so-obvious little references towards his other work. During the first opening minutes already, there are unsubtle winks towards Cujo, Christine and The Dead Zone. This might be interesting trivia for King-geeks to spot, but for people who think his work is over-hyped (like yours truly) it comes across as rather obnoxious. The three separate segments themselves are very lightweight and I'm having actually having a bit of trouble labeling Cat's Eye as a horror film. The first two stories are mildly enjoyable but very absurd, balancing on the verge of preposterous even, and the third one is downright childish. The cooler-than-cool James Woods saves the first segment, with his wondrous performance as a businessman who seeks the help of a curious company to quit smoking. The success rate of Quitters Inc. is incredibly, but that's because they indulge in extreme measures, like corporal punishment of the smoker's relatives. It's my favorite story of the film, thanks to James Woods and a pretty damn brilliant sequence where he's at a party, surrounded by extreme smokers but sensing the surveillance of Quitters Inc. The scene is terrific, thanks to the paranoia in James Woods' eyes and the use of The Police's classic song Every Breath You Take. Story number two is entitled The Ledge and has a reasonably interesting premise as well. An eccentric, gambling-addicted millionaire discovers that his wife is having an affair with a washed-up tennis athlete. He challenges his foe to a dangerous bet, a walk around the narrow ledge of his penthouse apartment, but obviously doesn't play fair. There's some suspense and effective black comedy in this segment, but it's nevertheless unmemorable and silly. The third and final story is actually derivative of both Gremlins and the famous Zuni-doll episode in Trilogy of Terror. 10-year-old Amanda suffers from the presence of a mini- monstrous jester (!) that lives inside the walls of her bedroom and attempts to steal her breath at night. Mommy doesn't believer her, but luckily enough Amanda receives protection from a stray cat. By the way, the cat is what connects the three stories as a whole. When astray in the streets of NY, the animal receives Amanda's cry for help. She immediately heads out to North Caroline, but gets forced to make a couple of unwanted stops at Quitters Inc. and in the millionaire's penthouse in New Jersey. Lewis Teague's direction is decent enough, but I guess that only Stephen King had fun making this movie. Cat's Eye rapidly gets dull and it's almost entirely scare-free. Fans of blood and make-up effects will be even more disappointed. "},{"Title":"Slightly Uneven","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  American cinema hasn`t really gone in for horror anthology tales like Britain did in the 1960s and early 70s , instead the Americans confined these type of tales to television with THE TWILIGHT ZONE , THE NIGHT GALLERY and THE DARKROOM . I suppose this film having Milton Subotsky as a co-producer and Stephen King as the screenwriter was the only reason it was made . As for the stories themselves  Quitters Inc  How you feel about this story is probably down to how you feel about James Woods idiosyncratic acting style and I admit to liking his intense performances a lot . Woods plays a man who wants to stop smoking but finds out some shock therapy is involved The Ledge  A former tennis pro finds himself mixed up with the local mob and has to do a daring stunt if he wants to survive The General  A troll visits a young child in her bedroom at night in a story that is genuinely chilling , but is let down by some poor effects.Notice a common theme between the stories ? With the exception of a cat appearing there`s absolutely nothing in common between them . The first two stories are linked with a common theme of gangsters and hitmen but neither of them can really be described as horror stories and would be better at home as an episode of ALFRED HITCHCOCK PRESENTS  or TALES OF THE UNEXPECTED. The General is possibly the best story but I enjoyed Quitters Inc the most since I`m a fan of Woods and the segment does contain an in-joke featuring THE DEAD ZONE , but the links are very uncohesive  and a film like this lacks Peter Cushing playing a mysterious role along with a strong feeling of poetic justice that the British do best . As I said if it wasn`t for Stephen King`s name in the title credits it probably wouldn`t have been produced   "},{"Title":"I just wish James Woods was in all the sections.","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cat's Eye is one of the several Stephen King written horror anthologies, and quite likely the weakest. If you are looking for some campy thrills, there is little charm to be found with in this film, with the exception of the excellent first section.Quitters Inc., the first of the three stories, is superbly acted by James Woods (but what doesn't he superbly act in?) and a pretty funny section at that. Basically, James Woods is a smoker trying to quit, and enlists the experts at Quitters Inc. to help him. Little does he know that he is getting a little more help then he bargained for... All and all a decent segment, it does fall a little flat in the shock department. If they had taken things farther (and I mean much farther), this would have been a really great and memorable section. As it is though, it is merely good King/Woods entertainment, but that ain't bad in it self.The second segment, The Ledge, is a pretty drastic drop in quality. The story is unbelievable, which is hardly a problem in a horror anthology, but it is also poorly acted and very dull, which is a major problem. Although I doubt it is much longer then either of the other segments, it seemed to drag on forever. There is no real suspense or humor, and in the end you are just glad it's over.The final part of the film, The General, is pretty bad but also entertaining. The obnoxious Mother is fun to get annoyed with and the troll creature is very awesome, although the blue screen scenes it is in are some of the worst I have ever seen. In fact, the special effects throughout the film are horrible and unimaginative; I enjoyed them for pure camp, but if you want any realism steer far away. A young Drew Barrymore appears and gives out a good performance as an actress, actually superior to both her parents in many ways.The tie together story of the wandering cat is stupid and pointless, and only enjoyable if you love to watch cats. Id rather watch a real cat sleep then watch this stupid cat wander into another Stephen King short story though, so go figure.The first segment is definitely worth watching for any Stephen King / Camp Horror / James Woods fan, and the third if you really like trolls or Drew Barrymore (they are basically the same thing). The second should be used for insomniacs or King completists only.A star and a half out of five. "},{"Title":"Stephen King - Overrated Dummy","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched the first offering of this trilogy and when it was over, I turned it off. It was so mind-numbingly dumb, I was in a state of shock. I started watching it because I thought it was about a cat. Wrong. A lost cat just happened to travel around and the stories took place at places he journeyed to. The first story, starring James Woods as a person who seeks help from a service to help smokers kick the habit, was insanely stupid. Alan King was the owner of the service and he warned Woods that if he ever lit up a smoke, one of his agents would spot him and they would then have to do to his wife what they are going to do to this cat. He then pulls a curtain and we see a cat standing in a cage on top of a steel grid. He plays music and the cat then jumps as sparks emit from the now electrified grid. We see a cat being tortured. Woods then agrees to the terms. He soon gets spotted taking a toke and during his next visit to Alan King's office, we get to see his attractive young wife being tortured the same way as the cat was. She then collapses and cries. Then, Alan King tells Woods' character that the next consequence could be one of his employees raping his wife. Yes, he just comes out and says it. Or maybe they'll just cut off her little finger. The story ends when Woods and his wife dine with another couple. Woods notices that his friend's wife's little finger has the tip sliced off and has stitches. The end. How profound...not. Pure garbage from a sick, overrated mind. "}{"Title":"Regal","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of the strongest influence in cinematic storytelling was a TeeVee show called The Twilight Zone. It was headed by Rod Serling, who hosted the show and wrote the defining episodes. He also headed several writing schools, one of which was advertised on tens of millions of matchbook covers.Nearly everyone in the writing business then and in the upcoming generation was influenced by him, one way or the other, especially so far as horror-fantasy, the short form, and presentation on film.The most successful acolyte of Serling is King. Though he doesn't hawk his writing formula, his amazing success has been as influential.The formula has cleanliness as its chief value. The show is about one narrative thread, one uncomplicated story. Everything that we see should support that thread, nothing else should ever be shown or even be acknowledged incidentally. The story has to have a twist and the more strange the driving energy, the less radical the twist needs to be.Mamet, though he presents himself as highbrow, is actually in the Serling-King school.I find these things to be little machines that work, but completely incidental to life, like a windup toy that moves in an amusing way. You can watch it, but not use it in actual creative play, the stuff of life.This is a good example of King. Though many films have been made of King material, few have stuck close to what he actually wrote. This does, so if you are curious about the formula, here's good study material. Otherwise, better to find somewhere else to play.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Entertaining anthology. Where is all the love?","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A stray cat is connected to each of the three stories that are depicted here. I'll start off with a bit of a prologue before I review the stories. It's not earth shattering or overly brilliant, but for 95 minutes or so, it certainly does entertain you in a great way. I saw this years ago when I was younger, and liked it. I just watched it a couple nights ago, and I still like it to this day. It does have cruelty to animals, but those that hate that stuff like I do, I'll reassure you and say the cat plays the hero. The first two stories are ironically about bad habits, which I found to be funny. Story one. Quitters Inc Our first stop is in NYC, where the cat is picked up by an odd doctor (Alan King) Dick Morrison (James Woods) wants to quit smoking, for the sake of his family. He is reluctant at first, but is coerced into joining when he hears of the ludicrous threats from an odd doctor. Talk about creativity! I'm personally not a smoker, but if I was one, watching this episode would make me paranoid about lighting up. I felt the writing was ingenious, and it never had a boring moment. It was really neat to watch James Woods play a Nice guy for once. He usually plays smarmy roles, so it was nice to see a change of pace for him. He was excellent. I loved how they also explored the devil known as temptation Whether it was Woods in a room full of smokers, or the delusions, I was quite impressed in all honesty. It's suspenseful, innovative, and a really good tale overall. It creeped me out; weirdly enough&#x85; I believe James Woods was a smoker at this time in real life&#x85;4/5Story two. The Ledge Our second stop takes place in Atlantic City, where the cat is picked up by a cantankerous businessman (Kenneth McMillan) Johnny Norris (Robert Hays) is a tennis pro who stole Cressner's wife. He gets revenge by giving Norris a sadistic ultimatum. If Norris can walk all the way around the ledge on his penthouse without plummeting to his death, he can have Cressner's wife. This is another nifty little episode, bursting with creativity. It just oozes suspense throughout the episode. You're not really sure If Norris is gonna make it around the ledge or not, especially with everything that is thrown at him. It doesn't give you much time to breathe. The ledge is suspenseful enough as it is, but when you throw in pigeons nicking at you, underhanded tactics from Cressner, among other things, it really ups the ante. I really liked the twist at the end as well. Robert Hays is solid as Norris, despite that I have trouble picturing him in a serious role, but he did well. Kenneth McMillan is perfectly sinister as the bitter old man. My only complaint is that they put the cat in legitimate danger on a street filled with cars. That didn't fly with me3/5Story three The General The cat arrives in Wilmington, NC. A young girl named Amanda (Drew Barrymore) becomes attached to the cat, and names him General. Her parents, especially her Mother, don't trust the cat. It doesn't help matters when the cat is framed by a breath stealing troll who lives within the walls of her house. This is by far the weakest of the lot. It features no suspense and poor effects when it comes to the troll. Drew Barrymore is solid for her age, but the Mom is too abrasive. The cat predictably becomes the hero at the end. I just felt this whole episode was lackluster and pointless1/5Final Thoughts Aside from the final story, this anthology was quite entertaining. I don't understand the 6.0 rating. It deserves to be in the 7.0 range for sure. It won't make your day, but it'll entertain you for 95 minutes or so7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Weak Stories","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cat's Eye (1985) ** (out of 4) Disappointing anthology from Stephen King has a cat looking for a little girl (Drew Barrymore) crying out for its help. The cat works its way into the three stories. The first has a smoker (James Woods) going to a company that guarantees he'll stop.....or else they'll harm his family. The second story involves a crazy millionaire who forces his wife's lover to walk the ledge of his high rise. The final story has our cat finding the little girl and helping her with a crazy troll that lives in her wall. Even bad King movies you can tell that there was something there but the director or producers simply messed it up from the page to the screen. This here just comes off rather weak. This is far from a bad movie but at the same time none of the three stories are what you'd call good and none of them live up to the greatness that one comes to expect from a writer like King. The first two segments were from his short stories with the third being written just for the film. Well start with the third one but the effect of the troll just wasn't very convincing and worse is that we never really fear for the girl's life. Add in the lack of any real tension and this here is a pretty slow way to end the first. The first story dealing with the smoker has a couple funny ideas but it just goes nowhere and it's hard to take it very serious and especially if you put some logic to it. The second story has the most interesting moments as it at least gives us a few moments to where we hold our breathe as the man is dangling from the ledge. Again, none of the three stories are exactly good and in reality they each feel like something unfinished. The performances from the cast are all rather good but this isn't enough to keep the film watchable. Perhaps the weirdest thing in the picture is how it gives a shout out to other King films like THE DEAD ZONE, CHRISTINE and CUJO. "}]