[{"Title":"Magnificent neo-Hitchcock","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  This movie was bitterly panned upon its release, and I see a number of IMDB's reviewers agree with the original critics.  I don't get it, except that this movie does such a good idea of taking you inside Stephen Bauer's character and what he is doing is so creepy that people react viscerally to him instead of the movie.  The movie is engrossing, brilliantly photographed and well-paced.  The camera angles and the chemistry between Bauer and Williams are reminiscent of what Hitchcock tried to do in Vertigo, but much less forced and contrived.  All these characters behave in character.  I really consider this one of the best romantic thrillers of all time.  Yes, it is erotic.  Why is that a bad thing?  10/10. "},{"Title":"One of Bruckheimer's better movies","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  Prolific producer Jerry Bruckheimer also made this one, it certainly looks and sounds like Bruckheimer, his style is stamped all over it. The erotic thrillerplot, the outragously great design and cinematography. Remember Flashdance or Cat People? Well, you got the idea! Well acted, actress Barbara Williams shines as seducted interior decorator , engaging love story with a great soundtrack and some very steamy sex scenes, it looked to me as if one of the scenes was actually hardcore! Must have been an unrated version! The story revolves around a pro burglar stealing the steamy diary of a bored nice sububan wife and then seduce her. This is not a masterpiece, just a nice erotic  high-concept thriller well worth seeking out. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Romantic Thriller with an 80's flair","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  What's not to love?  Hot leading man, amazing San Francisco locale and a Faltermyer/Moroder soundtrack including the incomparable Melissa Manchester. The cast is great.  Steven Bauer and Barbara Williams have great chemistry together.  And the appearance of David Caruso early in his career is a bit of a surprise, too.  A fun fantasy escape!   "},{"Title":"Classic eighties romantic thriller","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  The film tells a story of a burglar who falls in love with one of his victims whilst doing her house one night. After stealing her portrait and personal memoires, he proceeds to learn more and more about the victim until he decides to come into personal contact. Passing himself off as a Company Director, he slowly seduces the victim and this is facilitated by her failing marriage. Inevitably, events catch up with the thief as his partner in crime goes to desperate measures to eliminate this side-distraction. I enjoyed this movie for a number of reasons but most of all, I thought it had a fantastic eighties soundtrack throughout. The story itself is not wonderfully exciting, but the fantasy of a burglar falling for one of his victims and using his psychological advantage to seduce her is quite interesting. A sense of compassion is felt for the central character as he strives to live a fantasy of his own making that slowly starts to disintegrate due to his own dark life. John Caruso puts in a disturbing and powerful performance as the drugged-crazed partner who takes matters into his own hands.  "},{"Title":"Psychological thriller with great performances by relative unknowns","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  Supporting actors David Caruso (magnificently evil) and George Wendt are far better known to most of us than Stephen Bauer and Michelle Williams and John Getz.  But, the starring triangle are truly superb in a movie where nothing is quite what you think it is, and the results of giving into prideful impulses come to light in unusual ways.  A twist ending also adds to the proceedings in one of the best romantic thrillers I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"If you're capable of feeling...","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" ...you just might get this film. In my heart, Douglas Day Stewart is a genius. That he is capable of such sensitivity, instinct and passion just gives me chills, as said emotions are so pitifully rare in mainstream filmmaking (let's not even discuss the hollow garbage that has risen to the surface in the past decade). The infatuation, the sickness that plagues Scott Muller in this film is so clearly, so intensely conveyed through Stewart's meticulous direction (it's his frickin' script) and the thoroughly phenomenal performance of Steven Bauer. I'll grant certain persons there being plenty of flash, (otherwise known as brilliant photography and an energetic soundtrack) but...welcome to the 80's. That flash epitomized the decade and I've seen no slicker example, no smarter implementation of it than in this little picture here. The film is tremendous, ridiculously moving, simply magical. Invariably, the final scene leaves me in tears--of frustration for the characters, of enchantment for the beauty that is Thief of Hearts. I love that it is Bruckheimer/Simpson's lowest grossing film. It only stands to prove what idiots make up the bulk of American audiences. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as I remembered...","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" I first saw Thief of Hearts on cable while I was babysitting in high school...maybe 16 years old. As a Catholic school girl, I was obsessed with all things sexual, so I was an instant fan of the movie. I saw it several more times while it was still a popular cable choice, then lost track of it. However, I never forgot it the sexual tension, the premise...not even the title! As an adult, I talked my fiancé into renting it, issuing the standard disclaimer I loved this in high school, but I was into Wham!, Duran Duran and Prince, too, so proceed with caution, etc. To my surprise, it was almost as good as I remembered it having been, and the sexual situations weren't nearly as contrived as I feared they might be. Some of the acting was a little wooden, but the premise is brilliant...I'm still trying to turn that around in my head...and, for some reason, I still don't keep a diary! "},{"Title":"Disturbing concept","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  Though I do like this film, I found the concept immensely disturbing. Being a private person (you don't see my NAME on this, do you?), I found the idea that anyone could so completely invade a life absolutely terrifying. In spite of a few holes, the film works, chiefly because the characters enmesh the audience in their feelings. Steven Bauer is incredibly underrated as an actor and, while I have seen stronger performances from him, he's very good as the enamoured thief in search of a way out and Barbara Williams is credible as the neglected wife enchanted by the mystery man. Let's not leave out John Getz, another unexplainably underrated performer, as the self-absorbed husband. If you can ignore the flashy 80s style, the film is a fascinating study of obsession. Warning it definitely deserves its R rating for unnecessary full nudity. "},{"Title":"Captivating Film","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" This film starts out with a drive over the Golden Gate Bridge and into the City of San Francisco with fantastic music in the background and through out the entire picture. John Getz (Ray Davis),  A Day without a Mexican plays the role as a husband who writes children's books and has reached the top of his field. Ray is married to Barbara Williams,(Mickey Davis),Forever Evil who is getting rather unsatisfied with her marriage as her husband is always at his typewriter and never in bed where she wants him. Steven Bauer,(Scott Muller) The Lost City, actually runs into Mickey Davis and things progress to the boiling point between the both of them. David Caruso,(Buddy Calamara),Blue City, plays the role of a slime ball, who is a very evil character and looks quite young in 1984. Great tale with plenty of twists and turns and I simply Love The Ending. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Excellent setting, haunting music that grabs from the start","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film after visiting San Francisco and the movie captures it's vitality completely. For me Frisco is the best city on earth and I was captured from the start. OK so the plot was unique at the time, but I thought the characters were well cast and believable. Barbara Williams stole it with her beauty, innocence and naivety. For me the passionate love scenes backed up with the Harold Faltermeyer soundtrack was top drawer. I waited 5 weeks for the soundtrack (Germany) and it was well worth the wait. I still play it today.For all these reasons I still tell people this is my favourite film so far. "}{"Title":"sexy, sensuous and seductive","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  Sexy, sensuous and seductive, thats the only way i can sum up this movie. A young interior designer is fed up up with her life, married to a man thats more interested in his computer than satisfying her needs, decides to spend most of her time writing in her diarys, but when these are stolen by a house thief, she starts to notice a dashing hunk is paying a little to much attention to her than normal, the thief has stolen her diaries and is living out her sexual fantasies, without her knowing who he is, if this reminds you of one of those really overly sexy channel 5 movies then your right but its fantastic to watch, and is not one bit tacky, and you will love the 80s sound track. "},{"Title":"OK this one.......","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" I was 13, or maybe 14 when I saw this movie... I was just watching movies my aunt had rented, and.... I gotta tell you.... this was the very first time I EVER had a sexual feeling in my life... at 13, mind you... I thought of going on MTV wearing a shirt that said I Love Steven Bauer..... (that was going to be a true mission of mine...really!)... I was determined to meet that guy... but I grew up, I'm now 35, single... (by choice, mind you...)... but I still think back to when that movie made me wonder what was going on with my body, and why it felt so good to rock back and forth a bit.(lovely)... I've kept a diary since I was in 3rd grade.... and still have them all. "},{"Title":"80's at it's Best!","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" I don't care if the screenplay is superficial or not ... maybe it is, but anyway ... when I immerse into this movie, I see almost my own life in it. Myself, some years ago, a bored housewife. Driving a Beetle. Telling not her diary but Facebook her whole life. Fell in love with some stranger through the internet, who knew all my secrets. The coincidences are striking.The breathtaking scenery of San Francisco and the soundtrack, which brings tears of joy in every Eighties-fan eyes, this movie is one of my absolute favorites. I'm addicted to this movie like to Rum Raisin. Have to see it on and on, every year.The only thing I do not understand and where I disagree with Mickey, is her choice of letting Scott go in the last scene. I would immediately jump on his motorbike - and in my real life I did! For five years I have been married to my Thief of Hearts and this movie is OUR film. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" Watch this movie at your own risk, It has so many holes in it you could drive a truck through them , so unbelievable I couldn't find one redeeming thing to say about this movie,i see previous reviews refer to this as classic 80's,and a great movie and etc... ,but if it was your spouse who was doing those things would you think that it was great,or cool,or what ever.even after the wife having talked with her husband and basically saying I'm sorry and I'm going to do right by you,at the end of the movie she is still cheating on her husband just it's in her heart,i should have figured that out when i realized that she was going to let her husband be shoot or possibly killed because she didn't want to hurt her lover.One hopes that the husband finally starts using his brain when the cops tells him what the ballistics on his wife's gun says,and other things at the crime scene say about what really went down and he gets her the hell out of his life because you mean nothing to her. what is it with these writers who can't write characters that act like adults and not children i know some would say that it is just human nature , but i thought human nature was what we were put on this earth to rise above. These are my own personal feelings about this movie and and if someone doesn't agree i understand, we all have different tastes. (Sorry about the punctuation errors and such.) "},{"Title":"Rum and Raisin...,","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" A woman trapped in a boring marriage begins an affair with a handsome man who seems able to read her mind. She doesn't know that he has broken into her house and read her diaries, where she has recorded her deepest thoughts and fantasies.....This had the makings of a brilliant eighties movie for me. Great producers, great musicians doing the score, and just made in the part of the eighties where everything was cool, and everybody lived in excess.So its unfortunate that this film for me sunk like a led balloon. Yes Bauer has the charisma and the looks, but he is awful as the lead, and his delivery of lines and the way he changes just ruins the whole movie.Is this really the guy I saw in Scarface? He was amazing in that movie.Plus the fact that the husband does the worst thing imaginable and tries to make a living rather than letting his wife seduce him. What's a girl to do? Caruso pops up every now and again, with lots of attitude and the soundtrack crashes in and out one several occasions, which is funny for all the wrong reasons.It's a cheesiest in a bad way, and thank goodness that the producers had Top Gun around the corner.This had all the makings of a cool little thriller, it just gets more mundane as the film progresses and Bauer is nothing but a miserable child in this movie. "},{"Title":"Master thief impresses, in different drama flick that can't a certain bluntness","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" Sexy Steven Bauer is a master thief, where his co partner, a younger David Caruso run a very lucrative operation. Bauer this time, makes the mistake of falling in love, on the account of a diary he steals, among many other possessions of this rich couple. When reading it, he becomes aware of the woman's pent up fantasies if she were another character, loose and daring. Trapped in a marriage, with a successful yet egotistical writer of children's books, we can tell deep down, she yearns for more. Obviously this marriage isn't perfect, where entire fault lies on the husband's ignorance, that finally drives this woman to accept the sexual advances of Bauer, posing as an interested client of her decorating business, where soon he's making his fantasies a reality, without laying it on too thick of course, so she doesn't put two and two.... This of course brings jealously from husband (the versatile Getz) where eventually things go out of control, which has Bauer slugging him. And honestly Getz deserves it. Even Getz's friend (George Wendt) explains his problem of narcissism, to which really his point falls on death ears. Actor Bauer is something of a surprise. He brings a magnetism and mystic character to this sexy stranger who sends the love boat of this married couple rocking. With it's highly original premise which set a lot of other films apart, Thief Of Hearts can't overcome a slight if enigmatic dullness about it. Not exactly a money spinner, there are some sexy moments and some cool scenes, like the slick robbery pulled off at the Davis house, in it's opening. Speaking of openings, it's opening song I loved, more than it's title song, the opening night shot of the Golden Gate bridge in what looks like heavy fog breaking, I must say is one of the best bits. We also see younger hottie Windsor, a street hustler, earning some bucks, candidly f..king Bauer, who declines, his mind preoccupied with another woman. A few scenes later, he passes again on another offer, this time two college girls, making some extra lucre. We also see a beaver shot of Windsor, slipping into a pair of jeans, before she's over compensated for her troubles. What happened to her after Howling 4? This dull, yet intriguing movie, that entices you with it's story, is also slightly 9 and a half week'ish, it's ending I thought was cool when first seeing the movie at fifteen. Although I mentioned a dullness about it, it's just the way I saw it, in no way, it's story rushed. Not to say, this doesn't without recommendation, though for some impatient viewers, it might have them a little vexed in the two's slow building relationship of this movie, some scenes almost ceasing to exist. "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  I saw this on late-night TV some time ago and didn't think it was too bad. The plot is a bit far-fetched, but the film actually gets better as it goes along, so it's certainly worth a look. People say David Caruso is the only good thing in this film, but I didn't think he was very good. A bit too extreme for my taste. Shooting a cop and then losing his mind didn't do anything for me. I thought the husband and his business friend were great. The music is quite good also, and a lot of the warehouse scenes are quite well done, with lots of tension. If you want something to kick-back with on a Saturday night, this would be one film to try. Nothing overly-special, but not bad to say the least! "},{"Title":"Smart, Sexy and Intriguing, but bogs down, as most movies do","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this movie, and I thought at the time it war a tingling sexy kind of work. I thought the angle of using the stolen diary to manipulate the relationship was intriguing. Of course, Steve was very sexy then.Bauer later played an Israeli agent in the movie Sword of Gideon, about a Mossad agent sent, along with others, to kill 11 Palastinian Terrorists who captured and killed the Israeli Olympic Team at the 1972 Olympics in Munich. It will be interesting to see how much Spielberg draws from that movie in his movie Munich. Sword puts its revenge rs through emotional wringers, and several are themselves executed by the terrorists.In Thief,Getz was interesting in the cuckold role, and Caruso played himself. Wendt is not given much to do. Whenever I see Bauer, such as in Traffic, I think of his role in Thief.JoePaulaGibson38 "},{"Title":"The original erotic thriller!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" When we look back at the history of made-for-video films they'll say that this one started the erotic thriller fad. Ah, but if only they had natural redhead beauties like Barbara Williams instead of the man-made women we see today.To see David Caruso playing the same condescending stiff he has played his whole career, to see that Steven Bauer kept his career going despite this yawn of a film, to hear Williams say I feel so violated! or Norm Peterson say It must be a holiday for the school suppliers. or to hear John Getz say Dr. Seuss to the rescue. There is so much bad in this film I can see why Douglas Day Stewart is forgotten today.Finally, I must say I didn't think Unrated films existed in 1984; this one happens to have extra footage although it's very tame. I watched this one so you wouldn't have to. Stay away. "},{"Title":"Worthless Waste","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":" Worthless Waste A thief steals the diary of rich bored housewife and uses her secret desires to seduce her.The premise is intriguing. The movie is NOT. Instead we drift from one meaningless scene to another without any point. These characters and their actions (or rather lack there of) are meaningless, stupid, and more importantly boring.The story is utterly lacking of any substance. Even the climax is dull.SPOILER WARNING The final scene is laughably bad as David Caruso is shot and killed by Steven Bauer in order to spare Barbara Williams having to shoot him herself and endure the guilt of taking another human life, even in justified self defense.I don't even remember pulling the trigger. she says.The police simply wrap up the shooting a Barbara Williams having shot an intruder in her home.OK, is the audience really dumb enough to believe this or just the director. The police will find VERY BASIC BALLISTIC FACTS. 1. Her revolver is cold. 2 Her revolver does not smell like gunpowder. 3. There are six live rounds in her gun. 4. Her gun will not balisticaly match the fatal bullet. AND 5. Caruso was shot in the back! The police will then demand to know WTF really shot him! And WTF she didn't tell them it was Bauer! Williams would go to jail for participating in a murder.As I said, the whole film from beginning to end is dumb. "}{"Title":"Interesting  idea, horrendous execution.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller, Crime","Review":"  Douglas Day Stewart comes off the success of An Officer and a Gentleman with an original script that HE wants to direct, and, why not? He's hot. Lots of people want to do business with him.Thief of Hearts is a good idea master thief grabs a woman's personal diary during a home invasion and, in reading it obsesses to the point of pursuing a personal relationship with her. Interesting, lots of possibilities.If there ever was a man in the movie business who could recognize good ideas, it was Don Simpson, uber-producer and personality extraordinaire.If there ever was a man in the movie business who could take a good idea and twist it into 'high concept'-lots of flash and little substance, it was Don Simpson.The film has way too much Flashdance meets Penthouse Forum and way too little psychological tension.Harold Faltermeyer score gives you those 'Miami Vice' moments.And Douglas Day Stewart? He's not hot anymore..  "}]