[{"Title":"Predictable, But Definitely Entertaining","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a decent suspense film with a different twist for its day, dealing with robots. The idea has since been copied in a few films.Here, cops go after runaway robots and after a villain who is trying to steal deadly weapons (gosh, that's original). The special effects are pretty good - especially since this was made over 20 years ago - and I particularly enjoyed watching the heat-seeking bullets fired from the villain's gun. Rock star Gene Simmons, by the way, does a nice job as the bad guy.As entertaining as this Tom Selleck movie was, it had a B-quality to it with some stupid and predictable dialog. The climactic scenes were very predictable. You just knew certain things were going to happen...and they did. Yet, it was fun to watch and worth one look. "},{"Title":"futuristic crime/action","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of critics complain about this movie but it was very well made for it's time. Not only does the movie show robots going out of control but it also shows a society of complete distrust and characters that are very cold. Gene Simmons from Kiss is perfect in the role with his looks and his voice as a sadistic villain that keeps managing to circumvent authorities. Chris Mulkey a bit actor is also good as an idiot that gets involved with Simmons. The script and soundtrack are excellent. Tom selleck also goes well as a frustrated cop who is fiercely determined to stop the bad guy and is humorously sarcastic to the people he deals with. "},{"Title":"Movie is NOT set in the future.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the biggest misconceptions about this classic scifi flic is that it is set in the future where robots are prevalent.Quite the contrary. The premise of the movie is a world in which the development of robots evolved at the same rate as that of the home computer, becoming every bit as common-place and mundane. This is revealed in the opening scene where some small renegade field bots are described as using an 8088 microprocessor, the most common Intel CPU used in all IBM desktop PC's that year (1984). If this were the future, the writers would likely of made up some fictional processor of the future rather than date the film with currently available technology.The cars in the film are no more futuristic than cars of the same year as the film, nor is the construction of any homes (no pools in the living room or places to plug in your nuclear toaster). Only items relating to computer technology are any different, and even that was no more advanced that was was currently available at the time (though of course what was DONE with that technology is pure fiction).I think knowing this fact adds to the enjoyment of the film. Too many people seem disappointed that the movie doesn't seem futuristic enough. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable techno-thriller","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like quite a few of these 'forgotten' films of the 80s and 90s, I read about this before actually seeing it.  Having an interest in Kiss, I wanted to see if Gene Simmons could act.  As bad guy Luther, he does pretty well, but there's nothing particularly remarkable about his performance.The other performances are okay.  Tom Selleck and Kirstie Alley are rather good in their roles.  POLICE ACADEMY's G.W. Bailey has a straight role as the Chief of Police (the typical by-the-book type who always chews the hero out).  The storyline is very good.  As it's written by Michael Crichton, it's another tale of technology gone bad, although this time, it was a deliberate human act which caused the mayhem.  The film book I read about RUNAWAY in said basically that between WESTWORLD and JURASSIC PARK, two of the best known sci-fi films ever, Crichton made this film.  This is true, but while WW and JP are remebered, this film is largely forgotten. Granted, this film is hardly a classic, but in my opinion, there are times when you go 'who cares' and just sit down to a good, entertaining picture.  I recommend RUNAWAY for a viewing.  Although, this movie, and some episodes of STARGATE SG-1 seem to confirm that some people find tacky-looking mechanical spiders scary.  Which I don't. "},{"Title":"Nerve-wracking, offbeat, sci-fi thriller  VERY MILD SPOILER","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the master of technophobic paranoiac pseudoscience fiction, Michael Crichton, comes this tense, well-made suspense thriller. Anybody interested in AI, robotics and cybernetics will have a difficult time suspending disbelief as Selleck is forced to fight off a few battalions of homicidal gadgets under the influence of a mod chip programmed to identify specific human targets, with all of the cyber-evil ultimately under the control none other than Kiss lead singer Gene Simmons. If this sounds ridiculous, please understand that this film is not above a little self-deprecating geek humor - for example after the first action sequence, where Selleck has chased down a runaway farm implement, he refers to the CPU of the unit as an old 8088. OK, if you got this joke, you might appreciate the rest of the film's comic relief. If not, you should enjoy it for its solidly entertaining suspense. The soundtrack (Jerry Goldsmith) often hurts, but has a few good moments. Some of Gary Numan's darker and weirder stuff from around the time this film was released might have been a better choice, or perhaps even Jean Michel Jarre. Tom Selleck does well in his physically and emotionally demanding role, playing a police officer with vertigo who is assigned to disable runaway robots. To his credit, none of Crichton's robots are the standard ludicrous anthropomorphisms we see in schlock-fests like I Robot and The Clown Wars, but rather mechanical hardware things as innocuous as boxy agricultural drones which pick bugs from cornstalks and turn them into fertilizer and housekeeping automatons which look only slightly more advanced than today's robotic vacuums. Cynthia Rhodes steals this show. Her performance is so spot-on that I was compelled to look her up here immediately after seeing this movie for the second time. See for yourself http//www.imdb.com/name/nm0722407/ I am astonished and intrigued by her extremely low profile. Please e-mail me if you have an explanation for this!Gene Simmons is about what you would expect, he delivers his lines with little tangible feeling, overacts frequently, and does well with looking weird and menacing, but has little sense of pace or complex facial expression. Kirstie Allie gives a fairly standard performance, and Chris Mulkey, not unusually, puts in a very nice effort for his relatively minor role. The rest of the cast is quite good. I'm not a big fan of more recent Crichton films, but I really enjoy his earlier works, especially Andromeda Strain and this film. I remembered seeing this about twenty years ago and being pleasantly surprised. My second viewing, just an hour ago, was just as entertaining. Sure the soundtrack, hairstyles and some of the dialog are outdated, but the themes, characters, and even the plot are not. "},{"Title":"Not great-But a perfect Saturday afternoon escape.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay this movie is far from perfect. However, on a rainy day, or lazy weekend afternoon the movie is highly enjoyable.Like a lot of movies it starts out great but gets a little silly towards the end.What makes this movie is Tom Selleck. He is a very under-appreciated actor, who always seems to breathe life into the dullest of movies. Here he takes what could of been a much sillier movie and brings a lot of believability to his role and to the story. Even if it is about robots going nuts.Michael Crichton directed this one, strange that he didn't write it as a book first, cause it is a great story. A little ahead of it's time which might explain it's poor performance with the critics and at the box office.Definitely worth checking out. Great Jerry Goldsmith score. "},{"Title":"OK, if unspectacular science fiction action thriller","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had been vaguely interested in seeing this film for a while before I got down to it, for the prospect of a film directed by Michael Crighton (RIP), starring Tom Selleck and Gene Simmons and featuring evil spider robots was very inviting to me. It is pretty fun, but never reaches the heights it could do. Selleck plays a cop who suffers from vertigo and has the job of diffusing robots that have gone astray. His job mostly involves stopping runaway farming robots or misfiring security drones, but unfortunately someone has got a hold of micro chips that can make robots turn evil. So, Selleck and his partner, ably played by Cynthia Rhodes get on the case and find themselves up against a malign Gene Simmons. Selleck can do this sort of thing in his sleep and is effortlessly convincing, whilst Simmons plays a bad guy pretty well. Sadly the film is underwritten and has a few plot holes as well as lacking any real sense of emergency. The effects are pretty nice mid 80's stuff and the robots are well made, especially the spider robots that are a tad underused, apart from the cool finale. There are some good action sequences and the film has a swell pace, but somehow its just never that impressive. It sorely needed more violence, more intensity, or at the very least better writing, with the scenes dealing with Selleck's home life absolutely horrible. There isn't much in the way of characterisation, but Crighton does at least handle the action well and there are at least two decent set pieces. Altogether, this is worth a look for robot movie buffs or 80's nostalgia fans and its easygoing good fun, but definitely no classic. "},{"Title":"Above-average, with a nice electronic score by Jerry Goldsmith.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whilst not expertly handled by director Crichton (yes, Michael Crichton), Runaway at least succeeds in being reasonably interesting and very watchable.It's one of those movies that succeeds in being very enjoyable without actually being that good. There is something very comfortable about the tone of the whole film. Whilst most of the set-pieces could have been more tightly edited and paced, there is an undeniable consistency in the visuals throughout. Coupled with this is an impressive electronic score by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith, done in the same year as his beautiful work on Ridley Scott's Legend, at which time Goldsmith was in the process of moving over to synthesizers.Not great, not bad, just fine. Memorably throwaway.PS Gene Simmons (from Kiss) makes a nasty-looking villain. "},{"Title":"Wow, 80's future movies...awesome.  Well, average fun...","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, for some reason, in the future we have larger than necessary robots doing the jobs that humans are tired of doing. When they screw up, Tom Selleck is here to use the awesome authority he has in the police force to shut down (usually destroys) these robots before more harm is done. There are field bots for corn crops, house bots which do the dishes and the like, constructo-bots that stack things where you need them to stack things, and office bots and all different types of them.Now, Tom Selleck has another job of fending off spider bots, which were designed to sadistically kill people at the will of Gene Simmons' character. But Selleck better fend off Simmons' crazy magic bullets which contains an explosive in each one, but only goes after exact people who are programmed in it to kill.Sound crazy...yeah, it was. A stretched-thin story made good use out of its imagination. The special effects were OK (the magic bullet-cam, the laser-gun Selleck uses, the fast RC-cars packed with explosives), but most were pretty rudimentary compared with others at the time. The music was done by Jerry Goldsmith (a plus) who's worked on Legend, Alien, The Omen, Chinatown, Basic Instinct, Gremlins, and a slew of others.Gene Simmons was an interesting choice as the bad guy (who apparently was only chosen after seeing him mug an evil-looking face for a while), but he was entirely too evil for his brainiac ways that he was supposed to be. Kirstie Alley was probably cast after saying yes to her strip-down scene (in which you don't see any nudity). It was cool to see Joey Cramer (from Flight of the Navigator fame) and GW Bailey (from Police Acamdemt fame) as extra characters. Tom Selleck was always on as the hero with a fear of heights.It was an interesting and weird tale of the future with robotic bullets and robots running amuck, but the fun was very average during the whole film, with little more than corny little jumping and exploding robots to remember. And what is up with all the sparks at the end credits? Are there welders above them repairing an important job or what? Whatever...interesting to see. "},{"Title":"Good robots made Evil by replacing their stock chips with altered ones","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An under-appreciated vision of the future, unique for it's time, and now another example of how wrong we were in the 80's about what the future would be like. We don't have the robot servants in our homes, or the radars in our cars, but this is still the sort of movie you can watch again every few years. It's just a good movie by any definition, and I recommend it to anyone. Gene Simmons obviously had fun playing the role of the main villain, and like Mick Jagger and Deborah Harry(Blondie) he performs even better as an actor than he did as a musician, and that says alot. But on to the review Tom Selleck is some sort of cyber cop specializing in rowdy robots that have gone out of control, and finds an adversary in Gene Simmons, who is making robots evil by substituting evil microchips for their regular ones. This movie is just plain good. Might even be the first instance of Kirstie Allie playing a part that would normally have been assigned to Meg Foster. Whatever happened to her?  "}{"Title":"Yikes , it goes round corners !","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Runaway is one of those lesser known or forgotten , futuristic sci-fi thrillers , that sits on the top shelf gathering dust. One day you notice it and take a look , and wonder how this cult classic escaped your notice for so long.Imagine a world where most of your domestic and tedious labouring duties are done by your trusty army of house robots. You rely on technology , it takes care of most aspects of your daily life. That is , until your hi-tech criminal boss wants you dead.This is a film crammed to the gills with some truly delicious and original hi-tech weapons and gadgets. Gene Simmons wants Kirstie Alley eliminated , and cybercop Tom Selleck and his new assistant have the enjoyable task of preventing it. Mini rocket bullets race around street corners , multiple lock-ons dodge the traffic as they race between the wheels of the automated cars , and tiny metallic spiders crawl ever closer towards you , ready to deliver their cargo of deadly acid.The film benefits from some nice directing , and what also gives it a pleasing feel is that everyone seems to get an equal share of the credits. Take more than a casual glance at Gene Simmon's evil character though and you'll likely as not get a chill down your spine. Those menacing eyes are as cold as ice.Even if you don't like Tom Selleck , give this film a try. I swear you'll never look in your rear view mirror in quiet the same way again ! "},{"Title":"Runaway Still A Hit After All These Years.","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this movie I was at my cousin's house in Lexington, KY. She had been married for approximately 2 years and everyone decided to go and get some movies. I was about 12 at the time and picked this one out. I had no idea what kind of movie it would be, just that it had Tom Selleck and Gene Simmions from KISS in it. I just turned to my Cousin-In-Law and said this looks good. Out of the three movies we got this one was the best, not only was I surprised but he loved the movie. After all there years it still has that futurist appeal to it and to a point it makes you think. The movie came out in 1984; and it's about robots that have been altered to become dangerous and in some ways killers. In the beginning of the film you see Tom Selleck and his new partner Karen. They are apart of the police departments Runaway unit. A unit that gets calls about malfunctioning robots and they are the ones that go in to take care of the situation. One day a call comes in a 713 or something like that, a runaway call where people have been killed. Once on the scene Ramsey, Selleck and Karen, Cynthia Rhodes, get the info, that robot that helps with the house a lot has killed 2 members of the family. The baby has not been harmed, but the father on the scene knows more about what is going on than he is telling. Well Ramsey gets the baby out of harms way, but the father disappears suddenly. In comes Gene Simmons character,Luther, a robotics expert who is a homicidal maniac. Luther is partners with two other men, one being the father of the baby and another who is working with him to form genetically altered programming chips for robots, so they can be altered to become killing machines. Once the two partners ask for there share, they end up getting tracked down or killed after Luther get's what he wants. Luther also has engineered robotic spider's who are programmed to kill with acid.You will see this in the movie, and for anyone who has a sever phobia of spiders you have to see this, it will make your skin crawl. It's up to Ramsey, Karen, and Luther's girlfriend, Jackie, to stop this psycho before he wrecks havoc on everywhere. THX, Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Good, Underrated 80's Sci-Fi Flick!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tom Selleck, Gene Simmons and Cynthia Rhodes star in this 1984 sci-fi film. A cop must stop a madman and his killer robots. Jack Ramsay (Selleck) is a veteran cop who works a robotics shift and has a son. He meets his new partner, Karen Thompson (Rhodes) and shows her the ropes. They begin hunting runaway robots discovering they're created by madman, Charles Luther (Simmons) that begin killing people. Jack stops at nothing to hunt Luther which becomes a deadly game of cat and mouse. I've always liked this film and Gene is a great villain. I also like Jerry Goldsmith's excellent score and recommend this good, underrated 80's sci-fi flick. "},{"Title":"Liked the movie","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wouldn't think that this mix of characters (Tom Selleck, Gene Simmons, Alley, Bailey, etc.) would make a good sci-fi thriller... but it works!  Thoroughly enjoyed the movie! "},{"Title":"A great 80s sci fi cop flick","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great cop science fiction combo movie. If you liked Robocop or Blade runner then you will dig this movie. Tom Selleck plays a cop from the special Police Robotics division, like a bomb expert except with robots. It has some bad words, violence and complimentary nudity, so caution with kids under 16.Wow I am surprised this movie is not more appreciated. It has great action for a 80s movie. And it is kind of set in the future where everybody has robots in their home. And even for the era the sci fi looked cool, even had some heat seeking mini missiles that were fired from a gun.Tom Sellek does a good job and Gene Simmons takes a break from KISS and is a awesome bad guy. Even Kirsti Alley is young and hot. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi thriller","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The beauty of Runaway - . . . well, there are a few, actually. It's a good marriage of cop movie and plausible science fiction, a nasty villain (Gene Simmons with that creepy stare) and it works pretty much as well now as it did 30 years ago - which is something when we're talking a movie that's as unabashedly '80s as this. Selleck and Rhodes (hello!) have a good rapport, and the car chase scene on the freeway was pretty well don. On second thought, this probably shouldn't be as watchable as it is, but then again, Crichton actually manages to wring some nice suspense out of tiny robots.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Runaway","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, robotics has become an important part of society fulfilling roles once operated by humans. Housekeeping robots, agricultural robots, etc. Well, robotics has become such an important aspect in life that a special crimes division is specially directed at robot crimes..such as malfunctions amongst the most serious threat. Tom Selleck portrays Sgt Jack Ramsey, once a beat cop who decided to step away from that role when his problem with vertigo leads to a killer getting away and killing a family not long after. He began studying the field of robotics as he explains to his new female partner, Karen Thompson(Cynthia Rhodes), and found that he above every one else in the understanding of such a field. Thompson gets an idea of the rather mundane part of the role when a agricultural robot goes berserk messing up a crop. But, she also sees the ugly side as Ramsey has to upend a robot which has killed members of David Johnson's(Chris Mulkey)family. This sequence is stellar and we see how good Ramsey is at disarming difficult situations. It also shows how those who try to get in without understanding Ramsey's methods(a television cameraman who makes a bad decision to follow Ramsey)will perish. Once Ramsey looks inside the robot, it is found that a smart chip was planted to force the robot to turn maniacal. That man is Dr. Charles Luther(Gene Simmons who is very good as a sadistic, vile human being who pierces you with his bulging, obsessed eyes)who wishes to sell his technology of creating killing robots, designed to be terrorist toys. He had maneuvered Johnson and another doctor(who we see killed by a robotic spider)to create these smart chips with the capability to force robots to coordinate and destroy selected targets. Luther has this unique gun he uses which fires a heat seeking missile. It is used to kill Johnson when Ramsey and Karen try to apprehend him. Luther's lover, Jackie(Kirstie Alley)is caught in a room with specific computer parts needed to put together the whole terror-sell operation. Jackie is caught, unfortunately, by a robot which has flipped it's lid. The robot isn't deadly and can only shoot electric bolts which knock you down or annoyingly shock you. After Ramsey is able to successfully(though not without a few bolts which threw him for a loop)stop the renegade robot, he finds lots of computer property in Jackie's possession. They are successfully able to get information on where Luther is(in a meeting with some clientèle), but Ramsey isn't able to get him for he has that gun hidden in his coat and a floater robot which blows smoke throughout the room. This time Karen is hit by a missile dislodged in her arm intact. In a harrowing sequence, Ramsey must remove it without hardly any movement..Karen will have to undergo serious agony without moving her arm. The rest of the film consists of Luther and Ramsey playing cat-and-mouse as Jackie's life is now in danger after revealing her information. Not only that, but Luther is also able to find and kidnap Ramsey's son(yes, the old kidnapping cop's son bit). The film shows Luther's cunning with computers and how he has eyes open at all times. The film's true tension derives from that very fact. I've read countless reviews for this film and none provides any enthusiasm towards Runaway. I don't see what the real problem is. I thought it was well paced, with some interesting little robotic creations, the cast seems game..it's perfect for a lazy Summer afternoon. "},{"Title":"My name is Gene Simmons and my deadly robot spiders will kill you...","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this 1980s futuristic actioner, Tom Selleck plays a police officer who specialises in eliminating renegade robots. Usually this just involves flipping the OFF switch because no one else had sufficient insurance cover to do it. When he discovers some important red and black bits of plastic are being sold on the black market, he battles various foes on his way to discovering the truth, including wobbling plastic boxes, Meccano sets gone bad and Gene Simmons.Author Michael Crichton is at the helm here, and he does a decent enough job with what appears to be a relatively low budget. Tom Selleck cruises along with a heavily clichéd hero character (dead wife, vulnerable child, fear of heights, wobbling plastic assistant called Lois), however his somewhat boring character is evened out nicely by Gene Simmons, who sends the ham-o-meter to dangerous levels with his terrifically OTT performance, and dialogue along the lines of MUHAHAHAHA!!!. As with most films of this ilk, by today's standards it's heavily dated, but then again it's a reminder of a time when action films focused on action and didn't take themselves to seriously.Runaway is an unremarkable but reasonably solid action film. It moves at a speedy pace, albeit along the well oiled lines of about nine million other similar films, there's little to fault if you're only looking for light techo-action fare.Hardly something anyone should seek out (unless, of course, you want to see Gene Simmons waving a ridiculously huge gun around and trying to out-stare the rest of the cast) but not something that should be avoided at all costs either, if it's on TV and you don't have anything better to do. "},{"Title":"One of the More Bland Selleck Films of the 1980s","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the near future (which today looks like the near past), the police have a new problem to contend with runaways! What is a runaway? A robot that no longer responds to its programming and is going rogue, like Sarah Palin with circuit boards. And now they've gone from malfunction to murder, controlled by an evil madman.What would you say if I said there's a film that has Tom Selleck as a cop that fights robotic spiders and an evil Gene Simmons? If you're like me, you'd say that you wanted to see it as soon as possible and stream it on Netflix. Well, that might be either the best decision you've ever made or your worst nightmare. (Also, if you're like me, you heard about this film from the TV show Community, which is incredibly awesome.) Indeed, there's much to love about Selleck and a younger Simmons, and a fleet of robots programmed to destroy. Even Kirstie Alley, who has a generally repulsive nature, is presented as a sex symbol here, with mixed results. While I have great difficulty finding her attractive, the Selleck character becomes torn between her and his female partner. It's not quite a love triangle, but when you're Selleck you can have any woman you want.Yet, the film drags at times, and the climax seems to go on a bit longer than necessary. As much as I love Selleck and the concept of this film, I can't say it ranks up there with Gypsy Warrior or Quigley Down Under. I just didn't feel it. I should not have been bored at any time, but I was... if it wasn't for beer (in this case, Coors Light) it may have been a difficult film to sit through. Not good enough to enjoy or bad enough to rip on... just sort of bland. "},{"Title":"Does Gene's Luther remind anyone of Javier's Anton?","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was led into Coma (personal 8 rating) by IMDb's reccos for me. Loved it, and went from there to Star Chamber (personal rating 7). That led me to Runaway. Thanks, IMDb!I'm a long-time reader of Michael Crichton, but had not realized he had also plied his hand at directing. Not many people are lucky enough to have so many facets to their talent.This movie was gripping from the first. I meant to just bookmark it for tomorrow when I was not supposed to be sleeping. No dice. Not only did I finish watching this excellent movie, but now I find myself writing this review. It's that good.Not only do you get treated to a young Tom Selleck, who also appears in Coma, but also Kirstie Allie, both of whom are youthful and trim in this movie. It's not just eye candy though, and I'm not really a fan of either of these actors, but they both did a very fine job here. The suspense is taught throughout.I could not get over the fact that I kept comparing Gene Simmons' (again not a fan) Luther character to Javier Bardem's Academy award winning Anton Chigurh's character in No Country For Old Men. They are both unemotional psychopaths, and, to me, similar demeanors. I can highly recommend this movie to any fan of Sci-Fi and suspense. "}{"Title":"Very entertaining 80's sci-fi/action outing","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rugged sergeant Jack Ramsay (a fine and engaging performance by Tom Selleck) takes care of defective robots whenever they go dangerously awry. Ramsay and his eager new partner Thompson (an appealingly perky portrayal by Cynthia Rhodes) under a nefarious plot by evil genius Charles Luther (deliciously played with lip-smacking wicked relish by Gene Simmons) to use a bunch of microchips that can make robots go lethally haywire.Writer/director Michael Crichton offers a fairly accurate prediction of a future where everything is heavily automated, keeps the enjoyable and engrossing story moving along at a snappy pace, takes a few barbed satiric potshots at the pesky sensational scoop hungry media, and stages the exciting action set pieces with skill and flair. Moreover, Crichton presents Ramsay as a flawed, yet still sympathetic character. Selleck and Rhodes display a really nice and likable chemistry in the lead roles; they receive sturdy support from Kirstie Alley as Luther's snippy and sultry girlfriend Jackie, Stan Shaw as seasoned forensics expert Marvin, G.W. Bailey as a gruff police chief, Joey Cramer as Ramsay's adorable son Bobby, and Chris Mulkey as paranoid engineer Johnson. The robot spiders Luther uses to bump off his opponents are pretty damn cool. Both John A. Alonzo's slick widescreen cinematography and Jerry Goldsmith's stirring electronic score further enhance the overall sound quality of this nifty little film. "},{"Title":"Robots Gone Rogue! Can Tom Selleck Save the Day?","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had all the potential in the world. That being said, the execution was decent at best. The story is interesting enough, but I felt it lacked excitement at times. It can be pretty talky, making it difficult to maintain your interest at times. For the 80's, I was pretty impressed by how the robots looked. I also liked the look of the guns and the special kind of bullets they used. The effects were mighty impressive for the time. Some of them were outdated, but they impressed me for the most part. I didn't mind the explanation, about why the robots were evil, but I would have kinda liked to see them as pure evil I felt the explanation detracted a bit from the impact. I did like the tribute to Hitchcock's Vertigo. It was cool to see Selleck suffer from Vertigo. I thought that was pretty nifty. The acting is solid. Tom Selleck comes through like usual. He gives his typical You behave style when he's annoyed, but he does it more emphatically. Seriously, he was pretty good. Kirstie Alley isn't in the movie all that much. She was fun in her part though. Cynthia Rhodes is OK as Selleck's partner/love interest. I didn't think she was that special. Joey Cramer is annoying as the kid. Typical for the 80's. Gene Simmons acts with his scowl a lot as the villain. I thought he was OK at best. The finale is pretty exciting. Watching Selleck overcoming his fear of heights was intense. I'm picky with futuristic movies, but Michael Crichton did a relatively good job as the director. If he worked on the pacing and the story a bit more, this could have been a dynamite film. In lieu of that, we get a film that's watchable with flashes of brilliance. It's worth a watch, but that's about it. 5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Dated but highly enjoyable sci-fi thriller.","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Set in undetermined future society where robotics are a major part of everyday life, from performing household chores to construction and more, Runaway follows Officer Jack Ramsay (Tom Selleck), head of the so-called 'Runaway Squad'. His hi-tech unit deals with out of control robots, intervening where humans may be endangered by the machines' malfunctions. When Ramsay discovers a plot by criminal genius Luther (Gene Simmons) to sell advanced microchips and cutting edge weaponry to the highest bidder, he finds himself taking on not only Luther, but also the dangerous killer's deadly robotic creations.Written and directed by the late Michael Crichton, Runaway continues the theme of the dangers of technology affecting the lives of humans that had been previously visited in his previous works Westworld and Looker. Reviewing Runaway now, thirty years after it's original release, is a real eye opener to Crichton's foresight. Although the appearance of the technology in the movie is dated, being all microchips, clunky robots, switches and video tapes, there are things that have equivalents today. These include flying drones ('floaters'), tablet-like devices, the ease of gaining information through computer profiles of individuals, nannying by technology and the rapacious pervasiveness of the media. These features are integrated subtly and skilfully into the fabric of the film, helping Runaway maintain a surprising degree of relevance so far down the line. The movie is also notable for it's 'bullet-eye view' scenes, which were ground breaking in it's day and much imitated thereafter.There's plenty to enjoy here as proceedings are quick and unfussy, the plot is purposeful and the action comes thick and fast, with Crichton really building up the tension and thrills during several standout scenes. Although some of the effects are a trifle creaky looking nowadays, the robotics are imaginative and well constructed. The performances are as equally enjoyable, with Selleck and Cynthia Rhodes (as Jack's partner) working well together. The underrated G.W. Bailey (of Police Academy infamy) also does a great turn as Jack's Chief and even a sizzling Kirstie Alley makes an appearance. The only letdown is from KISS legend Simmons, as although can he certainly deliver menacing looks and thousand yard stares, his overall acting ability is somewhat lacking. A much better rock star than actor, that's for sure.While the movie is dated in parts, it's fast pace and inventiveness, along with Crichton's skillful direction helps Runaway stand up very well when viewed in the modern day. Whether revisiting or seeing it for the first time, Runaway is an oft-overlooked pulp thriller that's well worth catching. "},{"Title":"Robot police face a foe using sophisticated criminal robotics","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Runaway is a movie I'm quite fond of and have been since first seeing it years ago in a poor copy from a distant UHF channel. Now one can see a good widescreen DVD copy. It's not a great movie but it clicks.It's a sci-fi movie set in the near future when police patrol runaway robots or malfunctioning robots. Tom Selleck has a household robot named Lois that is voice-actuated. The science is plausible. The movie is ahead of its time regarding technology, one of its nice features.One of the situations encountered is that people tinker with and program the robots themselves, and cause them to do criminal things. Another is that they simply malfunction. Nothing's perfect, we are told by Selleck.His new partner is Cynthia Rhodes. She's just right for the well-written part. She's feminine but also bright and strong without being abrasive and in your face. Naurally, she falls for Selleck.There is a new bad guy in town, Gene Simmons. He's got these nifty robotic bullet-missiles that can follow a target anywhere. He has these spider robots, about the size of a large hand with metal legs. These can kill.Selleck has a problem with heights. The climax of the story will test his capacity to deal with that problem.This is not one of those deep, dark and dirty sci-fi dystopia movies. The surroundings are normal. It makes for a pleasant outing. "},{"Title":"Good Old 1980's Sci-Fi","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was in the same fashion as Robocop or other alternate reality movies. I don't berate it for bad effects or silly technology because that was cutting edge back in the mid 80's. There is plenty more to make this movie lose some points. The stereotyped and heavy handed police chief (Bailey) who rants at officers. The little boy played by Joey Cramer who couldn't be more stiff and robotic in his acting. Joey went from feature films to TV and now into obscurity. Poor dialog like, Drop it, sucker! or ...we got two dead giddy punks!. The movie has moments you question motives and direction. Tom Selleck and Gene Simmons did their best with the material they were given. The five lead roles have no last names and everyone else is just listed as professions, so the characters seem less than real.This movie has some good points that make it worth watching, cool robots (RC puppets) from a farming bot that looks a lot like Wall-E to Dr. Luther's evil acid injecting spider bots that also explode. There is no CGI in the film which is always a big plus. The moral that robots are expected to be perfect, although built by flawed humans is a good adage. Movies made that same year of 1984 Terminator, Ghostbusters, and Temple of Doom blew Runaway out of the water but I still like it as a nostalgic part of my father's generation and it is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Another 80s B-Movie Classic","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rock band Kiss front man Gene Simmons, Tom Selleck, Kirsti Alley (when she was hot), and numerous elements of the Man vs. Machine genre highlight this low grade thriller based on a story by the visionary science-fiction writer Michael Crichton. This little movie is worthy of the typical 80s cheesiness due to it's predictable storyline and Simmon's good portrayal as the 80s TV villain. The set pieces are excellent. (when robotic engineering was taking off). One especially innovative scene has a horde of metal robot spiders equipped with poisonous needles attacking Selleck and his son on an elevator. Programmable bullets that turn corners and robot car bombs along with good pacing and suspenseful situations make this a good evening's fun. All of the laughable dialog and obviousness are played with straight faces by the cast, and the violence is pretty stiff for this not to receive an R rating twenty some years ago. You can't go wrong if Magnum P.I and Terminator were your thing back in the day, and Michael Crichton's realistic approach always delivers a story worth pondering over. "},{"Title":"Good movie for its time","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a computer/robotics nerd, so this is one of my all time favorites. Tom Selleck is good as a been there,done that cop for whom dealing with errant robots has become routine (as in the first scenes). Cynthia Rhodes plays Thompson, a newbie robotics cop for whom it is all new and exciting. The fact that the police department has a special squad to deal with runaway robots I find believable in our era of insurance companies and liability lawyers. Anyway, both are tested by having to deal with an evil Techno-merchant, Charles Luther, played by Gene Simmons. The robots, I find, are fairly realistic. What they are capable of is not. The six legged robot spiders come right out of Anita Flynns lab at MIT. I am sure she would be amazed that they fly through the air, walk on ceilings, and squirt acid. The agricultural robot and the housekeeper are somewhat more realistic, but most of the technology still isn't here. The lock ons and the car mounted laser provide the material for one of the movies most exciting scenes. I have seen clips of the scenes with Luther's smart gun used in Army briefings to illustrate a smart pistol of the future. A lot of the props are dated (check out the antique cordless phone Ramseys tech guy uses). With all these limitations it is still an entertaining movie. Selleck is good as the older cop (with all the obligatory weaknesses and uncertainties of a modern hero), Gene Simmons is great as a suitably evil villain, Kirstie Ally is looking gorgeous as a secretary caught between Selleck and Simmons, and Cynthia Rhodes does a good job with the part of Sellecks protégé without allowing the character to become just eye candy. This movie is more thriller than SciFi. It is somewhat dated, a little corny, but an exciting and fun movie for both teched and general audiences. "},{"Title":"FX are key","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many of the comments here say that the special effects of this movie are laughable.  On this point I must disagree.This movie is science fiction regarding a very near future where humans use robots in their everyday lives.  Looking at the state of robotics today, the robots seen in this film are more likely than any seen in other science fiction films (such as Bishop in Aliens or C3PO).  This film takes a good look at what robotics and its limitations are and portrays its robots in a realistic way that may not suit those inundated with concepts of the totally, fluid, human like robot.As for the film itself, it is a straightforward story with very little twists or surprises.  Just the story of a cop breaking a case and taking the bad guy down.  However, it is enjoyable to watch and I would give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"FX are key","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many of the comments here say that the special effects of this movie are laughable.  On this point I must disagree.This movie is science fiction regarding a very near future where humans use robots in their everyday lives.  Looking at the state of robotics today, the robots seen in this film are more likely that any seen in other science fiction films (such as Bishop in Aliens or C3PO).  This film takes a good look at what robotics and its limitations are and portrays its robots in a realistic way that may not suit those inundated with concepts of the totally, fluid, human like robot.As for the film itself, I agree with the user that looks at this film as comfortable.  It is a straightforward story with very little twists or surprises.  Just the story of a cop breaking a case and taking the bad guy down.  However, it is enjoyable to watch and I would give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Memory Lane","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie with my father when I was little. For its time it was a masterpiece. The robot movies and early cg assisted sci-fi were becoming a trend (Short Circuit, Flight Of The Navigator, The Abyss). The filmmakers were experimenting with animatronics and many plots seemed to have been written solely for the purpose of showing off the latest and greatest. Each new movie pushed the envelope.Sure, the action, suspense, script and choreography - everything pales in comparison to today's films and this one, probably, can only be enjoyed by someone who was growing up at the time it was made. I still give it a full 10. I work in film business now, I also make robots and animatronics and if you want to know what inspired me it were gems like this. "}{"Title":"what the heck","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What the heck, i thought this film was pretty good. Cheesy as hell but entertaining nevertheless. If you wanna pass a good hour and 50 mins or so then give it a go. I've seen a hell of a lot worse with a lot bigger budget.I mean its not perfect by any means but if you enjoy sci-fi and you're not too interested in flashy visual effects then its worth a look. You have to remember it was made in 1984 without the big special effects companies at hand so you have to appreciate it for what it is.The film isn't as bad as what some people make you to believe. Judge it yourself. "},{"Title":"Runaway","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Selleck cannot save this suspense-thriller about robots who go on a rampage and kill people. Most of the performances are as mechanical as the robots. Gene Simmons is over the top as the film's villain. (What else would he play? Just look at those eyes.)   "},{"Title":"Inept Cheeseball Of A Movie","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Terrible acting, plodding TV-movie-style direction and camera work, horribly unreal dialogue, and a truly awful synthesizer musical score.  Some of the worst reaction shots ever filmed.  Cynthia Rhodes could profitably take acting lessons from Chuck Norris.  Even for the sci-fi genre, this is bottom-of-the-barrel.  Of course it's dated; it's about a world with computers that aren't networked, robots without off switches, and no cell-phones.  The movie may be interesting to fans of  Kirstie Alley and Gene Simmons.  There's a hilariously inappropriate outburst from Alley in the backseat of a car during a chase, and Simmons mostly just glowers.  There are a couple of effective jump-scenes near the end.  Don't pay to rent it; check it out from the library for free, like I did. "},{"Title":"A special cop for a special job.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Michael Crichton writes and directs this Sci-Fi tale of a futuristic cop Jack Ramsey(Tom Selleck)defending a city from hay wire robots. In '84 this was pretty cool, but watching it again twenty years later is like walking into an antique store. The F/X are fine even if the story is a little dated now. The finale tracking down villainous killer(Gene Simmons)is still exciting. Cynthia Rhodes plays Ramsey's partner and love interest. Also in the cast areG.W. Bailey, Stan Shaw and Kirstie Alley at her finest. Selleck tries hard to not seem awkward. "},{"Title":"Rolling on the floor laughing","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" People just don't realize how far practical and visual effects have come until they see a movie like this. Tom Select plays a cop who has to hunt down rogue robots with killing tendencies. These 'robots' are nothing more than glorified trash cans on wheels with some pathetic arm or tentacle sticking out. So no terminator-like adversaries. So to compensate they've got Gene Simmons as the bad guy, sure he looks evil/sinister, but that is his normal expression (he's got only one). He's assisted by some very toy like robotic spiders, who 'jump' on people, but in reality they just throw them on the actors who have to hold them to keep from falling of. It don't even want to know how many takes they had to do for every shot coz they must have all be rolling on the floor laughing each time they yelled 'cut'. Easily one of the most cheesy and ridiculous 'scifi' films of the eighties or even of all time. "},{"Title":"Keep an eye on the floater....","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the near future, a police officer specialises in malfunctioning robots. When a robot turns out to have been programmed to kill, he begins to uncover a homicidal plot to create killer robots..magnum P.I, turns all sci-fi in this really easy to like, and also really easy to hate, from the great cinema year that was 1984.The thing is, I was sold by this movie, the minute I saw the poster, and because I am fanatical about all things eighties, it did exactly what I expected.It's way outdated, and most sci-fi movies that were set in the future, made in the eighties, are all out dated now, but hey ho, you can't win them all.Selleck is as good as always in these types of film, and it's great to see Magnum drop the F-bomb, as you can tell that he relishes saying it.Simmons is okay as the villain, but as always, gives away too much exposition come the final showdown.Storywise, it's nothing to write home about, someone wants to be greedy and won't let anyone in their way blah blah blah, but when you have a gun that fires heat seeking bullets, and have robotic spiders that spit acid, plot doesn't really matter.The film will infuriate some, but those who love the retro style of eighties sci-fi, will lap this up. "},{"Title":"Nothing works right.","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This low-budget adaptation is soundly made, but not particularly exciting 80s Sci-fi thriller penned and directed by best-selling novelist Michael Crichton. Everything is rather simplistic with a b-like quality, as the material while innovative (a cop who deals with robots that go haywire, goes after a criminal that's using microchips to prefect a deadly weapon) and gimmicky in its idea (society relying on technology), it however just doesn't dig in deep enough. Even the tone is somewhat uncertain, as it tries to be comical but also serious&#x85; but never does it entirely gel. It plays a cat and mouse game, as the cops are always one step behind as the villain is trying to cover up his tracks. Sometimes preposterous, but fairly impulsive and dangerous where Crichton's assured direction keeps a flexibly kinetic pace and maintains some flashiness despite the predictability of its projection. Special effects are well-done (gotta love what can only be a Lois reference to The Jetsons) and so is the technical side. The cast is quite modest, but the leads Tom Selleck and Gene Simmons seem to be sleepwalking through it. Selleck is earnest, but looks preoccupied (but this could be because of his troubled minded character) and rock-star Simmons does threatening psycho (He likes to kill people) by simply getting by with his devilish grin alone. Nonetheless the support; Cynthia Rhodes, Stan Shaw, G.W. Bailey, Kristie Alley and Chris Mulkey shoot up the energy levels. Lazy, but reliable matinée movie entertainment. "},{"Title":"Though the movie was not a runaway hit, I rather enjoyed it.","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was a favorite of mine as a child. Not only did it have cool killer robots in it, it also had a really cool gun that dispensed bullets that could seek out their target. I do not understand why this one was largely ignored at the box office, but on the plus side there were not a bunch of sequels spawned or anything as this one stands well on its own. Kind of like how the first Matrix movie stood on its own and then they went on to make two sequels that ruined the first movie for me. This one stars Tom Selleck as a cop in a near future time, not sure of the date, but I would bet it has already come and gone or is not to much further away. He hunts down robots that go on the rampage, usually this consists of just stopping a robot that goes berserk in a cornfield cutting up crops or a stacker that stacks stuff up in the wrong area. Tom Selleck's character is training a new member to this particular division of the force when things get a bit worse. A robot has carved up some members of a household and there is still a baby inside. There are other instances of the robots going killer and it all seems to lead to a very ominous looking fellow played by Gene Simmons of Kiss so you just know he is going to be the bad guy! Introduce the gun that has bullets that do not quit and you have yourself a good science fiction/action/thriller movie. The movie also has Kristie Alley in it for a short bit, but you just know things are not going to turn out to well for her. The future here is an interesting one with the robots, but nothing else all that innovative is really shown. The movie though has a nice conclusion in a skyscraper under construction as of course all the foreshadowing of the cop with a problem with heights is going to be used. "},{"Title":"Not good enough or bad enough to entertain","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" 5 word SummaryCop fights madman's killer robotsafter watching an episode of Community where the characters are watching bad movies they mention they want to watch Tom Selleck fight mechanical spiders in Runaway. It was late and we'd been drinking and we thought it would be fun to watch it and rip it apart.The movie, in simplest form, is about a Police officer (Tom Selleck) who specializes in robots that are malfunctioning. Soon he finds killer robots and a mad man programming these robots to do his evil deeds.Although it isn't a great movie it wasn't quite bad enough to be a good movie to sit and make fun of such as Manos, The Room or any number of films featured on Mystery Science Theater. It had some bad dialog but nothing too ridiculous, and the acting wasn't as bad as I was expecting. The only things that were really worth making fun of were the crazed robots and of course Gene Simmons character. Not saying those are the only bad things about the movie, just the only things that are really fodder for jokes.All the bad things aside it was pulled off decently for what it was, (an 80s futuristic thriller) it just didn't have the excitement or tension it take to keep you wanting more or even wanting what's left.Overall pretty boring and worth a pass unless you're a hardcore Selleck fan. "},{"Title":"Worth a view, with booze","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It took 24 years, but gradually, slowly, this movie killed Michael Crichton on November 4, 2008. It will probably equally slowly kill me. At least a little bit. On the plus side, I watched it first in 2010, so that gives me until 2034. Hey, maybe it will actually lengthen my life instead? I swear, Crichton's writing can do anything. In this film, for example, it gently lowers the viewer's intelligence directly, instead of just insulting it. First to lower my expectations were the titles. Apparently the budget was used up by adding Kirstie Allie to the cast, so the titles were shot on a Commodore 64, instead of the even less expensive vellum and paint. I paused the video and drank two more beers. When the first robot appeared on screen, I paused again and drank two more beers in quick succession. At this point I must confess I became a bit distracted, and had the brilliant idea to call the local liquor store and beg them to deliver for a party. He said there'd be a $10 delivery surcharge and a tip for the driver, so in true cost minimization fashion, I ordered over $317 of booze, to justify the trip and make a friend of the owner. It worked - he threw in a bottle of JW Red Label - sweet. As I surveyed the many boxes and cases of glorious ignominy awaiting me, it occurred to me that it was time to do a bit of spring cleaning, if only to make tidy room for the new arrivals. On hands and knees I emptied out all the old partials from under the sink and counters, and the upper cupboards which had gone unopened since the last massive party waged on the premises. The total count of bottles with dribs and drabs was 113. A brief sniff and swig of the less toxic remainders made quick work of the lot, and saved countless sewer rats from death by alcohol poisoning. Stashing the new, and putting the empties out made me feel quite self-satisfyingly green. The effects of the partials started to kick in as I wandered back into the house and dragged a six over to the TV and unpaused the tape. Yes, tape - didn't I mention? VHS. In glorious linear stereo - worst idea ever. The old tape just wouldn't stay tracked, so the soundtrack and dialogue faded in and out. It sounded alright, actually, sort of swirling around in the intoxicated haze I was in.And that's about all I remember. Kirstie was cute. Surprisingly cute. Good choice. Oh, and I remember thinking, if I have to drink this much to enjoy this movie, it's surely going to be the death of me - how much did Michael Crichton have to drink to actually make it? "}{"Title":"Great film if you're after a bit of Eighties fun!","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tom Sellick - yes, THE Tom Sellick is a wimpy cop who has busted himself down to the Robot Squad after his pathological fear of heights has resulted in a bad guy getting away and killing six people. His vulnerable bloke type is complemented by female rookie Cynthia Rhodes, it being the Eighties the sexual politics are still pretty caveman like but it's still a cut above the average for the time (apart from Blue Steel I suppose).This is Michael Crichtons second outing AFAIK after Westworld, and can be seen as a sort of prequel; set before robots are good enough to pass as humans but after they have become an everyday part of the household. The creepy little things are running around killing people and only Sellick and his friends can solve the mystery.One of the first cracks in the cult of macho invulnerability; the tough guy who looks good with a gun loses out to the geek who's afraid of heights and is good with robots. Watch, and if you think it's dated, just think of the robots as Microsoft Windows with arms and legs!One more thing - British fans will enjoy the similarity to the contemporary Robo-Hunter comic strip from 2000AD- this should definitely be seen as a compliment to Robo-Hunter (which is itsself a rip off of Blade Runner) rather than a blatant steal. 'Nuff said! "},{"Title":"Cops. Robots. Gene Simmons. A surefire win !","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILER AHEAD. Ms. Shields, you're broadcasting on an electromagnetic frequency that the robot reads.Its terrific techno-babble punking like this that makes this movie endlessly watchable. Let me just say that this isn't a 4 star movie. Unless they give stars for cheese. Its got that enticing Roadhouse quality that never gets old. So, if you're still reading this, you know you could go to 100 reviews and find plot details and the same-ole run down on all the fixings; so allow me to offer you my observations.Runaway was made at a time when we were still a bit in awe of the possible tech-future. This now defunct movie premise allowed for imaginations to run wild and present silly adventures that future generations could pick apart and laugh at (think now). So here we go1. Why is there a special police force to chase down robots run amok ? Something tells me it wouldn't be a tough talking take no prisoners macho man like our good friend Ramsay. The first assignment is SO urgent, it requires our team to fly to the site in a helicopter so they can flip a switch on a caterpillar catcher. Um&#133;OK. Great ! You've saved dozens of corn stalks !2. Ramsay's partner, Karen, as a cop, wears a skirt and high heels. Just think about the absurdity of chasing down a perp in that get up.3. I love the security guard in the office building who, for some inexplicable reason, knows about everything there is to know about their computer systems, down to the voice modifications on the computer system (he's not the I.T. guy, he's a security guard), then goes so far as to bust Ramsay's onions on police protocol. Something tells me a security guard wouldn't be getting in a cop's grill. I mean&#133;he is the security guard ! Plus, (I know..beating a dead horse), why do they need that guy, if robots are doing all these kind of jobs in the future ? 4. And while we're on the subject, what kind of future were these guys envisioning when a robotic office sentry runs through the office with a zapping ray gun ? Talk about big brother&#133; 5. Also, notice when Kirstie Alley expires at the restaurant, no one notices that she is thrown face down in the pool. They just keep eating !? 6. Plus, the scenes between Selleck and his child are cringeworthy. Gene Simmons actually does a good job to not defile himself, however, I wish just once, during one of his close ups, he would break his ominous stare and stick his freakish tongue way out. Despite all this, it's an enjoyable 90 minutes. Tom Selleck, Cynthia Rhodes and the rest do an admirable job in spite of the lame dialogue and foolish direction. The 1990s brought about a heavy dose of cynicism and we partially lost the fun in imagining what the future holds. Think about Escape from New York, the Terminator, Blade Runner, etc. They all asked us to think about the future. When done right, it can be very entertaining (Minority Report). "},{"Title":"You forget how old this movie is","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The one thing about films set in the future is, that as soon as that future comes, they date and look old fashioned. Watching this film in 2004, you really are surprised how old it is. The only things that give it away is the tinny old Yamaha DX7 music and the computers appear to be connected by a fax telephone line. The other astonishing thing is that it pre dates all the new wave of future fest films that came along in the 1990s. As a low budget film it could have hitched a lift on the back of the success of 'Bladerunner' but it does not, it has its own plot, a thrilling climax and Tom Sellick and Kirstie Alley who always give good value for money. "},{"Title":"CUNNING AND CLEVER!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What I like about the movie is that it is cunning and clever in every way. Tom Selleck from Magnum, P.I. does great playing a cop in the future, although the cars were mostly modern-day with a few pick-me-ups. At least his character was aware of the robots, and how he can handle them carefully, unlike his blowhard superior(G.W. Bailey). He's not bad at playing serious roles. Gene Simmons is at always at his best, even without sticking out his long tongue! He don't play around when it come to being that sinister robot technician Dr. Luther. Kirstie Alley did very well playing the secretary of Dr. Luther, who was loaded with bugs. Nancy Allen was awesome playing the partner of Selleck's having so many roles in the past, no wonder the movie is good. This movie is not bad, and the plot wasn't too shabby either. It's a keeper in book. ALL THE WAY! RATING 3.5 OUT OF 5 STARS. 8 OUT OF 10!  "},{"Title":"The Movie That Made Gene Simmons A Star!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when it first aired on cable back in 1985 and being a huge KISS fan I was waiting to see Gene Simmons' first movie role. This IS Gene's movie! He takes the role of a villain to an even higher level as the evil Dr.Charles Luther, Gene shows us his that even a talented musician can act! Tom Selleck has a hard time trying to match up to Gene as his character Jack Ramsey tries effortlessly to catch Luther before more of his high-tech computer chips make every robot do his bidding. The best scene in this movie is when Luther is chasing down a computer chip designer who betrays him and fires his deadly heat seeking bullets after him and Ramsey, Gene's facial expressions show the audience of Luther's pure evilness.Kristie Alley was the perfect choice as Luther's doomed girlfriend Jackie who helps Ramsey and his partner Karen (played by Cynthia Rhodes) try and return to Luther what he needs to make more chips. Even though she was unable to return for Star Trek 3, Alley really shines being the victimized bad girl of Gene Simmons. Anyone who wants to see a excellent Sci-Fi film go out and get Runaway and see why Gene Simmons was the baddest villain of 1984! "},{"Title":"Hardly The Disaster Everyone Claims It Is","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I originally rented this movie in order to see Kirstie Alley (I'm a big fan), but I ended up liking just about everything about it--with the exception of Tom Selleck, of whom I'm *not* a fan.I have a feeling that given Crichton's technophile background, TriStar probably balked at making Runaway any more intelligent than it ended up being for fear that they'd lose their audience.The soundtrack (which is equally vilified and sought after) is one of my fave Jerry Goldsmith albums, and I have been looking for another copy of the CD ever since.All in all, this is one of the more enjoyable projects Crichton's been involved with--certainly no worse than Congo or The 13th Warrior. "},{"Title":"Gene Simmons","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Much was made about Gene simmons playing CHARLES LUTHER. I like his acting in this film, he plays the role like a rich industrialistbored with money, and power..a man who turned to crime for fun and a general boredom with law obeying life. There was much written coverage of the casting choice of the KISS musician. Yet, he played  a good film villian. The film was not the farce the conservative reviewers were saying it would be.  "},{"Title":"a fun pG rated film a future technology crime thriller","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RUNAWAY had several things going for it but due to budget constraints the robots (some of them) were not all they could have been. There are afew versiosn of this film with scene alterations. Thes tory revovles around GENE SIMMONS,a  movie silicon valley terrorist with a  person a of.. I am over the top because i am damned to hell and time is short....and a great psycho stare to boot. The film is another in the Crichton traiditon of takign a  formula plot and leaving his literary audience of film audience with somehting more. He has a talent for turning the hum drum into...different and unexpected. One problem the film had was the lack of a substantial terrorist organization for simmons who needs computer templates for his cause of terror by cash and technology. Simmons plays a arms and tech dealer who specializes in the latest cop killer guns and computer hardware available to anyone for any price. RUNAWAY had a good cast, yet did good enough at the box office not to be a total flop. it was the last film Crichton directed. Some have said had the film had more money and gone with more of a terrorism/crime story in addiiton to the robots (critics said the robots were unbelievable) the film would have done well. i view this film as a fun classic. A film a family can watch. of note is TOM SELLECK who is good as the gritty JACK RAMSEY.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly dated","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's fair to say that Michael Crichton's RUNAWAY is not one of the best of his sci-fi efforts. Although the presence of then-futuristic technology is heavy throughout the movie, this turns out to be an incredibly dated piece of film-making that gets completely blown away in comparison to the same year's THE TERMINATOR.The story isn't up to much either. The plot sees cop Tom Selleck on the track of some malfunctioning robots that have been killing people, although people hoping for some WESTWORLD-style android action will be disappointed; the robots are seldom seen, and either look like VHS players or little spiders. Instead, bad guy duties are handed to the creepy Gene Simmons (KISS singer) who seems to have some grudge against humanity.The main problem with RUNAWAY isn't that it's dated - lots of the older sci-fi films I watch are dated - but that it's dull. The characters are one-dimensional and even the big players, like Selleck, give performances lacking in passion. Kirstie Alley seems to be around purely for the purpose of stripping down to her smalls which must have been humiliating for the actress, while Cynthia Rhodes barely registers. It's left to reliable stars like G. W. Bailey and particularly Stan Shaw to shine in much smaller parts.I love Crichton as both a writer and director, but RUNAWAY remains one of his forgotten films and when you watch it you quickly realise why. It's no WESTWORLD, nor does it come close to the calibre of COMA or even Spielberg's JURASSIC PARK. An interesting misfire, then, with occasional hints of greatness bubbling beneath the surface. "},{"Title":"RUNAWAY (Michael Crichton, 1984) **","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recall this being released theatrically and even an Italian-TV broadcast of it some time later; being available for rental on DVD locally and myself a sci-fi fan, it was inevitable that I’d check it out – even if it doesn’t have much of a reputation within the genre (in spite of writer/director Crichton’s involvement, author of such effective yet diverse fare as THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN 1970, WESTWORLD 1973, THE TERMINAL MAN 1974, COMA 1978 and JURASSIC PARK 1993).This is one of a number of early 1980s sci-fi actioners – including TRON (1982), BLUE THUNDER (1983), WAR GAMES (1983), THE LAST STARFIGHTER (1984), etc. – which seemed to promote technology, often at the expense of narrative and characterization, but which evoke tremendous nostalgia for someone who was a kid at the time. Still, the film serves as a reminder that cinema was in a definite rut throughout the decade – when you had to rely on a T.V. star for the lead (MAGNUM P.I.’s Tom Selleck) and a rockstar for the villain (Gene Simmons, bassist of KISS)! In itself, though, it’s harmless enough and certainly enjoyable – even if the plot (once all the scientific jargon and gadgetry is by-passed) is pretty routine.The action sequences (plentiful in number) are O.K. if a bit silly – such as the situation where Selleck has to save a hostage infant from a squat gun-toting robot gone amok, Simmons shooting missile-like bullets, a car chase in which the passengers change vehicles in motion (a stunt which has just been replicated in the latest Indiana Jones adventure!), etc. Plotwise, we get complications in the relationship between widower Selleck and his immediate family (comprising a young son and a garrulous robot maid!) – which set in with the appearance of his new (and naturally female) cop partner; Selleck’s also fraught with vertigo (in the past, this had cost the life of a number of people when he backed out of following a suspect because of the heights involved) – a hindrance which is predictably played upon during the climax, where he has to take on Simmons’ army of acid-spouting robot spiders in an elevator at a construction site! The film seemed to have its heart in the right place – what with employing cinematographer John A. Alonzo and composer Jerry Goldsmith (though his contribution results in a shoddy electronic score), both of whom had worked on the noir revival par excellence CHINATOWN (1974) – though conditions were hardly as congenial this time around… "}{"Title":"Predictable Sci-Fi actioner","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pretty much by the number's science fiction thriller about police officer Selleck tracking down evil technician Simmons who is programming robots to kill people. OK premise seems like it may be trying to say something about technology and society but never succeeds. Selleck is likable in the lead and there are some genuinely intense moments, but the film becomes quite routine in the second half. Simmons is menacing at first but quickly becomes hammy. The young boy who plays Selleck's son is awful.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Robots and the Leader of Kiss.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amazingly under-rated and somewhat ignored action sci-fi thriller from 1984 that continues to be a nice way to pass the time. Tom Selleck stars as a cop who is trying to stop a maniacal killer (Gene Simmons of Kiss fame in an excellent performance) that creates evil robots and sabotages kind ones. The film is full of robots who do mundane duties all over the city. The technology is impressive for the most part and the direction by Michael Crichton (yes, the Michael Crichton) is second-to-none. Somewhat dated to be honest now, but still a film that has lost none of its luster nearly 20 years after its release. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Out of date? Not at all!!...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, maybe this is not the best sci-fi movie, but still is... a sci-fi movie! Every gizmo, every robot in the movie is possible today, they just aren't available as widley as in the movie... For today criteria, not a very interesting movie. "},{"Title":"All form and no content.","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Crichton used to write elaborate screenplays long before he worked for Spielberg (for whom he made his weakest stories,the likes of Jurassic park)Mondwest ,the absorbing coma and even looker which began to show a declining skill.It was to continue with Runaway which had the poorest screenplay Crichton had done to date (1984).The movie gets bogged down in gadgetry and the story is linear and predictable ,without the brilliance of that of coma which held us breathless till its last sequence.The only good idea is the spider which makes you hair stand on end.But it does not make a movie.Do take mondwest or coma instead. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Mo's adventures in space","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was actually looking for another Tom Selleck movie, An Innocent Man, but could only find this in my local video-store bargain bin. Saw it as a kid and thought hey, why not...Gene Simmons, some killer robots...should be good! Now, I like bad movies...especially cheesy 80's stuff, but even I gotta draw a line somewhere. This one was just too bad even for me. See it for a laugh at just how cheap some SPFX got before the days when CGI can make anything look nice and clean. See it for examples of truly atrocious dialogue and 8th-grade drama class acting. See it for...well, thats about it really.Silently screamed or out-loud laughed in several places.1) First kick was when Selleck goes into the house to track down the malfunctioning vacuum cleaner armed with a knife (no wait, it found a gun!) and just before he goes in he puts on his electromagnetic deflection suit or something...puh-leeeze. He may as well have shouted triumphantly, Never fear! I'm wearing my electromagentic deflector suit! Never mind it looks like the costume guys hit the scuba store for a shark-mesh-body-suit, then hopped across to sporting goods for a baseball catcher's vest and some soccer shin-guards. Then the props guys needed a gun so they went to the funny shop and got one of those ray guns that makes the synthesizer sounds and lights up when you press the button, plus a fake moustache for Tom (hang on...that was REAL??!!) 2) The little killer robots look like something my 6 year old nephew would make with his meccano set.3) Shouted at the screen why don't you just kick the stupid little robots before they try to squirt you with their little turkey basters full of acid? (which mind you must be CITRIC acid or something because when good ol' Tommy Selleck gets it in the face it just seems to turn his cheeks a bit red) 4) laughed out loud at the final scene where Tommy's getting it on with his partner under a shower of sparks (i guess the sparks were symbolic, i cant remember any arc welders nearby) and the way he touches her nose while kissing her...yikes, yikes, yikes...that could NOT be more cheesy if it tried. "},{"Title":"Blah, but Gene Simmons looks cool","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When an evil genius begins manufacturing and testing chips designed to create killer robots, a special police squad must try to stop him.In a nutshell, Runaway is a banal, clichéd thriller with a very half-hearted attempt to pass itself off as a sci-fi film. It has a few flashes of competence, but overall it creates little suspense and has little of visual interest.I don't know what the budget of this film was, but it couldn't have been much. By some accounts, Runaway is set in the future. The only sure way to know this is from the tagline of the film, It is the future. Obviously they knew we'd be confused. The problem is that it looks like every other generic crime-drama from 1984, except that stars Tom Selleck and Cynthia Rhodes are on the runaway robot squad. This means that their job consists primarily of apprehending rogue automated devices, such as an agricultural robot that's cutting the wrong path through its owner's crops. Why this is a job for the police in Runaway's universe, and why the farmers couldn't arrest the machine instead, since it's relatively slow moving and non-dangerous, is difficult to say. But it's a bit like the police coming to take away your iron after it scalds a shirt.To make it even tackier, the robots in the film mostly look like everyday appliances circa 1984--overhead projectors and those old 14-baud modems on wheels, or toasters with erector set legs. I can only imagine that 80% of the budget must have went to pay Gene Simmons' salary, as surely he wouldn't do a film at a discount.Gene is pretty good, as are the other actors, but he's not given very intriguing things to do or say. Director and writer Michael Crichton mostly has him stand around brooding, giving his best Kiss-honed crabby demon look, which was often used in photographs when he wasn't sticking out his tongue or snarling. Selleck's role is fairly bland, but maybe he plays bland well, because I liked him here, and Rhodes seems mostly grafted on because they realized they needed a hot chick in the film and Kirstie Alley couldn't show up until further into the plot. Although there are a couple moments of excitement--one that particularly stands out is Selleck's bullet removal scene, Crichton's script is by the numbers. It could have easily been an average cop television show script, or cut and pasted from 10 already extant cop show scripts, Frankenstein style. Crichton just adds some technological gobbledy-gook for spice--to make the film more futuristic, I guess.Surprisingly then, there are a few admirable directorial moves on Crichton's part. The high tech bullet point-of-view shots are really cool. Also, the chase scene when the modem robots are pursuing cars is pretty intense. And the climax is very well done, at least up until the very last moments. So all of those aspects helped Runaway not receive an F.But as much as I love Gene Simmons and wanted to like the film on this viewing (I do remember liking it a bit more on its theatrical release, but that was 20 years ago), I just can't recommend it. I ended up having to give it a 6, equivalent to a D. You know it's bad news when a film is blasé enough for me to start doing housework while watching it, and that's just what happened while Runaway was on. See it only for curiosity value if you're a big fan of members of the cast or crew. "},{"Title":"Run Far Away","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Never once had I ever heard of this surprisingly bad effort from Jurassic Park's Michael Crichton. In 31 years, this futuristic thriller escaped me until the brilliant How Did This Get Made? podcast covered it, which means I had to watch it just to listen to their show. And finally, they got back to their roots of doing incredibly bad movies to ridicule and put the pieces somewhat together for an hour and a half. Funny enough, though, this movie had one unbelievable good point that is worth mentioning Tom Selleck.While most of the movie was downright hilarious (the wonderfully unintentional kind,) Selleck actually looked like he was in an Oscar film throughout. His lines, delivery, acting, reactions and the way he stole every scene was actually very good. It just felt so odd when you had poor acting, a worse script, a laugh-out-loud Gene Simmons villain &#x96; who I always thought was an android since he was so plastic and a million robots in people's homes that malfunctioned more than contributed, to have Selleck give his all. For him, he raised this dud to 2 stars, just 1 more from the deserved rating.But, skipping him, which isn't easy to do, it's a ton of fun to watch this train wreck of suspense/almost horror. Now, I can't wait to hear the cast of the podcast tear this apart. "},{"Title":"Does not compute","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A boring SF stiff written and directed by Michael Crichton, with Tom Selleck as a cop who hunts down rogue robots. Given that the central premise of the movie revolves around these mechanical characters you might think that they were something special, but these are the saddest looking robots you'll ever see. One near the beginning of the movie looks like a cat carrier, and there's also a forensics robot that looks like a vacuum cleaner.Anyway, the villain sabotages these boxy machines so they go mad, and Selleck and his partner have to put a stop to his dull plan. The movie plods along at a pace slower than a broken down Roomba and it all looks pretty crummy to boot. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly drab Sci-Fi flick that is very forgettable","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a few key details to this flick that should have simply made it better than what it was. Instead it was completely forgettable with a slow story that often feels slapped together. The problem is there is just far too many, much better 80's sci-fi flicks with similar stories. I watched the film because I do really like Tom Selleck and I like sci-fi films and had never heard of this so I gave it a chance but unfortunately it is truly forgettable and even as I write this I can't really remember a lot about it. The film was much lower budget than most films of its type so the special effects were poor.Tom Selleck was and is a big enough star to carry a film but his heart doesn't feel like its in this. His character is empty and just not very fun. Cynthia Rhodes, and Kirstie Alley are decent in their supporting roles but aren't give a lot of depth either. Gene Simmons is just bizarre in his role, his acting debut but he doesn't do a bad job either.If Runaway suffers from anything its being mundane. Perhaps the biggest surprise in all this is director and writer, the one and only Michael Crichton, who is one of the most brilliant adventure writers having done plenty of sci-fi but this one just didn't translate well. Perhaps it was the lack of budget or maybe just a substandard effort on all their parts but this one is completely forgettable and completely missable in every way. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Hilariously bad, good for laughs","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" (www.plasticpals.com) The Terminator wasn't the only killer robot in theaters back in 1984 thanks to Runaway, written and directed by the late Michael Crichton. The mustachioed Tom Selleck stars as a cop who specializes in neutralizing bots gone bad in a near-future where they've infiltrated nearly every aspect of life. These aren't the replicants of Blade Runner, but plausible machines that are fun to compare with what exists today. This was another late-night Netflix pick, and to be honest I feel a little dirty for mentioning such sci-fi classics in my review of this film (it turns out Crichton was better behind a writing desk than a film camera).What we're really interested in are the robots of course, and the film doesn't disappoint. There's an irritating nanny robot called Lois, a security robot that tasers anything that moves, a small monocopter used for reconnaissance, as well as farming and construction robots. An autonomous cop car has a mannequin in the driver's seat and projects a map directly onto the windshield. Among the highlights is a small household robot that looks something like a Roomba with an arm, which ends up killing several people when it picks up and shoots a gun. Best of all are the killer hexapods that can jump and crawl on walls like a mixture between this locust-inspired hopper and Stanford's gecko-inspired StickyBot.It's comedy gold.The hexapods are supposed to be threatening, but they look like hobby kits you can buy today, which really cracked me up. There is some attempt to depict non-robotic technology of the future as well, such as the iPad-like devices that people are shown using, but otherwise everything looks pretty ordinary for the '80s.It all looks very silly, and it doesn't help that Gene Simmons is the central villain. He's armed with a gun that shoots smart missiles that can turn corners. It's hard to believe such a celebrated author penned this film, what with the immediate and clichéd romance between Selleck and his cute new partner, not to mention his son's creepy enthusiasm for it. As for the technological side of things, the ideas actually aren't all that far-fetched. There's genuinely something to a PR2-like robot picking up a gun and shooting people if tampered with by a hacker, for instance.Unfortunately, even if some bits can be considered ahead of their time, it's hard to take seriously with the ham-fisted acting and cringe-worthy plot. Runaway wasn't intended to be a comedy, but like many films that try to predict the near future it's now entertaining for all the wrong reasons. It's the details the film gets right and horribly wrong, at the same time, that make it fun to watch. "}{"Title":"Constipated sci-fi...","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Crichton's writing skills are undeniably gripping, and as a movie director he has occasionally shown a deft sense of pacing; unfortunately for science-fiction fans, Crichton has mainly chosen to waste his craft on piddling, throwaway material like Runaway, which is so overloaded with mechanical energy that even Crichton's obvious literary talent and underrated film-making skills go nearly unnoticed. Tom Selleck (not bad, but looking unhappy and unsure) plays a cop in the future who hunts down a madman who uses electronics to do his victims in. Some sly gadgetry and a hot supporting performance by Kirstie Alley (working from next-to-nothing) enlivens an otherwise stiff, silly action-thriller. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Written and directed by Michael Crichton?","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" That is just sad. This movie is laughable in many ways. The easiest is probably when Luther's hotel woman calls Ramsey a wiener head in anger. Whoa, now, this is police station! Watch your language. Then there are the 50's style scary robots, such as the toaster with the gun. Ramsey's home robot Lois annoys in many ways which may have been looked over if the rest of the movie wasn't a joke. Her Brady mom voice and I don't understand human as I am only a machine dialogue pains me. There are a couple of good scenes, including the last, involving Gene Simmons who could probably be asleep and still make an effective villain. Tom Selleck isn't bad, but he seems out of place. His voice can't handle shouting manly. Kirstie Alley(not fat) and Cynthia Rhodes(Dirty Dancing) mostly grate, while G.W. Biley(Police Academy) and Stan Shaw(Snake Eyes) are good in smaller roles. "},{"Title":"When Xerox machines attack","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only way to enjoy this movie is as an unintentional comedy, or as a drinking game. It concerns itself with the hopelessly nonthreatening gadgets of a madman, some of which turn out to be better actors than the stars, and the plot & script clearly never had anyones attention.None of the mechanical threats are designed to look even remotely like they could accomplish the things the plot asks of them, without a twenty-nerd-crew hovering just out of view. The feeble 'bugs' are so poorly designed, they can't even be shown moving an inch on a smooth surface; so it's bewildering that the plot has them climbing walls, crawling up peoples bodies, mounting construction elevator towers (!) etc. A hostage situation reveals a klunky household robot designed to do nothing more complex than... hold a gun! A dangerous, exploding robot (later) has the firepower of, perhaps 4 sparklers. A gun with bullets that pursue their target ends up being less effective than a regular gun, and requires the same dumb, old guns in movies rules (I've been shot at... thank God there's plenty of time to run and jump out of the of bullets way). Since none of the terrifying devices cause anything more than a smirk, the tension wheezes out of the movie shortly after the opening credits.They really bought into every conceivable New Wave trope; mediocre synth music, mannish-Avedon hair on women. It's hard to believe how terrible movies got in the 80s while their smarmy directors thought they were making something to compete with the old noirs. This may be the worst movie ever made, or at least the most incompetent one. A high-speed robot pursuit in traffic was obviously shot at tops, 5 miles an hour. In he early part of the movie, you can see a boxy, yellow robot on treads that was clearly stolen as the concept for WALL-E. "},{"Title":"The Mustache versus the Demon--with robots!!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Runaway, Quickie Review This thing was written and directed by Michael Crichton, long before he was dishing out cloned dinosaurs and feasible plots. What we have here is a world, apparently the current era (i.e. the mid-80's) wherein, there are robots everywhere that are super helpful to humanity. Just like the apes in one of the Planet of the Apes movies. The robots don't look too bad, thankfully, they aren't androids, so they're a wee bit more believable. They're built to be functional&#133; and cumbersome.At any rate, Tom Selleck is a cop on the runaway robot beat. See, anytime a robot goes haywire, ol' mustache here gets called in to shut it down. Well, pretty soon, it's not about runaway robots, it's about some lunatic (Gene Simmons&#151;no sh*t!) who is developing evil chips to go in the robots to turn them into killing machines. And Tom Selleck suddenly finds himself running around trying to find and defeat the Demon from KISS.Overall, this film isn't too bad. It's cheesy as all hell and rampant with unexplained phenomena. Like Tom Selleck running around doing stuff that doesn't seem to be connected to catching crazy robots. The robots themselves are pretty odd, and only somewhat believable. Maybe if the film took place in the distant future, say, 2010 or something, it'd be a bit easier to swallow. But the robots seem to have massive computing power and skill at a time when they could barely assemble parts of cars&#151;when preprogrammed to do so. The film also has trouble shaking the image of being a somewhat weak cop drama kind of film. Gene Simmons is pretty funny, even though I don't think he's supposed to be. The atmosphere is decent and the special effects are entertaining (lots of explosions), and there is brief nudity. Sometimes the acting is a little hard to swallow. Almost like the actors didn't really buy what they were saying or doing, so they just made the best of it. Not Crichton's best work.5/10 (www.ResidentHazard.com) "},{"Title":"Dismal Chricton fare. (spoilers)","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was tremendously disappointed with this particular Michael Crichton science fiction, having seen a number of his earlier, more obscure features. The primary detractors of this movie have to do with poor acting, a lagging pace that fails to sufficiently capture the immediacy and urgency of the events, and overall, a very weak, apolitical action film that lacks a lot of the insight and caution that Crichton often offers, particularly in the features in which he both writes and directs.This is the story of a futuristic flirtation with robots. Tom Selleck plays a somewhat empty, but well-meaning cop who's specialty is disarming malfunctioning robots. And, for such a futuristic setting, it seems that he is frequently called upon to do so. Although, it's not entirely the manufacturers fault. Instead, much of the mischief comes from a nemesis (KISS rocker, Gene Simmons maintaining a cold stare throughout the picture)who is turning the machines into deadly weapons by installing modified chips. His motives a mostly financial, and will provide the plans for the deadliest of weapons to the highest bidder, regardless of purpose (and for weapons of this variety, you can bet there'd be anything but gangsters looking to make a purchase). So, Selleck's character, Sargent Jack Ramsay and his new female partner, Karen Thompson (Cythnia Rhodes) who is frequently overshadowed by the incredible breadth of knowledge and skill (dare I say this is one of several sexist elements of the film?), is on the hunt for Dr. Luther (Simmons), and to bring down his weapons scheme. It's no easy task, however, as Luther seems to be of a super villain status, omnipresent and omnipotent, he's always too many steps ahead of his opponents to make it believable (like someone in a game of tag who quickly announces that he is protected by self-proclaimed new rules of convenient, invisible forcefields).Look for Kirsty Alley in a small role as Luther's girlfriend. Certainly, this is not a good slice of Crichton's often amusing criticisms of the super-technical world that may not be such a distant future (in particular, see Looker.) "},{"Title":"Gloriously stupid, but also entertaining","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was listed in my television guide one night and it failed to mention what it was about, who starred in it, nor who directed it. If I had known all of the above ahead of time, I surely would have made sure to see the entire film; instead, I happened to turn it on after twenty minutes had already been aired. I saw Tom Selleck (an actor I've always enjoyed watching) and thought, What is this?! I looked it up on IMDb and when I saw Michael Crichton had directed it, I couldn't believe it.First of all, I'd never heard of it, but that's beside the point - this movie is awesome! In a bad way, sure, but nevertheless awesome! It's got Gene Simmons as a villain for goodness sake, what more can you ask for? This is so cheesy and bad that it wouldn't earn a newbie director a passing grade in film school. Crichton, however, has such confidence in his outrageous material (small acid-spewing robots being used to take over the world) that it comes across as totally entertaining. From beginning (almost) to end I was kept amused by the film and never felt like it was too slow or anything.Don't get me wrong. This is an awful film. But it makes no attempt to be a great epic or anything; the ending is so far-fetched, ridiculous and clichéd you can't help but love it! A classic of bad '80s movies to be cherished eternally. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but fun","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where to begin? While this is the only thing directed by Chrichton that I've watched, I'd say it's a pretty strong argument against him being allowed to. You know, back when it could happen. He came up with several popular concepts, and this is probably one of the more overlooked of them. The robots are well-designed, reasonably varied in type and at times pretty scary, and the effects used to bring them to life aren't half bad. This has acting of rather mixed quality, with some of it being tremendously poor. The kid is downright reprehensibly awful. This is also *very much* an 80's exploitation flick. A police chief that complains about the lead breaking the rules, a gratuitous topless shot, and a one-note villain oddly played by that dude from KISS. If you know what you're in for, and you're in the right mood, this can be very enjoyable. The suspense if relatively well-done, and for as implausible it is, you gotta admit that the weapon Luther uses kicks serious ass. Editing and cinematography are fairly standard. The comedy is hit and miss. There is a lot of bloody violence and disturbing content, as well as occasional moderate to strong language in this. I recommend it to those that find what I've described here appealing. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely outdated!","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I say Runaway the first time I the fun action thriller. Admitted it was about 1984, but I thought it to be nice to see Runaway for a second time. Mistake, there's nothing left of the story, that had to be pulled through by special effects, which are totally outdated. I should have kept the memory. "},{"Title":"Runaway from this disaster","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tom Selleck was wise to stay with Magnum PI for eight years.  Because with movies like this, he would probably be on welfare by now. Even the great musician Gene Simmons of KISS couldn't save this sorry slop. Hey Michael, stick to Jurassic Park.  "}]