[{"Title":"Another funny teen film from the 80's","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With the resurgence of the raunchy teen comedy, now seems like as good a time as ever to go back and study its roots. What kinds of films influenced American Pie and Road Trip? It is easy to point out films like Porky's, Animal House and Fasttimes, but somewhere forgotten in all this is Jeff Kanew's hilarious flick REVENGE OF THE NERDS. This is not only entertaining and funny, but it contains what has to be considered a blue print for success in campus comedy. Take lots of people getting drunk, jocks ostracizing nerds from there way of life, the weak rising up to take back what is just as much a right as it is to others, and of course lots of nudity featuring an abundance of gorgeous women. What you have here is a great recipe for success.What made Revenge work is that it didn't try to pretend to be something that it wasn't. This was an exploitive sex-fest and it worked well. What it also had was a funny script and one that we could all relate to. I mean, who hasn't felt left out or relegated to the side lines while someone else gets all the glory? Besides being extremely funny, this film touched on something that we all can relate to.Revenge of the Nerds is another of the teen films that was hilarious and it ended up spawning a slew of sequels. Avoid them and see this one again. It's worth it, especially if you were a teen when it came out. And if you are a teen now, this is a treat to watch. This is one of the films that writers study when they are thinking what they can put into their film to make it crude, rude and raunchy. This should be a must see!9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I'm PROUD to be a nerd","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"44 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw Revenge of the Nerds when I was ten (that's right, ten). Some people at school had been making fun of me, calling me a nerd. After I saw ROTF, I was finally proud to call myself a nerd (albeit not one who wears glasses, has buck teeth, and has his pant legs halfway up his calves).It's especially great that the nerds were such a diverse group of people (Booger may have been gross, but he clearly had a brain).And there's also an interesting thing about the cast. Robert Carradine must be the only person who has co-starred with both Jane Fonda (he played the brother in Coming Home) and with the guy who played Booger. And I never realized that Stan was played by the same guy who played Roger on Happy Days.So, if you're any kind of individual who has spent his/her life getting bullied, this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Great fun. Up there with Animal House","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very, very good. What more can I say? I mean, it's terribly funny and creative. It's one of those really enjoyable feel-good movies like Dumb and Dumber that you can really enjoy and laugh at. Many of the stars of this movie, who were relatively unknown at the time this was made, went on to have excellent careers, and I can see why. I recommend this to everybody, except for those who do not like to laugh. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although it may be all a bit silly and quite clichéd, this is nevertheless a good film of its type, with main characters that are appealing and a great title song, scored by Thomas Newman, who would later compose the scores of movies such as 'American Beauty'. The film does not really go anywhere much at all, the jokes work only about half the time, and it is all a bit short on its content, but despite all of this, the film has a pleasant and rather enjoyable nature not common to the average college comedy, and this makes it a rather uniquely likable film overall. It may not be a great piece of cinema, but it is quite good entertainment. "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic for the Underdog in All of Us...","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The ultimate Misfits Revenge movie, REVENGE OF THE NERDS became an instant classic in 1984, with some of the most memorable scenes and quotable dialogue since YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN. This raunchy comedy follows a group of oddball college students who are thrown together by circumstance and exposed to constant humiliation and ridicule by the jock fraternity on campus and how they get their ultimate pay back. Yes, the film is predictable as they come as we've seen this formula a million times, but it's watchable thanks to some wonderful set pieces, outrageous dialogue and on target performances by Robert Carradine, Anthony Edwards, Curtis Armstrong (memorable as Booger), John Goodman, Ted McGinley (no that is not a misprint), Larry B. Scott, and Timothy Busfield. Standout scenes include the Wonder Joint Party and the Lamda's musical performance during the big Olympic competition. A hilarious comedy that demands repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"The only worthy successor to Animal House &#150; this is a oasis in a desert of rubbish frat movies","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Louis and Gilbert head to college they think it'll all be different from high school.  However they are branded nerds and, when the jocks burn their own dorm down, the nerds find themselves kicked out and forced to sleep in the gym.  When the nerds form their own chapter of the Tri-Lam fraternity. When they are bullied continually they decide to take matters into their own hands and fight back with the Jock's own games.If there's one genre in the world that I hate it's the American college jock/nerd comedy.  Whether it be the Animal House or Porky's or more modern ones &#150; I hate almost all of them!  So when I watched this I watched it with a certain fear.  However the plot makes redresses the balance by having us support the nerds!  It's well plotted so that it isn't just them becoming just like the jocks but instead learning their own lessons.  Of course it is rude at times and does fall into being just silly and slapstick, but it's mixed nicely with some good sentiment and more gentle laugh.The cast is great (in retrospect).  Anthony Edwards is a real surprise in this post-ER time.  Likewise Busfield is strange after 30-something and West Wing.  Less so but Moonlighting's Curtis Armstrong is funny to see.  And lets not forget James Cromwell (or Jamie as he was called then!), John Goodman and black 1970's star Bernie Casey!  The nerds are all good &#150; rising above their caricatures to start to bring out characters.Overall this is a spin on the frat-comedy so it is a little juvenile and silly but the fact that it is spun towards the nerds makes it that little bit refreshing to watch compared to so many where our `heroes' are arrogant, annoying jock-types who sponge off mummy and daddy just to get drunk at college.  Not a great movie but much better than anything else post-Animal House - I'm with the nerds! "},{"Title":"Still a very funny movie.","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this movie is still one of the funniest movies of the 1980's and today.Robert Carradine as Lewis Skonick and Anthony Edwards as Gilbert Lowell are awesome.The movie really shows that being a nerd is a great thing,I believe that if you have intelligence, don't be ashamed of yourself, this movie deals with being bullied cause of not being beautiful. The nerds who join together,form their fraternity, Lambda Lambda Lambda, fight back against the Alpha Betas, the jock fraternity, and come out on top. The other cast members Curtis Armstrong (Better Off Dead and One Crazy Summer) as Booger is so awesome, Brian Tochi as Toshiro Takashi, Timothy Busfield (Thirtysomething) as Arnold Poindexter, Larry B. Scott (SuperForce)as Lamar Latrell, the gay nerd, Andrew Casesse as Harold Wormser, the youngest nerd of them all. Ted McGinley (Happy Days, Love Boat, and Married With Children) as Alpha Beta leader Stan Gable, Donald Gibb (Jocks and Amazon Women On The Moon) as Ogre, David Wohl as Dean Ulich, Bernie Casey as U.N. Jefferson, Julia Montgomery (Up The Creek)a s Betty Childs, Michelle Meyrink (Real Genius and The Outsiders) as Judy, they all give great performances in the film. John Goodman of Roseanne plays the mean Coach Harris, he is awesome in the movie too. James Cromwell( Babe, Star Trek First Contact, and L.A. Confidential) as Mr. Skolnick, Lewis's nerdy father is funny.The nerds fought for themselves and won the Nerd Revolution against the beautiful people, they gained control of The Greek Council. For all of the beautiful people out there, time has come for Revenge Of The Nerds. I give this movie 2 thumbs up and a 10/10 stars.I have the soundtrack to this movie, I recommend getting the soundtrack, it is awesome. "},{"Title":"A decent feel-good film with an all-star cast.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge Of The Nerds came out during the 1980-86 R-rated teen flick bonanza that was coming out of Hollywood. While this one is much milder than some of the others, it does have it's moments of raunchiness.The story is simple two young men are attending Adams University; but find out quickly that their type (the gawky, glasses wearing, intellectuals) are treated like nobodies. In fact, any male who isn't a jock or a WASP isn't even allowed to live in the dorms. A group of misfits including the two main characters Lewis and Gilbert are forced to live in the gym. They do find accommodations but they continue to suffer humiliation and embarrassment from the Alpha Betas. And so, like in the title of the movie, they get REVENGE.This is a movie that certainly can't be made today. Affirmative Action certainly would be in place to disallow discrimination on college campuses. The villains make fun of anyone who isn't like them. Still, when it's all said and done the film sends out a message that you should be proud of yourself and how you look and not let anybody tell you otherwise.Yes, as an 80's film you'll see every requisite of the decade, but you'll also see something that's a portent of the future. The Nerds raid the women's dorm so they can cause a distraction so others can install cameras in the bedrooms and showers so they can be spied on. That has become very popular on the 'Net.As for the cast Oh my! You'll never see this intriguing mix too often. Like in Freaky Friday, you'll see a lot of actors who made it big on T.V.Ted McGinley - The leader of the Alpha Betas. He's been on a zillion T.V. shows. I always thought he was more of a nerd than jock.John Goodman - Head coach of the football team. He looked so lean. Along with Roseanne; he's a superb supporting actor in major motion pictures but a weak lead actor.Anthony Edwards - Gilbert Lowell. Dr. Mark Greene on ER. Considered a heartthrob during those years.Robert Carradine - Lewis Skolnick. Member of the Carradine acting family.Timothy Busfield - Poindexter. Elliot Weston on thitysomething.Matt Salinger - Danny Burke. The son of The Catcher In The Rye writer J.D. Salinger.Curtis Armstrong - Booger. Remember him from Moonlighting?Even James Cromwell makes a brief appearance as Lewis' father.As for the comments of Julie Montgomery's beauty; sure she's beautiful. Especially if you like the Kate Moss, Calista Flockhart, J. Cynthia Brooks, Paris Hilton, Samia Ghattas, etc. skin and bones body. I don't, myself.All in all, this is still a good film that does its job. Just avoid the sequels. None of them are good and lack the bite of the first film. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The franchise film series.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds (1984) was a surprise hit. The film follows the adventures of two nerds as they go to college and try to join a fraternity. Oh the trials and tribulations they go through. Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards are the two nerdswho do everything they can to try and fit in with the rest of the college crowd. This one is the first and best of the series. They should have left well enough alone. But since this was made during the 80's, a mandatory sequel was made. I recommend this movie. It's entertaining and worth watching. But like all 80's moviesit has to have a message. That's my only real complaint about the movie. A funny film none the less. Just avoid the rest of the series.Worth a view. "},{"Title":"Good lighthearted film","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one that I think will be popular for many years to come. The film is about Nerds, who are looked down upon, ignored, even discriminated against by the popular set, and how the Nerds get even. No, they don't get even, they get *ahead*! Starring Robert Carradine, Anthony Edwards and Curtis Armstrong as the Nerds and Julia Montgomery, Ted McGinley and (as Ogre) Donald Gibb as the popular set. The whole story revolves around brains vs brawn, determination in the face of adversity, and, ultimately, pride in what you are, whether popular or not. The Nerds are ingenious at times, and, despite occasional despair, never quite give up the ship. I hope I'm not making the film sound serious, because it is definitely NOT really serious. It has an awful lot of humor. The brand of humor in this film is definitely different from what usually passes for humor I'm most of today's films, that being sophomoric sexual innuendo, physical (slapstick) or scatological. I really like this flick, and you will too! "}{"Title":"An 80s American Classic that makes me glad I grew up elsewhere.","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before anybody gets offended by the above summary, I just want to say that I like many things about America and its culture, conversely there are things I dislike. A lot of the latter were highlighted in the film Revenge of the Nerds. Also, just to avoid the wrath of the blindly patriotic, I am by no means saying that other countries and cultures don't have their share of downfalls too.So, to back to the film&#x85; Due to its age, (30 years), one can possibly, (yet begrudgingly), forgive some of the casual racism and homophobia used to gain cheap laughs. However the film really hits rock bottom with its multiple scenes/sub-plots that show sexual abuse in an entirely positive light.There is a highly unlikely, yet possible, chance that the above could be overlooked if the film's humour compensated for the offensiveness, or if the rapey/homophobic/racist plot elements were done tongue in cheek &#x96; BUT THEY WEREN'T &#x96; in spite of what people might claim.Now-a-days I watch certain things, which I enjoy to various degrees, but make me yearn for my stoner days as I know my amusement would be amplified. ROTN does not even offer me this. I watched it as it is regarded as a classic and is referenced to in many other shows. In summation I wish I hadn't bothered &#x96; 2/10. "},{"Title":"Is Its Own Revenge","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.You have to remember the context. This was before Bill Gates rolled over the world and held us up for 100 billion dollars by being a thug nerd. It was during a time when society from President Reagan to high school administrators was championing American virtue rather than intelligence. It was a time when sexual equality and respect for intellectual matters took a few giant steps back. It was before Columbine. It was a time when the jocks ruled.In all times, ordinary comedy pokes fun at the prevailing values and, after the fun, ends with a simple moral. And so it is here. What makes this movie so remarkable are the two morals, one serious, one half-joking.The first is that nerds are better at sex. Despite its titillating wrapper, it presents a profound insight into American society, even today -- though the stereotype of `nerd' has drifted quite a bit. The second is that most people in society are not in the privileged, celebrated  class, at least not in ways that they value.High school comedies fascinate me. That's because high schoolers are faced with a very small selection of personality types among which they must choose. Those who fight the choice actually constitute one of these types. I believe the number to be constant at seven, but that's my own theory. By setting a comedy or drama in high school, something all of us have been through, you get huge shortcuts in setting up the world of your story. The seven types are immediately recognized and you can get on to your parody or whatever you intend. This film is notable in addressing the nature of the world itself.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Squanders Great Premise","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yet another unfunny film that squanders a great premise. Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards are nerds hoping college will be a place where people look past their geekiness. Instead their presumed torture from high school continues as they and their fellow dweebs are pushed around by jocks, maligned by girls and generally stripped of their dignity. But the odd get even, as the tagline states, by forming their own fraternity and proving their power as a four-eyed, accordion-loving, chess-playing group.Of course Revenge of the Nerds wasn't meant to win any awards. It's supposed to be a crude comedy for older teens. The trouble is, none of the crudeness works. The nerds place hidden cameras to watch the popular girls undress. They secretly distribute topless photos of a snotty cheerleader in the bottom of cream pie plates. They smoke pot and throw lame parties. None of it's particularly funny.This film doesn't even work on a level that other unfunny comedies sometimes can. A comedy can be entertaining without being hilarious. But Revenge of the Nerds tries to be little else other than a dumb comedy. At its conclusion, it attempts to deliver a feel-good message about being yourself, but by then it's impossible to take anything it has to say seriously.I really wanted to like this film. The trailer included on the DVD version made it look like a lot of fun. But when all is said and done, the jocks and the cheerleaders aren't the only ones facing the wrath of these nerds. "},{"Title":"I will always love this movie!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't understand why this movie is rated only a 6. It is far superior to most of the comedies from around the same time and a lot of comedies from recent years. It holds up today amazingly well. Most comedies from the 80's kind of lose their charm over the years. I saw this again recently with my wife (she had never seen it), and she loved it and I laughed just as much as I did before. It's not just a mindless college sex romp like Porky's. It had some intelligence and a lot of heart. It was also refreshingly politically incorrect and raunchy. There are some truly unforgettable characters, like Booger and Lamar. The Asian guy was really funny too. Also, the child prodigy. There were lots of funny, quotable lines, and tons of hilarious scenes, like the party scene. The talent show performance was a moment in history. The end was truly touching. This movie is a classic. It's up there with Airplane, Weird Science, and There's Something About Mary. You don't have to be a nerd to love it! Anybody that didn't like this movie is NOT someone I'd want to associate with. "},{"Title":"Did not live up to expectations","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Reading a few reviews of this movie before viewing it, I had high standards for the comedic content of the film. Supposedly this movie is a classic comedy.I found myself greatly disappointed as I only laughed a grand total of 4 times. the movie was filled to the brim with clichés and they weren't even well written. after about 20 minutes I was just waiting for the film to end. not much of a classic if you ask me. I do not recommend this movie, in fact I suggest against watching it. "},{"Title":"A Classic T&A Movie about the college underclass","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was one of those films that I fondly remember from my younger years however these days it seemed to have lost all of its charm. I was keen on watching it again though because it was one of those films (in fact it was the first T&A movie that I ever saw) that I had watched numerous times when I was young. I guess I related to the main characters in these films, being somewhat of an outcast, though unlike these guys, never having a friend, or a group of friends, that I could fall back on (that is until I met the Dungeons and Dragons dorks at the State Library).It is interesting to look at some of the perspectives of this film, in a way the suggestion that the nerds of this film tend to (if they manage to survive high school and college) end up being much more successful than the jocks in this film. There is a lot of subtle imagery in it though, with the jocks being a part of a fraternity known as the Alpha-Betas, suggesting that they are the premier people on the campus.There are things that differ between my experience of university though because, being an Australian, campus life here is much different. Firstly we do not have fraternities or sororities. They simply do not exist. Secondly there is no faculty of sport in Australian universities, so you will not actually encounter anybody like the Alpha-Betas here.The other interesting thing about the characters in this film is that while it is reflective of campus life in the United States, it also brings to mind how many of the Alpha-Betas, being the sporting heroes, are unlikely to live out their days in luxury. Sporting heroes (and others in the entertainment industry) become millionaires, however it is the nerds and the geeks who become billionaires. However, the future is generally not at the forefront of people's mind when they are undergoing persecution. Granted, Gilbert does speak of Nerd Persecution at the end of the film, and I guess in a way it does exist, however in this film they use their brains to fight back, and they win. It is also interesting to note that the Alpha-Betas use fear to rule the campus, and it is only when that fear is broken (by everybody coming to understand that anybody who is not an Alpha-Beta, is by definition, a nerd) that the power of the Alpha-Betas is broken.However, while this film may have some place in my heart, it is still a T&A movie, and to be honest with you, I really don't find it all that funny anyway. "},{"Title":"So, why is it funny?","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, after finding out the film has a decent sized fanbase so I decided to check out the film on HBO. After watching it, I was just unimpressed, very unimpressed.First off, the characters aren't very good. The nerds, the jocks, and even the girls and teachers are very annoying. They acted like the Mary Sues and Gary Stus you'd read in fanfiction. They're too annoying, they're way too impossible to like or care about.Plus, where are the other cliques like the punks since they were a clique in the 80's, so why aren't they there too? Another problem I have with the film is the writing which is the script itself, it's not so good. The dialogue is more annoying, the acting didn't help although actors such as John Goodman tried to make the best out of it.And the jokes aren't very good, they're just not funny. The thing is, call me bias or anything but I felt that the film was trying to imitate Animal House but it failed so badly at doing that. If John Landis was somehow offered to direct the film and rejected it, I can see why.The only good things about it were John Goodman and Bernie Casey, they played their roles and made the best out of the script they were given.And the choice of music is pretty good, the theme song is pretty catchy, a bit annoying but catchy.I'm sorry to the Nerds fanbase but this film just isn't very good, bash me and flame me all you like but it won't change my opinion.Overall, 3/10 from me. I intend on reviewing the sequels and trust me, what I'll say won't be pretty. "},{"Title":"A dream","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a dream for a person like myself. It's my anthem because I grew up as that pathetic little nerd. It's an amazingly funny and good-hearted film. It has a couple of the greatest pranks ever seen and in my opinion it is the best ever college raunchy comedy (although animal house is close). It's a good message that even the losers will have their day in life and the last scene with the musical performance is spine tingling. It's one of those movies you can watch over and over again, and although it isn't appropriate for some ages, at a point I think that every single individual should go and see this movie. It is one of the original raunchy comedies and a pioneer that all individuals who enjoy raunchy comedy should respect. Without it there are a lot of comedies we wouldn't have now days. And remember, the nerds will have their days and the revolution is coming.Jeremy  "},{"Title":"Teen comedy at it's raunchy best","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's nice to think that every nerd has his/her day, and that's why I love this flick so much, even if I know that no nerd will ever have his day so long as nerd-hating movies like Clueless are made. This 1984 classic is the quintessential teen comedy, dependant upon your fondness for National Lampoon's Animal House, Meatballs, Porky's, or Fraternity Vacation. Many classic lines, mostly unprintable, and the revenge on the Pi's is...er... rather memorable to say the least. "},{"Title":"It Was the Best of Times, It Was the Worst of Times","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Typical 1980s teen comedy that is near the top of its unspectacular genre. The title says it all as college freshmen led by Anthony Edwards and Robert Carradine learn that university life is even worse than high school life as they are bullied by a fraternity of football players led by Ted McGinley. Revenge does take place as a civil war of students ensues and is fueled by gross-out jokes, sexual situations, and all sorts of other crazed perversions. When all is said and done the film is a curious over-achiever in the end. The main reason is the cast is so likeable. Donald Gibbs steals the show as one of the crazed football players and established actors like James Cromwell, John Goodman, and David Wohl also leave lasting impressions. Former NFL star Bernie Casey is also great as the nerds' fraternal sponsor. Far from excellent, but still an enjoyable little film. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Funny movie with a lot of heart","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a nerd . I wear glasses . I'm skinny and not too strong . I'm also a rather shy guy . I wasn't bullied in school , but I know the feeling of being not respected by others. I like Revenge of the nerds  not only because in some way this movie is about me , but also because of the message it's sending to the world &#x96; don't be ashamed of who you are . The so-called beautiful people are pathetic losers with their hate for people who aren't exactly like them. Even the nerds will have their day in life . For all of the beautiful people out there - time has come for revenge of the nerds !The movie is full of colorful , memorable and likable characters  THE NERDS - Robert Carradine as the mild mannered Lewis Skonick , Anthony Edwards as brave Gilbert Lowell Curtis Armstrong as the disgusting Booger , Larry B. Scott as homosexual nerd Lamar Latrell, Brian Tochi as funny Japanese nerd Toshiro Takashi , Timothy Busfield as nerd with the violin Arnold Poindexter , Andrew Casesse as small nerd in glasses Harold Wormser THE OTHERS - Ted McGinley as Alpha Beta leader Stan Gable, Donald Gibb as Ogre, John Goodman as Coach Harris and James Cromwell as Mr. Skolnick. I was especially surprised to see John Goodman in good shape . So , he wasn't fat all his life&#x85; And yes , all those characters are one-dimensional (similiarly to the characters in Police Academy ) . Who cares as long as they are funny . In terms of acting I think that Robert Carradine is the best . His laugh is infectious...and hysterical! Other others were wonderful too.ROTF  has a lot of heart and some intelligence too .The jokes here aren't always the most subtle (nudity , burping contest) and sometimes politically incorrect . Thankfully there is also some satire on college life and society's ill-placed respect for sports and machismo. Some people might say it's stereotypical . So what ? This would be a problem in serious drama , not in comedy. ROTF is unrealistic some moments (the romance between Lewis and Judy , isn't Ogre too old to be in college ? ) which doesn't destroys the fun. The nerds won without using violence . The brain beat the brawl . That's cool .The talent show performance is one of the greatest moments in history of 80's movies. The ending with the song We are the champions  is surprisingly touching. A heart warming ending. ROTF was so successful that Hollywood made 3 sequels (the last two were basically TV-movies ) . I don't recommend any of them , maybe with the exception of second one , which is kinda watchable.A funny movie and a forgotten small classic . You don't have to be a nerd to appreciate it . Unlike most of teen comedies today it's worth watching . It's funny and feels honest. I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Nothing special but pretty fun","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's a laundry list of things that one comes to expect when they prepare to watch an 80's comedy. Cheesy music full of synthesizers, high school stereotypes, breasts, outdated technology that is unintentionally hilarious, the list goes on. Lo and behold, Revenge of the Nerds has all of that. Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards star as two college bound nerds who find that college life isn't what they expected. It's nothing more than a continuation of high school as they get picked on my jocks and laughed at by the pretty girls. But now they've finally had enough and they decide to stand up for themselves and fight back against the jocks and to wipe away the nerd stereotype for good. A collection of exaggerated antics ensue, and it all makes for a wacky good time.Like I said, Revenge of the Nerds has everything you could expect from an 80's comedy. It fits the formula almost too well, which might be why it has achieved an underground cult status. For me, I think the 80's comedy formula just doesn't work and it doesn't entice me as much as a more offbeat or alternative comedy film might. Revenge of the Nerds is just silly, crude, and over the top, but it's certainly not trying to be anything it's not. So for this I can enjoy this nutty little film for what it is. I didn't find it particularly hilarious, but it has its moments and it's certainly a nonstop ride of entertainment. It's not exactly my thing, but it's plenty fun for what it is.It's unfair to judge Revenge of the Nerds as anything other than a very straightforward comedy, so I won't look at it as anything other than that. It's not something I'll watch again and I won't consider it an overtly memorable comedy, but it kept me entertained for an hour and a half and with certain movies that's all you can ask for. If you're a huge fan of 80's comedy you'll probably love this, if not, just watch it if you're bored. "},{"Title":"One of the 80's best comedies!!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recall watching this film in a drive-in as part of the double-bill. We had just finished watching the phenomenal Ghostbusters and having this follow it was a pleasant surprise indeed. It's pretty much a 'Rocky'-type plot. The underdogs fighting back to win it BUT it's how these types go about it that makes this movie so charming!Being an 80's film, political correctness was not considered...at all!Thank-god! I hunted this movie down after trying several video stores to no avail and finally after popping it in and showing it to family and friends (some of whom were too young to have seen it or not born at all during this film's release!) enjoyed it thoroughly! It's nearly timeless!!! Watching Bernie Casey listening to 'Swing Low Sweet Chariot' had us all on the floor!!! We're black and we weren't offended in the least! Why should we? It's a harmless comedy with good ol' dirty humour for all.Porky's and Animal House are the only ones of this era that could be considered part of the holy Teen-age comedy trilogy! All the rest, and there were a few, just don't measure up.My folks and I enjoyed this film almost 20 years ago in that old drive-in (which has long-been shut-down now), while leaving my dad cited that it was a rare event to watch two great comedies back-to-back like that...two great nostalgic classics...very rare indeed! "},{"Title":"Hard to see why this was a huge hit","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the many U.S. college/sex comedies, this particular film became a big box office hit, although it's hard to see why. Keith Carradine and Anthony Edwards are freshmen at Adam's College. A real pair of geeks if ever there were, they find themselves at odds with the sports jocks and the hero types. But never fear, for 'their time has come'.Revenge of the Nerds does manage to be funny occasionally, but not enough to keep you in stitches, and surely not enough to warrant a sequel? Oh well, who am I to judge?PS Look for the 'Devo' style number near the end. Also starred Curtis Armstrong and John Goodman.Wednesday, November 18, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Best College Film Ever","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In 1984 a film was created called Revenge of the Nerds. This film was and still is fantastic! The one-liners from this film are never-ending. All the characters are great and each main character has many lines that you will catch yourself repeating for years. I recall as a young kid watching this film for the 1st time. The scene where the Tri Lambs get even with Miss Betty Childs and the rest of her sorority members is classic! When I was young I thought that scene was the best Nudity shot in any film. Personally, that scene still rivals many of my favorite movie clips today. Lastly, I feel bad for those people who sat through the rest of the films about the `Nerds'.The 1st movie was the best among the four. I do recommend buying the DVD; I bought the 1st and 2nd film together for $15. My favorite character was Booger and then Toshiro. By the way, look for Lamar Latrell in the movie Fear of a Black Hat.The total OPPOSITE of his character in `Nerds.'On a side note, if you're looking for a Halloween costume and you have a few other friends who are interested, the cast from Revenge of the Nerds is worth your while.5 out of 5 Stars!  "},{"Title":"Nerds Nerds!!!!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think every kid growing up should be required to watch this. Revenge of the nerds is hilarious but its also surprisingly touching and still relevant today. What the movie depicts as going on is sadly realistic-at least at the schools I attended. The movie's message is an important one and accurate-a great film for anyone who's ever felt lonely, alienated,completely on the outside looking in-and I think that would include many if not most people, including the tormentors of others as well as the people tormented. Revenge does a great job of showing that and the last scene is one of the most enjoyable I've seen. I'm not a sequel person so I haven't seen the followups but this is one of the best movies for teens and one of my all time favorites. NERDS NERDS!!!! "},{"Title":"When nerds were REAL nerds... and teen comedies were high art...","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really do love this movie.... but I can also admit that some scenes in it are mind-bogglingly dumb, or sometimes even offensive.  When this movie sinks to nudity or burping contests, you can only shake your head and sigh. But when it touches on satire (especially on college life and society's ill-placed respect for sports and machismo), this movie never fails to bring a laugh.  All of the nerds are extremely likeable, especially Gilbert (played gamely by Anthony Edwards, who has somehow become a sex symbol on 'ER.'  From nerd to hunk... bully for you, Anthony!).  I very rarely 'root' for the good guys in movies, because their 'goodness' seems contrived.  But being a nerd myself, I sympathize with the Tri-Lams, and their inevitable triumph is pretty darn inspiring.  Recommended for nerds everywhere. "},{"Title":"Excellent, a must see for the socially challenged","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved all the Revenge of the Nerds movies, I think they're excellent comedies for anyone who's been labelled a nerd to sit down and have a giggle over... excellent for sitting around with computer oriented friends, beer and pizza and watching all night, great movie. "},{"Title":"Horribly dated","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm mildly interested in 1980s-era teen comedies, but REVENGE OF THE NERDS is no PORKY'S. In fact it's a horribly dated comedy, with an ultra-lame script that relies on tired, overstated gags and unpleasant sexist comedy. I didn't laugh once, or enjoy any particular scene. Yes, it really is that poorly conceived.The movie is almost entirely plot less. It consists of a couple of nerds, played by Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards (later of E.R. fame) who go to a new college, join up with other nerds, and have various encounters with the jocks. For much of the running time they perve on naked women and trick others into having sex with them. It's misogynistic, and fairly unpleasant.Unfortunately, the film is just too stupid to make more of an impact or to allow oneself to get offended by it. There are lots of famous faces in the cast, from John Goodman to Bernie Casey and one Jamie Cromwell, but none of them have a lot to work with. The fault with the movie is the script, which was clearly written by somebody with a sense of humour vastly different to my own... "},{"Title":"Overrated crap","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 6.6 for this stinky pooh. There was nothing funny about it at all. This was boring and kind gross at times. Why do people like this movie. It not funny at all. Comedy is just to easy. The story line is awful and the humor is just stupid. Anybody make a classic comedy. This movie just a big pile of stinky pooh. Do not wast your money. Do not wast your time. Do not see this pooh pee of a movie. This is pooh pooh with pee pee on top. Pooh pooh. pooh pooh. pooh pooh. and lots of pee to. pooh. Stinky stinky pooh. Do not see it. It is just pooh. I do not see this movie. The people who think it is funny do not know a bad comedy when there see it. This is classic pieces of pooh. "}{"Title":"Everyone is a nerd!","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed the movie but it stereotypically targeted people who are smart, weak and dresses plainly. I mean, anyone can get bullied regardless of what you look like or act towards people especially when it comes with personality. Also for being a bad guy, you most likely be the one who likes doing rough sports and looking down on people. Sure, anyone can be bully especially smart people if they tried! That's just my opinion on movies like this.Moving on, I honestly didn't know John Goodman got involved in this movie and boy, he looked fine for being an average weight man. This was like before he became really heavy but still, he's a great actor! I liked how in the end, Soriaty girl Betty Childs and Lewis finally became a couple. It does remind you of Grease a bit except there was no transformation involved unfortunately for Lewis lol! It does prove to you that you can find love regardless of who you are and what you look like! "},{"Title":"Entertaining early 80's school comedy","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1984's Revenge of the Nerds a group of social outcasts at Adams College are persecuted by fraternities of jocks and popular girls. To defend themselves they form their own fraternity and use their brains to outwit their enemies.Revenge is over three decades old now and has formulated a decent reputation, as far as school/college comedies go. The film works because it's amusing enough and -- despite the youthful inanities and occasional raunch -- the viewer starts to care about the outcasts and their cause; we celebrate when they have a victory over the pompous crowd. There's some nudity so stay away if that turns you off.The film runs 90 minutes and was shot in Tucson, Arizona.GRADE B "},{"Title":"No Huge Laugh Out Loud Moments But Still a Greta Movie","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I heard about Revenge of the Nerds I didn't know what to expect. When I watched the movie it was completely different then I thought it would be but I still enjoyed it. From the opening of this movie you know it's going to be cheesy as all hell which is by no means a bad thing. There weren't a lot if any moments where I laughed out loud however I was grinning like an idiot for most of the movie. It's a stupid movie but yet so enjoyable. The characters in the movie where well done especially Booger who was my favourite in the film. Overall Revenge of the Nerds isn't a bad movie but it also isn't this fantastic comedy full of laughs. It's a fun movie but there are better comedies. Check it out if you enjoy cheesy 80s films. "},{"Title":"A classic goofball comedy","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well written and casted, this still remains one of my all-time favorites of this genre. A well-worn film that pits frats of the popular kids against the wallflowers and outcasts. I can't believe this file didn't win an Oscar--jk. The Tri Lams musical number is a classic, and has been done in high schools. The 80s anthem of the nerds. I have watched this so many times, I know all of the quotes listed here on IMDb. And can add a few that aren't there. If you like a good laugh, take the time to check it out. I've seen so many films try fail in this genre over the years. This film sets the standard.I have watched this so many times, I know all of the quotes listed here on IMDb. And can add a few that aren't there. If you like a good laugh, take the time to check it out. I've seen so many films try fail in this genre over the years. This film sets the standard. "},{"Title":"6.4? you're kidding me!","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" That is way too low of an average for this movie, it is awesome. One of the great 80's movies. It is almost 30 years old and it is still current with so many issues and stereotypes. Bullies, racial tensions, nerds, having sports and athletes rule, revenge,(duh) and personal realization. Sure, pretty fake computer stuff but it was 1984. The thing that makes this movie so great is that it relates to everyone. Okay, maybe not if you're a Klingon, but this movie represents just about every person where they were about this age in life, on either side. The bully or the bullier, the nerd, the anarchist, whoever you were or are still, will be represented here. That's why you will enjoy this movie. The end. "},{"Title":"I think it would have been a bit more realistic if it was set in high school.","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My guess the reason this film was set in college rather than high school was the fact they wanted to have a few nude scenes here and there and they did not want to depict high school girls in such a manner. I will be the first to say college is a place that like high school, has a kind of hierarchy that is unfair. However, while coaches do make money and have some pull, they are not going to literally run a college campus, nor or smart kids, or nerds going to be tormented to this degree. Snubbed, yes, but I just did not see the name calling and such like depicted in the film when I was at college. To many older students, people who are middle aged so things like that are not going to happen as much. Now I do see a lot of the things happening in this film being like a high school cause I myself faced things like seen here during my time in high school. If only I could go back now and relive it at the size I am now, I would enjoy ripping the arms out of my fellow students' sockets. Or when one of them came up to me and said 'remember me', it was permissible by law to smash their faces in. Why did I have to become big and strong enough to destroy people at an age when it is frowned upon? Sigh...I digress, this film looks at a couple of guys starting their time in a college where they are sure things are going to be different. Well it is not, but during the course of the film, the nerds of the film do things that are just as bad as what the jocks do. There are some funny scenes, but at times one thinks that it is going to far such as tricking a girl to have sex with you, I guarantee she is not going to be as pleasant upon finding out the deception as she had here. There is also the idiotic robot, I do care how smart they are, they are not going to build a fully functional robot capable of the things this one is depicted as doing. Still, I liked the nerds trying to join a fraternity, liked the competition, the movie does have some funny things. It also has stuff that makes no sense, seriously why is Booger one of the nerds? A guy who drinks and acts crude is the type of guy every fraternity has in spades. "},{"Title":"Elements, Factors, and Aspects of Revenge of the Nerds","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An iconic film of the 80s, Revenge of the Nerds has served as a prototype film for many of the college films that have come out since this time frame. While we see this film as more of an afterthought in our modern era, Revenge of the Nerds was viewed as a breath of fresh air when it came to hilarity within the everyday life on a college campus. The theme of the film has mainly to do with the everyday stereotype of Jocks vs. Geeks, and the everyday struggles of the nerds at the hands of their more superior opposites. Yet mostly, the theme within this movie relates to the everyday college life of students in general.The plot mainly centers on a group of geeks trying to outsmart and establish themselves on the campus of Adams College; all while trying to avoid utter embarrassment and humiliation at the hands of the Jocks. The leaders of the nerds, Lewis Skolnick (Robert Carradine) and Gilbert Lowe (Anthony Edwards), are in a battle to establish the nerds into a fraternity within the campus after their frat house was overtaken by the jocks from the football team; with Stan Gable (Ted Mcginley) serving as the main antagonist from that group. What commences throughout the film from this point is a series of back and forth jock vs. nerds games that conclude with the nerds being embarrassed and humiliated the majority of the times. As the film progresses through these series of subliminal antics and humor, the culmination of the horseplay concludes within the school's Greek Games, in which the nerds finally overtake the jocks from the football team and claim a final victory.While the plot centers mainly on the shenanigans of the characters, it is hard not to ignore the nature of some of the action that goes on mainly within this film. Content such as the language, brief scenes of nudity, and overall complex of the setting depicts mainly what a typical college campus was like. The acting when it came to this content is comparable only to more modern films within The American Pie films. Speaking of which, this film is pretty much a pioneer for those types of films; like The American Pie and Van Wilder sequels. In these films, the themes are pretty much the same when it comes to the hilarity that is portrayed throughout the various scenes of these films. Additionally, what makes these movies so similar in comparison is the use of the camera angles and lighting within their scenes of humor.In terms of the camera angles, there is a serious approach to extracting numerous humorous content through the use of Telephoto Lenses, Fish-Eye Lenses, and the changes of camera angles through the use of zooming and panning. Likewise, the lighting within the various environments is more contemporary than anything, but when it comes to the humor scenes, there is more of a dusk kind of look whenever the nerds are humiliated in front of others.With all these factors mentioned, The Revenge of the Nerds is indeed an 80's classic; due in large part to the way that the nature of its humor reflected to the era of the film. While seeing it now clearly shows areas of old school, it is regardless a freshening experience due to how life is viewed without the modernism that we are accustomed to in today's world. In essence, this is simply just a movie about a group of new students who do not fit in any of the other social groups because they are fat, not attractive or nerdy group together and form their own fraternity. And although it does suffer from a predictable storyline, it is still an enjoyable movie. To fully enjoy this movie you need to appreciate, and be a fan of 80s comedies otherwise this may not appeal to you. This movie is definitely not for children or those who don't like bad language or nudity. However if you enjoyed other 80s style comedies this should appeal to you. "},{"Title":"As John Hughes-esque 80's comedies go, this is by no means the worst.","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Say what you like about comedies from the 80's, by and large, they generally had a lot of heart. And Revenge of the Nerds is no exception. Characterisation is scant, jokes obvious, dialogue clichéd, and performances running the gamut from bad to worse. Yet it is the heart to this film that made me keep watching, long after I normally would have switched off.At times it is nasty natured, that I give you (I'm fairly sure the protagonists voyeuristic acts in the girls dorm is illegal), and it doesn't exactly paint the youth of any generation in a good light (this was 1984; things have only gotten worse), but the main thing that kept drawing me in was the romance between Anthony Edwards and Michelle Meyrink as Gilbert and Judy. They have chemistry, they're cute, they work together. They're kind of at the centre of this film, and it's a good centre to have.The plot doesn't really matter, because it's just an excuse for some set pieces and punchlines, but at times it seems like the writers have looked at certain scenarios, and stuck the same punchline on each of them (David Carradines nasal, annoying, yet amusing laugh).I did find it a little hard to believe that David Carradine would pull with campus hotty Betty Childs, played by Julia Montgomery in a performance that doesn't really require any acting skill other than the ability to deliver lines saucily, and to not be embarrassed when she gets her breasts out (she does both of these). However I did find it a little hard to believe that she would be won over by Carradine because he is good at sex, and when he said that all nerds think about is sex, which is why he was so good at it, this provided a contradiction with earlier dialogue from him, as well as a complete non-truth.This, and the fact that a character such as Ogre (Donald Gibb) would be in a university at all, are the only real bum notes the film pulls. I did also have a problem with some of the nudity, as it felt out of place, and gave this film an 'R' rating when it probably would have grossed a lot more with a PG-13. As I have mentioned, a lot of the acts in this film are illegal.Pluses include the wonderfully rebellious 'Booger', played to perfection by Curtis Armstrong, the final speech, delivered to Queen's 'We Are The Champions', and a party that begins as an awkward affair, and descends into a drug-fuelled orgy (remember kids, drugs are bad!).At times it is a little hard to know who the audience for this film is, because it is an incredibly sweet movie, with a message that is good for kids, yet it has, as I have mentioned, scenes of nudity, drug taking, and a bestiality joke that made me feel a little uncomfortable.Yet there is a nice message here, and the ensemble pulls it off nicely (if you can forgive the horrendous gay stereotyping). I'd put it in front of The Great Outdoors and behind Planes, Trains, and Automobiles on a sliding scale, and that is not bad company to be in.7 stars. "},{"Title":"Nerds rise above ridiculousness and stereotypes","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The plight of the nerd has taken many forms in film and television over the years, but none so genuine as Revenge of the Nerds. Amidst all the sex and party-obsessed college stereotyping and seemingly unrealistic projection of the high school nerds vs. jocks concept onto the college scene, these nerds are pretty likable characters and their pranks make for the most classic college movie scenes outside of Animal House.Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards play high school best friends (and bonafide nerds equipped with ridiculous inhaling laughs) who struggle to fit in to the college scene. When the jock fraternity -- the Alpha Betas -- burn their house down, they kick the freshmen out of their dorms and somehow they all get stuck living in the gym. After fraternity rush only the nerds are left homeless, so to get out, they try and start a fraternity, eventually gaining charter status with Lambda Lambda Lambda, a historically black fraternity.At odds with the nerds are the Alpha Betas and their sister sorority the Pis. Both groups try and make life a living hell for the nerds, who decide to use their high IQs to fight back. They kick it off with the infamous panty raid, busting into the Pi house and stealing the girls' underwear while also installing surveillance cameras in bathrooms and such. Once you get over the hump that there's no feasible way for Revenge of the Nerds to ever take place and that jocks and nerds would never have a rivalry going in a college setting, this movie becomes classic. There's a lot of clever scene writing which completely makes up for the one-dimensional characters -- namely the jocks. In all other movies it would all seem completely stupid, but Nerds delivers with just the right attitude to not provoke your criticisms.The nerds and their nerd girl friends are also great characters. Lewis and Gilbert as the lead nerds are really quite endearing. There's a naivety in their performances that keeps them from turning into completely nerd stereotypes. Also, the writing team doesn't try the pointless technique of providing subplots for all the other members of the Tri-Lams. They might be stereotypes, but their comedic value is greater because they fill out the off-color picture of the nerds. Truthfully, there are so many ways Revenge of the Nerds could have slipped and become a mediocre movie, but for these reasons it remains one of the more memorable college frat movies of all time.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Still a riot after all these years","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Geeky Louis Skolnick (the excellent Robert Carradine) and his awkward best friend Gilbert Lowell (an equally fine Anthony Edwards) find themselves the odd men out at Adams College. Louis, Gilbert, and a bunch of fellow academic misfits start their own fraternity. When the jocks fiercely persecute the quirky frat, our nerdy heroes decide it's time to fight back against their cool, yet cruel oppressors. Directing Jeff Kanew, working from a bright and witty script Steve Zacharias and Jeff Buhai, relates the lively story at a constant zippy pace, stages a bunch of amusing throwaway gags with considerable aplomb, and maintains an infectiously good-natured tone throughout. Granted, we get the expected dope gags and leering female nudity, but fortunately the humor manages to stay on the right side of raunchy and raucous without ever becoming too crass or sleazy. Moreover, the appealing cast play their parts with tremendous energy and enthusiasm Carradine and Edwards make for utterly engaging leads, with tip-top support from Ted McGinley as hateful head jock Stan Gable, Julie Montgomery as stuck-up cheerleader Betty Childs, Curtis Armstrong as blithely disgusting slob Booger, Larry B. Scott as merry open homosexual Lamar Latrell, Timothy Busfield as dweeby violinist Arnold Poindexter, Andrew Cassese as precious little squirt Harold Wormser, Brian Tochi as the bumbling Takashi, Donald Gibb as fearsome behemoth Ogre, Bernie Casey as hip sponsor U.N. Jefferson, John Goodman as the bullish Coach Harris, and David Wohl as the meek Dean Ulich. James Cromwell pops up in a nifty minor role as Louis' dorky dad Mr. Skolnick. Comic highlights include the nerds' disastrous frat party, a rowdy panty raid, Booger always cheating at cards with Takashi, Booger's monstrous belch, and the nerds performing a simply amazing song and dance routine at a talent show (complete with funky rap singing and gnarly break dancing!). Best of all, there's even a positive central message about standing up for yourself and being proud of who you are. Both King Baggot's polished cinematography and Thomas Newman's bouncy score are up to par. A real gut-buster. "}{"Title":"And the Geeks Shall Inherit the Earth","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds may turn out to be one of those comedy classics similar to Caddy Shack, Animal House, and Porky's. R.O.N. was probably intended to be a B movie however, it ended up being far more than that, similar to the phenomenon that Napoleon Dynamite had 20 years later. The film features a somewhat unique perspective of the underdogs overcoming adversity. Although this film is probably geared more towards being a teen flick, it certainly can have a much broader audience appeal.Robert Carradine's performance of Lewis, the head geek, is so on target, I think he may have type cast himself into that character. Though, his choosing to remain with the franchise for three additional sequels is somewhat questionable as they were of inferior quality scripts. Timmothy Bustfiel is also great as Poindexter, as is Curtis Armstrong as Booger. Anthony Edwards certainly became the biggest star of this bunch, and was amicable as Gilbert, the more introverted of our favorite nerds. And this was just before John Goodman started on Rosanne.Aside from all the various geek clichés that are featured in the films, there is ample potty humor & shtick, some marijuana humor, and plenty of T&A. Definitely is worth the 90 minutes to watch, and better to rent than try to watch on TV, as the language and nudity which makes it funnier is cut. "},{"Title":"A movie that is not to be missed by anyone.","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's been years since I've seen this movie all the way through, but it was worth it to see it on TV Land only a few nights ago.Being neither a nerd or jock myself back in the day, I still understand the idea of taking down tormentors like the Alpha Betas.The jokes are absolutely timeless, considering that 80's comedies never really go out of style.Everyone can identify with this movie and that is one of the reasons why it's so memorable and so quotable. The other reason being that everybody loves a good underdog comedy... there's no other way to say it. Now for one of my verdicts this movie is an absolute 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining comedy for the 1980's.","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Louis (Robert Carradine) and his best friend Gilbert (Anthony Edwards) are leaving for college. Which they are hoping it will be different from high-school and hopefully, they will be less bullies as well. But once they arrived from there, it turns it's much worse than high-school. But the cruel Alpha Beta fraternity (Lead by Tim McGinley) hates geeks, especially Nerds. Which they are planning to make a living hell towards outcast, geeks, loners and nerds. When the Alpha Beta accidentally burned down their house, they throws the freshman's out of their dorms. Now with nowhere to live... now Louis, Gilbert and the rest of the outcast are forced to find a new house or dorm for themselves. When Alpha Beta pushes things too far with the Nerds. Now these nerds have to outsmart these Betas at every possible chance before they get pushed over the edge.Directed by Jeff Kanew (Gotcha!, Tough Guys, Troop Beverly Hills) made an light-hearted pleasing comedy with some great laughs and the cast seems to be having a great time. This film was an unexpected success, when it was release in the summer of 1984. Which Revenge of the Nerds is actually better than most of the typical teen sex comedies of that era. Carradine and Edwards are good in their roles. But this movie has a familiar supporting cast includingTimothy Busfield, Curtis Armstrong, Larry B. Scott, Donald Gibb, James Cromwell, John Goodman and more. This picture went on to be a major cult classic over the year and it went on to have three sequels (Only Revenge of the Nerds 2 got released theatrically). Which some of the cast members went on to be stay with this silly but enjoyable movies. The latest DVD is a special edition. DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an decent Dolby Stereo 2.0 Sound (Also in it's original Mono sound). DVD has an running commentary track by the director with cast membersCarradine, Busfield & Armstrong. DVD also has Deleted Scenes, an amusing 40 minute featurette with the cast & crew, trailers and the never seen before TV pilot. Revenge of the Nerds still holds up today, it's still an great 1980's classic. It's turns serious towards the end but it has a fine message and nearly makes you proud to be a nerd (If you are or not) in a good way. It's a good flick that certainly worth seeing. Written by Jeff Buhai (Eddie, In The Amry Now, Johnny Be Good), Miguel Tejada-Flores (Decoys 2Alien Seduction, Fright Night Part 2, Screamers) and Steve Zacharias. From a story by Tim Metcalfe (Bones, The Haunted in Connecticut, Kalifornia). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the nerds is simply a classic from the 80's. This movie will most likely be enjoyed by people who have had these real life experiences(being a nerd or a jock), as well as people that want to enjoy a good fun comedy. A good laugh to enjoy with a few friends watching classics. Classic is quite simply the easiest way to put this movie. If your going to rent it or buy it. I suggest you grab the sequel Revenge Of The Nerds II with it. Main characters Louis and Gilbert will make you laugh your way through this movie as well as stand out characters like booger and ogre. As they attempt to go to school in a jock run college getting picked on is nothing special. Good job on this movie 23 years later and can still be enjoyed by people around the globe. If your not into 80's classic comedies. This movie will most likely NOT be for you. "},{"Title":"Funny 1980's film","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Language and Sexual Content including Nudity Revenge Of The Nerds is a comedy film from 1984 which stars Robert Carradine(David Carradine's son and the person who plays Lizzie McGuire's father in the show Lizzie McGuire).I have seen this film 3 times though not recently.The film is basically about a bunch of nerds who are at college.They get picked on by the jocks and the cheerleaders don't want anything to do with them.So the nerds start their own fraternity and pull pranks on the jocks.Revenge Of The Nerds has a cast of funny characters and is a fairly funny movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie in many ways...","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen this movie several times and since it has been out it does stand the test of time even with the dated music, pot issues etc... I love this movie for many reasons. It is well acted..and a great feel good movie-- if you are in a bad funk, watch it and you will be smiling in no time. I am a female so personally I could care less about the nudity involved but the theme is genius. The party scene was a classic. Sadly they would never have something in a teen movie like this today. The nerd topic has really never been touched upon like this until now and in a way that even the most clueless athlete could understand-- People have feelings and everyone has a little of everything in them. So many people have had miserable experiences in school and although we all knew about it no one cared in the schools if they were tortured verbally or ostricized and it was never really acknowledged in this depth in a movie. The movie is not THAT deep-- but it gets points across without being aware and without being preachy ( until the end-- which was too sappy IMO --that is why I gave it a 9 instead of a 10) It is satirical as it gets the point across well. Nerds deserve to be treated with respect and have so much to offer to the world and do-- but are always unappreciated. Even the jocks do see and are truthfully jealous of the nerds when they see how their abilities ( fixing up the house and their awesome inventions etc) have an advantage. They might even like the nerds but would never admit it. As silly and juvenile as these plots seem they are genius in the fact that they are explored in this movie in a unique way. I could watch this movie over and over-- I have seen it at least 15x since 1988. I do not own it now bc one of my kids friends borrowed it and I never received it back... ) Stay away from the sequels-- nothing to compare to the original.... "},{"Title":"Lambda Lambda Lamdba and Omega Moo","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of The NerdsPanty Raid Edition  a fun 80s college comedy about a group of outcasts that find a way to use their wits to outsmart a bunch of jocks.The concept has been done to death- but this is a fun movie with a good cast-John Goodman chewing up the scenery as the football coach,James Cromwell as the good natured father of the main nerds,Robert Caradine and Anthony Edwards as the main characters.Sure this movie has tons of dated jokes and is not politically correct- but it has tons of laughs that still work for me.The DVD upgrade has a fun 38 minute featurette(most of the cast took the job because they needed the money),a fun group commentary,un-needed deleted scenes and the pilot to the Revenge of the Nerds TV show(so bad it made the Blazing Saddles pilot look like Upstairs Downstairs).A fun party movie. B- "},{"Title":"Very funny film","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being a 90's kid I missed out on the 80's for the most part. I missed a lot of the awful fashion (Which was a good thing) the music (Which is my favorite) and some of the best comedies around. One of the greatest comedy films out of the 80's was Revenge of the Nerds and today I will be writing about the film.Basically two friends are about to go to the same college. They get there and realize that they don't' fit in since they are nerds. They meet some other people who don't' quite fit in either and becomes friends. The attempt to find places to stay since they can't stay in the gym so they find an old house that they fix up and live there.Some of the lines are corny and crude but it's a very funny movie. There is a decent amount of frontal nudity which is actually not so bad. The jokes are funny and they never get old.If you are a nerd and are proud of it (I know I am) then you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"* * * * Out Of Five","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two friends Gilbert(Edwards) and Poindexter(Carradine) go to college expecting that things will have changed since High School, however what they find is different when the jocks (led by Married...With Children's Ted McGinley and Bloodsport's Donald Gibb) decide to pull mean pranks on our lovable nerds, of course this is college and the nerds band together to start a fraternity and in the process wage war on the jocks, in which many pranks ensue in this ultimately hilarious comedy which has aged fairly well. The main reason why Revenge Of The Nerds works and why it's sequels don't is that, we want to see these nerds prevail and see the jocks get their comeuppance. In that regard this makes it essential to anybody who was picked on in high school for being dorky. (You all know who you are.) 4/5 Matt Bronson "},{"Title":"Excellent stereotype comedy","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I learned of the stereotype line one day in my public speaking class. We were doing a game in which you had a partner who would observe you at close range while you were walking around the classroom. This partner would then have to exaggerate your walk twice first a little bit, then a lot. Everyone laughed at the first bit of exaggeration, but everyone knew that the second part was going too far. Thus, the stereotype line you can't take your stereotypes too far.I also have a theory that works a little like the Uncanny Valley. If you're going to have stereotypes in your movie, you can't take them too far, but you can't take them too lightly. Thus, the perfect point to be is just before the stereotype line. If you can manage to get there, your movie will be funny. Revenge of the Nerds hits that point. And as such, it is very funny.Nerds is home to a whole bunch of stereotypes your giant-glasses nerds, your gay black guy, your super-smart kid, your lazy drug-maestro guy, your big dumb jock who doesn't say much, your football coach who hates everybody, your Bob Balaban school dean, your nerdy guy who tries in vain to play the violin, your Japanese immigrant who doesn't speak English all that well, your nerdy woman. However, this film manages to get the stereotypes to just the right level, making each and every character extremely funny.It also doesn't hurt that the plot works. Yes, the plot may be a little generic, but somehow it works here. It's probably because of the occasional deviations from traditional slapstick comedy structure that this movie really works. In truth, I may have never seen a funnier movie. I certainly have never seen one this funny with a score this good and a cast that works so well together.My recommendation? Just go buy the movie. You'll thank yourself for it. "}{"Title":"Tri-Lambda/Omega Mu Talent Show Scene Rocks!!!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Without this eventual scene of the talent show (that closes the movie) as set up by the Tri-Lambdas and Omega Mus, ROTN would never have been a success.This talent show as set up by the Tri-Lambs / Omegas consists primarily of Poindexter and his violin (overdubbed to a synthesizer) and Lamar Latrell's rapping among others, is a killer-diller scene! Man, I never get tired of this scene (esp. the violin part - whereas I was watching I Love the '80s Strikes Back 1984 on VH1 and that I heard Stephen Lynch mimicking these violin notes) I have purchased this video via Amazon.com (as a double-side DVD with Revenge of the Nerds 2.Mark my words! Benjamin Edge "},{"Title":"Be Kind To Nerds","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, let me make one thing clear If you didn't like Revenge Of The Nerds, Mr. Alpha-Beta Beautiful Person, beware. Nerds are capable of serious things. In Revenge Of The Nerds, the nerds take their sweet revenge on the jocks, cheerleaders and other beautiful people. One such thing was the infamous liquid heat in the jockstraps prank. Personally, I like the itching powder in the padding joke and the ever-popular feces in the cleats bits. Also, as an insult to injury, the nerds executed a panty raid on the Alpha-Beta sorrority house while Wormser and Lamar (two of the nerds) put cameras throughout the house so the nerds (except Lamar because he was gay (which I don't have a problem with)) could have a live porno. The best part, however was the Musical/Skit Competition. Whoever thought techno beats with a gong and a freestyle rap with kickass dance moves would sink jocks in cheerleader uniforms. Finally, one thought for the beautiful people be kind to nerds. Chances are, you'll end up working for one.  "},{"Title":"What a funny movie!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had me laughing from start to finish! I was hoping the nerds would conquer the entire time because i felt so bad that was how they were viewed.  Booger, Louis, and Lamar were my favorite nerds that just kept the laughs going and going and going! I thought the movie was going to stink though, because i judged it only on the cover.  The pranks they pull together and how they win the carnival to take over the greek council was great and if you havent seen this movie, then you are missing something that truly represents the nerds all over! (A- B+) "},{"Title":"I'm a nerd","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This must rank up there as one of the funniest damn films I have ever seen. The cast is perfect and the script is hilarious. And this has to be one of the ultimate 80's films. The movie is basically the nerds against the jocks/princesses and almost everyone can relate to this film. When you're young you laugh at the boobies and Booger but now that I am older, there is so much more subtle humor in it. The fact the nerds belong to an all black fraternity alone is hilarious. Plus, the film is so un-PC it would never be made nowadays. The DVD sucks by the way, there are a few moments that are taken out such as the nerds walking up to the abandoned house which was on all the VHS copies. Oh well, we still get to see Betty's assticaution and bush.  "},{"Title":"A movie that defined a generation!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ***Spoilers within*** **Spoiler alert**This is a movie that defined a generation. It is a film that brought to light the true meaning of geek, nerd, and many more words that described the unique group of people who were laughed at, picked on while going to school and doing their thing.To make a long story short, a group of out casts form their own fraternity. The thing is, they are NERDS. The popular group picks on the nerds with very little pity, and tries to destroy the efforts at fitting in. That is until the worm turns and the nerds strike back. Its a laugh a minute and as with many of the 80's movies shows the under dog overcoming odds, and the bullies.I can relate to this movie, because I was a nerd. Yes you heard it right. I was a nerd. After watching this movie and some other movies like TEEN WOLF, and KARATE KID. I realized being a nerd wasn't so bad. In fact I am proud to be a nerd. I made friends that I am still in touch with to this day.NERDS, NERDS, NERDS!!!I have to give this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best comedy mankind has ever seen!","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember the first time i saw Revenge of the Nerds. It had been a very boring day and when i went to my room to watch TV i saw that Revenge of tje Nerds was on. I had seen commersial for it earlier that week and from the inpression i got it seemed like another crappy teen comedy. I was wrong....VERY WRONG! The result was the best comedy i've seen.The story in it is just as important as the film itself. It shows us that nerds are people to. I've always had a problem with nerds, but after i saw this film i wanted to be be one myself. The movie is full og laughs and is very good directed. Great acting from the underrestemated Carradine and Tony Edwards including all the other fantastic nerds!Revenge of the Nerds is a film that always will stand close to my passion for movies since it's one of the few comedys i actually like. Very much recomendend!10/10 "},{"Title":"Comedy classic","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge Of The Nerds is one of the films that I loved in my childhood. The film is full of comedy,nudity and a reason to root for the little guy. Robert Carradine, Anthony Edwards and Curtis Armstrong were tailor made for their roles. My favorite two scenes in the movie are the panty raid and the weed party. "},{"Title":"How can the people on here give Lord of the Rings like a 9 and this only a 5.9?","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best college movies ever.  I cannot believe that this isn't rated much higher.  I saw this when I was like 5 or 6 and thought it was hilarious.  Every time I see it on t.v. I will watch it too.  I'm 22 now and I still think this movie rules.  It's better than Van Wilder and better than most of the gay comedies that come out now.  It's shows you how many nerds are on here because Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings get such high ratings and funny movies with lots of nudity get poor ratings. "},{"Title":"Huhh! Huhh! Huhh! Huhh! Huhh! Technically.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have this vivid imagination. When I see a group of good guys battle bad guys, I picture them with superpowers. What does that have to do with REVENGE OF THE NERDS? Nothing. Anyhow, the heroes, lead by Carradine and Edwards, featuring known actors Tochi, Bernie Casey and Armstrong, battle the villians McKinley, Sallinger, John Goodman and Gibb in a dud-versus-stud battle for Adams College. The Nerds were sick and tired of being picked on by their enemies, so they fought back. Using such tactics like liquid heat in their underwear(Flyer). Personally, the jocks were jerks. McKinley and Gibb could be reasoned with, but Sallinger(Burke)? I wanted to tear that sunnivamutt's freakin' head off--and make bookends with Goodman's character(Coach Brown), too. Why was that guy a Brown? Insult to my last name! Whoa now, lets not go too far to the left. Armstrong's Booger Dawson wasn't no angel, either. The other nerds were fine and all, but Dawson royally sucked socks! He was definitely called Booger not because he picked his nose, but mucus could be found between his ears instead of a brain. Overall, the movie earned a 5 out of 10. The idiots who wrote the script made the film too crude and crass for its own good. The nudity was not a problem. In fact, I would rather see the whole cast nude from the 20th Century Fox logo to the end credits than to put up with the screwed-up dialogue from some of the characters, especially butt-wipes Booger and Burke! The sequel and the two TV Movies were much more fun, especially the second TV Movie, Nerds in Love. Wackier, Sillier, and Booger was less of a Booger there. As the series progressed, the Nerds became more and more of the heroes I love to imagine--even to this day.  "},{"Title":"I've got the cruise control set at 30","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny, Funny, Funny. Come on people, this film is still a hoot. There's too much acting talent here and just some of the great comedic scenes of revenge you'll ever see. Imagine that for the first time its a horny college comedy with guys you root for!  "}{"Title":"Never watch an edited version!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When this film came out in 84 it was a sensation.  It had wit, humor and drama even though somewhat low key.  It also covered something that really had never been done before.  It portrayed the `Nerd' characters in a film in which they were the heroes and the traditional film heroes i.e. the school sports stars and popular gang types as the villains. Nearly twenty years later the film has sort of lost its luster a bit. However one scene in particular towards the end of the film remains as solid as it was when this picture first came out.  When you watch the movie you'll see why.  If you're going to see it by all means rent it vice watching it on TV.  TV stations including some cable channels show it in its edited version and it's just not the same.      "},{"Title":"*** out of 4","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anthony Edwards (E.R.) and Robert Carridine star in this comedy that is along the lines of Animal House and Porky's. It concerns a bunch of nerds who fight to start their own fraternity. The first hour of Revenge of the Nerds is hilarious and raunchy. Too bad the last half hour isn't up to par. Still worth watching. Rated R for nudity, language, and drug use. "},{"Title":"Pure and utter genius.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am entirely bewildered by anyone even attempting to say anything bad about this movie.  Sure, the things people say about it perhaps are true, such as the offensive humor, sexism, homophobia, and even slight racism, but this is what makes it so good.  I'm sure most of you by now probably know what this movie is about, so I'm not going to get into it.What you people are missing is that the movie jokingly pokes fun at stereotypes that can, and sometimes are TRUE...such as Takashi's broken English and love for cameras, and Lamar's interesting wardrobe choices (pink leg warmers?) and limp wristed throwing style, but if you're following my point here, this is what makes the film so beautiful.So put the p.c. aside for a second, and take in one of the greatest comedies ever made. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film had just been really underrated. Probably one of the best teen movie of 80', maybe the best of all time. The good things about this movie is that all the nerds are taking their revenged after being bullied for a long time but without any violent but to used their head and their own specialty to kick-ass.This movie can make their viewer laugh their head-off, without(hardly) a stupidity bathroom jokes like all the series and some movies these day. The story-line are charming, pretty creative especially if you looking for a teen movie that more than just boy and girl falling in love with one another. BEWARE you might hate another teen movie after you watch this movie REVENGE OF THE NERDS.I highly recommended that every one should watch this movie, but Revenged Of The Nerds Part 3 and 4 are a real disappointment. I would rate this movie not less 8/10. "},{"Title":"mental jewelry","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the steel grace of boogers triumphant arm wrestling pose, the studied pageantry of takashis victorious race, the magestic chivalry of lamars javelin thrust  this is what art IS my friends. Show me a man thats neckhairs don't rise when UN Jefferson commands the jingoistic football coach to HOLD IT RIGHT THERE - and i'll show you a damned pinko b****rd. nerds  ....    Nerds .....    NERds.... NERDS NERDS NERDS!! "},{"Title":"The worst movie I ever liked","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was 14 when this flick came out, and I thought it was good at the time.  Loved it in fact.  Thought it was a laff riot.  Then I saw it again a year or two ago and just completely ruined the memory for myself.  Of course I'll always like Booger, but the rest of it really isn't very funny.The only reason I can recommend this movie at this point is to anyone who'd like to see how smart/computery people were perceived back before they started owning everyone else.  Now it's sexy to be the master pizzzimp of the data center.  Why?  Because we've got the Benjamins.But you watch this movie and you see how it was sort of expected that the general population would look down on the smart, eccentric folks with a sort of easy, almost congenial contempt, if that's possible.  The real Revenge of the Nerds is being an established adult and telling the jocks to throw some salt in the bag and make sure the damn fries are hot. The movie is interesting at this point simply because it shows how much attitudes have changed in a relatively short time.  If you're a computer geek like me it's scarcely believable.  These days with computers on every desktop if you have a reputation for being really good with computers the way people perceive you could not be more diametrically opposed to what it was (apparently) in 1984. "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  in my top 10 is revenge of the nerds.why?cause it has a touching and funny story and the characters are funny sht.the end sequence chills  my spine because it is so warm and touching it is a fantastic film and i loved every bit of it.if you dont like this film your probably from wisconsin "},{"Title":"Yes! I am a nerd!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So what! =)Thanks to films like this, it is becoming clear that we, the nerds of this world, are here to stay and to conquer.OK, so I don't wear my pants up to my chest. Or use my hair full of gel. Or have that characteristic snort in my laugh. Still, I am a nerd, and I know I'll always be. It's just that it was SO UNCOOL to be one back in the 1980's. People used to bother us, kick us, insult us, hit us. They took our stuff away, hid it, or simply throwed it to the trash bin.And then, something like this comes along and shows us that, indeed, we are nerds, but that we must not accept a punishment for it. Ha! It was a big morale booster back then, and it is still now. I had to take a couple of punches, but it was really worth it.So, when rating a movie, a very important part is the impression it left in your life. Revenge of the Nerds is a sweet little classic for my generation; it is the movie that showed you that everybody could have his day, even if he was a nerd, in a big way.And so, 17 years after watching it, I look around all my friends, my girlfriend, and even some ex-jocks, and I finally figured it out. We were all nerds. Some, though, were more insecure than the others, so they had to resort to sports, physical violence, and humilliation.But time showed us all that, indeed, we nerds got our revenge. We got the best jobs, the nicest girls and a kick-a** 80's movie. What else could we ask for?   "},{"Title":"As a nerd, I'd like all the jocks to see this movie.","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie shows what it's like for us nerds, and what we have to deal with. Unfair criticism, harassment, that sort of thing. It not only showed that nerds won't just stand there and take the insults, but it was also funny. My favorite part was when Lewis said to BettyAll jocks think about is sports. All we(nerds) think about is sex. I laughed. I laughed again. I ate my sugary cereal. I laughed yet again. This movie is a classic. 9 out of 10. 9 because it was just a little too offensive when the jocks made fun of the nerds. "},{"Title":"The best 80's movie ever!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoy this movie. I watch it over and over and I die laughing every time. It incorporates all the best elements babes/cheerleaders, frat parties, jocks vs. nerds, a belching contest, and the nerds winning in the end -- not to mention the rockin' concert the nerds came up with to win the musical show and skit competition. "}{"Title":"Worthy to be a classic","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Along with movies such as Meatballs and Caddyshack, this movie can keep you entertained with it's basic storyline and laugh aloud funny moments. I enjoyed the basic theme to the movie that had nerds being pushed around in situations where great comedy could arise. The movie had a few classic one-liners that seem to stick with anybody who has watched it. Before I watched it I thought it might be another 80's comedy ripoff, but it turned out to be enjoyable. A shure classic for years to come! Every Nerd has his day. "},{"Title":"What goes around comes around","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nerds is a movie that is for people 18-30 who like adult humor. I have the movie and I think it is a timeless classic for those in fraternity houses and places like that.  I had a good time watching it, although my girlfriend wasn't extremely impressed, if you've seen it, you know what I am talking about. If you want a classic college movie, rent or buy Revenge of the Nerds. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know everyone else here has commented on how good it is, but I want to also. Not only does it contain hilarious lines, but also is a good film about standing up for yourself. I think a new Revenge of the Nerds movie needs to be done that actually goes to theaters with all the nerds from the original. Takashi wasn't in part 2, Poindexter wasn't in 3 and 4, etc. "},{"Title":"Does it get any better than this?","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Are you kidding?  These guys deliver the best comedy you can ask for.  As far as the flicks from the early 80's go, this is the film to see... it has all the party scenes, from the drinking to the drugs.  I believe this film is truly representative of 80's flick.  Absolutlely a must buy and watch again and again. "},{"Title":"The Road to Nerdition A Faulty and Tenuous Comedy","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds is a comedy about nerdy freshmen trying to obtain a most basic level of respect that would be needed for adequate human decency. Here, we will see that, regardless of the ending, the nerds never got their revenge.The stereotypical jocks, the Alpha Betas, have no reason to hate nerds. From the beginning, the character Ogre merely pigeonholes two innocent freshmen as nerds. The motive behind the character is never laid out. I surmise it is a cultural standard for the 1980's to hate nerds, and we as the audience are expected to understand that. This is the crucial point that one must remind himself of constantly as he watches this movie. To watch this movie in the 21st century is to endure a staggering barrage of prejudices against race, sexual orientation, and of course against those with high IQs. In fact, watching this movie now will jar your perception about prejudices in general; it will make the viewer say, Hell, I didn't even know that was something worth being prejudiced about. The viewer will simply shake his head and ask, Why? And I say now why? Why was there just so much hatred against intellectualism in the 1980's that Hollywood devoted a full-blown movie to it? This question is virtually screamed when analyzing Dean Ulich. Dean Ulich is a self-identifying nerd with no backbone (note that nerd and no-backbone are not synonymous, although that's apparently a stereotype in this film). Dean Ulich runs a school where an entire building on campus burns down, and he brushes it off. He moderates a Greek council where there is no such concept as conflict-of-interest. Obviously, if this were real life, the Dean would have been impeached and sued in civil court for a motley of negligences, ranging from a house on campus being broken into and overrun with pigs to condoning an entire police force from looking the other way as soon as it has to do with fraternities (what else would campus police do then?).Overall, it's difficult to muster the suspension for disbelief when people are spying on girls in the the bathroom (illegal wiretapping), impersonating as someone else while having sex (rape), and cheating their way to win in the school's most important social competition (using illegal drugs in a competition, especially when trichloro-methylene, if real, would be an extremely dangerous drug for consumption). The antics will prevent suspension of disbelief, and if the 1980's were really like that at college, then God help all those born with the savage moronicism of the almighty Alpha Betas running through their veins. The prevalence of this Idiocracy is supported by at least three sequels, none of which can be readily memorable.A couple of miscellaneous points about the movie (SPOILERS HERE) 1. They couldn't find a nerd who could actually play the violin??? 2. When they call for a nerd gathering, the first person to come was not a nerd... 3. The only way the nerds won were with the backup of the very masculine black Lambds. This, for all intents and purposes, ruined the point of the entire movie. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't call it one of the great films of the 80', but it's engagingly goofy","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" (Credit IMDb) At a big campus, a group of bullied outcasts and misfits resolve to fight back for their peace and self respect.I've seen all four movies. This is by far the best of the lot. I have a weakness for cheesy 80's films. For some reason, I'm in love with the 80's, especially movies. Everything was so simple back then. This movie really shed new light on how nerds were viewed. They went from hated to revered by the public because they were painted as underdogs. Obviously, there are still many nerds being bullied to this day, but it isn't as frowned upon as it was back then. Let's face it, who hasn't wanted to see a bully get bested by the underdog? That's what is so great about this movie. Robert Carradine is very memorable as Lews Skolnick, reprising his role in three more sequels, two of them STV. Anthony Edwards is a blast as his best pal Gilbert. He'd be reduced to a mere cameo in the second movie and written out of the 3rd and fourth movies altogether. Curtis Armstrong is amusingly uncouth as Booger. Ted McGinley plays a terrific jock. John Goodman has a role as a coach. The rest of the cast do fine as well. Overall, if you put your expectations aside, you should have fun. It is much better than the wildly overpraised Animal House. Followed by three sequels. Avoid them all except Revenge of The Nerds III6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic For The Nerd In All Of Us","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw Revenge Of The Nerds ten years ago when I bought it on VHS it was a well made college comedy without too much nudity like most of today's films. Robert Carradine & Anthony Edwards lead a cast of all stars in this very funny and intelligent movie about a group of misfits who use their intelligence to fight back against a group of football players in a fraternityI myself was a nerd too and got bullied and picked on a lot so in a way i understood how the characters felt about being treated differently because of my appearance and the fact that I'm smart.Besides Lewis one of my other favourite characters in the movie is Gilbert his best friend, he takes a stand against nerd prosecution by helping his friends fight for their rights.When best friends Lewis Skolnick (Carradine) & Gilbert Lowe (Edwards) begin their freshman year at Adams College they are unaware of the trouble that's ahead for them. Upon arrival they quickly discover that people like them are treated different, when a popular fraternity called the Alpha Betas run by Stan Gable (McGinley) carelessly burn down their house they seize control of the freshmen dorm for their own. With no place to go the displaced freshmen move into the gymnasium until they find a place or be accepted into other fraternities. Joining our two heroes are child genius Harold Wormser (Cassesse), violin player Pointdexter (Busfield), nose picking Dudley Dawson aka Booger (Armstrong), Chinese exchange student Takashi (Tochi) and Lamar Latrelle (Scott). Aiding the Alpha Betas is their neighbouring sorority The Pi Delta Pis. Further complicating the situation is Lewis's developing crush on Betty Childs (Montgomery)a popular cheerleader, sorority sister and Gable's girlfriend.Two of my favourite scenes in the film include Lewis disguising himself so he can have sex with Betty in the fun house and the most surprising part is when she falls in love with him and dumps Stan then she declares I'm in love with a nerd.The other scene takes place after the Lambdas win the homecoming games and return to find their house totally trashed and almost destroyed and Gilbert finally decides he's not gonna take the abuse anymore and goes to confront the enemy.The ending was pretty awesome because this group of ordinary young men fought for their rights and won against the beautiful people, seeing everyone including Gilbert's girlfriend Judy (Meyrink) joining the crowd was entertaining. The song We Are The Champions fit that part perfectly.Other cast members included John Goodman from Roseanne, Donald Gibb, Matt Salinger, Bernie Casey, David Wohl and Jamie Cromwell as Mr. Skolnick. they delivered good performances.For fans of comedy and nerds out there I recommend Revenge Of The Nerds it's a sure crowd pleaser. "},{"Title":"A second-rate Porky's knock-off","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When you're in the mood to watch a bad movie filled with bad acting, Revenge of the Nerds is worth considering. Fortunately, you don't have to be a masochist to watch Revenge of the Nerds, as it is not painfully bad. But it does help to have an IQ below 80. While I am not the world's expert on bad movies, nor have I read a scholarly dissertation on the evolution of dumb, dumber and dumbest movies, my guess is this paean to stupidity served as a prototype for subsequent excuses for inflicting bad scripts on the eternal adolescents. It lowered the bar for the minimum standard of quality for a movie and still return a profit, but there were even worse movies to come that lowered the bar a notch at a time, until it was impossible to make a movie any dumber without encountering the Springtime for Hitler effect. To give credit where credit is due, I guess it takes a certain amount of talent to deliver a nerdy performance, unless you are the genuine article. The trouble is, any resemblance between these characters and actual living, breathing human beings is purely coincidental. James Cromwell comes close to avoiding looking like a walking cardboard cutout, wisely stepping back a notch from hyper-over-acting. Too bad the youngsters didn't take a cue from this pro. Actually, Curtis Armstrong, Booger, probably delivers the only decent performance.And it must take a certain amount of talent to produce (I hesitate to say write) a script that never for a moment comes within 45 degrees of realism. The movie is almost plot-free, but does manage the stumble from one gag to another in an only mildly inebriated and entertaining fashion. OK, I will admit that I did laugh at some of the gags, which were presented in a deft fashion. If not, I would have rated this a 2. You can watch this and enjoy it, if you are in the right mood. But to credit Revenge of the Nerds with establishing a genre is historically inaccurate. First there was Animal House in 1978, though before that, there was Saturday Night Live, the TV show. Then there was Porky's in 1982. Porky's cost $4 million to make, and at last count had raked in $105 million. It was the original adolescent, sex, revenge movie. It was clever, cute, original and had good acting. Revenge of the Nerds came out in 1984 in an obvious attempt to cash in on this trend. It's made money, too, probably mostly because of all the teenage boys wanting to see naked girls. Hey, these are some hot bods! But there was nothing in the least clever about the nerds' revenge. It was all downhill from there. On the other hand, Porky's director Bob Clark turned around and made the classic Christmas Story in 1983 based on Jean Shepard's short stories. Not a nude girl in it. It is one of my favorite movies. My point is, in talented hands, you can make an adolescent movie spiced with sex and hijinxs that can work on multiple levels and have some quality and class. But I guess this is too much work for some directors.Porky's is far better than it's reputation. Heck, I would say it is a classic of its genre. Definitely a worth see. There is enough realism that you can imagine real people and situations like this.Yes, Revenge of the Nerds is amusing and not particularly painful to watch. But with a more talent and effort it could have risen to the level of being a good movie. "},{"Title":"The ultimate underdog comedy!","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Since the beginning of man there has been conflict between the so-called winners and losers. What makes someone one of each? Some say you're a loser if you're too smart, nice, and don't conform to the beautiful people's way of life. But most of us know that that's just ridiculous, not to mention shallow, and that it's best to be yourself and not care what others think of you. Even today people get picked on in school for being different, but they shouldn't let it get them down. That's ultimately the message in 'Revenge of the Nerds,' a film that the people involved thought would be something only a few people would see and that would end their film careers before they began. Well lucky for them and us it turned out to be one of the funniest and most unforgettable of comedies of our time.Pros Perfectly cast and acted. A concept that is both kind of silly, but also cool. Plenty of funny lines and hilarious sequences. Neat score and fun soundtrack, including a catchy title theme. Swift pace. Has a lot of heart and the characters come off real rather than as cartoon characters. Though not a movie to make you think a lot, there is a nice message here. A slam dunk finish.Cons Pretty dated now. Some stereotypical characters.Final thoughts The studio may not have believed in this film when it was made, but the people sure wanted to see it. How could a movie called 'Revenge of the Nerds' not be a hell of a lot of fun? Sure it's very 1980s, which isn't such a bad thing if you're an 80s nut, and pretty silly at times, but everyone had their hearts in it and it's just so much fun. One of those movies that never gets old.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Rude,crude and raunchy but deservedly successful","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rude, crude and raunchy but also consistently good humoured and almost consistently funny. This is a film that it is impossible to commend but whilst it should have sunk into oblivion long ago, it still has enough consumer appeal to remain readily available. In fact it is even well on its way to becoming a cult classic. The reason is partly of course that most of us enjoy any film about underdogs who are being abused by their more successful contemporaries but find a way to strike back and earn their place in the sun. None of us can hope for a continually successful life without setbacks, and such films provide necessary encouragement at these times. This was an early example, and it may even have saved a few unhappy young nerds in unsympathetic Colleges from suicidal thoughts. So roll on ROTN, continue to earn new DVD releases and to maintain a user rating that remains just above the unviewable range. - 5 stars is probably about fair. "}{"Title":"Classic 80's Nostalgia Movie","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just caught this movie on cable for the first time since I saw it as a kid when it came out, and it was just as amusing, if for slightly different reasons this time around. This film is a reflection of a simpler time, kind of like how our parents view the 50's. The political incorrectness is hilarious for it's absurdity, and the fact that few people even blinked an eye at it then. The movie is stupid but funny, offensive but charming, and at times is even clever in it's direction and editing. The song routine is a cult classic on it's own merits! If a movie can elicit at least three lengthy belly laughs, it's worked. And Nerds worked to a T. "},{"Title":"Timely Social Satire, but Certainly No Comedy!!!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had nothing but hell, every year in school, from both ends First, those in authority, who permitted my kind to be savagely assaulted, by, secondly, a majority of peers who literally needed bullwhips applied to their backs; but who were never disciplined, since those in authority were too busy threatening my kind (among other things, the most conveniently easy to handle!), if we ever dared think of defensively fighting back! . . . Hitler, too, had encouraged such bullying, to either weed out or toughen the weak, although I would have to give even if not especially him at least enough credit to where, much more probably, no such double standard would have been so piously, rancorously enforced, under his jurisdiction! . . . The physical education instructors, especially, were always emphasizing militarism, and encouraging their closest friends among the students to relentlessly pursue their favorite sadistic pastime, of systematically destroying the self-images of every nerd on campus, so as to feed off the condition of degradation which resulted! . . . Moreover, most females, who otherwise whine about brutes, are characteristically at the vanguard of this persecution; until it's hardly any wonder that so many males symbiotically cleave, sexually, to other males, where they can both play the female role, with relation to one-another! Many females also aspire to being men, while feeling smugly certain they can have it both ways! . . . Such cleverly amusing satire may, however, only succeed, overall, at unoffensively smoothing out too many of the roughest edges! Thus, for a much more grimly candid portrayal of the kinds of damage people succeed at doing to one-another, until it's sometimes vomited right back out, Charles Bronson's Ten to Midnight deserves much more scrutiny! Personally, I thank God, Unto This Very Day, that, Unlike Warren Stacey (Gene Davis), I Shall Always Continue, as I Always Have, to Aspire To Being An Angel!!!. . . However, it's actually James Dean, in Rebel Without a Cause, which is my own much more realistically normative Cup of Tea! I struggled, in school, and at home, with exactly the same problems! The details of what Jim Stark had to endure, internally, too, as the kind of person he was, were all very accurately portrayed, with relation to me; save, that is, for his most tragically climactic experience, in the middle, as well as the hopefully promising ending. Parenthetically, Plato (All Remember Sal Mineo, Don't They?), too, was a Dismally Unheeded Warning, Even To This Very Day, and Despite So Many More Of Them Now! Moreover, I Had To Experience What Plato Felt, Too; But, Again, Thank God, Not The Kind Of Thing He Finally Ended Up Doing!!! . . . Even My later experience, as Cal, in East of Eden, shall continue, Thank God (minus any doubt about what He Wills!), keeping me as intact as it did him, since I haven't yet reached the very end of it. But, as for Giant? I'm just lucky enough, at least, never to have had the money--or the racism!!! For another glaring view of this kind of problem, compare the difference between the Jonas Cord, Sr., of Brian Keith, in Nevada Smith, and Leif Erickson, in The Carpetbaggers! Consider, also, a very old man, in Amadeus, who never could quite grasp the answer to a question which had been perpetually in front of his very nose! Burt Lancaster's Robert Stroud, the Birdman of Alcatraz, was a more valuable gift of longevity, bestowed by Woodrow Wilson; although Cordell Walker, Texas Ranger, wasn't so lucky with a little boy he had just about talked out of suicide, before the boy slipped accidentally and tragically to his death! Many continue to ask why the Lord, if there really is one, after-all, permits such senselessly wasteful tragedies to occur; while, at the same time, He's undoubtedly asking why almost everybody permits such expensively vital lessons to go no less thoroughly to waste! Kirk Douglas said it well, several years ago, in a television ad Prospective suicides don't really want to die, they just want to stop the pain!!! But as for Mark Twain's Sid Sawyer? There's real nerd, the kind who is just looking for trouble. "},{"Title":"Sing Revenge of the Nerds Revenge of the Nerds uh uh yeah....","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Get out your robotic electronic dance moves and synthesizers before delving into this one. What a memorable film, I still hum the ROTN tune from the show...Say what you want, but the misfits fight back and kick arse is a format that will never lose vogue for as long as popularity and marginalization exists amongst youth culture. This one is part of the motley crew of films of this genre emerging in the early 80s, not unlike the early 2000s where we have teenage party films like American Pie, Road Trip, etc. Back then it was, ROTN, Stripes, Police Academy...the list goes on. I'm just enjoying the underdog victory as I always have! "},{"Title":"A poor man's Animal House","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1980's poor man's Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds is the story of Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards as two total nerds at college. Laughed at by the frat house jocks and spurned by the brainless bimbos of the sorority, the enterprising nerds start their own frat enlisting every geek on campus regardless of race, creed or color. There is Curtis Armstrong as Booger and you'll never recognize Timothy Busfield as near-sighted Poindexter. Tormented by the brothers of Alpha Beta house, the nerds exact their revenge and the movie culminates in a puerile panty raid of the Pi Delta Pi sorority and the nerds' high-techno performance in the contest for best musical revue on campus. Big John Goodman is the mean coach. Revenge of the Nerds is a raunchy, brainless farce, full of ethnic stereotypes. All the jocks are muscle-bound and mean and all the sorority sisters are manipulative bimbos. Revenge has a totally unsubtle message, but it also has its funny moments. Revenge of the Nerds is a juvenile comedy where the little guy gets his and the jocks and sorority bimbos get what's coming to them. "},{"Title":"Best Ending ever!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This cult classic is among my favorite movies. It has many cheesy jokes that land dead on for me. Revenge of the nerds is one of those movies that came out of the mid eighties with the stereotypical eighties style. You have short shorts, high socks, those michael jackson jackets and even commodore computer systems. The ending is one of the best ever, but then again, I am a nerd, an I'm proud of it. The ending of this film is not surprising, but the way it captures you is. The nerds stand up against nerd persecution and that Queen song comes on and it makes you leave the film thinking--wow, I'm a better person for watching that flick. "},{"Title":"if only one person gets it ... it will have been worth it","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I drove from Cleveland to Toledo to see this movie because it wasn't playing at the Maple Town.Revenge of the Nerds is about a group of nerd college students who are being picked on all the time by the jocks. So they decide to take revenge.I consider myself a nerd. And this movie has uplifted me.*SPOILERS*There's this one scene where a nerd grabs the microphone during a pep rally and announces that he is a nerd and that he is proud of it and stands up for the rights of other nerds. Then he asks all of the kids at the pep rally who think they are nerds to come forward. *chokes on burger while typing* So nearly everyone in the place does.That's the way the movie ends. It's about time that people who get picked on get to be the heroes. "},{"Title":"Nerds!!!!Nerds!!!!Nerds!!!!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie; it is a true classic.  It is dated, and one has to understand the 80's macho, old beer commercial perfect, women magnet type of guy attitude of the time.  Forget the Boy bands of today, the macho jocks would have chased these wimps out of the school dance!  Unless you had some slick political skills or played a mean axe (guitar for those not from the 80's) the top of the food chain ruled.  Talk about computers, bad dress, or social slowness labelled you a nerd.       Now the computer geeks rule in 00's; there is true revenge.  The movie like animal house looks very dated.  Animal house has been copied too death to the point that the shock value is gone, and so is the humor.  The heros of animal house are viewed as the jerks of today for whoever had their childish pranks pulled on them.  Animal house led the evolution for revenge of the Nerds, where the pranksters became the norm and picked on the nerds.  The dated part is where the social out casts get sympathy, where now a days people worry that the weird nerd could go nuts.  They have a Walton's joke that no one would get know, and a couple of the nerds would fit in today's grung or PC crowd.  The part that keeps this film on top is the writing.  What the nerds lack in social skills, looks, and muscles they make up in brains.  They get their revenge on the Jocks, with some dated non PC tactics that make me laugh.  In the end, I love the part where they yell Nerds!!! Nerds!! and one of them say, who are they talking too?  8/10.  "},{"Title":"F'N hilarious!","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This '84 classic which pairs Robert Carradine (Lewis) and Anthony Edwards (Gilbert) is f'n hilarious! Although, Ted McGinley (Stan), Matt Salinger (Burke), and Donald Gibb (Ogre) steal the movie as the nerd hatin', topnotch Adams' football players. Probably the best (and stupidest) scene would have to be when Lamar (Larry Scott) 'n' Andrew Cassese (Wormser) mock Michael Jackson in various ways (clothin', dance, etc.). Aside from the ending (the nerds comin' out on top), this classic 'bout nerds rulin' a college campus at the end is truly a movie worth seeing. And hell, you get to see a rather 'thin' John Goodman, as Coach Harris. A solid rating of an eight. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable 80's fun!","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had a lot of fun whenever I watched this film on video. I was very young then and this film showed just how fun or hilarious college can be despite being fictional. There were lots of gimmicks and jokes that brought me to laughter like when the Nerds placed this liquid into the usual thing the Alpha-Betas wore for football...then what happened to the AB's on the football field. ROTN also showed just how fun and united having a group can be too! The cast here is simply the best and it's youth oriented no less.I miss this film so much, I'd like to watch it again and experience the hilarious magic I had with this film. "},{"Title":"I loved it....","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  These are the type of movies I love 80's teen comedy's (fast times, reveng of the nerds, porky's ect). Well and 70's and 80's horror films as well. But anyways, I loved this movie ever since I watched it when I was like 14. Booger is funny as heck. (not as funny as spicoli from fast times, but close) Its just such a funny movie its so typical of the 80's. Great story, humor, nudity, drug use. Rent this or watch for it on tv if you haven't seen it Overall 8/10 Click on my name for tons of horror movie reviews "}{"Title":"Of the many college campus comedy films made... this has to be one of the very best.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is, in my opinion, an absolute riot.  Back in the early eighties nerds were people who were smart, knew about computers and were- well a little different.  While in the 90's you don't have to be a nerd to be computer literate or smart there are elements in this film which are highly amusing.  Who can really go past the belching scene for laughs.  While the laughs of the two main nerds cracks me up every time, because yes some people really do laugh like that!.  The plot is a little predictable but that's half the fun.  Of the many college campus comedy films made in the 80s and into the 90s this has to be one of the very best.  An eighties classic by any stretch of the imagination. "},{"Title":"Superb 80's comedy classic","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies from the 80's. It's got all the T&A necessities required for its genre as well as genuinely funny lines and situations. A huge thumbs up from me as well as all the other nerds out there. There's also an excellent musical sequence near the climax. "},{"Title":"exCellent","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Satire is the traditional weapon of the powerless against the powerful -Mark TwainI think this movie personifies that quote, more than anything else.  It's a strike against pop-culture.. and it succeeds on many levels.  Lots of memorable lines are in this movie, most of which can't be posted here.  I think, though, that the movie can be summed up in its title song So go ahead, put us down, One of these days we'll turn it around; Won't be long, mark my words The time has come for _Revenge of the Nerds_!  "},{"Title":"Cool Feel Good Movie Of The Century","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best feel good movie I have ever seen.  Everyone has a little nerd in them which is a point that this movie makes terrificly.  If you like it Buy it.  If you have never seen it Rent it then buy it.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I liked it, obviously","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  as a nerd (could you tell), i was instantly attracted to this movie, and despite all the communist propaganda, and the bitter irony, i loved it. a mixture of intelligent humor, disturbingly accurate stereotypes, and a predictable but well done ending made this movie entirely wonderific. however, it gave me an entirely inaccurate view of college, ending in my scheduled execution after some...unpleasantness...  "},{"Title":"One of the descendants of Animal House delivers the goods.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The classic battle of nerds and jocks featuring an all-star cast  Anthony Edwards, Robert Carradine, Curtis Armstrong, Larry Scott, Timothy Busfield, Julie Montgomery, Michelle Meyrink, Donald Gibb, and Ted McGinley.  Two Bluto Blutarski clones are featured  Curtis Armstrong as Dudley Dawson aka Booger, and Donald Gibb as admitted nerd hater Ogre.  There are beautiful people in this film, especially the superbabe Julie Montgomery. Bush fans will love this film, and I'm not talking about fans of the British alternative rock band.  "},{"Title":"Frat film could have been funnier and not as raunchy.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate to compare those frathouse movies with softer, gentler teenage material such as CLUELESS because we're dealing with two different sub-genres here. REVENGE OF THE NERDS is a step above teen movies, and because it requires some ill-conceived R-rated trash. It could have been the other way around. The two nerds in glasses was what made this movie likeable and special in every way, plus their ability to rule over an opposing fraternity that humiliated them made it an entertaining pleasure. This one should have been less intent on its raunchiness, though. The satire is welcome, but the film goes way off course when we're treated to plenty of unneeded flatulence and feminine body parts. Much more attention to comedy elements would've flattened the impact down to minimum size. An O.K. movie for its own good, yet ANIMAL HOUSE is far better on laughs than this one offered.   "},{"Title":"Classic 80s Comedy","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds (1984) *** (out of 4)Nerds Lewis (Robert Carradine) and Gilbert (Anthony Edwards) head off to college where they hope their lives will pick up some steam but upon arrival they're laughed at, picked on and thrown out of their house by the jocks. Soon all the nerds on campus come together to try and fit in but it's clear that if they want respect they're going to have to destroy the jocks. I don't think there's any doubt that this movie was probably made due to the fact that PORKY'S was such a hit but no matter the reason for being made, this is an extremely funny little gem that has some really good performances, a funny story and a wonderful charm. The humor is pretty much all over the place as we get the typical nerd jokes but all of them seem so fresh here. The stuff dealing with them getting kicked out of their living quarters is mildly funny but the real greatness here really picks up towards the middle of the film when the nerds try to throw a party and nothing goes as planned. With the help of Michael Jackson's Thriller, this entire sequence becomes one of the most memorable from all the teen/frat comedies of the decade. Everything from the boring acts to the eventual pot-smoking gives us one major laugh after another. All of this leads to the various stunts with the nerds getting their revenge and the screenplay is so well-written that you can't help but enjoy every step of the way. Another major plus are the performances with Carradine and Edwards really making their characters very memorable. As soon as we meet these two we like them and want to see them achieve their goals of being respected. The entire supporting cast is good with standouts including Curtis Armstrong as Booger, Brian Tochi as Toshiro, Julia Montgomery as the sexy Betty Childs and Ted McGinley who most will remember from Married...With Children. John Goodman and James Cromwell have nice supporting roles as well. I thought the finale of the film wasn't as strong as it could have been but there's still plenty of fun to be had with this film. "},{"Title":"A so-so 80's comedy","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge of the Nerds is not a great film. There are some funny scenes but overall the movie fails to elict a lot of laughs. The characters themselves are funny but they are shown off to better effect in the film's sequel Nerds in Paradise. Nerds in Paradise is much better than this movie and you would be better off seeing that one if you haven't seen this. Since plot and character development is not important in these films, although most of the characters are carried over into the second film, you won't have trouble following the action. Booger is the funniest nerd by far and he really should have been used more. Bottom Line See the second one first and then if that hooks you see this. That's how I did it. The DVD has both films on it so you can't lose. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the Nerds","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Affable, yet predictable adolescent comedy about nerds denied greek life who have their day in the sun. Plenty of crude jokes to motivate some laughter. Followed by 3 sequels. Nice to see Goodman in his early years.  "}{"Title":"Time capsule.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Extremely predictable and full of stereotypical characters and tired jokes, Revenge Of The Nerds can be best viewed today as a time capsule. Definitely an 80's film that shows its age. A few funny moments and some (brief) nudity provide a measure of fun.    (**) "},{"Title":"The jokes in 'Revenge of the Nerds' sometimes fall flat (the burping contest rings to mind) but the film manages to mainly stay on course with what it tries to do have some fun, and entertain the audi","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Revenge of the Nerds - 1984There have been a lot of comedic rip-offs of `Animal House' over the past years. `Police Academy' and all its sequels come to mind, but those films were also rip-offs of `Stripes' with Bill Murray. Basically, all those movies are in the same genre misfits strike back and win the day. That's what it is. In `Animal House' it was a pack of college slobs; in `Stripes' it was Bill Murray and his gang of oddballs; in `Police Academy' it was Steve Guttenberg with his rip-off pack. Now, I'm reviewing `Revenge of the Nerds,' another comedy about nerds and how they conquer the `cool' people. Thank God this one is funny, and not another rip-off, i.e. `Police Academy.'As I write this, I have never seen `Animal House.' I know that to be a `movie buff' `Animal House' is a must-see, but I just haven't gotten around to seeing it yet; not having it at my local video rental store and the television companies never putting it on TV doesn't help, much, either. So, with that in mind, `Revenge of the Nerds,' is, to me, the best college-geeks/misfits comedy around  - perhaps even better than `Stripes' (though that is pushing it, a bit). After a bunch of nerds are shipped off to college, they are utterly devastated by the fact that they are picked on constantly (though I don't understand how that can be anything new for those guys). The jocks of the college ridicule them publicly, causing them to retreat to their college dorms.But now, they've had it up to here, and they are making a strike against the oppression.Robert Carradine leads a low-star cast full of geek-comedy stereotypes the loveable slob, the token black guy with `riddim,' the full-of-himself jock, the snobby (and busty) cheerleader, etc&#133; Fortunately, the characters are almost a pun on those of comedies like `Animal House' &#150; they don't take themselves too seriously. The actors have fun with their roles, and that's always good to see. Robert Carradine proves to be a good actor - not the greatest in the world, but surprisingly convincing. I'm pretty sure he's the brother (son?) of John Carradine; I think so, at least.The jokes in `Revenge of the Nerds' sometimes fall flat (the burping contest rings to mind) but the film manages to mainly stay on course with what it tries to do have some fun, and entertain the audience, while giving slight courage to the nerds of these generations.Along in the joke category are the pranks the nerds pull on everyone who ever made fun of them; they make a great array of booby-traps and pranks that would threaten even Macaulay Culkin's mad skills. The pranks are very funny, although a few get out of hand (the plate picture). Ask me why I like `Revenge of the Nerds' so much and I can't really tell you why. Granted, it's not a whole lot different (or better) than the ill-fated `Police Academy.' Still, it has some sort of `feel' to it that a lot of eighties comedies had and have, that just make the film worth watching. It grows on you. It's a bit like the feel of a campy movie, except for a comedy. I'm going to have to think of a name for this eighties comedy-film feeling. Perhaps I'll call it `campeight' or something like that. I don't know. I just know that `Revenge of the Nerds' is good entertainment.Before I bought `Predator' on DVD about a year ago, and before I bought it on video (yes, this has to do with `Revenge of the Nerds'), I rented it out on video in 1999. I had already seen it, of course, but I felt like watching it again. Anyway, before the film, there was a commercial where the camera scaled this decorated room with all kinds of gadgets and `nerdy' stuff. Finally, the camera came to rest on a chair, and the back of someone's head. Then, that `someone' turned around to reveal&#133;Robert Carradine saying `We're ba-a-a-ack!'I instantly felt both happy and sad.It was a commercial for `Revenge of the Nerds II Nerds in Paradise.' I must say that the commercial made it look good, but the sequel is just so-so. The jokes mostly fall flat, and are very reminiscent of the `Police Academy' films and their downfall(s). I just felt like adding this pointless paragraph to this review to tell you readers to ONLY watch the second film if it is on television. It is NOT worth renting. With that in mind, go see `Revenge of the Nerds' part I and have some fun. It's pure entertainment, and is very `campeight.' )3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Not the 80's Comedy Gold one myth hope for, but still quite Funny,","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds is a decent movie with a fairly well developed storyline and a good comedic cast. It certainly has lots of great moments, there are many scenes that had me laughing out loud, it's characters all have very different personalities which makes for some terrific moments, the soundtrack is also fantastic, offering some pure eighties music. The film has the same problem several films from the eighties have, and that's that they forget about the story or set up of the movie on several occasions and just get carried away with themselves making jokes and offering slapstick images for the audience, this can get irritating at times as it will leave you wanting the story to move forward some more, also because of the constant comedy, it becomes hard to care and sympathise with the main characters. It's called Revenge of the Nerds, but I don't feel like the revenge is ever fully realised, even the ending dosen't offer a complete closure to the story and let the audience know that the jocks have gotten their just desserts and the nerds now reign superior, it wasn't a clear or fitting finale. It's quite funny at times, but I don't think Revenge of the Nerds deserves to be considered one of the great comedy movies of the eighties, but it is certainly worth the watch if you ever see it on television. A group of nerds decide to take on their colleges obnoxious sporting types. Best Performance Robert Carradine "},{"Title":"It's OK To Be A Nerd!","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Robert Carradine, Anthony Edwards, Curtis Armstrong, Timothy Busfield, Ted McGinley, Donald Gibb, Julia Montgomery and John Goodman star in this 1984 comedy. Lewis (Carradine) and his best friend, Gilbert (Edwards) are 2 nerds starting their first year at Adams College where they're humiliated and get into mischief. Soon, they're kicked out of their dorm along with other nerds by jocks from the Alpha Beta fraternity. When the Alpha Betas continue to make fun and humiliate the nerds, Lewis and his friends decide to join fraternity, Lambda Lambda Lambda to get back at them. Armstrong (Risky Business) plays Lewis and Gilbert's new friend, Booger, Busfield (Field of Dreams) plays Poindexter, their other new friend, McGinley (Married with Children) plays Stan, leader of the Alpha Betas, Gibb (Bloodsport) plays Ogre, Stan's teammate, Montgomery plays Betty, Stan's girlfriend who eventually likes Lewis and Goodman (Roseanne) plays Coach Harris. This is a good 80's comedy with a good cast I recommend. "},{"Title":"Get Your Geek On","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds offers a fairly simple tale about freshman college nerds who get picked on by a frat house of privileged, good looking jocks. It culminates in a series of jocks vs nerds events, the winner of which will be granted control of the college's judiciary system. The film ends with nerds inheriting power, jocks fading away like cavemen and geeks being shown to be better at sex.The film's premiere coincided with the release of Microsoft Windows, and predates super-nerd Bill Gates' jock-like corporate bullying, anti-competitive strategies and monopolising of the computing market.7.5/10 - Some impressive casting (Anthony Edwards, Timothy Busfield, Curtis Armstrong, John Goodman, John Cromwell), and some slick direction by movie trailer director Jeff Kanew, make this one of the better teen sex fantasies of the 80s. "},{"Title":"a book should never be judged by its cover....","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everybody else's fantastic comments/reviews have already said what I'll end up repeating. This film is fantastic. While the overall plot is not very realistic, events which occur in the movie are. Many attractive affluent people DO get the breaks while the ones who work hard and are not 'the standard of beauty' get passed over. But 'Nerds' shows us that superficiality does not always prevail.But sadly, it does a lot of times. Just not in this movie, which is a good thing!And not just the 'superficial' aspect not just 'I'm hot'. There's this kind of violent attitude towards that which is different, and that has been going on in society forever. Plus the Alpha-Betas lying about various situations and 'playing the victim card'.All that said, I haven't read anything about how Lewis and Betty had become husband and wife for future sequels. But I may have just not paid attention. While I feel how Betty fell for Lewis was crazy, crazier things have happened. I did like how she pointed out how they fixed up their home to Stan.Now, is it just me or is 'Stanley' a pretty nerdy name?The Nerds also showed us how three-dimensional they were. The Alpha-Betas were one-dimensional and just liked to party and workout. The Nerds ended up being somewhat athletic, drank, had sex, got high, pulled pranks, and still had time to be brainiacs. And, as I said above, could be handymen.Remember, people The Nerds were the type of guys who ended up being successful and getting married. The Alpha Betas were the guys who after college were still hitting up on 18 year old girls and wondering why they're single 'because they're so awesome.Great flick, got mine at walmart for $5 and it's in my DVD player as I type this.Best characters were Lamar, U.N., and the Japanese guy whose name I can pronounce but cannot spell. Not an intellectually stimulating film but one of my top ten fave movies ever. I apologize for typos, butchering of the English Language, and the fact I do not professionally write reviews. Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"A Distant Third","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Given the unexpectedly high rating for this movie I can't help thinking that a lot of thirty-somethings must have re-watched it through a nostalgic haze, transported back to their own youth by the antics of the typical array of nerds and jocks at Adams College. The Eighties were plagued with these mostly asinine teen comedies that pandered to male teens' baser instincts. The truth is some of these films were perfectly acceptable entertainment for their narrow target market but, compared to films of other genres, they're very poor quality. Animal House, which pretty much kick-started the genre, was the best of the bunch, with Porky's, it's bawdy, irreverent Canadian counterpart coming in second. Revenge of the Nerds could arguably be credited with a very distant third - but that 6.4 rating after 14,000+ votes seems way too generous.The story is the typical nerds vs jocks scenario. The nerds here replace the bacchanalian slobs from Animal House, but otherwise nothing much has changed the only classes anyone seems to attend is football class, and all the students are in their late 20s or early 30s. Robert Carradine and Anthony Edwards are decent enough in the role of lead nerds, even though, apart from the original-for-its-day idea of having nerds as heroes, they have little of any quality to work with. All the nerds are stereotypical types, with only Curtis Armstrong's Booger really coming across as believable.If you're over 25 - and this doesn't form part of the flashback of your life - the chances are you'll find this a pretty bland concoction, with a few scattered laughs between a lot of misfires. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the Nerds","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watching NERDS again just proved that despite it's lovingly exploitive attitude, the jokes(albeit perhaps dated after 20 years)reflecting the on-going nerd culture as computers were becoming the key for the success of very intelligent people who dress and act a bit different are what make it so appealing. I think it's a time-capsule teen comedy when the formula worked and well. The film is based in stereotyping, but that is another one of it's appealing traits. It's easy for us who never really felt we belonged in the popular set to side with the victimized nerds for they represent the lonely-hearts who bask in the giant hurdled insult. The film, despite hurling those insults, engagingly loves these nerds and I think that's another key to the film's success. We can understand that without the wonderful performances from the cast portraying the nerds that this film just couldn't fly. The film is also so immersed in 80's pop culture that it is an amusing memory to dredge back up.The film shows the jocks as cretins pretty much abusive in every way. They step over the nerds because they deem themselves superior because of what they have externally than internally. We can see that they have to depend on what they have on the outside(brawn and good-looks)because the nerds completely overwhelm them on the inside. Carradine as Louis and Edwards as Gilbert are definitely the spark plug for the film and are so wonderful and likable, the material looks better. Then you have the gross-out jokes that worked well for Belushi in Animal House in this film represented by Curtis Armstrong's Booger who burps loudest and picks his nose the deepest. And, he can hurl one mean hilarious insult. His quips are the most funniest. Then you have Timothy Busfield as the elder Poindexter who seems to be the most clumsiest nerd of the bunch who sure has a hard time with the robotic maid. You have Larry Scott as the homosexual Lamar where the humorous gay jokes fly. Ted McGinley is the prick leader of the Alpha Beta jocks and Donald Gibb is The Ogre(who probably would be considered a nerd if he wasn't so massive). Then there's the oh-so yummy Betty Childs who is McGinley's girl but falls in love with Louis after she discovers how good nerds actually are at sex.There's this non-PC attitude that reigns supreme as full frontal nudity is in heavy doses and many of the jokes would indeed be considered offensive. But, it comes down to seeing the nerds out-shine and out-last those jocks that leaves us particularly satisfied. "},{"Title":"A Political Metaphor (WARNING SPOILERS)","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great 80s comedy for sure, but Nerds is also a thinly veiled political metaphor. Nerds, the community of brilliance ostracized simply for their inability to adapt to societal standards of normal. The persecuted Nerds will continue to be shunned unless they can compete and ultimately overthrow their adversaries, the Alpha Betas (not really the Pi's since the sorority girl, Betty, eventually falls in love with Lewis). The Alpha Betas, headed by the jocko homos, are determined to keep the Nerds down, and can do so successfully because they run the Greek Council. So, they can get away with pretty much any pranks they play on the Nerds, who are just looking to get a fair shake. The Alpha Betas and, initially, their counterparts, Sorority Pi, are afraid that if Nerds are allowed to participate in the Fraternity system, they'll destroy what Fraternities are all about (jocko homos). I think Ted McGinley's character even says something like we can't let the Nerds in, they'll take over everything.The Nerds find help with a sponsoring Fraternal organization called the Tri Lambdas, an all-black Fraternity organization which agrees to take on the Nerds once they find out that the Nerds can fight back against their agressors. Once accepted by the Tri Lambdas, the Nerds promise to maintain an Equal Opportunity organization.After an hour and half of beers, college hijinks, and naked girls, the Nerds prevail, proving their worthiness following the climax at the Triathalon. In the end, Gilbert gets to be Council president, hopefully restoring equality and goodness to the governing body.   "},{"Title":"You don't have to be a nerd to love this movie","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two computer nerds--Lewis (Robert Carradine) and Gilbert (Anthony Edwards)--have trouble in college because of a fraternity of sadistic jocks. But, they get their revenge. That's about it for the plot but this movie is fun! I was in college when I saw this and I was nerd so I immediately identified with the characters (although I'm not anywhere near as nerdy as these guys). Yeah, they're gross (Booger), dress funny and almost all wear glasses but they have brains and intelligence and fight back (and win) WITHOUT using violence. I knew this movie was going to be fun when you see the title appear during the 20th Century Fox intro music (like it was some big important movie). Then when Carradine laughed early on--the movie had me. His laugh is infectious...and hysterical! Thankfully they don't overuse it--it's just in enough to remain funny. Also the acting is good all around. Carradine and Edwards are great and it's fun to see Ted McGinley before Married...with Children and John Goodman before Roseanne. Also there's James Cromwell (yes--THAT James Cromwell billed as Jamie Cromwell) in a small role. Yes, the film is far from perfect. There's the expected gross-out jokes, sexism, gratuitous female nudity and dead spots but you have to expect it in a film like this. Also there's a few unexpected laughs when you see the ancient computers these guys use! A surprise hit in its day. Best line--That nerd saw me naked! An 8. "}{"Title":"Alpha Beta blockers...","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Long before the lovable cast of THE BIG BANG THEORY made being a Nerd fashionable, there was REVENGE OF THE NERDS. At times it plays out like a straightforward drama (which is one of its many strengths), but make no mistake about it there's humor galore. The contretemps begin when a group of jocks burn down their frat house and immediately commandeer the Nerd house. The Nerds are forced to sleep on cots in the gymnasium. It's like we're refugees from a war, bemoans child prodigy Harold Wormser. Before long, our heroes find themselves looking for a fraternity that will sponsor them in a bid to have a say in their own fate. They end up approaching the Lambda Lambda Lambdas- headed by U.N. Jefferson (the underrated- and under-utilized- Bernie Casey). Best line when Lewis Skolnick (Robert Carradine) explains to his girlfriend why Nerds are so much better in bed than jocks All jocks ever think about is sports. All WE ever think about is sex. "},{"Title":"Movie for the Nerd Universe","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lewis Skolnick (Robert Carradine) and Gilbert Lowell (Anthony Edwards) are two nerds starting their college life at Adams. When the football jocks burn down their own house, they take over the freshman dorm. Lewis, Gilbert, and other nerds have no place to go when no fraternity is willing to take them. So they get their own run down house.This is the ultimate underdog movie. The characters are memorable icons of nerd-dom. Lewis's laugh, Booger, Lamar's javelin throw, and Ogre's nerd cry are all unforgettable. It's a simple and sweet movie with a loving message. The characters are strictly broad stereotypes. However the actors are able to give real human emotions to the nerds. It has moments of Porky's, and moments of Animal House. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the Nerds","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Revenge of the Nerds is the story of nerds who fight there way back to earn peace and respect on there campus.There's nothing in the movie that really stands out. Especially when you mention '80s movies. Far more memorable movies and moments.The movie is still enjoyable, but not that great.The movie is funny, silly, and pretty entertaining.I'll give it a 6/10 because it's enjoyable, but not great. Still a decent movie.I plan on watching the sequels, even though they probably suck. Who knows, I might enjoy them. "},{"Title":"A Funny Comedy, But Flawed","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I agree with most of the reviews on here saying that this is a very funny movie, etc. But, at the risk of being a party pooper, I feel compelled to point out what I consider a big flaw in this film. (Warning this is a spoiler.)That flaw is the following. This movie is supposed to make us feel that nerds are oppressed by jocks, and we are meant to see the nerds beat the jocks while not stooping to their level. However, I think that the nerds exhibit worse behavior in this movie than the jocks. All the jocks do is vandalize the nerds' house or insult the nerds. They don't ever, say, beat up the nerds. Nor do they sexually harass the nerdy girls. But the nerds go on the panty raid (maybe this is just petty theft, not so bad) and install cameras to spy on the popular girls when they're naked. And they distribute the naked pictures to the whole school during the carnival. This is ungentlemanly to say the least. But the cherry on the icing is how Lewis puts on the Darth Vader mask to have sex with Betty Childs. Yes, she's happy about it in the end, but what if she hadn't been? Do the ends justify the means? Lewis' behavior was deceitful and sleazy at best.The point I want to make is that, because of these behaviors, the nerds have stained themselves, and they are not really sympathetic characters, although we overlook it because they're nerds, overgrown children essentially. Would we turn such a blind eye if they were jocks? I think that the makers of the movie should have tried a little harder and made a similar film where the nerds had more moral fiber. Ask this are these really the role models we want young nerds growing up with? "},{"Title":"What can I say Revenge of the 80's?","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a funny teen-sex comedy. Obviously it is dated and very stereotypical. But you let go and have a lot of fun with it. Finally, after everything I heard about this movie, I got to see it. I have to say it's a little over rated, but you get your laughs. I did like the scene where the girl has had the kinks with the nerd, but she thought it was her boyfriend in costume, and she was so amazed, even when she found out, and he said All jocks think about is sports, but nerds always think about sex. That's probably true, LOL. The ending is more heart warming then funny. But like I said, it's a decent comedy. And it is considered a classic among many. So, give it a shot. You'll get a funny cast, a few laughs, and maybe even learn a few things from the nerds. D 7/10 "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a poorly done rewrite of National Lampoon's Animal House. The actors perform childishly (beyond what the script requires), and the plot fails to deliver an interesting story. If you want a comedy about coming of age in a college fraternity, stick with Animal House. "},{"Title":"And now, The Revenge of the Audience ...","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ... at least this member of it, who had to look at  this and similar inane crap of the day as a theatre  employee ... is a Two out of Ten rating.  And THAT's being  generous, mostly because it was usually in focus. "},{"Title":"it's the best college comedy movie of all time! and one of my favorite movies ever","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i love revenge of the nerds. i have been watching it since 1985 or 1986. it's very funny,and very entertaining. it's a perfect movie that has it all. if you haven't seen it yet go rent it now. if u have seen it watch it again.it never gets tiresome.just about everybody in this movie is funny that comes on the screen.i give revenge of the nerds **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"May be classic, but such a disgrace","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first started watching this movie it started off fine, I had very high hopes for it, then about 15 minutes into the film I realized I was watching sick humor that wasn't even funny. There are a couple of great scenes but it's not enough for me to let my brain rot while I watch this movie. Its exaggerates college life to the extremes, which could be funny if it had not been done like this.  "},{"Title":"Horrifying treatment of women","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought I'd enjoy seeing nerds get revenge on jocks, until it turned out that revenge included spying on naked women via hidden cameras, handing out a picture of a non-consenting naked woman, and then pretending to be someone else to have sex with that same women. Worst of all, the woman who was essentially raped then falls head over heels over her rapist, because the sex was so good. WHAT. By comparison, the pranks against the men are much more benign and don't seem to happen nearly as often (even though the conflicts primarily occur between the men, it's the women who seem to pay for it.) I get that times have changed, but no man or woman should be enjoying this movie in this decade. It's appalling. "}{"Title":"30 years old and still going strong !!","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It has been 30 years ,since the movie has released and it shows. This movie feels like a 1980s movie in each and every way.And the fact that since that since the emergence of The Big Bang Theory and Joss Whedon, nerds have become a part of mainstream. Thus, the movie shows how much time has changed. Despite these facts, the movie has aged very well.For a guy who was not present in 1980s and watched for the first time in 2014, I must say that movie has aged pretty well.After Animal House became a hit in 1978, many R-rated sex comedy came in 1980s like Porky, Risky Business and Fast Times At Ridgemont High. They were quite funny, but sometimes they took themselves seriously at a time. Seriousness worked flawlessly in Risky Business, but it felt mismatched in Porky and Fast Times at Ridgemont High. This is not the case here. Sure it has all the typical T&A Teen Sex Gross-out ingredient like sex jokes, men peeking at naked girls, drugs, booze, partying, F- word, toilet humor and of course gratuitous frontal nudity,but the fact that movie never takes itself seriously sets it apart. The director of movie knew he was not making another The Graduate, but a very stupid comedy and he did not hide this fact with serious topics like racism(Porky) or abortion(Fast Times).The plot is very simple and you can guess from it's title. The title clearly specifies that nerds take revenge from jocks. Nerd represent nerd and jocks represent jocks. Nothing symbolic here. One of the best thing about movie is it 's character. Just like the film itself characters are slapstick and cartoonish. For e.g.; there is a character named Ogre, who behaves like Marvel superhero Hulk. Only difference is that Hulk is green skinned and has more hair. But the character that steals the show here is Booger. His role here is to be disgusting. Be it burping,eating dirty things or as you can guess from his name taking out his booger ! Booger is played by same guy who played Tom Cruise 's best friend in Risky Business and gave what the f--- speech.The movie is often accused of it's misogyny, but I am at movie 's defense here since a) movie is equal offender. It offends every one . Be it male or female,nerds or jocks, gays or rebels. b)girls were also nasty towards nerds and thus nerds had lame excuse to take revenge and c) it was 1980s. It was in trend for movie of similar genre to be sexist. At least it is not MASH. "},{"Title":"Both Funny and Incisive","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Plot-- Tired of getting shoved around by campus elites, college nerds use their smarts to strike back. It all goes down in pretty raunchy fashion.Okay, much of the 90-minutes is silly amusing-- Lewis's honking laugh, the commando raid on the Pi house, Ogre's Neanderthal antics, etc. But the screenplay's really well written. More importantly, the story also has a serious subtext wrapped in occasionally hilarious social satire. Some such occurs in the climax when the carnival crowd rallies around the nerds. That's because the everyday folks have also experienced personal put-downs from our jocks and beauty driven culture. The nerds may have used their brains to outwit the dominant Alpha Beta's and Pi's. But the appeal of their grievance spreads to the carnival crowd who rally around them. Likely, the movie's real object is to affirm the worth of the non-beautiful non-athletic ordinary person. In short, those of us everyday types who don't appear on magazine covers or ESPN. Good!The fact that the moral is wrapped in an entertaining screenplay makes it all the more effective. Note how the spectrum of outcasts pretty much runs the traditional gamut from gays to racial minorities to social misfits. I guess my only complaint is making the nerdy Lewis more sexually compelling to sorority girl Betty than the blonde Adonis. The point is a good one&#x97; namely, that looks need have nothing to do with sexual performance. But, does the script have to cover every base and spread it on so thick. Anyway, the movie's a little gem and can stand on its own with other raunchy comedies of the period. More importantly, it has a good point to make, as well. "},{"Title":"Lacking, even for this sort of movie","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One sub-genre that was popular in the decade of kitsch; the 1980's, was teen comedy. This is a good or a bad thing depending on which side of the fence you're on, but whatever side; this isn't a particularly good example. As a big hater of Animal House, me writing this review begs the question why did you bother? The answer to that is probably because I liked the title. It has a fun ring to it, and I reckoned that a title like that should spawn a good film. While the film isn't essentially 'bad', it does have a strong scent of deja vu following it around, and while I aren't a guru on the subject of teen comedies; even I have seen the stuff in this movie before. It's got all the clichés, from all the kids getting stoned to the geeky kid getting off with the hottest babe in the school. The plot, as you might expect, is paper thin; and it follows the story of a couple of nerds that move to a new college and immediately find themselves at the mercy of a fraternity of football 'jocks', who see fit to tease the nerds because they're nerds.This film came to my attention after the nerdy character in American Splendor gave it such high praise. From the way he described it, I was expecting something in the way of intelligence and maybe even characters that you can identify with. I don't know, maybe real life nerds who went to college in America will find the events of this film similar to events in real life and will therefore find this uplifting or whatever, but for a non-American schooled, non-nerd; there isn't all that much to like. Some of the jokes are funny, such as the 'cool' nerd's poker skills against a less savvy player, but many of them are silly in a not-very-good way. Younger audiences will almost certainly enjoy the nudity that the film features, along with some of the more childish jokes; but for the serious cinema buffs amongst us (me included), this is lacking even for an 80's teen comedy. "},{"Title":"Nerdiness used as an excuse for misogyny","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1980s were different times in terms of gender politics, but even by 80s standards, this film is horribly misogynistic. In it a group of college men put video cameras into a women's sorority house and sit around watching the footage all night, celebrating each time they see a female student's breasts or snatch. It gets worse. In order to win a college competition, they sell photographs of one of the women topless. It gets worse. One of the men tricks this same woman into having sex with him by dressing in the costume her boyfriend is wearing. This rape, is not simply treated comedically (like the other sexism), but the victim enjoys it so much she ditches her boyfriend and decides to go out with her attacker. The men involved in all these events are the heroes of the film. As nerds, the film positions them as the victims of discrimination and harassment from the jocks. As viewers, we are clearly invoked to desire and enjoy their revenge against their oppressors. Yet, their most extreme acts of revenge are enacted against the women. Women who are given little or no characterisation. These nerd heroes are mostly white and middle-class, yet they are constructed like an oppressed ethnicity. The fraternity they join is all black until they open their chapter. The climax of the film is a speech in which the central nerd declares 'I'm a nerd, and I'm here tonight to stand up for the rights of other nerds. I mean uh, all our lives we've been laughed at and made to feel inferior. ... Why? Because we're smart? Because we look different? Well, we're not. I'm a nerd, and uh, I'm pretty proud of it.' This is nerd identity politics, which puts their experiences on a level with groups who unlike nerds have the weight of social structures against them (women, African Americans, LGBTQI etc). This positioning serves in the film as a cover for misogyny. "},{"Title":"this film","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i think it was badi do not like the end of the filmalso i think the acting was a bit bad that girl what was she like i would not buy the film but if you want to see it i would rent it out and if you like it then buy it i don't think all the acting was bad i think that old man was good that was the only thing i liked but i would go and see it if you are into them kind of films and see if you like it as you may have a different kind of view i did watch it with two of my friend and they did not like it too and one of my friend brother watch it and said it was OK like i said if you are into them kind of films you should rent first to see if you like it and if you are getting it as a gift check with the person first say a couple of films "}]