[{"Title":"About Two-Thirds of a Really Fine Movie and Then an Awful Mess of a Last Act","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The opening titles for The Coca-Cola Kid make it clear that the film is in no way sponsored by Coca-Cola or the Coca-Cola bottling company. Obviously the company felt comfortable enough with the final product to let the film use their name, but it's hardly a glowing picture of the soft drink giant. In The Coca-Cola Kid, Coca-Cola is the face of American Imperialism. When company trouble shooter Becker (Eric Roberts) declares, The world will not be truly free until Coke is available everywhere, he's speaking without irony. This film, then, is about Becker's attempts to help Coca-Cola colonize Australia, but what starts off as a film of comic promise and originality becomes bogged down in convention and cliché to the point that it's difficult by the final reel to remember what was so appealing at the beginning.The Coca-Cola Kid fits nicely in the genre of American Corporate Fish Out Of Water tales. If you've seen the delightful Local Hero, for example, you'll know that no matter what kind of tough American goes off to the rural wasteland, he'll change, enlightened by the small town quirks and wisdom he was meant to subvert. That's not really giving anything away in this film, because the last act doesn't play out as you expect. In fact, it hardly plays out at all.Becker arrives in Australia to help boost lagging sales. It turns out that there's a whole region of the country where no Coke is sold at all. Becker, a former marine with the proverbial unorthodox way of doing business, discovers that that region is ruled over by T. George McDowell (Bill Kerr) a gruff man of homespun wisdom, but more importantly, homemade soft drinks, made from real fruit. Even though their first encounter is rough, Becker is determined to fight off the advances of his secretary-with-a-secret (Greta Scacchi) and the hotel waiter who mistakes him for an arms dealer to do the job he was sent to do.Directed by Dusan Makavejev, The Coca-Cola Kid develops a wonderful momentum early on. In fact, the first hour of the film is an absolute gem. Eric Roberts's performance to that point is perfect. His presentation to the bemused Coke officials is comic gold, as he waxes poetic about the fizzy beverage, even holding it up to the light bathing the room in its brown glow. Roberts's early scenes with Scacchi have a nice screwball touch and his interactions with Scacchi's moppet daughter provide a nice depth for the character, hinting at something beyond his intensity. There's a nifty sequence where Becker enlists a studio band to try to come up with the sound of Australia where they go through several absurd suggestions before coming up with a truly catchy jingle.I'm not sure how far it is into the movie, but for me things begin to go south immediately after that recording session. For reasons completely unclear to me, the secretary has Becker invited to a party to catch him in an awkward position. This involves completely random intimations of homosexuality and ends of feeling both forced and pointless. The scene is so clumsy that it leaves a bad taste that begins to spread.It rapidly becomes clear that The Coca-Cola Kid isn't going to omit a single convention of Australian culture. You want an old bushman with a diggerydoo (inevitably misspelled, but my dictionary is letting me down)? You've got it. An adorable wounded Kangaroo? Bingo! And a slightly inbred man singing a rousing chorus of Walzing Matilda? Yup-Yup. In fact, the vision of Australia put forth by the film is so cookie-cutter that it's  hard to feel bad about the culture being overrun by American interests. You support Coke because you figure they're at least putting forth a good product.Eric Roberts's performance finally ends up being a little infuriating because he's not given any opportunity or reason to be anything other than amusingly scary. The film falls apart at just the point you wish Roberts would go through the obligatory character alteration, but there's just no chance. He's stranded. Ditto Scacchi. She adorable and makes the sexiest Santa in the history of cinema, but her character's payoff is weak. Bill Kerr is excellent for the most part, but you can't help but feel that his cagey old Outback Vet is a character we've seen a thousand times.The Coca-Cola Kid's best and most consistent feature is its cinematography by Dean Semler. The Oscar winner (for Dances With Wolves) does what the script and director can't do -- he creates the ironic counterpoint between the Outback, the big city, and Eric Roberts. The film has a dynamic look which, unlike the narrative, doesn't fall apart at the end.I do feel bad about only giving this movie a 6/10, but I guess I should have just turned it off early. Off to drink a Coke...  "},{"Title":"An underappreciated gem","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Coca-Cola Kid is sort of an Australian version of Local Hero, with the crucial difference that it's much darker.In short, it is about Coca-Cola being brought to the one place on earth where the locals don't already drink it, but it turns out there's a good reason why they don't drink it.This movie should have put Eric Roberts on the map more than it did.  It certainly put Greta Scacchi on the map.  She plays the daughter of the local softdrink seller, and she's very good, as is Roberts.  The scene where he holds a glass of Coke aloft while describing it in near-poetic terms is great satire.For hormonal appeal, the scene where they sleep together on a bed of white feathers is as erotic as anything I've ever seen.  At the end, when she smiles at him, suggesting a reprise of that scene, the effect is devastating.This movie is full of good scenes.  My personal favorite is the Waltzing Matilda scene, which I'd rather not give away.I was surprised at the negative tone of the other comments.  This movie deserves a look, so check it out.  "},{"Title":"A true gem hidden in the dirt","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is that rare find a truly lovely yet unpretentious film.  Never in their careers have Roberts and Scacchi been more genuinely warm and transparently human.  Every twitch of the eye and gesture comes across as the real deal.  The direction and writing are wonderfully sparse and unaffected, letting the simple story shine through.  This is comedy in it's most understated form, and if the viewer is paying attention, he/she can't help but laugh and cry just as we do in life. "},{"Title":"Offbeat And Flawed But Nothing Quite Like It","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Coca-Cola Kid is not a perfect movie but it is guaranteed to elicit a strong response from you, one way or the other. The promising premise of taking a Southwestern Coca Cola marketing guru to the Outback to sell the locals his universally beloved liquid nectar leads to an intriguing and entertaining culture clash. Less successful, but still whimsically charming, is the pairing of Greta Sacchi and Eric Roberts. While Sacchi and Roberts actually do have some chemistry once they get involved, one is still left wondering exactly what Sacchi sees in the rude and self-centered Roberts initially. The movie comes up with an out-of-left-field explanation which is both jarring and silly; it is one of several missteps in the third act. Another unhappy development is the violent response of the local distributor, which abruptly shifts the tone from oddball romantic comedy to dark drama. The movie goes out of its way to be offbeat, inserting non-sequiturs like the nutjob concierge seeking CIA employment and the homoerotic transvestite interlude. The entirely nonsensical epilogue announcement tops off these quirky for quirky's sake calculations and leaves the viewer rolling his eyes a bit.Still, despite the warts above, The Coca-Cola Kid is a unique and mostly entertaining look at American Capitalism morphing into Imperialism overseas.Roberts is up and down, but ultimately a decent choice as the charismatic and driven capitalist charged with conquering the Aussie Cola industry. Go in realizing this is more a satire than a social commentary and you'll likely come away refreshed, if not entirely quenched. 7.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Ten reasons why this film is memorable *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (1) The song (Don't wanna go where theres no Coca Cola indeed).(2) Eric Roberts's manic, amusing performance where he acts like a hyperactive child on valium half the time.(3) Give me churches..schools..houses.(4) Kangeroos being rescued from planes on their way to the vet.(5) The ultra-sexy Greta Scacchi shower scene where nothing is left to the imagination.(6) The super-sexy Greta Scacchi's seduction of Roberts involving a Santa suit, a shoe that keeps coming off and feathers. Lots and lots of feathers.(7) The tour of the McDowell factory, the Willy Wonka of the drinks Industry.(8) Gay parties with Roberts dancing with the most unconvincing drag queen this side of Priscilla.(9) An impromptu sing-along of that perennial Australian favourite, Waltzing Matilda, with backing vocals provided by a group of dancing Santas.(10) The ending text, something about the world ending and the US declaring war on China (you what!?)Apart from those, there are plot holes big enough to drive a double-decker bus through and the whole film undertakes annoying changes in tone from time to time. There is some good stuff here and it certainly earns the tag original but I cannot in all good conscience give this heroic faliure a5/10Take care now!! "},{"Title":"American Marketing versus Foreign Cultural Values","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film is billed as a comedy and will indeed leave you laughing at many of the situations the central characters get themselves in and out of.  The movie should be viewed as a satire of the great American sales and marketing force on the global marketplace.A hot shot marketing guru from corporate is assigned to help sales down under.  He quickly finds a different pace of life and cultural values that he finds hard to adjust to.  He continues on his way even down to the music for a new series of commercials.  He knows his way worked well in the U.S. so it should work well anywhere.Humorous side trips make the journey enjoyable as the guru quickly finds a large area that has no Coca Cola sales.  He goes to investigate and finds a local soft drink bottler has the entire area to himself.The guru uses every gorilla marketing trick he knows to bring the local bottler into the Coke family, but the local bottler resists and even offers Coke a deal.  Coke invades the local's territory and the local realizes he cannot win against the Coke attack.Coke's decisive win costs the company the guru as he finally begins to understand that other things in life, emotions and cultural values, are more important than business wins.I enjoyed the film and recommend it to you, especially if you want to see a funny version of the 60's novel The Ugly American. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Call me strange, call me tasteless, but I found this film to be one of those movies that haunts me. Eric Roberts as the gung-ho Coke executive out to undo T.George McDowell's stranglehold on outback softdrink sales is just amazing. The scene near the beginning where Roberts is scanning an electronic map showing per capita Coke sales throughout Australia is brilliant, especially as they get down into the outback areas and discover that not only are Coke sales slim, but in one area, utterly non-existent.Roberts' growing relationship with Greta Sciacci's character and DMZ, played wonderfully by child actress Rebecca Smart, weaves a romantic thread throughout the film, touching us even as we feel the intense need to thwap him over the head and make him see that this is the woman for him.The scene of Coke trucks driven by Santa Claus costumed drivers pouring into T. George's compound is a killer, especially with that jingle (Sung by Neil Finn of Crowded House fame) roaring in the background. I can't understand why Coke has not purchased the rights to this jingle and used it in its advertising. Like another reviewer, I can't get that jingle out of my mind, even 15 years after seeing the movie. "},{"Title":"A ton of fun","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The director of WR Mysteries of the Organism and Sweet Movie made this Australian-based film starring Eric Roberts as a goofy Coca-Cola marketing man. He's trying to get larger market saturation in Australia, especially a certain area where another soft drink, made by Bill Kerr, is the only one available. This film is downright weird, although, as it moves on, it becomes more formulaic. But the weirdness dominates the film, and, damn, is it amusing. Sure, it's not entirely coherent, but it's pretty hilarious. This might be Eric Roberts' finest role. He's just awesome in it, too. Kerr is also wonderful. The highlight of the film, though, is probably Greta Scacchi, who is both funny and gorgeous as the crazy chick trying to win Roberts' affection. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lots of local (Australian) colour and fun being made of corporate America. This is what we like. -)It's about 10 years since I last saw the film and I still sometimes finding myself humming the song, choke back the tears when there's no Coca-Cola.Not a great film, but another welcome Aussie comedy.  "},{"Title":"Many faceted story","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What catches your attention? What grabs your fancy? Each character in this quirky poetic film seems to have their own agenda. Watch closely and you'll see each one individually become attracted to something - that 'thing' being very different in each case - as different as individual personality. But what should one look for, listen for, reach out for? A sound that says Australia? An effervescence with a bubbly personality? Is it something wrapped in a flag? Could it, Coka Cola Kid, be hidden behind ice frost? The story, sometimes dark and shadowy, whispers, Open your eyes and you'll find the right thing to reach for and, like Repunzel, 'live happily ever after'! "}{"Title":"Almost Worth Mentioning","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really starts strong.  We know that Roberts is an Atlanta hotshot sent to Australia to fix Coke's marketing problems.  We also know he is an eccentric genius.  Roberts' fine acting convinces us of this rather quickly.Unfortunately, the plot is so flimsy, that whatever fine character development has been achieved, it is negated by  voids, inconsistencies, and downright boring film sequences.Usually, I am a sucker for bold and far out plots.  Examples which I am fond of include, Dark Star, O.C. & Stiggs, and Popeye.  Coupled with the fact that I must admit that this film was well acted, it surprises even myself that I cannot recommend this film.The utter breakdown in this movie occurs about midway through the film. All comedy is instantly lost and the film turns dark. Afterwards, the film plods along.  The film's attempt to get the comedy rolling again is not successful. More surprises await the viewer and they are darker still.To be sure, mixing drama with comedy can be a formula for success.  However, with this movie, the result is about as successful as new coke.  "},{"Title":"Sneaky like a pigeon drop. (spoilers)","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I started watching The Coca-Cola Kid with the assumption that it would be like other Australian comedies I have seen in which a gung-ho businessman of some sort wants to change a rather dogmatic, traditional industrialist like 'Spotswood' or, in reference to homeowners, 'The Castle.' And true, that is the initial plot in 'The Coca-Cola Kid.' Eric Roberts plays an efficient Southern businessman who plays a key role for the Australian marketing department for the Australian headquarters for the Coca-Cola Company. While trying to assess the markets and potential successful marketing ploys, he learns that there is a large portion of a rural section of Australia that has no Coca-Cola distribution whatsoever and he wants to know why. Enter lovable and genuine old-timer, T. George McDowell, who has his own successful and self-sufficient coke company which monopolizes the area. It is the last of its kind and Becker, who cannot simply fathom any section of the world that has no option of Coca-Cola beverages (he even goes so far to say that freedom cannot be established without global presence of Coca-Cola) intends to compete with McDowell. But, McDowell, used to the frequent visits from Coca-Cola marketing executives who try to make deals (and offer to buy him out?), figures that Becker is another lightweight (at least, initially) and is not ready to give in without a fight. This is essentially the crux of the story, the global company versus the independent.But, the movie takes both an odd and confusing turn at about the time that Becker tries to rain on Mr. McDowell's parade when he shows up at the Rotary Dance with Santa's offering the audience free samples of Coca-Cola. Because, this is about the same time that the story shifts it focus from the main plot to the subplot involving Becker and his eccentric former secretary (played by Gretta Scacchi). Although, I can understand that this is no less essential to the story because Becker, in his involvement with the secretary, is finally pulled from his impersonal role as marketing executive and forced to eventually take on a more humanistic role. But getting there was so weird, and this is especially evident from the sequences where Becker gets drunk and shows up at the drag queen club. And, it is probably Becker's exceedingly weird emptiness that creates such an odd atmosphere and, at least for me, some of the confusion. I don't know if this is how we are supposed to view Becker, or if Eric Robert's strange performance just leads to this. Nonetheless, after slagging through this rather strange and abrupt shift in mood and, eventually, focus, the rest of the film pulls through rather nicely with a somewhat humorous (especially the events involving the hotel bellhop who is convinced that Becker is in the CIA) and ultimately sad ending that makes Becker rethink his situation. The filmmakers offer both a mix of the happy ending and not-so-happy ending (you have to watch it to see what I mean). A pleasant, but unusual Aussie comedy/drama that may be worth your time if you can find it. Just don't go into it with the expectations that it is yet another steadily simple narrative or a typical feel-good Australian comedy. "},{"Title":"Some fun and some sexy","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Becker (Eric Roberts) is an eccentric self-possessed sales trouble-shooter sent to Australia from the Coca-Cola headquarters in Atlanta. Terri (Greta Scacchi) is assigned to be his secretary. DMZ is her daughter. He finds one specific area where there is no Coke being sold. It's Anderson valley where Terri comes from. The valley is run by the proud McDowell who makes and sells his own soft drink. He has a history with a Coke advertising girl and together they have a daughter. Becker is looking for the Australian sound.Eric Roberts is terrific. He has a magical moment with a glass of Coke. I'm always surprised at the film's declaration that they have no connection to Coke. His presentation is like a Mamet speech about the love of Coke. Greta Scacchi is funny and super sexy as a Coca Cola Santa. The problem is that the story isn't much in between the fun scenes. Some of the music is catchy and the movie is a bit of fun. "},{"Title":"Things Go Better with Coke","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jetting to Australia on a business trip, Coca-Cola marketing expert Eric Roberts (as A. Becker) has trouble finding an American newspaper and tries to fend off advances from sexy secretary Greta Scacchi (as Terri). She wants to have sex with Mr. Roberts desperately - and won't take no for an answer. His mind is more on how to get her tenacious father, eccentric cola producer Bill Kerr (as T. George McDowell), to realize Coke is it! The locals have been strangely alienated from America's favorite soft drink. Roberts is famous for tripling Coke intake, but the small Australian community doesn't partake...Dusan Makavejev directs this stylish, but disconnected satire. It seems off-track by the time Roberts attends a gender-bending outing; possibly, this is Ms. Scacchi further testing his sexual availability. She and scene-stealing little Rebecca Smart (as Rebecca aka DMZ) have a show-stopping nude shower scene; maybe this is to be taken as the pause that refreshes. David Slingsby does well as a fawning waiter who mistakes Roberts for a CIA agent. The original power pop Coca-Cola jingle written by Tim Finn (of Split Enz) is excellent. Absurdity is the rule of thumb, and Roberts' mannequin-like performance fits.****** The Coca-Cola Kid (5/85) Dusan Makavejev ~ Eric Roberts, Greta Scacchi, Bill Kerr, David Slingsby "},{"Title":"50% great strange movie - 50% stupid Hollywood comedy","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Makavejev's recipe for finally making some money. And it works! This is in the same time his worst and most famous movie. The stupid Hollywood comedy part and casting attracts random public and secures watchability for everyone, and the other art part was fun to make in his own surrealist style and observe the reactions, including the one from the coca cola company. How did a Serbian avanguard director get to organize such a team and set (action star Eric Roberts as an American marketing guru sent to Australia) remains a funny mystery to me. Every Makavejev movie is completely different so even here it was hard to imagine where will the movie go, this is the first one that made me laugh. Eric is actually very good, Greta Scacchi even better(!), and i also liked the guy with pipe, all the acting is decent, but i think the real star is the little girl (Rebecca Smart), she's just brilliant. So this is basically a crossroad if you liked the part that made no sense google Makavejev, otherwise keep with Eric Roberts. "},{"Title":"Wonderful little movie","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just finished watching this movie and it was a very nice and pleasant movies. Eric Roberts lights up the screen with his performance as he dominates his time on screen. The movie is short and yet taut with good pacing and even though it is a rehash of many films it has a freshness due to the interesting locations and the ambiance of the surroundings. Greta Scacchi is simply stunning and she just has a nice aura about her on screen. The description that Eric Roberts uses to describe the coca cola product is very good and made me grab on and i just liked this movie a lot it does not take itself too seriously and it is fun entertainment. "},{"Title":"From the off-beat mind of Dusan Makavejev.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dusan Makavejev is a director I admire. Much of his product is completely bonkers. He was never interested in making staid movies or anything generic. He always went for the gusto. It was as if anything could happen in one of his films. If he had been given the reign to direct remakes of any films he would have completely changed everything. I could imagine what he could have done with, say, the remakes of the Steve Martin/Diane Keaton/Martin Short Father Of The Bride movies.The Coca-Cola Kid is his most well-known work. The film features Eric Roberts as a whiz kid named Becker who has been sent by Coca-Cola to find out why Coke isn't making any money in the Outback region of Australia. It turns out that a Mom-And-Pop company run by T. George McDowell (Bill Kerr) that has dominated the area. Becker then does whatever he can to buy McDowell out. In the meantime, he strikes up an interesting affair with McDowell's secretary Terri (Greta Scacchi), a single mother who has some ties to Kerr's operations.Much like any Makavejev film, there are some extremely off-the-wall moments. The bedroom scene with the feathers, the drag queen party, the Santa Claus parade and the infamous shower scene where mother and daughter wash up together are some of the crazy things you'll see. Eventually, the movie does lose its focus in favour of its Crash T.V. content. Still, the movie has some good acting, Scacchi offers up great eye candy and it is truly wacky; even if isn't uproariously funny. It's just so out there. If you want to see Makavejev's unique vision translated on film this should be your first viewing. Montenegro and WR are others worth checking out. "},{"Title":"strangely sweet","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not without flaws. It is quirky at times, to the point of being disorienting. But it is dotted with poignant moments so profound that I am thoroughly inclined to forgive its minor problems. Eric Roberts is enigmatic, while still being sympathetic. It is an interesting course of development that in the beginning of the film, he is the strangest thing we see and by the end, we find him overwhelmed by the strangeness and complexity of the world he has entered. And in the end, the filmmaker takes perhaps the boldest risk of all, which is to end a film of unrelenting madness, with a simple romantic tie-up (and a strange quip about the end of the world, but whatever...) The comedy works, the characters are appealing, the message is simple yet profound and the music (by the brothers Finn and other ex-members of the Split Enz) is outstanding. What more could you ask for in a movie? "},{"Title":"a brilliant movie!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most fantastic movies ever made.  I'm not kidding.  Essentially the movie is about corporate America vs. Australia.  More broadly, the film is about  American corporate imperialism and a country's attempt to resist it.Eric Roberts plays the gung-ho American coca-cola executive (the marines have landed on every continent except Australia.. AND HERE I AM!), intent on establishing a coca-cola franchise in the heart of Australia.  The stubbornly independent Australians resist the American businessman with their own brand of humour and subversiveness.Watch for several layers of meaning throughout the film.  Especially the Waltzing Matilda scene.Notable quote  We have bottling franchises in every country on the planet.  Including the moon.A brilliant movie that will change your life.. or a movie that you'll ignore. "},{"Title":"Boring and inexplicable '90s indie flick","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In some ways The Coca Cola Kid may be the weirdest movie Dusan Makavejev made.At least with his weirdest material such as WRSecrets of the Organism and Sweet Movie, there was a sense that a sure hand was behind all the mayhem on screen. Even if you didn't get it you knew it meant something or had some purpose.The Coca Cola Kid is a movie without purpose. It is one of those obscure '90s movies that assumes a left-field plot guarantees a worthwhile story. It doesn't.What amazes me is that a filmmaker with such an indelible style as Makavejev was responsible for this yawnfest. Any filmmaker could have made it.The film stars Eric Roberts as a weird, unknowable executive who wants to find out why a town in Australia doesn't use Coke products. So he travels all the way from America to the bush to solve this life altering mystery. There he meets a young lady played by Greta Scacchi who wanders through the movie like a dense Susan Sarandon. She has a daughter played by a pretty bad child actress, and they have a weird bathing scene together which is probably the only reason anyone today would watch this mess.I didn't care at all about anything that happens in this movie. I didn't care about the characters, and some of the comedic subplots or side characters were just boring and stupid, like the hotel busboy who is convinced that the Eric Roberts character is really a secret agent for no reason other than that the movie needed comic relief in those scenes. If you are going to have a buffoonish character who the audience should laugh at, it helps to actually have some sense of why or how the character arrived at their misunderstanding. Are they crazy, or stupid, or both? The character appears to be neither, so it seems totally forced and unbearable every time he is on screen.The Coca Cola Kid may be an even bigger mystery than Sweet Movie, but the mystery is not contained in the material, it was there at inception why did Makavejev make this mess? "}{"Title":"Wonderful, takes me back in time","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is an absurdly wonderful quality to this quiet little piece.  To call it a straightforward romance is ridiculous!  It's weirder than that, and just terrific. Rent it on a snowy Saturday and curl up with a bag of cashews to watch one of the oddest little gems.  Eric Roberts is wonderful, and although Greta Scacchi isn't quite as memorable here, there's a shot of her unclothed from the backwhen the air is filled with feathers that is. "},{"Title":"Humourous view of an American encountering life in Australia","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film more remembered for Greta Scacchi than Eric Roberts.  The Coca Cola salesman discovers that not everything goes with Coke.  A very pleasant way to spend a couple of hours and if it comes your way, be sure and catch it. It will be worth the time!!   "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie, with great Scacci body shots!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My friend, Paul, recommended this movie.  Now I know why - it has a great scene with Scacci in the shower.  In 1985 I suspect she was about the most beautiful young woman around!The movie is a fun story, not too dramatic, not too funny, but sorta sweet. Set in Australia, it has its share of strange characters, but mostly in a fun way.The young Eric Roberts in this movie is almost pretty and looks amazingly like his sister, Julia Roberts, does now in 2000. I give this movie 7 of 10, but that isn't a very strong 7... "},{"Title":"Neat!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  American capitalistic imperialism satirized. Both well and truly. Eric Roberts (whatever happend to him?) has never been to possessed as the marketing hotshot from Coca-Cola's Atlanta hq, in Australia to sell the last no-Coca-Cola bastion on earth on the drink's bubbling brown goodness. And Greta Saachi (hubba-hubba) has never been so fetching or as funny. Watch for the unnerving news provided just before the credits.  "},{"Title":"Dr Pepper","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you know Dusan Makavejev's interesting 'Sweet Movie' you know he uses heavy metaphors and has a sexual thing about children. Here we have a sweet comedy with those elements.The heavy metaphors are the standard obvious stuff, wrapped around a conventional boy- girl fantasy. The sexual fixation is apparent in the shower scene where the poor kid is shivering of the cold necessary for the 'fog' and the multiple takes.The choice of Scacchi would have been great were it not for her own obsession with actually acting with her breasts. But otherwise, she has the perfect face and bearing for this appealing type of airhead. There's a scene that is very well conceived, with her in a Santa Claus suit that ripped off in a shower of feathers.Could have been a good film in other hands. This try has lots of pieces that were tossed out, stuff about the husband, Mrs. Haversham and the animals.I did like the notion of the girl's name and that she photocopied her face. These are much more sophisticated notions than Dusan can handle though.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Coca-Cola Dundee?","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a marginal movie, easily forgettable among a large string of low budget movies trying to cash in on the early American interest in Australia in the mid-1980's. If it has a true failing, it is in being considered a comedy, which I feel it isn't. It is closer to a drama, a story of a supremely confident man being thrust into a world he has no real understanding of.The acting is actually quite good, and the odd little twists that his journey takes are truly enjoyable, but it gets bogged down in clashes of dueling pride, of a lack of even the most minimal attempts to understand the Australian culture, and a penchant for using nudity to move the movie along. There are numerous questionable characters, people that seem to be in the movie simply to provide a momentary diversion from a real plot. It does manage to steer around several bits of stereotyping, such as presenting an Aborigine musician who never flinches at being patronized, even flippantly handing over a business card advertising his services.The visuals are wonderful, including one of the most spectacular sunrise shots across the Outback. The movie does a wonderful job of showing bits of the mixture that Australia is, including a roving patrolman riding a camel, and trying to address the great question - What is the pure Australian experience?. If they had found a way to fill the movie with more of these moments, it might have been far better.I'd recommend this movie for one of those nights when nothing else seems right. It's a decent time passer, but shouldn't be taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Straight forward fish out of water romance.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You've seen it many times before  High powered executive who believes that business is the universal language goes to quaint foreign country (Australia) intent on destroying the local culture in the name of profits. After he meets the bosses daughter and interacts with the culture on a one to one basis, he has a change of heart and finds out the things that make life real.  Pretty ho-hum, but Greta Scacchi turns in such an endearing performance as the daughter that this movie is almost worth watching (her body is definitely worth watching). "},{"Title":"Only liked the song in the movie...","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Eric Roberts but what is this movie about? I know what the premise is about but dam was this movie horrible! Eric is a strong talent in this dark-comedy but I swear that song is the only thing I really liked! I just bought the movie for Eric and that awesome song! The song gets 4 stars but the movie out of 4 star gets a 1/2 star. Love ya Eric but this was not for me! "},{"Title":"This movie is true","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am an Economics major and may be put through the same things as Eric Roberts (Julia Roberts brother) in the movie. The kid should get all the support and not be framed for being some kind of Judas who wants money.The movie should be watched by everybody who is male with the same problem the kid was born with, if you know what I mean. I had that birth effect for 17 years before having it removed, though I wasn't exactly tied up like the Coca-Cola Kid. My grandmother had the same name Greta like Greta Scacchi. The church yard where she is buried has the shape of Australia. The spilling coffee part in the movie is the most important turning point that makes the viewer understand something else is going on and the drilling in the wall (hope I didn't say too much).I don't even believe my world map, does that make me a master in economics?I have endured just as much as the Coca-cola kid had, only that is a movie and my life is (at least supposed to be) real. I may have just the same internet as he had and I also have the same difficulty to hold the coffee cup steady,....what's that button?.....if you know what I mean. But don't blame me for being aggressive or beating someone.The Coca-cola kid is an example of what the Englishmen did to the aborigians. Maybe many red haired women are racists?The religious aspects of the movie are really important, without saying too much about the end of the movie. And the denying part and threat of using the phone are really important also in the end of the movie, This movie is more important than a movie to me, the lessons to be learned at the end of the movie, when they settle the score so to speak, are soooo important!I hope I conformed to the guidelines because I want my comments to be read by other people. "},{"Title":"Why do I give this a 10?","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILER Because Greta Scacchi does not burst naked from a Santa Claus costume in an explosion of feathers in all that many movies so when it happens, praise MUST be given.  So it was lightly plotted, poorly scripted, slightly less than chuckle-at-able, implausible, and limply acted. WHO CARES? "}{"Title":"insipid, plotless, riduculous, boring, horrible","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At least the jingle by Tim Finn was melodic. Roberts is the his usual inept self.  Characters are inconsistent, dull, purposeless.  Roberts changes his accent even within one line. "},{"Title":"THE 'benchmark' for the world's worst movie!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had found it- finally, after watching thousands upon thousands of movies from all around the world, for numerous decades - I had found the movie. The only reason I am glad I watched it, is its value as a benchmark to rate other movie against it. Finally, I now knew what to expect from the worst ever movie made.  No plot. No comedy. No direction. No purpose.  Nothing. After fourteen years (since I saw it) it still stands holds its place as THE bench mark in this household to rate other bad movies against. "}]