[{"Title":"Enjoy The Film For What Is Was Intended","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sheena wasn't made to win any Academy awards. Nevertheless, for a B film the photography is actually quite good. Granted, Tanya's acting ability at this time in her life needed a lot of work. I'm sure the producers knew this going in and didn't care. They knew the attraction would be to watch Sheena doing her thing in her jungle outfit. Tanya was the perfect choice considering the reason for the film. Sheena was made to showcase Tanya Roberts stunning physical attributes and was successful in this regard. She is the reason the movie is still moderately popular after 20 years. So if you like this type of eye-candy film, enjoy! It wasn't meant to be anything else. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure if ever there was one!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People really like to dump on this movie! Sure, it's dumb.... but it's NOT boring! And to the guys who say that Tanya Roberts looks more like a Valley Girl gone Troppo than a Jungle Queen (because a jungle girl would have hairy armpits)......LIGHTEN UP! This is Hollywood, remember? The Dream Factory! Escapism! Who wants Sheena to look like a bush pig?? Not me! As silly as it is, this movie is no worse than the Saturday afternoon matinees of long ago and it certainly is fun to watch, even though the dialog and a couple of the situations are a little cringe-worthy. The scenery (and the cinematography) is awesome and the animals are wonderful. The whole thing moves at a nice pace and yes, Miss Roberts DOES take her clothes off.... and that can't be a bad thing! Oh yeah, look for the string holding up the helicopter just before it crashes....marvelous!! This dvd deserves pride of place on your shelf right next to ANACONDA and GODZILLA. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mostly Eye Candy, and WHAT candy!","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember watching this on TV in the 80's. The old gang back at the college dorms really enjoyed this too. This film has a lot GREAT eye candy. Tanya Roberts was sooo worth watching in BEASTMASTER that the big wigs at the studio thought they'd give her another film to show off more of her special talents. Not to be sexist, they threw in SOAP's Ted Wass as her love interest and made him show some of his special talents. Just like in the BEASTMASTER, there are plenty of those adorable animals to entertain and attack those nasty old villains. With so many bad things happening in this world, do yourself a favor and get away for 90 minutes. Watch something mindless like this to make you forget about elections, markets, wars, terrorist, and J Lo. Let Tanya tame you......  "},{"Title":"Fun for the whole family.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just have to say now that this film has aged rather well.  What with Charlie Angels up on the big screen audiences are a little less politically correct with regards to heroines.  As long as the lead is smart, strong, and independent, it is okay that she is beautiful too.  Sheena shares the same orb as Wonder Woman, Supergirl, Emma Peel of The Avengers, Le Femme Nikita, and most obviously, Xena.  This is a family adventure film that is most of all fun where the children seem to enjoy it equally as well as the adults.  Children like things that are pretty, and this includes people, so Tanya Robert's natural beauty is appealing to children too on a more simpler level.  Yes, there is a little violence (of the adventure film variety) but not grotesquely, frightenly, or sickenly so.  The same can be said about the display of skin which is never shown to be associated with sex or violence.  What a concept!  Thank you!  Yes, there are two scenes where Tanya Roberts is fully nude, one of Sheena showering under a waterfall, and another of Sheena walking across the screen to bathe in a pond.  But, they are so natural and appropriate (especially for children) that I have to applaud the screenwriter for creating these two scenes in lieu of the usual stupid reasons movie makers have to include nude scenes.  Roberts does a terrific job as Sheena.      "},{"Title":"Beautiful and strong female hero.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not that bad.  The production values are excellent and the story line is no worse than TV or low-budgeted action adventure.  This is a PG film after all.  I remembered this being marketed as a family film, however there are some very violent scenes.  The shots of her swinging on a vine were very realistic as were the flamingo and rhino attacks.  I was twelve when I first saw it and it was good to have a female action hero.  She was very beautiful AND strong.  In her early scenes she is shot sexy beautiful, but as the film progresses we see her more as healthy beautiful.  I never saw earlier versions of Sheena, however no updated comic book hero movies ever match the originals (Batman, Superman, etc...)  Lois Lane is forever updated to match social change, why can't Sheena become more politically correct when it comes to not wearing fur?  I think Tanya Roberts has gotten a bum rap over the years.  Besides being so beautiful, she has a certain charm and sweetness to her.  The hauntingly beautiful theme song is one of the best of any movie.  The final shot of Tanya Roberts, a reprise of her first shot, galloping on a zebra along an endless beach of flamingos in the background is breathtaking and worth the rental. "},{"Title":"Good for what it is","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First off, PG apparently at the time allowed a brief nude scene. A refreshing deal really. The violence really isn't too bad; surely of the comic variety. Not an R picture. Second, the movie obviously is not to be taken seriously. As harmless entertainment, it is pretty good, especially if watched in the right frame of mind. The evil countess (best line was demanding equal harm to be done to Sheena ... no ERA stuff for her!), big city reporter (reference to his view of the Towers), mystical shaman (imdb has the actress having a pretty interesting backstory), and Sheena (talk to me in words I understand!) all are fun.Commenting on Tanya Roberts' acting skills is a bit redundant. She is there because she fits into the costume, so to speak, and she does that rather well, thank you. As an actress ... well, she isn't THAT horrible, really. If Heidi Fleiss can be in a movie, TR can play Sheena! And, really, her performance adds to the fun too.I saw this at about 2am. Perfect time. "},{"Title":"last surviving fairy tale","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tanya Roberts certainly got the best part of her career (alongside the Roger Moore Bond movie, of course) in Sheena. It's hard to pretend so much innocence and naivete after a life spent in NY and Hollywood, of all places. That's acting... I'd like to point out many scenes with the animals, arranged better than in many Tarzan competitors, and I am not afraid to admit I still am fascinated by this fairy tale that was kindalike the last survivor in 1984 - before digital FX took control. Seen the OTT animal scenes in Jumanji? Maybe you feel the same then.  "},{"Title":"fun!","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sheena has been entertaining us for close to 70 years now, but you sure wouldn't know it to look at her. She still looks as beautiful and sexy as ever. I've had a ball following Sheena's adventures in the pulps, comic books, on TV, and in this Sheena movie from 1984. My favorite actress in the role of Sheena is Irish McCalla, but I've enjoyed Tanya Roberts and Gina Lee Nolan too. Roberts is stunningly beautiful and she conveys a wonderful sense of innocence as Sheena. This 1984 Sheena movie is a blast of cheesy fun that provides plenty of entertaining moments that make for great escapism. Enjoy this one with good friends, beverages, and lots of popcorn. Sheena is fun! "},{"Title":"Underrated female tarzan flick","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I will admit this is not a masterpiece of cinema but as for  jungle adventures go this is very good and entertaining. It moves along at a swift pace,  lots of action plus a very likeable and sexy heroine.  There is quite some nudity (but no sex) from Tanya Roberts ofcourse but also from the evil black princess. Director John Guillermin makes sure you get a good look at their (great) bodies.Guillermin  is familiar with the topic because in the early sixties he made some excellent Tarzan movies starring Gordon Scott. In my mind he is also an undeserved neglected director who had his fair share of flops (Shaft in Afrika,King Kong lives,etc...)but who  almost always succeeds in delivering an entertaining movie, not great art, but rousing actioners as The Blue Max, Guns at Batasi, The Bridge at Remagen or even the 1976 King Kong. Whatever the topic, you won't get easily bored by a Guillermindirected movie. Just compare Sheena with other so-called jungle movies from the early eighties  Tarzan the Ape Man with Bo Derek, one the true worst movies of all time or the two abysmal Allan Quartermain movies starring Richard Chamberlain and Sharon Stone.Sheena comes off quite nicely.I gave it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Very touching","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a classic Tanya Roberts , I feel she was so natural in the role instead of fake acting, she is also very magnetic in all her attractions.Shenna is truly the Queen of the jungle , also the villains are superb in there ability to make you hate them for there dirty deeds. Also some comedy relief in some scenes, the best scene of course , is Tanya bathing ala natural , which shows her real outside beauty , no way around this , she is gorgeous and thats that. The actual jungle scenery is great , and her animal magnetism was done well, and her re pore with the animals was great as was the rest of the cast. This should have been rated better, possibly more jealous women voting, Tanya is just drop dead gorgeous. "}{"Title":"A great movie for all children.  See Africa and it's animals on film....","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is visually spectacular.  The locations in Africa are really amazing, and so are the scenes with the animals.  I don't think that I have seen anything like this before.  I must say that this is mostly a children's film.  Although Sheena (Tanya Roberts) is sexy and scantily clad, the film is about a young girl, brought up by native Africans, who has special kinetic powers and can communicate with animals.I don't feel that this film has ever really been seen on a wide scale, and although it isn't perfect, it is worth a watch.  The music and cinematography definitely make up for the holes in the story and the direction. "},{"Title":"Tanya Roberts should be enough","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, so this is purely a vehicle to show off, in my opinion, one of the hottest babes of the 80's - Tanya Roberts. But why must the whole movie be junk. They must have gone to some length to get all of the animals into this film, so that may explain the lack of budget for anything else. Like maybe some bad guys that can shoot straight. Watch it for Tanya and pretend the rest doesn't exist, it's hard, but try. The leading man is horrible. He is not even likable in the least. There was a nice Range Rover in the movie and the befuddle side kick of a camera man was slightly entertaining, but that was it. Why go all the way to Africa to film this schlock. Just put Tanya in some tight leather and let her be Beastmaster of Iowa or something. "},{"Title":"Female Tarzan","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The story about a female Tarzan is really nice. Every Fan of Tanya Roberts will love this movie. She looks fantastic as always. Sweet, sexy and lovely with her natural charme she wins the heart of the heroe. She also wins the heart of everybody who has seen this movie. A few nice action-scenes are also included. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Not entirely bad.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this on TV not too long ago.  Not very bad.  Sure the cast and plot sucked, but it looked great and had some fiery effects.  The animals were pretty cool too.See it alone for some unintentional laughs. "},{"Title":"She can ride my zebra anytime!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sheena has a ludicrous plot, inane dialogue, pinstripe-painted horses and the attack of the helicopter-devouring flamingos.  What it also has is Tanya Roberts, clad in natural hides and very little of them.  That is about all that makes the 117 minutes remotely bearable, or should I say bare able. Victoria Leigh Blum (aka Tanya) isn't enough to save this cheesefest, but she sure makes me want to speak chimpanzeese! "},{"Title":"Jim can't fix it for the bad guys","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although Tanya Roberts is a terrible actress, Sheena isn't unenjoyable. The photography is beautiful, there's a nice score by Richard Hartley and you can get a laugh at the scene where a helicopter is downed by some very obviously fake birds.  British viewers will be intrigued by actor John Forgeham (who plays the evil Colonel Jorgensen) - he's a dead ringer for ageing DJ Jimmy Saville (of Jim'll Fix It fame).Rather amusingly, critic Pauline Kael, ruthless scourge of many films better than this, actually liked Sheena! "},{"Title":"Tanya Roberts deserved a better picture than this!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sheena was shown on AMC yesterday. I of course had heard of it in 1984 but had never seen it.  I know Tanya Roberts for her brief stint as a Charlie's Angel on the old 70s and 80 TV series. She was strikingly beautiful (may still be, at age 47), and build like a pro wrestler, not like a slender stick model. This version of Sheena, the story closely analogous to Tarzan, was not done very well in 1984. So-so dialog, unconvincing love scenes, truck and helicopter crash and burn scenes.  It would be interesting to see Sheena made in the 21st century, with good writing and directing. It could be a good film, although, Tarzan has been done so well, so many times, what's the use? There is only one reason to see Sheena, and that is to appreciate Tanya Roberts, very striking, and not a bad actress at all.  I don't understand why she never got good roles. "},{"Title":"The feminine side of Tarzan.","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I could watch the wonderfully appealing Tanya Roberts all day in slow motion riding that horse&#133; Ah I mean zebra and swinging through the jungle. Who wouldn't? She looked great. However with the acting, I just don't know if that was her natural abilities shinning through because it seemed to be taking a lot out of her with her constant head grabbing. No that's right, she's telepathically communicating with the animals ala The Beastmaster. As for the film itself&#133; of epic proportions. Director John Guillermin kind of shoots himself in the foot. The material tries to be fashionable with it's comic-book origins that's based upon S.M. Eiger and Will Eisner's comic strip books Sheena, Queen of the Jungle, but transcends into campy goofiness and lazy story-telling with an awkward sexual allurement. I don't know who this was aimed at. It pushes the boundaries of juvenile silliness that seems to be aimed at children, but its free flowing t&a (thankyou to a nekid Tanya) rules out that possibility. But how, this one has a family feel to it. The action set-pieces are often poorly staged and eye-boggling, with a rough around the edges quality coming through. Other than Roberts being pretty much eye-candy, the stunning Kenya locations managed to give the film a sense of place with Pasqualino De Santis' handsome widescreen photography being smoothly protracted. On the other side of the coin Richard Hartley's music score was relatively ham-fisted and out-of-place. Even the script tackles many issues in a tacky, forced one-note mode that's quite rib-tickling or pain-staking depending on the mood of the viewer. The romance between Roberts and Wass is pitiful. Starring opposite of Roberts is Ted Wass, who's capably charming in his role. Donovan Scott is given free reign in the comic part. I don't think this film is that awful, as its made out to be, but it has quite a few bad elements that'll give it a hard time in trying to fight off that stinker tag. At least the laughs keep on coming. Unintentional or not, is the question? "},{"Title":"You have to know what you're watching...","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's not that bad if you realize that it is just a T&A vehicle. If you disagree, then explain to me the gratuitous bathing scenes. You have to assume she bathes in that waterhole, it doesn't need to be shown so many times... unless you are trying to show a hot blonde nekked to sell tickets.Anyway, it's full of plot holes, but, most movies from that era are, just enjoy it for what it is. It's Donna's mom from That 70's Show showing herself a bit in a Tarzan rip-off. But, it could be worse. Frankly, I like it better than some of the Tarzan movies from that era.And it's definitely a reason to pick your babysitters more carefully if you think about it. Prophecy or not, Sheena's parents died because Sheena's (Janet at the time) babysitter wasn't watching her very closely. Then the echoes that kill started to make sense. Just watch it and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Goofy.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Roberts' undeniable gorgeousness (as an actress, she is terrible but that's irrelevant) hardly redeems this goofy turkey. This film is quite a comedown for director John Guillermin, who had directed Death on the Nile six years earlier. "}{"Title":"Wild turkey.","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When a pair of geologists are killed by a cave-in, their young daughter Janet is adopted by the shaman of the Zambouli tribe of Tigora, who believes the blonde girl to be Sheena, the one who has been prophesied to become protector of her people.As she grows up, Sheena is taught to survive in the wild, and also how to communicate telepathically with animals, a trick which comes in very useful when nasty Prince Otwani assassinates Tigora's king, frames the shaman for his crime, and attempts to exploit the titanium-rich Zambouli lands.Aided by a variety of jungle friends, and a pair of American news reporters (played by Ted Wass and Donovan Scott) who have stumbled upon Otwani's plan, the beautiful wild-woman sets out to free the shaman and stop the evil prince and his army.With an embarrassingly bad script littered with risible dialogue, stereotypical characters, dreadful action scenes (including a laughable flamingo attack on a helicopter!), a horse unconvincingly painted to look like a zebra, and some of the worst acting imaginable, Sheena sounds like an unmissable slice of low-budget, bad B-movie heaven.Nothing could be further from the truth.Based on comic book writer Will Eisner's female version of Tarzan, Sheena was actually a relatively big-budget, major studio release (it cost an estimated $25,000,000). Directed by John Guillermin, the man behind the immensely successful disaster film The Towering Inferno, and the less impressive 1976 remake of King Kong, the film attempts to capture the excitement and sex-appeal of Eisner's jungle heroine, but only succeeds in achieving the latter, resulting in a disappointing and dreary yarn memorable solely for the fact that its star, Charlie's Angels hottie Tanya Roberts, spends the entire film in (and out of) a tiny animal-skin bikini.I give Sheena, Queen of the Jungle 3/10 for Ms. Roberts' incredibly hot bod, and the unintentionally hilarious scene where our heroine carefully clears a patch on the ground in order to illustrate her strategy, draws a single line in the dirt with a stick, and says 'This is the edge of the great forest; we shall wait for them here'. Complicated plan, Sheena&#151;thank heavens you drew it for us in the dirt, or else we may never have understood. "},{"Title":"Very good B-movie","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is much better than the low IMDb rating seems to indicate - of course, it's a B movie, but it's proud of it, and the production values are extremely high - better than in many A movies. The location shooting must have been a horror, but it pays off big time - scenery, sets, props are all excellent, and the animal scenes are outstanding. The acting is not that good, especially Ted Wass as the male lead can't give much life to his role. Tanya Roberts is not a great actress either, but she has real screen presence and so Sheena's scenes don't feel awkward for the most part. The story is straightforward (a bit like Avatar, but simpler) and moves along at a nice pace, the villains have it coming and get it, the heroes get together and they even managed a not-so-silly ending! If there's something not to like here (apart from the weak acting), it's the music - the synthesizer soundtrack manages to feel incongruous in every single scene. But overall, I can heartily recommend Sheena to everyone not put off by a B-movie plot. "},{"Title":"Good choice for an underrated film!","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am a fan of certain action and adventure films that are talked about a lot and that aren't talked about a lot. I really enjoy this type of adventure film. I do not understand why so many people dislike this film. I think that it is very nicely done what good performances by Tanya Roberts (Charlie's Angels) as our lead role, Sheena (what I call a female Tarzan) and actors and actresses that I do not know about. This film proves that a woman born in the wild is just as intelligent and loyal as a person born in the outside world is just as important. Okay for kids and adults (despite brief nude scenes)! But, overall just nicely done! "},{"Title":"Just Imagine a Female Tarzan","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With slight modifications, Sheena is basically just a female version of Tarzan, my all-time favorite fictional character. Everyone pretty much knows going in that the plot, dialog and acting of a film like this will be of the B movie variety, and it is, sort of like Indiana Jones but a bit less compelling. What's magnificent, awe-inspiring and A level are the African locations (Kenya), the score and Tanya Roberts.Seriously, if you're bored with your every-day locale this movie is the perfect antidote. It's virtually a two-hour tour of some of the most gorgeous African scenery you'll ever feast your eyes upon. As for the score, it's pleasant and meditative; reminiscent of Chariots of Fire. Regarding Tanya Roberts, what can I say? She's stunning.I never concern myself with ratings when watching films, but I couldn't help but be a little surprised by the PG rating here because Sheena (Roberts) is shown TOTALLY nude on a number of occasions and prances around throughout the flick in a ridiculously skimpy leather bikini; but then it struck me that it's portrayed in an inoffensive way like Eve in Eden before the fall and the consequent awareness of evil. In other words, there's an almost child-like innocence and purity to Sheena even though she's a quite skilled warrior. I commend the film-makers for successfully capturing this quality. For this reason I personally don't feel the movie is inappropriate for kids, despite the nudity.My rating of B- reflects the happy medium between the Grade C plot, dialog & acting and the Grade A African locations, score and Ms. Roberts.The film runs 117 minutes.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Since I've opened up the subject of Sheena, queen of the jungle, I've decided to mention the 1984 movie version. Tanya Roberts had campaigned for the role many years, even claiming her part in The Beastmaster was to demonstrate she had the acting ability. It was released in the summer blockbuster season. Sadly, the movie bombed after the critics tore the film apart.Which is too bad because the Sheena we got in 1984 wasn't all that bad. Yes, it did have a mind-numbing pseudo-Vangelis score which grated on the nerves. But Tanya Roberts did her best to play the legendary jungle queen. The opening scene, where the healing powers of the sacred soil are shown, is fantastic. Too bad the rest of the movie never lived up to the first five minutes. I should also give the producers credit for filming the movie entirely in Kenya. The shots of the grasslands are magnificent. Even Pauline Kael admitted  the picture certainly never starves the eye. The Sheena movie we were given in 1984 had the title character in plain suede leather, not the bizarre leopard skins of previous years.The question which never gets answered in this movie (or any other jungle girl flick) is where she gets her hair and make-up done. I've always wondered if Chim the ape was trained to do hair care at an early age and has a salon hidden somewhere on the savanna. But it's all part of the willing suspension of disbelief.The 1984 Sheena movie continues to be popular on video and DVD. I'm not aware of a Blu-ray version, but I'm sure one is one the way. http//www.z7hq.com/pulp/sheena-movie-1984.php "},{"Title":"Flawed, but it has a soul... and a body.","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a movie that many of us remember watching as a kid, and a secondary thought that follows that feeling relies in the fact that many of those movies indeed were a lot better than most of today's soulless blockbusters. Sheena is actually a flawed, rather modest and slightly camp matinée flick which live up to equally modest expectations. As many other movies based in popular culture characters, this is an Origins story of the female hero of the title which updates and upgrades the ancient archetype -and male fantasy with racist overtones- of a blonde amazon who rules a savage land, however, this movie succeeds in a more respectful portrayal of the natives and their millenarian wisdom, depicted as rather peaceful people living in balance with nature, properly turned into fierce warriors in order to assume the defense of their land from evil and greedy visitors.Beautiful starlet Tanya Roberts brings charm and brightness to the leading role, despite her odd outfit that underlines an adequate sense of campiness (just like, let's say, a horse painted as a zebra), which delivers the magic (some people would like to call it suspension of disbelief) this story deserves. A most ambiguous issue is the thin line between the innocent eroticism and well-intended exploitation that justifies non-sexual full frontal nude scenes involving a Caucasian woman, but has to be admitted that's precisely the part which everyone expects to see in a movie like this one, where sexiness is the principal ingredient.The DVD, poorly released by Sony/Columbia Pictures definitely doesn't do justice to the movie. The full screen format crops the magnificent landscapes off and the awful quality of the transfer play against the experience. Even the cover artwork (another example of bad photoshop, and, by the way... there are NO tigers in Africa neither do they even appear in this movie) is a big let down to an otherwise enjoyable, fun, sexy and entertaining adventure flick with a soul and a body. Tanya Robert's body. "},{"Title":"Truly awful, but lots of eye-candy","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Breath-taking African scenery and Tanya Roberts, one of the most beautiful women ever to appear on a movie screen, provide lots of lovely things to look at but don't QUITE distract one from the central truth of this movie, which is that it stinks. The plot is simplistic, predictable, paint-by-numbers 80s action junk about evil mercenaries doing something evil, the dialogue is so bad it almost works as camp or self-parody, and the primary musical theme is so annoying and unsuited to the milieu it needs muting. You almost want to extract images of Tanya running about in her Fredrick's of Zimbabwe bra top and thong, taking showers under waterfalls, riding her zebras, and bouncing, bouncing, always bouncing... and put them to better music, with the dialogue cut out. The movie itself is just jaw-droppingly awful, but Tanya is just so fabulous, no (hetero male) viewer cares, as the camera lingers on her glorious body and gazes into her empty blue eyes, so blank and uncluttered by comprehension or thought. TV D-lister Ted Wass is along as her erstwhile male lead, and is so amazingly bland on-screen he makes Tanya look charismatic by comparison, no small feat. As adventure fiction, it's pretty much garbage. Enjoy the eye candy. "},{"Title":"Truly enjoyable adventure yarn","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the early 20th century, Audrey Munson made her movie debut in Thanhouser's Inspiration (1915), essentially playing herself an artist's model. A year later, she appeared in another film, Purity (1916). What is remarkable about these films is that in both, Miss Munson appears in the nude. This is in the nineteen-teens, remember. There were censorship boards then, run by the states rather than the film industry... and of course they always sought to keep the movie screens free of smut.And yet, both Inspiration and Purity were approved for public exhibition... because the nudity in them was artistic and non-erotic. I don't know if that standard has ever been applied, to any other film; or rather, I didn't know, until I chanced across Sheena (1984).Browsing through the channels one evening, I found this film, starring Tanya Roberts as Sheena, Queen of the Jungle. I'll give it a chance, I figured. So my wife and I watched as Ms. Roberts, clad only in a leather bikini-like garment, went about her adventures in the jungles of darkest Africa.Then, out of nowhere, there's a scene where she stops by a lake to bathe. I figured she would just jump in, since she's already wearing practically nothing anyway, right? Wrong!Before we knew what was happening, Tanya Roberts slipped out of her garment and entered the lake nude, in all God's glory. I mean it when I say I didn't see it coming. Most of the time when you see nudity on the screen, you kinda know it's coming, but this was a real surprise.I checked the program guide for the MPAA rating. Gotta be an R, right? Wrong again! Sheena was given a PG rating -- not a PG-13, not an R, not an NC-17. It's a PG, meaning any youngster, of any age, can see the movie without an adult. And, come to think of it, the Parental Guidance suggested by PG is probably because of some battle scenes in the movie.Thinking back, I wonder Is this the first time since the two Audrey Munson films in 1915 and 1916, that on-screen adult nudity has been allowed, with no restrictions whatsoever?I'm not a big fan of nude scenes, and I don't seek them out. But this one, in Sheena, has to be the most innocent one I've ever seen.Dan N. "},{"Title":"Gazed by Tanya Roberts","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie as rated, is below average, the plot is poor, but the execution is a little poor. What I found interesting on this movie is that Roberts is absolutely gorgeous and pretty undressed for the time (some shots are too bold for 1984). In the mid 80s it could be kinda entertaining, but is not suitable for nowadays audiences, it obviously doesn't contain high art values. As a minor appreciation (and the true reason I watched it), is a superhero movie, so those who like comics and such can enjoy it a little bit more, considering that there is not so many super movies and could see it as measure to other old superhero movies (for example superman -as way better than this one-). Special effects are not bad (explotions and such are nit), but the zebra could have been painted better. For a boring Saturday afternoon it could be a choice if you can't see The Godfather for 20th time. "},{"Title":"Campy Fun","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Fun camp adventure with Tanya Roberts as the blonde female Tarzan clone Sheena. Roberts is AWFUL but damn nice to look at. The slow-mo shots of her riding her zebra are classic. Ted Wass has fun as the reporter who becomes Sheena's love interest. Oliver Hardy-lookalike Donovan Scott plays Wass' comedic sidekick. French (I think?) actress France Zobda makes for a beautiful villainess but doesn't appear nearly enough. Lots of eye candy and plenty of humor, intended and otherwise, make this an entertaining movie of its type. But it's also overlong and lacking much action for long stretches. The climactic flamingos versus helicopter scene is something you just have to see to believe. Surprisingly, this wasn't made by Dino De Laurentiis or Golan-Globus. "}{"Title":"Amazing landscape and incredible animals","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie 25 years later on DVD.I am really astonished when I saw 4.3 user rating on top of the page. I am sure this movie deserves much more than that. It would worth more than 4.3 points even if there were no animals . I give 10 points mainly because of the animals .I must say that this is film about kind of a lady jungle hero.I would recommend this film to children if there were no savage scenes such as shooting,bombing and killing both innocent people and animals.Sheena (Tanya Roberts) is a sexy young girl who brought up by native Africans, has special kinetic powers and can communicate with animals.First of all it is not a boring movie.Landscape is amazing. As for the animals, they are incredible. Director John Guillermin did a superb job in this film with these animals.I will not go into detail about the film but recommend you to buy or rent DVD and watch this movie. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film for the period was good. It was an adaptation of the women in the movie Tarzan. Sheena had excellent environments and photographs but the base was good. This film had the beautiful actress Tanya Roberts and its thanks. The environments show a 'africa and uncontaminated healthy and the link between this woman and Tarzan animals. The Charlie's angels tried to make this movie for 80 years could be fine. The actress was physically a little 'lean arms were fairly skeletal and the breast was little short, was not a woman but increased for the role that was to run and in one thousand ups went well. The film, I repeat, was a response to male Tarzan although as usual on this website prefers to lay sea everything that was part of anni'80. It 'a tradition!! "},{"Title":"SHEENA (John Guillermin, 1984) *1/2","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is another film I recall being released in my childhood but have taken over twenty years to catch up with – not that it was a priority for me, knowing of its dismal reputation (SHEENA having been a nominee of five Razzies back in the day); that said, having just watched the even more maligned TARZAN, THE APE MAN (1981), I thought I might as well get to that jungle character’s female counterpart (who originated in a comic-strip)...The result is perhaps even worse than the notorious John Derek film if anything, the fact that the character is a household name makes the Tarzan outing a more desirable commodity – besides, even if Tanya Roberts as Sheena does get a couple of gratuitous nude bathing scenes, she’s not really a match for Bo Derek’s Jane! Furthermore, the plot doesn’t exactly compel attention the ambitious younger sibling of the current African ruler covets both his throne and his intended bride (whose model-type body is also conveniently bared for our perusal) and has him killed – at the same time, contriving to frame the visiting female shaman of an ancient jungle tribe for the deed! The latter is jailed, but she’s apparently able to communicate telepathically with Sheena (who promptly sets out to rescue her); the scantily-clad, tree-hopping jungle-girl was raised by the shaman ever since the childhood trauma of watching her explorer parents die in a cave-in; the young woman’s gift also allows her to talk to the animals (apparently, all that’s needed is to rub one’s forehead...only it looks more as if the subject’s suffering from migraines!) and, on many an occasion during the course of the film, they come to her aid. Also involved in the narrative are wimpish reporter Ted Wass (who eventually teams up with – and falls for – Sheena), his comic-relief cameraman, and a band of mercenaries in the new king’s employ (unrealistically, he and his bride tag along to their ultimate regret) who sets out in pursuit of our heroes because Wass has unwittingly filmed the assassination.The film is not unwatchable per se, but it’s not very rewarding either outside of some undeniable campiness – despite the involvement of interesting talent behind the camera director Guillermin, for one, wasn’t new to the jungle habitat – having directed a couple of the 1960s Tarzan films, SHAFT IN Africa (1973), and the 1976 version of KING KONG (with its lamentable 1986 sequel following SHEENA itself)!; story and (bad) script come courtesy of David Newman (the SUPERMAN films), Leslie Stevens (THE OUTER LIMITS TV series) and Lorenzo Semple Jr. (the 1960s BATMAN), cinematography is by Oscar-winning Pasqualino De Santis (ROMEO AND JULIET 1968) and the editor is Ray Lovejoy (2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY 1968); still, perhaps the worst offender is Richard Hartley’s unsuitable score – with a main theme shamelessly redolent of Vangelis’ celebrated music for CHARIOTS OF FIRE (1981)! "},{"Title":"A female Tarzan, without the yell!","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For all those who like Tarzan, here's a movie that will make a jungle lover out of you even more. Sheena is a movie of a young blonde who helps an African tribe from being wiped out by a prince and his mercenaries. Sheena was formerly known as Janet Ames, who lost her parents in a cave-in, is taken in by a woman known as the Shaman(Elizabeth of Toro) who uses her mental commands to associate with the animals of the jungle. Her friends other than Sheena(Tanya Roberts, Julie on Charlie's Angels) is the king. There's is a prince named Otwani(Trevor Jones) who played football in America, and is befriended by an American journalist named Vic Casey(Ted Wass) and Fletch(Donovan Scott). Little did Vic know that Otwani only goal is to wipe out the Zambuli tribe and he and his mercenaries led by Col. Jorgensen(John Forgeham) want the area for his selfish purposes. Vic joins forces with Sheena, and does his best to keep Otwani and his invaders from turning Z'kuru into a desolate wasteland. Tanya Roberts looked ravishing, she puts Tarzan into shame. And the way she uses her mental power was awesome. The countess(France Zobda) was a little more greedy than Otwani. The flamingo scene was outrageous and beautiful at the same time. Vic knows the truth about the soil that healed him from the wreck, At least, he also know about respect about the country it came from. Saving life is one thing, saving a country is another. He would not exploit Sheena or Z'kuru to outsiders because there will be greedy people wanting to get their hands on the land. Probably greedier than Otwani. Despite the nudity, Sheena is a good movie. maybe not for young kids, that could be watch as a family though. A very powerful movie as well. A real gem there! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Nice photography, but that's about it...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tanya Roberts is wasted here.  Yes, she is a very talented actress, but couldn't they have cast a grade Z actress like Linnea Quigley?  It's not too much a waste of time because of the beautiful shots of the Kenyan countryside and the animals, but most of the acting really sucks.  One exception is Elizabeth of Toro who plays her part as Sheena's guardian with much realism and is quite convincing.  There's hardly any graphic violence, except the scene where the white-haired villain gets a spear in his throat point-blank kind of gave me the shivers.  Otherwise it's a Saturday-morning action film for kids and guys who like to look at gorgeous women (Tanya Roberts and France Zorda).  The nude scenes with Tanya showering were edited for TV (I watched it on AMC) but the scenes of the native and Ted Wass being pulled from the healing dirt are there (nothing is shown except shaded buttocks).  If there's nothing better on TV, then get a good, healthy snack (you'll be eating more than watching)and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Downhill All the Way from the Credits","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The best thing about Sheena is its opening title sequence. Accompanied by an evocative musical score, a beautiful blonde girl dressed only in a sort of leather bikini rides on the back of a zebra across a dramatic African landscape. (OK, it's really a horse painted as a zebra). Unfortunately, from here on it is downhill all the way. The title character is a sort of female Tarzan, a white girl orphaned as a baby and raised by an African tribe. The plot tells how Sheena, helped by an American journalist, battles against a tyrannical ruler who has usurped power by murdering his brother. Her main asset in this struggle is her ability to communicate telepathically with animals and to persuade them to come to her assistance.This film has two things going for it. The first is Richard Hartley's music, reminiscent of Vangelis's score for Chariots of Fire and worthy of a much better film than this one. The second is the striking good looks of its heroine Tanya Roberts which were clearly the reason why she was cast in the part. Her acting talents, however, are striking only by their absence, although to be fair to her the same could be said of the rest of the cast. The one exception, surprisingly, is Elizabeth of Toro as the tribe's shaman responsible for Sheena's upbringing. She was a member of the Ugandan royal family, exiled by the regime of Idi Amin, who worked as both a diplomat and a model and who only made one film other than this one, but who seems more convincing than any of the professional actors on display.Trying to list all the goofs and plot holes in this film would be like shooting fish in a barrel, but would be pointless because it was clearly made as a fantasy and was never supposed to have any great connection to real life. (Although if you are going to paint a horse like a zebra, you should remember that zebras have striped manes and tails, not pure white ones as shown here). A fantasy only works, however, when we are able to suspend our disbelief, something we never manage to do here. There are some ludicrous scenes; the one where a flock of flamingos summoned by Sheena manages to bring down a helicopter is particularly noteworthy both because of its inherent unlikelihood and because of its unconvincing special effects. This is not a film we ever care about; the best that can be said for it is that it is simply an undemanding way of spending two hours. It is, however, worthwhile watching a bad film like this one from time to time, if only to increase one's appreciation of the good ones. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Sheena's #1 fan on the African continent responds","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This often maligned movie is my personal film classic. I saw it in 1984 at a drive-in theater, and now you've got to take my country into account. South Africa with its Draconian censorship laws still in full force, with the emphasis on force, so there was no nudity. There were lots of promotional photographs of the bikini beauty in the press when it was released, but the poster was relatively subdued, bikini beauty yes, but mostly an adventurous image, rather than something pin-up. Anyway, I went to see the pretty girl, and got to see a fun movie with likable characters. Okay, so there are the corny bits, such as Sheena's calling-the-elephants stance. But it's all wonderful fun! And that theme music! Okay, so what if it's a striped pony? Hell, I didn't come to see a zebra. Hell, if you are after a real zebra, might I suggest National Geographic? Off you go then!That scene where she wakes up next to him the next morning, wow, can anybody ever be that perfect in real life? I had it copied onto VHS, and became even better friends with the guy who did it for me as a favor. We shared similar tastes. He was, by the way, the projectionist at this drive-in. I then discovered, through this video rental, the nude scenes. But it was a much-abused original, and my copy of course looked weak.Years later, and after an initial struggle, I have it on DVD. I well remember it was Sunday, 22 January 2010. Movie night! Finally, SHEENA! In all her splendor! First as a child (!! Wow, pretty kids! Really pretty, well-chosen children, but very surprising, all that nudity, not that I myself see anything wrong with that, quite the opposite, it is healthy and natural, BUT WE ALL KNOW HOW PEOPLE ARE, and I suppose there were at least some outcry in the Puritanical regions.) Then, gloriously, Tanya Roberts, all golden mane and long legs and curves everywhere, one stunning example of young maidenhood, and now fully exposed on equally glorious DVD! I could have wept with happiness!I have since also obtained the Gena Lee Nolan TV series and will be reviewing that in the near future, but Tanya Roberts is my particular favorite. Granted, if Gena Lee 'didn't waste her time on BAYWATCH' (not that I really, really mean that, for she was the best bird of the lot) and if SHEENA the TV series came along sooner, she'd have been in her absolute prime. But that's for another review.The action scenes are well done, and that military convoy looks great on the screen. Oh, that old toothless-looking circus lion was a letdown, and the chimps corny as hell, but who really cares when you've got such a feast of Grade A eye-candy? I also loved Sheena's way of talking. 'The water the wagons drink', 'his fermented buffalo milk will be your fermented buffalo milk', 'I see my death in your eyes', 'Vic Casey, you are a giant', the list could go on and on. Tanya Roberts is, by all accounts, a difficult actress to work with, and she really got canned for A VIEW TO A KILL, but the initial haughtiness of her Sheena really made the character all the more tangible.The theme music during the opening credits, and the dramatic climactic showdown, deserves special mention. I have a huge TV with powerful stereo sound (brag, brag )) and I go full blast!Please somebody Find This Healing Earth In Real Life?Go for it. Just leave your two-bit movie critic attitude at the door. There are clearly many mistakes, there was room for improvement, but what was filmed, remains well worth watching again and again to this day! "},{"Title":"Queen of the Jungle? Sadly, it's more Turkey of the Jungle","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Unless they're part of an ensemble (the X-Men films notably), female comic book superheroes get no respectful cinematically (must be a gender issue). Case in point, Sheena, the $25 million flop from 1984, that's based on the character created by Jerry Iger (uncle of current Walt Disney Co. head capo Bob Iger) and Will Eisner (The Spirit). The survival member of the duo at that time, Eisner had the common sense to not be credited after seeing it. Iger's estate also followed. Who could blame them? Things start well enough when a married geologist team is killed in an African cave in while trying to find a mineral that has healing properties. Their daughter, Janet, is adopted by the ingenious tribe, the Zambouli, as part of a prophecy. The tribe's shaman (Elizabeth Of Toro, the only adept actor here!) rechristens the girl as Sheena and trains her to be the tribe's protector. After learning how to communicating with animals, swing from vines, ride zebraback (don't ask!) and sling arrows through the years (and by the film's main credits), Sheena's a fully grown woman (Tanya Roberts , The Beastmaster, That 70s Show), a mix between Tarzan and any skin-mag dame, and the adventure starts.It's not much of an engaging one, though. Prince Otwani (Trevor Thomas), the NFL athlete (huh?!) brother of the African king whose nation, the fictional Tigora, houses the Zambouli, hopes to financially exploit the mineral for profit by killing his brother and framing the shaman. However, the sports reporter Vic Casey (Ted Wass of Soap and Blossom) following Otwani gets footage of the truth, putting him and his hapless cameraman (Donovan Scott) in danger. However, they meet Sheena, during a rescue of the shaman, and Vic and Sheena have something of a romance while avoiding Otwani and his mercenaries.If you're not convinced by the whole yarn, barely adequately helmed by John Guillermin (The Towering Inferno, the 1976 King Kong remake), you're not alone because the film doesn't even live to its' own expectations, being an example of how NOT to make a film. Uninspired action sequences; dated plot points; awkward racial stereotypes (Otwani speaking like a African-American street hustler while being African royalty is cringe-inducing) and leaden dialogue infest the half-baked script of David Newman (Bonnie and Clyde, the first two Superman films), Leslie Stevens (developer of the original Outer Limits) and Lorenzo Semple Jr. (developer of the 1960s Batman series; Flash Gordon). It's also no help that the story doesn't know what it wants to be a campy tribute to the grade-B ,Saturday matinée serials of the 1930s and 1940s (a la Star Wars) or a live Playboy centerfold photo session (Tanya shows her mammary glands in bathing sessions), mixed with a Sports Illustrated article. I'm still puzzled how it got a PG rating, let alone green-lighted by an A-level film studio! For a B-film, it has no charm! The actors fare no better, especially Roberts, who's like a topless stripper reading Shakespeare (it has happened!) when being profound and Wass (now a sitcom director), who unbelievably turns from hard-boiled cynic to passionate poet (a bad one, at that) when he's with our hero. Richard Hartley's Chariots Of Fire-like score is so pretentious, it's ironic that it fits. Pasqualino De Santis' camera work is the only bright spot here, but if you have the guts to buy/rent the film on DVD, you'll lose out (more than already) because there's only a full screen version.When people complain about too many comic book films today, they should be aware that the storytelling medium has been mistreated and misunderstood in the past. Sheena is one of those comic book-based films that came out at a time when filmmakers cared nothing for any fanboys' feelings, let alone any smart moviegoer, since they had no Internet to voice their displeasure. Today, the displeasure's in evident, ten times over. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as its reputation suggests...and you get to see Tanya Roberts naked.","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a bizarre sort of film--and very confusing and difficult to give a numeric score and I am struggling more with this film than 99% of the movies I have rated. The biggest reason is that while it is a bad movie, the production values are amazingly good and it looks pretty nice. This is not some $50,000 production by Ed Wood, but one that inexplicably was approved and made by a real honest-to-goodness studio! The cinematography and music are often quite lovely and it's obvious some money was put into the picture. On the other hand, though, the dialog and basic idea are pretty dumb--a lot like some of the many jungle B-movies of the 1930s, 40s and 50s. In fact, movies like BLONDE SAVAGE and DAUGHTER OF THE JUNGLE are very cheap films but they manage to provide decent B-movie entertainment--and are an awful lot like SHEENA, an A-picture in almost every way. The other odd thing that make this film hard to rate is its audience. While these other female jungle warrior films all were designed mostly for kids, SHEENA is decidedly NOT a kids film--and I wonder how this film managed to receive a PG rating! I assume that no one actually saw the film since it was pretty goofy and didn't notice the two very striking nude scenes with its star, Tanya Roberts. And, on one hand this makes it a very family unfriendly film but on the other, for anyone who wants to see a lot of Ms. Roberts (more than she showed in BEAST MASTER), this is your film!The film begins with two scientists bringing their young daughter to the middle of the Zambuli lands to look into the rumor of some healing earth that has magical restorative properties. But, only moments later, they are killed in an accident and the little girl, Janet, is renamed 'Sheena' and is raised by the nice Zambuli. Apparenlty, they have some prophecy about a golden-haired lady who will save the tribe and Sheena is this fulfillment of prophecy. Oddly, after all this (and almost 20 minutes of film), the credits now roll.Later, time has passed and Sheena is now a buxom babe--sort of like a combination of Tarzan and a Playboy cover model cavorting about the jungle and talking with animals...and taking her clothes off now and then. And, now that she has reached adulthood, the prophesied threat to the tribe is about to be unleashed. After an assassination, the good king is replaced by his wicked brother whose goal is to rape Zambuli land. A reporter and his fat (i.e., comic relief) cameraman have stumbled upon evidence that the new king, in fact, was behind the assassination, so the king and his baddies all chase them into the jungle. There, they meet up with Sheena. After dispatching the cameraman with the evidence, the reporter (Ted Wass) stays with Sheena and marvels at her ability to control animals and her curvaceous body. In the end, the film pretty much goes as you expect, though the ending (when Wass leaves) is a letdown. I wonder if perhaps they ended it that way and assumed there'd be a sequel to reunite the lovers, but critical response to the film was so bad that it wasn't surprising this sequel never was made.So what makes this a relatively bad film? Well, the dialog is THE problem. Despite Sheena being raised by the Zambuli since she was about 3, she sounds like she could fit in almost anywhere--with lovely American-accented diction. Other than not understanding a few words about modern machinery, she sounds nothing like anyone raised in the middle of Africa. The same can be said, incidentally, of the Zambuli themselves. Also, too much of the dialog sounds like it came from an old movie serial--which is great for kids (who are often less demanding) but for a skin-flick, this makes no sense.Another problem is simply that much of the film isn't that interesting. You KNOW that in the end Sheena and the forces of good will win, so there is no real sense of uncertainty.As for Miss Roberts, she wasn't THAT bad...but she wasn't particularly believable. Much of it was because she was too well-coiffed and much of it was the dialog, though her acting didn't do much to inspire either. She was, however, in her element when it came to nude scenes, as at the time she must have been one of the most beautiful women in the world with her piercing eyes and...um...everything else. The way that some blamed her for the failure of the film seems a bit unfair, as the real culprit here is John Guillermin, the director, as he was apparently insane. If you don't believe me, try watching his next film, KING KONG LIVES--a film that is a billion times dumber than SHEENA ever was.One final problem, and it's more a problem for snobs like me that look for mistakes. The 'zebra' that Sheena rides throughout the film is clearly not a zebra but a horse painted like one. This makes sense, as zebras are wild and unpredictable but the paint job on the horse was poor--way too intensely black and the strips were too well-defined--making it look exactly like a painted horse. Heck, I would have simply made it be a horse in the film or had her ride an elephant (but African elephants can also be a bit hard to control) or had her walk or run instead.Overall, not a terrible film. The movie looks nice and even occasionally draws you into this goofy little world with its odd sense of innocence. However, it is pretty dumb when you think about it. "},{"Title":"Tanya Roberts - skimpy outfits","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tanya Roberts in skimpy outfits and one brief long distance nude scene - and STILL a male with high testosterone will only give it a 4! Some  gorgeous Kenyan scenery also added to the rating - which tells you how truly awful the movie was!  If you really like Tanya, save the two hours, and buy a poster! "}{"Title":"A really crap movie, but worth watching for laughs.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm betting the casting of Tanya Roberts in this movie was primarily dome because someone said We need a chick that looks good in leather and who has worked with animals and someone else said How about that girl from that movie about some animal master a couple of years ago? Apart from being dire in the extreme, this movie has a similar plot to Beastmaster. A hero who can control animals, for a start. Not to mention animals painted to look like other animals.Clearly, acting ability was not a consideration here. Tanya Roberts has all the acting ability of wet cement. But she looks the part.This movie is really pretty lame, with horses painted to look like zebras, helicopters putting out fuel fires with their rotors and the killer flamingos and so on.I was particularly struck with how clean and pretty Sheena always looked. I know, it's based on a cartoon etc. but still, after that long in the wilds without a razor you'd expect her to have some armpit hair, right? And just how did she get her eyebrows so nicely plucked? I know, I'm being picky. But stuff like this bugs me.Anyhoo, the killer flamingos are THE star scene of the movie. They basically attack a helicopter in flight. But the FX are so dire you end up laughing through the whole thing. Between the obvious blue-screen and the truly muppet-like flamingo puppets, your biggest fear will be trying to breathe through the laughter to the end of the scene.A really crap movie, but worth watching for laughs (and there are plenty). "},{"Title":"The pits!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sheena is quite simply a load of rubbish. But, hey, Tanya Roberts is one seriously sexy woman, and she looks absolutely ravishing in her female Tarzan outfit. Alas, she's also a pretty dire actress (as anyone who saw A View to a Kill can testify), so if you don't find her beautiful then you might struggle to make it all the way through this movie.The story is about an American journalist (Ted Wass) and his cameraman (Donovan Scott) who are covering events in the African interior. They stumble across white woman Sheena, who lives with the natives and swings around more acrobatically than Tarzan ever did. She is fighting to save her tribe and land from various nasty types, like gunrunners and political tyrants, and before they know it Wass and Scott are helping her in her struggle.The movie is full of laughable moments, like the unpersuasive scene in which flamingoes attack a helicopter, and the truly bizarre moment where Sheena holds her head as if concentrating really hard and manages to telekentically communicate with a zebra. Even the climax fizzles out with a weak chase sequence in which Roberts pursues a jeep on a zebra! The best thing about this movie (other than Tanya in a skimpy costume) is the sweeping music and the attractive background scenery. In every other aspect, it is a dismal failure.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic treatment of title character","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this mid-80's attempt at a jungle adventure very weak. I'm not complaining about the hole-riddled plot--that's common in this genre--but about the way the title character was handled. Sheena is the ultimate jungle girl character--supposedly a female Tarzan. So I kept waiting for her to do something, well, jungle girl-like--wrestle a crocodile, or battle a lion to the death. Instead, all Sheena ever did was put her fist to her forehead and somehow get flamingoes to attack a helicopter. Pathetic. Even worse is the scene where the bad guys are chasing after Sheena and her ally/sort of love interest, Vic. She's the jungle girl, right? He's an American who's only been in the jungle a couple of days, right? So what happens? HE grabs HER hand and starts pulling her along as he runs. Doubly pathetic.The only slightly redeeming feature of this piece of dreck is Elizabeth of Toro, whose dignified performance is badly out of place, and who deserved to be in a better film.  "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Is SHEENA a parody or a straight action flick? I think the director intended the latter but unintentionally gave us the former. Main blame has to go to Sheena herself. Roberts looks terrific but can't act to save her life. An R-rated version might have held more appeal, but then it would have simply been a soft-core porn job and there are already enough of those to choke a horse-painted-to-look-like-a-zebra.  "},{"Title":"A film so bad it is funny","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is painful to watch most of the time. However, it is so bad, that anyone with even a little taste in cinema will start howling with laughter. The director clearly used as few words as possible to direct this film, and the acting is truly awful, making this film unintentionally funny. Ted Wass actually does act in the first scene and in the last, both shot on the same airplane, leading me to suspect that those were filmed before he met his co-star, the truly inept Tanya Roberts. After meeting her, it is apparent that Wass realized just how bad an actress she was, and gave up trying, producing a monotone performance for the rest of the film. Tanya Roberts may have been good looking but her acting range is limited to one expression where she screws her face up in an effort to look like she is concentrating (I thought she might just have been constipated throughout the filming since that is what her one facial expression suggested to me). The best actress in this whole mess, Elizabeth of Toro is killed off only a quarter of the way through the film, which brings the level of acting way down. The production clearly was filmed on a shoestring budget where they couldn't afford to re-shoot anything. Even the casual viewer in the theater is able to spot the wire the model helicopter is being guided by when it crashes (your not supposed to be able to see that), and there is never any kind of a herd of animals on screen in this African jungle movie, just one of any type at a time. If you watch carefully you will see the occasional shadow on the ground which doesn't belong to any actor in the scene(it must be a crew member's). The plot is blindingly obvious with absolutely no surprises or dramatic tension. The script is also very poor, with cheesy dialog running throughout it, and you can predict lines and jokes far in advance of their being said. Actually, the limited script helps as it means you don't have to suffer through Roberts trying to speak. So go to the film and laugh at it, and learn what not to do when producing a movie. "},{"Title":"Sheena is a hot girl!","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" She e na is a bad movie, but Sheena is a hot girl, nooooow. It is important to remember that this was originally made in the fifties to show a girl in a loincloth. This eighties version has Tanya Roberts nude under a waterfall. Nice. Too bad that image is very early in the movie and the rest is all love the animals, peace be with everyone. Tanya Roberts, while fully equipped to be naked, is not so equipped to be in a serious film which this misguided movie tries to masquerade as. Many have said that there is beautiful scenery, this is true. But it is frickin' Africa, it's harder to make it look bad. And you can't ignore the pathetic stereotypes that make this movie racist and sexist. To watch the horrible silly natives sequences that these movies always have coupled with lazy film-making that a twelve year could improve on, more than negates the pleasant sight of Tanya Roberts' moist breasts. "},{"Title":"Low Expectations","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was never meant to be a movie you'd want to put in a time capsule. It was only supposed to be a pleasant adventure based on a comic book. In some ways at least, the film succeeds. The plot is a coherent tale of greedy villains vs. underdog heroes, although it has the normal implausibilities of adventure films (bad guys are experienced soldiers with automatic weapons but can't hit a thing). The movie was filmed in Kenya and has some spectacularly beautiful photography of African plains and wildlife.Even in a movie with modest aspirations, though, it is surely a bad sign when the best acting is done by animals. The chimpanzees were the best, although the lions and elephants also turn in fine performances. The human cast doesn't fare so well. Tanya Roberts has the look of a beautiful woman who can fight, but you'll want to hit the mute button whenever she recites her lines. A good appearance at least puts her one-up on co-star Ted Wass. In a movie which tries to combine adventure, romance, and humor, he has no toughness, charm, or wit.And a cautionary note to anyone who thinks the comic book heritage of this film and its PG rating might make it a good choice for children. This film has nudity and graphic violence that normally isn't allowed with a PG rating. I think this film came out just before the PG-13 rating was created. If Sheena were released today, it would be at least a PG-13 and maybe even an R rated film. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Made to show off the sex appeal of so-called star Roberts and she has only one brief nude scene. What other reason was this film made? It certainly wasn't made to tell a good story. It certainly didn't have a good cast.  "},{"Title":"Whewwwwwwwwww....","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This one sucks.  Tanya Roberts is one of the most beautiful women I've ever seen.  On Charlie's Angels, she even upstaged Farrah for being curvacious, and endowed.  This movie attempts to capitalize on that--to the exclusion of all else, I think.  However, Roberts sexuality fails to carry the homicidal flamingos, and a male lead who is so horrendously dead pan, you almost wonder if the director kept a bottle of oxygen on the set to resuscitate him.  The experience is made worse by Roberts' acting which is atrocious in its own right.  Animal skins, blonde jungle queens in bondage, and bodacious mammaries are all very well, and good, but they're no replacement for good, solid acting.The movie does boast some excellent photography, and for that I have to give it two stars. "},{"Title":"It Bad Movie","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I watched this movie. In beginning I judge that this movie 's picture is not good. Acting is also so much bad. But story is good and make you full attract with movie full time. There is many unnecessary nudity which make much bad impression. This movie should like family movie but alas this movie is not for family movie. That's why I don't like this movie and I don't want to wast any money on this movie. But one amazing thing that I like sound track. That's why I give vote this movie 4 / 10. And give comment that Bad Movie.1- Picture is bad2- Acting is bad3- Story is good4- Nudity is much5- I don't Like6- I don't want to wast any money on this movie7- Sound Track is good8- Reality is OK9- Camera is not fine10- Direction is much badTake Care Keep Safe Keep Smile Adam "}{"Title":"Unbelievably bad B-Picture","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one to avoid, unless you are a lover of really good B-films.  If that is the case, watch this one to reinforce how really good some B-films can be and how bad some other ones are.  Can't believe it was shown at AMC as in American Movie Classics.  Nothing classic about this one. "},{"Title":"The Story Deserved A Better Treatment","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sheena Queen of the Jungle was a popular comic book in the 1940s that became a popular television series (though it was only on for one year) in the mid-1950s thanks to the casting of pin-up queen Irish McCalla as Sheena, who in her leopard skin not only looked impressive, but managed to cut a noble, convincing aura as a primitive jungle queen saving paradise routinely from evil traders and poachers and rescuing her dimwitted boyfriend, guide Bob Rayburn from trouble.  The idea of Sheena as a strong, female version of Tarzan has always had a certain kind of appeal and for decades there were attempts to make a big screen version.  Raquel Welch was signed to do a feature version in the early 1970s but a behind the scenes squabble kept the picture from being made.It's a pity that happened because while Welch would have been a worthy heir to Irish McCalla, the end result that finally emerged in 1984 is simply inadequate.  There is gorgeous cinematography of Africa, a noble performance by Elizabeth of Toro as the shaman who raises Sheena after her parents are killed in a cave-in, and the opening has a kind of interesting female Greystoke quality to it.  And then unfortunately the rest of the film begins and we veer off into camp even sillier than what screenwriter Lorenzo Semple and director John Guillermin served up in the remake of King Kong.  A dopey plot involving a TV newscaster uncovering an assassination conspiracy by the brother of an African king (who is also, I am not making this up, an NFL placekicker!) leads him to discover Sheena swinging through the trees and the dialogue that unfolds between them has to rank as some of the worst you'll ever hear.  Sheena's paramour ought to be an African guide or someone familiar with the area, and not some displaced New Yorker who tries to tempt Sheena to come with him by describing the sight of Wall Street!And finally, Tanya Roberts, while impressive in her costume in publicity stills (but what the heck happened to the leopard skin?) is simply terrible, giving us a preview of her even worse performance the next year as the worst Bond girl of all time in A View To A Kill.  She exudes none of Irish McCalla's qualities of primitive nobility, instead still looking too much like a California girl.  And when she goes into one of her trances to summon the animals she looks more like a poster for an Excedrin commercial.Sheena is the kind of concept that deserves a better treatment than this.  Sure, it helps if the character is sexy while swinging through the trees but she also ought to be a lot more intelligent than the Sheena in this film (and isn't it odd that Sheena's adoptive mother the shaman speaks good, cultured English while Sheena is still talking in that cliched Tarzan style accent?).  Let's hope it gets another chance someday. "}]