[{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This concert/movie is simply a brilliant collaboration of music and film. First off, you have the Talking Heads, perhaps one of the most creative and interesting bands in the history of music who put on a concert that is so imaginative that I still cannot believe it happened. Second, you have veteran Director Johnathan Demme who brings the darkness and creepiness that he used in such films as Silence of the Lambs and Philadelphia, to a concert with sort of a dark and creepy demeanor, i.e. David Byrne in general, the style of music, the dancing. I mean dark and creepy in a good way however. I cannot help to think that this movie is also a comedy. David Byrne's movements, the bass players dancing, the songs and just everything i get a kick out of. I have always been a big fan of the Talking Heads, but after seeing this movie, my love for them skyrockets. They are a unbelievable band with an imagination that rivals that of the likes of Shel Silverstein and the Cohen Brothers. I could literally go on and on about how brilliant this movie is. I think the next time i watch it, i may actually get up and dance. I only wish that I could have been at the actual show. I also cannot figure out what I like better, The Last Waltz or this. Shame on anybody who badmouths this movie or the band in general. See this and then see it again and again and again. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great film making as well as great music","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  After getting my DVD player, this is one of the first discs I bought. I first saw this movie in the eighties as a fan of the music and was completely floored by a band at their peak. Since then, I've grown to appreciate good cinema as much as music, and I now look at Stop Making Sense from a slightly different perspective.The movie stands up by any measure of cinematic quality - the direction, the photography, the lighting, the set design, the editing, the performances of the 'actors'. Everything is unquestionably good. A couple of illustrations -During 'Once in a Lifetime', the camera holds on David Byrne, framing him from the waist up, and doesn't leave him until the very last moments of the song. His performance is absolutely enthralling. I've been trying to think of a movie where an actor holds one shot for so long, and I can't.The photography and lighting during 'What a Day That Was' are beautiful. The stark white up-lighting reduces a large auditorium and stage to a claustrophobic collage of shadows. The effect is not unlike some scenes in Charles Laughton's 'Night of the Hunter'.In contrast to some other views posted here, I think the Tom Tom Club's appearance adds a colourful punctuation to the flow of the movie.The DVD is one of the very few I've come across where the commentary is worth listening to. It switches between all four band members plus Jonathan Demme, and the anecdotes are constantly interesting and often very funny. As a package, this is one of the most satisfying DVD's I own. All the extras are worthwhile and well presented, unlike most 'Special Editions' which are crammed full of junk you wouldn't normally give a second look.It's a pity that, by its nature, Stop Making Sense will only ever appeal to a small audience, because it deserves to be revered by fans of cinema as well as music. The rock movie genre has only a handful of classics to its name, but Stop Making Sense is its Citizen Kane, its Exorcist, its Godfather, its Star Wars. It really is that good. "},{"Title":"Pure cinema","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" 'Stop Making Sense' is more than simply a concert film. It is pure cinema. It engages all of the senses, it creates a mood, it establishes an atmosphere, it has narrative logic, and it jolts the viewer with electric energy. You can't sit still while watching this. You can't keep your head from bobbing, or your mouth from moving, if you know the words to the songs.Twenty years later, the sound and image of Talking Heads still feels new, maybe even post-new. It's frightening to look at this film and then consider that all of the Talking Heads are now in their fifties, and David Byrne's hair is as white as Steve Martin's. Byrne's music has mellowed just as people mellow with age, and his fascinating career along with the direction it's taken is emblematic of the excitement that youth brings to an artist's work. To watch 'Stop Making Sense' is to be alive, and for someone who never had and probably never will have the opportunity to see Talking Heads live, and even for those who have, it is a blessing to have a film such as this to preserve the unmatched innovation and energy of this band. Watching David Byrne perform in this film is an awesome sight. Schwarzenegger and Stallone were never this thrilling. "},{"Title":"The Benchmark of All Concert Films","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" It's a good thing that the Talking Heads broke up when they did. I mean, could you imagine them slogging it out today, playing the state fair circuit, or worse, the street fair circuit? No, watch this film. See a band at its creative and energetic peak. Remember them as they were over the two or three days in which it was filmed. Of course, you must watch David Byrne. He would make his entire body a performance art. He would contort, jog, dance, leap, and even make his clothes a prop.But, watch Tina Weymouth...Tina is a very visual performer too. She says almost nothing, letting her bass guitar speak for her. And while David goes over the top often, Tina is subtle and sublime. With her body moves as she dances in place. With her facial expressions, her smiles, occasional raised eyebrows, and glances. Then when the action shifts to the Tom Tom Club (in order to give David a break and allow him to change into his big suit), her big moment is for one song only--Genius of Love but man does she seize the moment and make it all her own! Rounding out the Talking Heads of course are drummer Chris Frantz (Tina Weymouth's husband for over 30 years now) and guitarist/keyboardist Jerry Harrison. When Chris takes the stage, he bounds up onto the riser, bows, and with a big smile, gets drumming. He is clearly enjoying himself during this and at the end of the show, he jubilantly throws his sticks into the audience. Jerry is a little harder to get a bead on. At times he's clearly enjoying himself, particularly on BURNING DOWN THE HOUSE. Other times he seems a little detached.Rounding out the touring band are Alex Weir on lead guitar, Bernie Worrel on keyboards, Edna Holt and Lynn Marbry on back-up vocals, and Steve Scales on percussion. None are treated as sidemen, rather as an integral part of the show.It has been commented that some sweetening of the sound was done. But I believe that it was to achieve sound consistency. I have heard several concert films with terrible audio (RUST NEVER SLEEPS comes to mind). Seeing this movie is what made me a Talking Heads fan back in 1985. Finding a copy at the used book store in 2006 is what helped me re-discover them.It would be easy to dismiss the Talking Heads as all visual as all David Byrne. Such is not the case. The songwriting and musicianship was solid throughout the band's career. The band remained together for several more years, scoring several additional hits including AND SHE WAS, LADY DON'T MIND, & WILD WILD LIFE. They called it quits as a band in 1991, although all four members have remained active in music. "},{"Title":"Perhaps The Greatest Concert-Film Ever Produced","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Before I saw Stop Making Sense I had never been particularly concerned with The Talking Heads, or lead-singer and solo-artist David Byrne. Indeed, I had always been a fan of certain songs, such as Burning Down the House and Psycho Killer, but I had never actually spent time becoming acquainted with the band's music on the whole. However, Stop Making Sense was something I was desperate to view, due to the substantial amount of praise that had been garnered over the years since its release. Now it is safe to say that The Talking Heads rank among my favourite bands, thanks to this masterpiece of musical art.Essentially, Stop Making Sense is a showcase of the band's collected works. Throughout the 90-minute running-time the concert simultaneously covers the back-catalogue of The Talking Heads, through fluid, non-stop vibrancy. From Found a Job and Take Me to the River the work is merely a sample of the group's ability to provide some of the most engaging live shows ever recorded. To say that the film is original would be an understatement, given that the title still rings true today. Stop Making Sense defines the band's abilities, attitudes, styles and motifs. The New Wave approach the film takes is stylistically engaging to such an extent that it is virtually impossible to draw your eyes away from the screen. Minimalist set-pieces move along with the mood of the music at such a rate that much of the picture feels like a kaleidoscope of blistering sound and trancelike imagery.David Byrne is the key constituent; bestowing his stage presence, creativity and musical proficiency. His stage dynamics are let loose during Stop Making Sense. The infamously over-sized business suit donned by David Byrne is otherworldly, just like the viewing experience, which transports you into a deep-seated, vivacious trance. Yet it is the suit which distinguishes the work completely. The fact that a regular item of clothing can have the ability to make the wearer seem out-of-proportion and disfigured is both mystifying and captivating. Even more bizarre is that the suit seems to grow relatively larger as the concert progresses. Personal interpretation could be that the suit is an implicative metaphor for the irony of the business world or conformity; on the other hand it could just be about not making sense.Academy award winning director Jonathan Demme does not just get the gist of The Talking Heads. Instead he is able to comprehend the themes of the band's work from an unmistakably refined tone that he captures through his direction. The irregularity of the group may be hard for some viewers to swallow, but that can be expected from a group which make music of an acquired taste. As for the choreography, it seems there is none, since the musicians all behave in a volatile and limitless manner. The progressively shifted set-pieces convey the altered reality that you have become apart of, and are an extraordinary example of unbound craftsmanship. Stop Making Sense ultimately displays the band's antics from their perspective; this is due to the extended takes of the performers and the lack of audience shots (the fans can only be seen during wide shots or when the camera moves behind the performers). There are even moments where the viewer effectively becomes apart of the band. A prime example of this manoeuvre is when the camera swings behind drummer Chris Frantz and faces the audience during the rendition of Thank You for Sending me an Angel.Characteristically speaking it is hopeless trying to describe the feeling you receive while viewing Stop Making Sense. This is because when seen and heard the mind becomes so fixated with the audacious madness of the piece that every viewer will react differently. Personally, this is the concert which I would irrefutably name as the finest ever recorded, maybe you will too. "},{"Title":"Life During Showtime","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Stop Making Sense cemented the Talking Heads' place as the Beatles of college rock, capturing the band in all its art-funk glory. Part performance art, part low-key workout, Stop Making Sense benefits from a set of 16 quality songs, an ever-changing visual style that never loses its inventiveness, and a lead performance by David Byrne that has to be seen to be believed.He jogs around the stage. He bends his body in weird contortions. He puts on a really big suit. From the beginning to end, he has his shirt collar buttoned to the top like a Catholic schoolboy, and I'm not sure how or why.How and why are words that pop up a lot while watching this. Talking Heads were weird even for the punk/new wave crowd; they wore their hair like accountants, mined everything from disco to doo-wop to African exotica for their sound, and pulled off the trick of being both mocking and reverential. So whether it's Byrne dancing with a living-room lamp or words like facelift and sandwich appearing on screen, the viewer is well advised to follow the advice of the title and just let the goofy, heady mess roll over you. You'll probably find yourself having a bit of fun.It helps if you like their music. You don't hear much of it these days it seems. People know Life During Wartime and Once In A Lifetime, while Take Me To The River and Burning Down The House were Top 40 hits in the U.S. But the most familiar tune here is probably the one non-Talking Heads song, Genius Of Love, which is performed by the band's Byrne-less incarnation, the Tom Tom Club. That's because Mariah Carey sampled it (read sang over it) for one of her big hits, Fantasy.Frankly, the band as individuals aren't all that interesting. They don't play off each other or the audience in any way, leaving it to Byrne to sell each song. Jerry Harrison, one of the four Heads, seems AWOL even on the middle of the stage. Bringing up a few session players like Bernie Worrell, the P-Funk keyboardist, helps the film avoid this boring white guys playing their music trap at least somewhat, though if the mission of this film is to introduce us to the Talking Heads, it's certainly no Hard Day's Night or Last Waltz.But the songs are good, and Byrne works through his bemused detachment to become quite passionate on some selected numbers. His Once In A Lifetime is one of the great screen performances of 1984. Goofy lighting sets up Swamp and What A Day That Was and there's oddball tricks aplenty throughout. I like the lower-key Heaven, a wistful number about a place where nothing ever happens which Byrne delivers with the right amount of grace while bassist Tina Weymouth delivers some solid accompaniment.I see a lot of times where the notes being played or hit don't correspond with what's on screen. The film was shot over a period of days, and then edited together, but judging from the perfect quality of the performed pieces, I sense some post-game sweetening went on. But it's a nice piece to watch, very sublime, and the new DVD treatment is a decided gem worth having. You'll wish you were back in the 1980s when the Heads were the newest thing, though they never really got old. At least they will always be fresh and alive and together on Stop Making Sense. "},{"Title":"Incredible film","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I saw this movie when it was released. In our town (Sarasota, Florida then) it was a midnight movie in the theater next to 'The Rocky Horror Picture Show'. I played in a band at the time and was a fan of the Talking Heads so I was stoked to see the film. A band-mate and I went opening night and were blown away. People were dancing in the aisles by about the third song. We went back the next night and several nights there after with our girlfriends and others and had a blast. Our friends weren't particularly fans of the talking heads but they loved the movie. Most of us though the first time through just watched in awe. and when you left after just watching it and absorbing it you were speechless (ar at best unintelligible) for about 20 minutes after. It truly was that kind of film. As said elsewhere after seeing it you wonder why no other concert films have even attempted to emulate Stop Making Sense. I suppose they figured they would just look lame or they just didn't get it.(or maybe some of both). If you don't want to buy it at least rent it (then you WILL want to buy it). This is the concert film all the others want to be when they grow up. "},{"Title":"The best, the weirdest, what else?","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I bought this film without ever having seen it.  I liked the Talking Heads and had heard about the movie.  Suffice it to say that I was amazed!  The genious of starting with just a bare stage with David Byrne singing his sublime live version of Psycho Killer, then adding equiptment and band members was so weird, so brilliant.  The energy and stamina shown by Mr. Byrne in this film borders on creepy.   Was there a mountain of coke backstage, or is he a marathon runner?  Not for me to know.  How he was able to bend that far backwards during Once In A Lifetime I'll never know!  All in all a real concert experience, combining the brilliance and showmanship of the Talking Heads with a master director like Jonathan Demme.  It's no wonder that their compilation, Sand In The Vaseline, includes two live tracks seen on the film. "},{"Title":"I'll Tell You Later","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Take this not as music that became a concert that became a film. Take it instead as what it is, a film.As a film, it is completely without narrative, except by schematic reference to the viewers' real world. It has no trick narrative stance the viewers are in the audience. It has no flashy angles or editing. This is both minimalist filmmaking and minimalist rock all based on the notion of urban ecstasy.As with all great films, this one comes as a strange, focused vision from a single imagination. In this case, Byrnes had been studying religious ecstasy for a decade, and developed a geek shamanism of angst. Cast as Sufic poetry. (See how dead everything gets when the Tom Tom Club does its single number?) Its not the music, but the performance. Its not the performance but that shrill locus of spasm in your spine, its not your spine, oh -- I'll tell you later.As a film, just a film, I think this rates as one of the most successful experimental films ever. "},{"Title":"THE Great Concert Film","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  All concert films should be as innovative, energetic and just plain fun as Stop Making Sense.  With Jonathan Demme as director, the concert has a weird and wonderful theatrical look, with David Byrne arriving onstage at the beginning, armed with an acoustic guitar.  Gradually, the other members of the band join him and the stage sets become highly unusual.  For visuals, nothing matches the odd behavior of Byrne and quirky but (for the most part) great songs of the Talking Heads better than Demme's approach to filming.  The movie has such a terrific build up (at one point Byrne actually runs around the stage repeatedly) that you cannot help but move with it.  I can't believe concert films that followed did not even attempt to match this film's innovativeness. A great movie, even if you've never heard of the Talking Heads. "}{"Title":"the best concert film of all time","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Most concert films really miss the mark.  Woodstock is almost unwatchable today. The Talking Heads Stop making Sense show was one of the best concerts that I've ever seen.  Thank God for Jonathan Demme catching it so wonderfully on film. The only other concert film that compares to this is Gimme Shelter. It contains the most powerful message of any rock film ever made.  It is the anti-woodstock.  But Stop Making Sense is simply a joy.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant - one of the greatest ever concert films","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Brilliant - one of the greatest ever concert films.A Talking Heads concert from 1984, recorded at the Pantages Theatre in Hollywood. We have the band - David Byrne, Tina Weymouth, Jerry Harrison and Chris Frantz - plus several very talented backing singers and musicians. The Talking Heads offshoot, the Tom Tom Club (Weymouth and Franz, plus backing musicians), also performs a few songs.This is Talking Heads at their peak, creativity-wise and popularity- wise. Incredible concert - the band seemed to be having a whole lot of fun and the music is fantastic. There is also the stage theatrics, largely by frontman David Byrne, and these amount to performance art.The only concert films that surpass this, I think, are The Band's The Last Waltz and the Bob Dylan 30th Anniversary Concert Celebration. "},{"Title":"All that was great about the 80's","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Directed by Jonathan Demme...BRILLIANTLY starts with a blank, brightly lit stage and progresses with each song to a fully functioning stage show. Mr. Byrne did his own lighting AND choreography along with writing songs. There is so much abstract joy in this piece that it makes one think, We're they on coke? I'm thinking since it WAS the 80's...definitely. It was hard NOT to do coke in the 80's.The only thing missing is that nobody speaks to the audience at all. There's no familiarity between artist and patron. The music does stand on it's own, though.It was shot right here in Hollywood at the Pantages, which is nice to know. And there's a song in it by the Talking Head's band (- Byrne) the Tom Tom Club, which Mr. Byrne is rumored to have hated. They band split up after this tour which is sad. Mr. Byrne left to have a solo career that never matched the popularity he had with the Talking Heads...and in my opinion never produced anything that equaled it's brilliance. "},{"Title":"This film is an easy 10","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I just saw this movie tonight at the OKC Museum of Art for the first time in 30 years. It was even more fun than when I first saw it which may be because of the crowd I watched it with. The audience was comprised of a diverse mix of people ranging in age from teens to the 70s or 80s. The crowd had a blast throughout the film and cheered and applauded after each song with audience participation increasing as the film progressed. It felt like being at a live concert, so I can imagine what it must have been like to be at one of their live concerts in 1984. I found I was smiling throughout the film. A blast from the past and a blast all around. From David Byrne's surreal, quirky, fun antics on stage to Tina Weymouth dancing as she played guitar and the camera shots of the Jonathan Demme film, the band and film crew get everything right to provide us with a perfect concert film that is not to be missed. See it on the biggest screen you can with surround sound if possible. I have long thought the soundtrack CD was one of the best ever produced, the concert film holds up just as well. O-o-oh what a day that was! "},{"Title":"The name of this band is Talking Heads","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" At the beginning of the greatest concert movie ever made, we follow a pair of sneakered feet to down center of an empty stage. A voice says I've got a tape I want to play. We pan up to a thin, nervous-looking man with an acoustic guitar and a boom box. The box starts playing a beat. The man's hand hits a jangling chord. And for the next hour and a half, as the scenery slowly builds around this skinny misfit, we sit transported.Talking Heads were unquestionably a seminal band in the New York punk/new wave scene. Yet before seeing this film I had little idea of who they were, and even after seeing it I would not necessarily put them on a top ten list. Nonetheless, through a combination of front man David Byrne's charisma and stagecraft, Jonathan Demme's taut, precise filmmaking, and the infectious heat of the music, Stop Making Sense remains the most enthralling and sheerly entertaining rockshow ever. The keening melancholy of Heaven, the stripped-down mystery of Once in a Lifetime, the dark funk of Girlfriend is Better -- there's simply no duds here. And Byrne works his butt off. He seems to have energy to spare; during one number he simply jogs circles around the stage, as though he needs further exercise. His teammates Tina Weymouth, Chris Frantz, Jerry Harrison, and (eventually) a host of backup singers and musicians click into that energy without a stumble.This isn't raw work-- clearly this is a conceived film, with defined emotional beats and even a sort of intuitive narrative. And like any band, Talking Heads have a specific sound and style that (I suppose) won't appeal to everyone. But who? I've shown this film to at least three people who never heard of the band before (except through dim memory of early MTV), and even claimed to hate concert movies-- and then they went and bought the soundtrack.What can I further say? This is a record of performance that cannot be matched. If you like music, at all, clear a little time and watch this movie. I can't promise you won't be disappointed, but I cannot easily imagine how. "},{"Title":"Stop Making Sense is a highly acclaimed and great concert movie.","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" It was a mistake for met to put off watching Stop Making Sense. I should have watched it right after I bought the DVD. I have to say that I don't enjoy watching concert films much, nor do I like to listen to live recordings. Often, the music just isn't as definitive when it's played live. But at the same time you get to see the band perform so there is a payoff. Still, concerts can drag on, and can get boring because you have to watch the same band or artist perform for an hour or more. I've seen concert films before, even by great bands, but I didn't like them much. However, Stop Making Sense is an exception. Not just because the music is good and has so much energy, but also because the performance is well directed and presented.Directed by Jonathan Demme, Stop Making Sense was shot over three nights in December 1983, as the group was touring to promote their new album Speaking In Tongues. The movie is notable for being the first made entirely utilizing digital audio techniques. The band raised the budget of $1.2 million themselves. The title comes from a repeated phrase in the song Girlfriend Is Better. At the beginning of the film David Byrne, the lead singer of the Talking Heads, walks on to the stage with a boom box and an acoustic guitar and then performs Psycho Killer. He's just one man, but watching him is interesting, and the song is great too. With each successive song, Byrne is cumulatively joined onstage by each core member of the band first by Tina Weymouth for Heaven, second by Chris Frantz for Thank You For Sending Me An Angel, and third by Jerry Harrison for Found A Job. The Talking Heads also continue to be augmented by several additional musicians, most of whom had extensive experience in funk.David Byrne is a very energetic performer. Even the way he moved his body was fun to watch. He even put on that now famous big suit towards the end of the film. In addition, I really liked Tina Weymouth in this film. She's just the cutest bass player ever. I have to stress that Stop Making Sense isn't just a bunch of playing and singing. The band manages to make each song stand out. The faster songs are performed with plenty of energy and enthusiasm, while the slower songs sound beautiful and make you wonder. The film contains no audience shots until the very end to enable the viewer to form their own opinion about the performance. Byrne wanted no colored lights to illuminate the performers. This led to some unusual lighting methods being used for each song. Unlike many concert films/videos which use MTV-style quick-cut editing techniques, much of Stop Making Sense uses lengthy camera shots to allow the viewer to examine the performances and onstage interaction. In conclusion, Stop Making Sense is the definitive concert film. You don't even have to be a fan of the band or their music to like it. It's so good that you'll probably want to see it many times. Director Jonathan Demme managed to capture one the greatest bands of their era on film, and did it very well.Set Lists 1. Psycho Killer 2. Heaven 3. Thank You For Sending Me An Angel 4. Found A Job 5. Slippery People 6. Burning Down The House 7. Life During Wartime 8. Making Flippy Floppy 9. Swamp 10. What A Day That Was 11. This Must Be The Place 12. Once In A Lifetime 13. Genius Of Love 14. Girlfriend Is Better 15. Take Me To The River 16. Crosseyed And Painless "},{"Title":"this ain't no party, this ain't no disco, this ain't no fooling around...","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Stop Making Sense is the kind of concert film that gets you pumped up for the Talking Heads even if you're not that huge a fan. I love a few of their songs- Take Me to the River, Burning Down the House, Psycho Killer most of all- but I never really got in to them at a younger age, mostly because I knew them from classic rock radio. What Jonathan Demme as director presents with his film of their concert in 1984 is to energize fans and casual listeners to their presence and power and just plain f***ing fun. The main force behind the group, singer/guitarist David Byrne wears suits 10 times too big, runs laps around the stage (while also having back-up singers jogging in place as well), and creates crazy pop-culture and avant-garde imagery on behind them on a screen. It's madness, but it's also alive in performance and song all the way.Maybe one or two songs might not totally click or may sound a little, well, dated (it was the 80s after all, no longer the folks from CBGB's), but there's constantly memorable moments, including the opening take on Psycho Killer, the building-block form from song to song as band members join one by one until it's a good dozen players and singers all in the mix, and with the imagery that Demme and DP Jordan Crenowith create. For the most part it's (perfectly) straightforward film-making... but here and there we see real artistry break through, shadows cascading the figures playing, the juxtaposition of Byrne in that suit flopping around, moving around seamlessly between musicians. It's the kind of craftsmanship that looks like it should be easy enough with a good few cameras, yet probably took as much prep work as Scorsese had on the Last Waltz.So, take in all of the 80's New-Wave mood (and, make no mistake, it's VERY 80's New Wave, but probably in the best and most experimental sense imaginable), take in pretty much all of the classic Talking Heads numbers (there's one I forget the name of that's especially chilling with the chorus a series of 'ya-hay-hay-hay-hay-hay's' from Byrne in marching formation). It's probably one of the best modern concert films. "},{"Title":"This is why I'm a fan","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" To be perfectly honest, I was not a Talking Heads fan before this I saw this. A friend had to drag me to see it when it came out. But it totally blew me away! I wound up being totally obsessed with TH after I saw Stop Making Sense, so I don't think it's just for fans at all, it made me a fan.The thing about SMS is that it's just pure music, and pure joy. No filler interviews with the band members backstage, crowd shots, spliced segments of music videos, blah blah blah. If you love a band's music, why bother with the other crap? It's just drama (which there was plenty of on this tour, apparently, if you read the interviews).David Byrne is such a freak, and his unadulterated joy at being able to BE a freak on stage and get paid for it is infectious. This is a show for every self-conscious teen who felt like shrinking into his chair during class, but who busts out dancing in the privacy of his bedroom. "},{"Title":"an exhilarating experience","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I've been a Talking Heads fan since the mid-eighties, which was around the time that I first saw this film. Since it's been re-released on its 15th anniversary, I picked up a copy, figuring it would be a worthy addition to my video collection. I have a correction to make it's one of the BEST films in my collection, and quite possible the best concert film ever made. If you're already a Heads fan, you won't be disappointed. If you're not familiar with their music, i guarantee you'll be a fan by the end of the movie.Director Jonathan Demme knows what he's doing here. Instead of gratuitous audience shots, he focuses on the band. Not only is the music wonderful and breathtaking, the background slides, lighting and costumes make the whole show very entertaining without distracting you from the music. The band is incredibly energetic throughout the entire performance -- they seem genuinely thrilled to be on stage. There isn't a single moment where the performance falters -- not even during the silly Tom Tom Club number, which has its charm. Lead singer/songwriter David Byrne is undoubtedly the focus of the show, and his funky geek persona comes through loud and clear. It's truly a marvelous concert film. Words don't do it justice. Rent it today!   "},{"Title":"Once in a lifetime, a decent concert flick comes along","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I first saw this film back in`84 and recently acquired it on dvd. As films in general go it is sheer entertainment. As concert films go it`s a masterpiece. Colour, movement, great songs, fun visuals and the infamous very big suit. Not just a great moment in 80`s pop culture but a fitting tribute to the musical talents of Byrne and co. A new wave aerobic workout. The dvd also features an hilarious video of David Byrne interviewing himself. Well worth a look. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  As cinema, as music, as artistic statement, as joyous spectacle, it is hard to top this tour-de-force.  Perhaps its being merely a concert film disqualified it from many critics' Best of Century lists.  But down the road a few decades, I have a feeling this one's going get more and more formal recognition as a masterpiece.  Future generations will marvel at the surgical-like precision of the playing and the choreography, the irresistible groove created by the band, and David Byrne's bold and provocative songpoetry.  Even those who don't like the Heads can still enjoy the pleasures of pure inspiration at work.  It's like the planets were in perfect alignment during that December 1983 concert -- had the film been produced in '81 or '86, it might not have been as good. "},{"Title":"This is why DVD and 5.1 audio was invented","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  When I saw this film in 1986, I was impressed and thought it was a fantastic feature film, not just a concert movie or a glorified rock video.Now, with the DVD release I'm VERY impressed. The movie is great, and the sound is incredible! The digitally re-mixed and re-mastered 5.1 soundtrack is the best sounding audio source I have in my library. "},{"Title":"Best concert movie ever?","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Reasonable people can have different candidates for best concert movie ever, but The Talking Heads' Stop Making Sense is surely a contender.  Jonathan Demme wisely forgoes backstage preparation footage or overlong shots of the audience.  It's the show on the stage that matters.The best concerts approach the ecstasy of religious celebration, where primal instinct takes over from rational thought.  Is it any wonder that so many people in knowledge-intensive desk jobs were fans of the Heads?  They preached about how pointless so much intellectualizing is.  Life is a party; you just have to look at it the right way.  Dilbert should have seen this film.Why does David Byrne wear that big suit?  Who knows?  Who cares?  It's all part of the show, which is largely beyond words.  Do the Heads' lyrics make sense?  No, their songs are more than words, too.  The title of one of their songs, and of the movie is, Stop Making Sense!  Good advice for everyone, once in a while.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  There is a moment during Naive Melody where Steven Scales and Alex Weir exchange a look and a gesture --it is the most beautiful moment during the most beautiful song in a beautiful film.  They seem to be truly moved by the music--i look forward to that exchange each time I see it.   "},{"Title":"The gold standard of concert films","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The Band's _The Last Waltz_?  Led Zep's _The Song Remains the Same_?  Aw, forget 'em.  They're all a waste of time.  Get this on DVD, turn the volume all the way to 11, and get a bunch of friends over to dance to this thing.Sadly, when I saw this at the Varsity in Austin, they were sorta discouraging dancing in the aisles... ( "},{"Title":"pure genius","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The nature of concert films changed forever with Demme's decision to keep the camera on the band itself and not dwell on audience reaction shots or Zep-like fantasy sequences. He got help from the Heads' superb performances and the excellent staging of the show -- building instrument upon instrument from Byrne himself with a boombox and acoustic guitar to the full-fledged band.Sadly, the Sire soundtrack only contains about half the songs from the film, and some of those are edited. In the age of the re-release, perhaps we will soon have the full version in our CD carousels. That would certainly make sense. "},{"Title":"His royal majesty, David Byrne.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  After seeing this movie for the first time on the big screen when it first opened, I was literally out of breath. I found myself laughing hysterically in admiration of David Byrne's on-stage energy and antics. David Byrne and the band are possessed with some sort of rare rock & roll energy that doesn't come along often enough. I've seen it about 12 times or so since then. "},{"Title":"absolutely the best concert film of all time","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  and also the only true work of art that Jonathon Demme has ever produced. I have shown this film to friends who have never heard of or listened to Talking Heads, and all agree that a) it is a freaking incredible film, b) I am a god for having shown it to them, and c) they need to go out immediately and buy a copy for themselves.  If you haven't seen this film, take that copy of Song Remains The Same (which should have been called Song Remains So Lame, and I love LedZep so kwitcherbitchin hehe) and throw it away. This is so watchable that I'm still not tired of it after seeing it more than a dozen times in 1984 and owning the DVD since I got my first player 5 years ago. "},{"Title":"Too good to miss","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I rented this disk from netflix by what process of selection I forgot and almost did not play it. I expected talking head interviews. I thought it would be a talking head film about the Talking Heads. I also do not readily mix with music videos. So I was pleasantly surprised when I played the disk I found it was all music, no talk. I suddenly realized what a huge Talking Heads fan I have been all along. Talking Heads came along for me mostly on radio and here I see that every single song which they sing here was a smash hit. It is wall to wall music. By they I am thinking mostly (exclusively) of the scrumptious Tina Wheymouth, everyone's perfect, clean and dainty high school crush. David Byrne alone by himself got me to thinking any natural singing talent must be inconsequential compared to the energy that goes into it. It is the drive to produce which is remarkable. The ectomorphic Byrne really puts his entire nervous system into the song and with video we see as well as hear it. The choreography is as amazing as the music. Byrne is a sort of magician.If you like Talking Heads music to start with, you will love this film. This will be a disk you wish to own as part of your music collection.As for making sense, it almost does, leaving me a bit worried about what I might be getting into, should the lights come up. Such are the dangers of listening to rock n roll. "},{"Title":"Finally Saw This Great Film","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I always liked the band Talking Heads. A lot. In my 20's I was in Providence RI and saw them perform at the RISD auditorium, and later at CBGBs. After that I sort of followed their music. I thought all of it was fantastic and with a strange quirkiness you didn't hear anywhere else. In the mid-80's I had a nervous breakdown and lost touch with the band along with a lot of other stuff. As it turned out, they had broken up while I was falling apart.Yesterday I finally saw this film and truly enjoyed it. As it turned out, I knew every song and every lyric, but had never seen this film. The music brought me back to a time in my life when I was a bit insane and enjoying myself relentlessly. The band's music has a drive that encourages outrageousness, and this film certainly demonstrates that aspect. But beyond all of that, this is cinema, not just a film of a concert. In a way, you have to see it to understand. I would like to encourage you to see this film even if you know nothing about the band. It's that good. "}{"Title":"There is a season, Byrne, Byrne, Byrne","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I don't know how many times I've watched this film, but I do know that it has never grown old. David Byrne, artist first, musician second, created the single most unique, and best, musical stage show of all time. Then he brought in a spectacular bunch of backing players to compliment the Talking Heads core quartet.Demme captured it perfectly by not being too intrusive or overly busy. This is before the 40 edits per minute video era; while not stagnant at all it never makes you dizzy. You have time to take in the different personalities.And, yeah, the music's pretty good, too. "},{"Title":"Great, Minimalist Concert Film","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Stop Making Sense does what a concert film is supposed to do focus on the music. No in depth interviews with the performers, no extended shots of the audience, and no massive set pieces to distract from the music. The lesson keep it simple, stupid.This minimalism is reflected in the set design. What we get is a largely bare stage with some creative use of lighting and projections to liven things up. This puts the onus entirely on the artists, and it works wonderfully. The performance is energetic, with the film building up from just Byrne on stage to the whole band. Even when the stage is occupied by a lone performer, it keeps your attention.Even the costumes reflect this minimalist aesthetic. All the primary band members where bland, gray costumes, with the only wardrobe being the famous big suit which is still pretty drab. "},{"Title":"A Once In A Lifetime experience.","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I used to recommend this concert movie to everyone I knew and to tell them that they would definitely enjoy it. Well, of course, that's untrue. You will definitely enjoy this IF you're a fan of Talking Heads or if you end up being drawn in to the fantastic concept of the stage being built up, one or two pieces at a time, by a band at their very best.Jonathan Demme does well in the director's role but this is really all about the band and their charismatic frontman, David Byrne. Mr Byrne, with or without the big suit, speaks briefly in between some songs and introduces the various band members when the time is right but, for the most part, lets the music do the talking.And what a set list this is. Starting off with the acoustic version of Psycho Killer, we move through numbers as varied as Heaven, Life During Wartime, Swamp and, in a foot-tappingly irresistible way, Take Me To The River. The whole experience is one of building enthusiasm along with a stage/band and amounts to one of the best live gigs ever captured on film. Sheer enjoyment from beginning to end and something well worth seeing. With the volume turned way up. "},{"Title":"You know it makes sense!","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I watched this wonderful musical experience on DVD recently. I hadn't seen it for at least ten years and was delighted to see how well it's stood the test of time. Memories came flooding back of going to see it several times in the cinema with my then girlfriend (now my wife of twenty three years). Every time we went we met the same group of friends, smuggled in some beer, then danced all the way through the movie. Anyone too young to remember Talking Heads in their prime should watch Stop Making Sense and see how a group of talented musicians can put on a stunning show without the need for any flashy pyrotechnics. The originality and quality of the music and the clever use of simple lighting combine to make this a must see movie. Just be sure to move back the furniture so you have room to dance! "},{"Title":"Live & lively","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" A well-captured record of a fine concert - if not the Citizen Cane of the genre claimed by Uncut magazine on the DVD cover. There's a a great deal to enjoy. The songs are at the forefront of African rhythm/funk/synthesisers-soaked post-punk and some (Burning Down the House, Once In A Lifetime) are classics. The performances focus on this music making. There are few props, no extraneous narrative/drama and the antics (largely of frontman David Byrne) seem strangely natural. I'm sure I'm not the only one who sees the remarkable stage act of Radiohead's Thom Yorke prescribed in his incessant, compulsive movement.One or two things stick out though. For all the integrity of the performance there are reminders that it's been patched together from three different performances - there's occasional mis-synched singing and dancing. Also the performers' patois and costuming hum with the naphthalene of anachronism, particularly in the interpolated number by The Tom Tom Club (Genius of Love), a parallel project of the husband and wife rhythm section.It's all remarkably unaffected, unfussy live music making though, admirably complied and controlled by Jonathan Demme. 7/10 "},{"Title":"unbelievable","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I have many music documentaries and recorded concerts, and stop making sense is by far the best. I don't know if this was truly intentional or not, but it seems like the entire concert was geared toward making an awesome video. of course the music is awesome, as always, but the combination of an incredible performance and terrific cinematography creates one hell of a DVD. there are actually only 3 or 4 shots in the entire film where you see a substantial amount of the audience, and, unlike many concert recordings, the camera work is not constantly switching and showing everything at once, but focuses on what is most significant to that portion of the song and waits, appreciating whatever is happening rather than flipping back and forth to every different angle they have. you must buy this DVD, and, if not, at least buy the album so you realize how great the DVD must be. "},{"Title":"WHO said the 80ies produced boring - and boring only - music?","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This vibrant, exhilarating registration of two fantastic Talking Heads concerts proves Au contraire, mes chères! (which means No way - Jose)David Byrne again proves he is no less than a musical genius. In the confusing punk era mentioned above the Heads stood tall - and continued to produce their own atmosphere. A _female_ bass player - oh yes - and how skillful she is! Tina - we all love her! Jerry Harrison, and Chris Frantz and the other band members - likewise.Watch the over-sized suit Byrne is wearing - however did he come up with that idea? The Trademark for this movie.I recommend this work of art to everybody that is willing to take a dive in a deep and controversial, blue and clear ocean also known as new wave. Musical history is written...don't miss it..nuff said. "},{"Title":"Sheer brilliance","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  It's rare that a concert movie can be both such a great concert aswell as great film making, but Stop Making Sense sure doesexactly that.Obviously, a concert movie might be very dependent on what youthink of the artists and the music, but it's hard to see how some,thanks to the qualities of the movie, would be totally unmoved byTalking Heads and their style of music.I think that, the reason why it works, is that the concert follows thenarrative of a film.It begins on a naked stage, introducing the main character, thenbrings in the girl in the next song and not until the 4th song we seethe full Talking Heads. At the same time as they've built up thestage. That way we get to know the characters and the setting. Inthe 5th song, the full band is brought in on a completed stage. Itworks itself up to a high with Burning down the house and Lifeduring wartime, before it sort of restarts and work itself  up to thegreat finale and happy ending, with mission completed (That's thefirst time we see the audience,as it dances along with the music.Talking Heads has succeed, getting the audience to dance).A concert movie might stall after some time, when it gets the sameall over again, but Stop Making Sense avoids that by excellentphotography that's both very beautiful as well as intimate,combined with each song having a very distinct lighting.The only flaw is a slightly flawed DVD-version of the movie. I'veseen it on the big screen, as well as having a Limited EditionVHS (Which runs for 103 mins and includes the 3 bonus songsinside the concert, instead of (as on the DVD) have them as bonusmaterial, which make a huge difference in the experience of themovie/narrative. Also, on the DVD, those 3 bonus songs is of reallybad quality (Which is actually of a lot worse quality than on my VHS(Where those songs have the same quality as the rest of theconcert)).  "},{"Title":"Byrne at his prime","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  For rock movies this is one of the better ones. The Talking Heads play a great selection of their many hits, but these thend to be really funky. The additional players make all the difference too. There's some dubbing/synch errors but I tend to notice things like that.  Crank it UP! "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I've heard it said that this is possibly the best concert video ever and I fully agree. The sound is perfectly mixed, the picture is perfectly clear, the sets are clever, and the performance is out of this world.Every song has its own dances, quirks and sets, and all of the songs have an immense energy that any band is wont to match. Highlights include the searing Crosseyed & Painless and the touching This Must be the Place (with David dancing with a lamp).  I could watch it a dozen times. This is an amazing concert from an amazing band. Also worth chekcing out is the feature where David interviews himself. Quintissential David Byrne, the eternal weirdo. "}{"Title":"Yes, David Byrne *is* a musical genius","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I agree with what others have said re the brilliant lighting, concept, etc. etc. etc.  Also, I love Talking Heads music.  This review is based on a viewing of the DVD.Two things prevented me from rating this film higher than an 8 first, although I did find myself dancing and singing along, I wasn't really moved in any deep sense.  Second, spoilers... probably because the film was a composite taken from three performances given at the same theatre (which *did* allow for some innovative camera work and good editing) and was combined with some post-production music overlays, when I watched closely, I noticed a few places where the sound for an instrument or voice didn't *quite* sync with the picture.  (No, it's not the off-stage vocal in Heaven.)  This happened a few times with the drums, in particular.  I don't know if the sound problem was present in the original film.  It isn't really all *that* noticeable (especially if you're up dancing around and singing), but it did bug me.Overall I loved the film; it *is* the best concert film, and more.  I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested in good film, good music, or both.  Also, I'd recommend listening to the commentary track if you have any interest in the Heads whatsoever.  It's worth your time. "},{"Title":"Fantastic...even better if you are a 'heads fan.","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The Talking Heads were one of the most unique bands during the '80s.  And unlike other bands of the decade, their music is appreciated by people everywhere.  This documentary, directed by Jonathan Demme, is equally unique and provides an interesting view of the band in live form which is essential for fans who missed seeing the talking heads live.  Demme uses excellent camera work with high quality audio recordings of some of the band's best songs live such as Psycho Killer presenting the audience with a very entertaining concert documentary.  Kudos to a genius director and his experimental dive into the band's talent.  "},{"Title":"Big suits, funky dances, and a hell of a rhythm section.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  It's an action-packed concert film... not in the sense of leaping towers of pyrotechnics... but in the way of seeing David Byrne falling back, standing up, shoving lamps, and running around risers, while musicians emerge song-by-song and various backgrounds come and go. Everything is in perfect place for this concert video--and, even better, it's nonstop. There are no minute-long, audience-panning breaks; if one song ends, the next one's almost there. And, of course, there's the music. Put this one on through the stereo, turn it up, and you'll be treated to some wonderful tracks and a few new version--from a spastic, minor-keyed Psycho Killer to a somehow strangely touching, acoustic Heaven, a denser, heavier Life During Wartime funkier Girlfriend is Better, and the 'Stop Making Sense'-only track, Big Business. Even the Tom Tom Club number is catchy, if not a bit too light. David Byrne remains his tense, geeky way throughout the entire performance, and the addition of the Speaking in Tongues musicians to the touring group packs every ounce of funk they can fit into Making Flippy Floppy, Once in a Lifetime, and Burning Down the House. For the uninitiated, it's a fine place to start. For Talking Heads fans, it's a must to see.Pull down the curtains and spaz-dance along. We both know you want to. "},{"Title":"A Skeptic Converted","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I'm 15 years old, and my dad bought the DVD of Stop Making Sense in Cleveland at the Rock'N'Roll Hall of Fame. At first, I was skeptical of the Talking Heads. I was not a big fan of 1980's synthesizer-filled music. But then I sat down and watched it all the way through. It was like a weird kind of religious experience. The energy of the musicians, the presentation of every song, the sheer oddness of David Byrne... I loved it!! Now I'm a Talking-Heads freak, and I listen to the Stop Making Sense CD all the time. If you are not a fan of the Talking Heads, watch this film. You will find it hard not to like them afterward. "},{"Title":"Same As It Ever Was . . .","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  For those of you who are already fans of David Byrne and the Talking Heads, you will be visually delighted and musically charmed with this film!  For all others, you must give this film a try!  Sit back, relax, listen, and watch!  If you're lucky, you will join us in awe of this brilliant band!  "},{"Title":"Best Rock Movie Ever!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Talking Heads had a sound which made them stand out from other New Wave bands of the late 70's. More funky than their British New Wave counterparts such as Elvis Costello and Boomtown Rats, and ditto to the American New Wavers such as The Cars and Blondie. By 1980, the New Wave sound became dated and, while Elvis Costello experimented with such genres as 60's R&B and country, and Joe Jackson back to his Jazz roots, David Byrne got spiritual, having an interest in relirious ecstacy from around the world, Talking Heads turned it into pop music. In 1984, the concert film Stop Making Sense was made, and still has not been surpassed in the genre of Rock movies. Directed by Jonathan Demme (who would later direct the Oscar winner's Philedelphia and Silence of the Lambs), this is a brilliant peice of both film, and music histoty.Much of the 80's was buried in talentless hair metal bands like Motley Crue, and two dimensional synth-pop from Flock of Seagulls. Talking Heads on the other hand, was not just great music, they were pure art. Watch this movie, you'll see what I mean. The stage show is a visual feast (not just a big laser show), and singer David Byrne's big suit was a stroke of originality.This movie is great- it gets a 10. "},{"Title":"Urged to clap and cheer...","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I don't get the whole thing of watching concert movies, but I really enjoyed this. I suppose it's because Mr. Byrne is such a fascinating creature. Great music, interesting visuals and throbbing with energy. Talking Heads make this experience unpredictable, funny and musically brilliant. Not a dull moment, not a bad song.  "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever made about anything","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I was fortunate to see Stop Making Sense in the theater during its recent re-release.  I was peripherally aware of the Talking Heads for most of my short life and could probably even tell you the names of the core members if hard-pressed before seeing this film. After it, I was obsessed.  I walked out of the theater on unsteady legs with a dazed look on my face.  I've never seen anything like it.  I don't think anything else like it exists.Here are just a few things to love about Stop Making Sense-During Life During Wartime there's a point where everybody is running in place and it looks like a very sick and demented exercise video.  Guitarist Alex Weir is especially into this, supplying several karate kicks to punctuate the song. -Chris Frantz is probably the biggest nerd in rock.  When he jumps up and screams All right! The Lord won't mind! etc. during Slippery People, it's quite amusing. But you love him anyway.-Jonathan Demme's brilliant direction and the way he shows the many faces of David Byrne.  Sometimes (e.g. Swamp) Byrne looks downright Hannibal Lecter-esque, other times (e.g. Slippery People) I found myself wondering how such a gawky, freakish guy can be so darn sexy.-Once in a Lifetime, when David Byrne dons Buddy Holly glasses and has spastic conversations with his hand. At one moment he's totally absorbed in himself, then suddenly he's screaming out the words with all the fervor of a televangelist.  When he looks up in supplication and says My God, what have I done? it's powerful.-Heaven, where it's just Byrne and bassist Tina Weymouth.  Lovely, intimate, and seamless.-The little weave thing that Jerry Harrison, Tina and David do at the end of Found a Job.-At the end of Life During Wartime, when Byrne looks out at the audience and says, Does anybody have any questions?-The lamp dance during Naive Melody.-The words up on the screen during Making Flippy Floppy.-The rapid-fire delivery of the facts are simple and facts are straight bit on Cross-eyed and Painless.-The extra tracks, and the trailer, and David Byrne interviews David Byrne.-The fact that they never show the audience except at the very end, because everybody in the audience is a geek like me and they're not very much fun to watch.These are just some of my favorites. Every time I see it I find something new to love about it.  Once you see it for yourself you'll find your own. "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  There might exist a movie that is more fun and more pure entertainment than the Talking Head's `Stop Making Sense,' but I've failed to find it.I wanted to see this film when it first came out in 1984, but for some odd reason, never got around to it.   As the years have gone by, I have just about completely forgotten about the film and the Talking Heads.    Fast forward to 1999 I heard it was being released on DVD, and immediately rented a copy as soon as it was released.   I'm awfully glad I did.This film can be best described in one word fun!   This is the first movie I watched that made me want to get up and dance with the music!   I had all but forgotten many of the very danceable tunes that the Heads had performed in the past, and here are many of their best songs, delivered in a most straightforward and entertaining way.   On the cover of the `Stop Making Sense' DVD is a quote from Leonard Maltin `One of the greatest rock movies ever made.'   Leonard doesn't quite have it right; this IS the greatest rock movie ever made!The very first scene we see a pair of white gym shoes walking out on stage. We hear David Byrne tell the audience that he has a tape he'd like to play, and a boom box is plopped down on stage, then David pushes `play.'   A hypnotic drum beat starts thumping its rhythm, the camera pans up, and there's David- alone, on a bare stage (and I do mean BARE) with a microphone, a boom box and his acoustic guitar.   Hardly the opening one expects for an awesome rock concert!   David then performs, sans musicians, the classic `Psycho Killer' using nothing more than his guitar, his drum machine rhythm, and his incredible audacity!But the fun is only beginning.   As David sings, the roadies and stagehands are setting up for the next number, on stage at the very same time he's singing!   And so begins one of the most clever and effective openings of a rock concert in the history of music.   Each song adds a musician or two, a bit more stage, and before you know it, the whole band is standing before you, performing the jammin' nonsense song `Burning Down the House.'   It takes six numbers to get to this point; but, once again, the fun is only beginning!Although the music will make you dance, the stage antics of David Bryne will make you wonder which mental hospital he escaped from in order to do this concert!   Well, lets just say he certainly lives up to the title of this film.    And, of course, there's the classic `Big Suit' and the famous `lamp dance;' they're simple little things Byrne does to always keep the audience in a state of wonderment!David and the Heads manage to keep the excitement level increasing in a near exponential fashion until we reach my favorite Head's song `Take Me to the River.'   We are now on the verge of religious ecstasy, praising and worshipping a wonderful almighty God for the great honor of watching and listening to one of the most original and entertaining films ever made.David Byrne stages this concert in a fashion that is nothing short of brilliant.   Rather than having a stage cluttered with various amps, guitars, stands, etc.; David only allows the band to have the instruments that they absolutely need.    No extra equipment of any type is visible, and references to manufactures are neatly blacked-out from the drums and keyboards in a very humble matte black.    The stage setup seems to be a tribute to a Mies Van Der Rhoe style of minimalism.Nor does he allow the usual colored lights and laser beams.  Rather the stage is lit with nothing more exciting than white stage lights!   But there's never been a band that has used so little to such great effect. Watch the movie to see many amazing lighting designs, all done with boring old white light.While this isn't exactly a forum for reviewing DVD's, let me just say that the DVD version of `Stop Making Sense' does this medium a great service! This is what the DVD format was meant for, and the use of the medium for `Stop Making Sense' will make DVD believers out of all who care to watch. I would even go so far as to say that a soundtrack of this film on CD would be a waste of money.The DVD features the entire film, plus THREE bonus songs not in the original theatrical release!    But that's not all!  You also get no less than THREE sound mixes to choose from Dolby Digital 5.1 Feature, Dolby Digital 5.1 Studio Remix, and Dolby 2.0 Stereo!   There's also a rather informative and entertaining audio commentary track featuring the four original band members and director Jonathan Demme.   Lot's of other little goodies are included as well, making this disk quite an entertainment bargain.I highly recommend this film to anyone.   Even my four year old son and two year old daughter love for me to play this DVD, just so they can dance to the music!   It is a much-loved part of our permanent film collection. "},{"Title":"An Extremely Stylish Concert","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  If it wasn't for me seeing Jonathan Demme's filmography, I might never have heard about the Talking Heads. So I know the band is from the 80s, a generation whose music I simply cannot tolerate but hey, I was born during that time and I don't remember the music so I'm ok. I must mention however that even though the Talking Heads are from the 80s their music style is way out there. It doesn't sound like music from that era; it's a completely different kind of sound. Even though I wasn't impressed much by the music (except for `This Must Be the Place'), the film itself is definitely worth checking out. Unlike most concert films they try to praise the performer with laser effects, explosions, and of course the glamour. Stop Making Sense is very different, extremely stylish yet very simple. The footage is composed of shots that the audience would normally see at a concert, meaning throughout the film we only see the staging area, not the audience nor the backstage or anything like that. As the band plays on stage, in the background are a compilation of images composed of photographs, locations, colors, and words. The main attraction of this film is the cinematography. The main stand out of the film for me was where David Byrne plays with the lamp as he sings This Must Be the Place. The low-key lighting of the film gives it an extremely serene feeling. Along with the dimming of the background and the lighting of each of the members blending into the darkness gives a different feeling to a concert film. A great example of this dimming technique is another Demme film entitled Swimming to Cambodia, featuring Spalding Gray.So why did I decide to see Stop Making Sense? Well, because I like the films of Jonathan Demme. He has a very unique style to his films, such as the actors talking directly to the camera. To see a filmmaker of his status direct a concert movie was something I just had to see. An experienced filmmaker making a concert film seemed a bit awkward but the final result is quite rewarding. I'm glad to see filmmakers not indulge into one type of genre, its good for them to try something new. "}{"Title":"Best concert film of all time","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Move OVER, Song Remains the Same, this is by far the best concert film of all time. It's a masterpiece and defining moment, and ironically, I think it marks the beginning of the end for Talking Heads. I mean, after this tour de force, what more did David Byrne have to prove?It was the brilliance in concept and art direction that made it possible to make this movie so effective. The building of the set and the addition of more instruments/musicians as the show progressed was a masterstroke. The performances are all just spot on, and if you're not a Talking Heads fan going in, you will be after you see this film.Not a single blemish (unless one's favorite Heads song is not in the playlist...and that would be a minor quibble). "},{"Title":"I cried...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I just saw this movie again (on DVD) after 15 years and still think it's fantastic.I was seized by powerful emotions during What a Day That Was.  Tears were streaming down my face.My friend and I reviewed a few of the tracks with the running commentary, and I've got to say it's the best DVD commentary track I've heard to date.  A perfect mix on the levels, and real art school talk minus the pretension--if you can imagine that!If you like music, creation, truth, action, and still believe in live love acts on stage--see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Stupendously energetic, entertaining & enlightening movie. In its way its the pinnacle of Rock & Roll, maybe even its culmination, because everything before had just been getting better & better & everything since...well, to be kind, at its best it's very derivative - many variations on a theme. The whole extended Talking Heads band was at its peak here, singing, dancing, playing a multitude of instruments, never breaking stride, never a pause or lull of even a tiny dead spot. But the genius of course is David Byrne. After watching him in this film, how could anyone not consider him the very best. And finally, the movie itself, as far as I'm concerned is the best Demme has ever done, and I love his film work - from Crazy Mama to Something Wild. "},{"Title":"Stop saying it´s a concert...","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Stop saying is a concert, stop saying is a documentary. It just don´t make any sense. Stop Making Sense is a Film, with actors. The actors are the group, but they are not performing for an audience live, they are acting for the camera. If you look closely you can see that sound and vision were recorded in a different session. When the band is playing, they are doing what is in the script. Another detail, Have you ever seen a human being singing,running and playing guitar for more than an hour non stop? I have to say that it is a beautiful work, a masterpiece, a legacy from Talking Heads and J. Demme. But it is not a concert... sorry to tell you. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  OK! Those of you who denigrate the TomTomClub part of the movie have to let it go. David Byrne is genius. But, he is evil! Tina Weymouth and Chris Frantz are the rhythm section of the band. They are resposible for the funk. He did NOT come up with all that stuff by himself. He is responsible for their direction, I suppose. The Genius of Love was a MUCH needed break from David Byrne's (funky) white angst. I have seen the Tom Tom Club in concert and they have proven their mettle! I have seen the reviews previous and they speak the truth. Does the movie slow down? Yes! The Big Business/I Zimbra number cut from the theatrical release was wise. It didn't fit! Trust the director. So, David Byrne is evil, because he takes all the credit. Lead singers! Anyone whose read the history of the band would understand. Yes, he is a genius. A synthesizer. "},{"Title":"This is ART people!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I love the Talking Heads. I love not making sense. I love this film.The DVD is GREAT and a must have for everybody! It's almost like a religious experience if not better. The audio commentary on the disc is just fantastic.My only wish is to see this movie on a big screen. Somewhere where you can dance with a lot of people out in the open air.Damn... why did the Heads ever stopped not making sense !?! 12 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You don't have to like Talking Heads to like this!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  First off, I never liked the group Talking Heads.  I found the music unbearable.  However, this film is unbelievable.  I STILL don't like them, but the way this was filmed (starting off with Bryne(?) alone on stage and then adding band members one by one) was just so great and seeing them perform the songs was stunning.  So I like the film CINEMATICALLY--aurally I tolerated it.  One of the best concert film ever--this should be used as a guide.  Try seeing it in a theatre in stereo--that's the only way to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane - with a Big Suit","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" The back of the DVD describes it as The Citizen Kane of concert movies, and I am inclined to agree. From David Byrne's entrance across a tape-marked floor, you know that this will be a truly cinematographic movie. Johnathan Demme's direction is superb, utilising stage-wide pans and long takes. The sound quality is crisp, and vastly different from the soundtrack album, which is arguably Talking Heads' bestApparently, the film has a plot, akin to a concept album, a man trying to enter the human race, or some such, but even without the plot it is a worthy film. The film has no distinct turning point or act-series. Each of the 16 songs could be argued as the turning point.Even though this movie was released in 1984, while the band still had 3 albums yet to make, the movie is the pinnacle of Talking Heads' career.There are so many memorable moments, which i will not state here for that would just be selfish of me. Stop Making Sense is truly one of the best movies I have seen in a long time and i recommend it to all viewers, unless you don't like Talking Heads.In which case, go and watch something else. Without David Byrne in it. "},{"Title":"An annual tradition","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Stop Making Sense is actually one of my top 5 favorite movies of all time.As my little summary title explains I have tradition of watching Stop Making Sense on Christmas eve every year since 1986. Here's the story; Back in 1986 I had just moved to Denver from St. Louis for a new job. My wife was still back in stl waiting to close on selling our house and her father very recently was killed in an auto accident. Money was very tight so I ended up staying in Denver by myself over Christmas. (You are suppose to start sobbing now.) I went to the video store looking for something to fill the time during the Christmas time and picked up Stop Making Sense. When I got back to my apartment I slammed it into the vcr and I was blown away by it. Great flick. I became a huge TH fan and made viewing SMS on Christmas eve is part of my holiday tradition. "},{"Title":"The Best American Band in the Best Rock Film","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Talking Heads is the best band ever to arise from the American rock scene. Innovative, original and listenable, each album is different, yet distinctly theirs. This documentary of concert footage captures everything this band is about, and does so at the peak of their fame and creativity.The 80's were drenched with self-indulgent, pretty-boy, factory-stamped audio luncheon meat. See this and remember the 80's music as good as it ever was. **** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Totally Awesome","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Well....being a child of the 80's I had obviously heard of the Talking Heads and liked most of their stuff that they played on the radio.  I knew that this movie was basically a documentary of some sort and wasn't too enthused about rushing right out and renting it.  But one night I saw it in the local video store and decided to give it a try.Wow!!  I never knew a concert movie could move me like that!  It was a totally euphoric experience.  I really can't describe the way it made me feel but I haven't been the same since and it totally changed the way I feel about David Byrne and the Talking Heads.  I loved it so much I went out to Ebay and found a used copy and bought it (it is out of print now).The cinematography is great.  The lighting, colors, simple effects, costumes, and high energy dancing make this one concert movie you definitely don't want to miss.  Something like this only comes along once in a lifetime.I would highly recommend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"Incredible incredible incredible","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Seeing this film was a religious experience for me. I swear, if you're not yet a fan of Talking Heads/David Byrne, you'll never be the same after this. The only downside, David disappears so Tom Tom Club can do some stupid number. It is so unbelievable, amazing, WOW! David Bynre should be worshipped in some tribe. Halleluiah! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but only for the fans","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I was always a big fan of Talking Heads, so, not surprisingly, I loved this film. It differs from many concert films because it does not show many crowd scenes, the cameras remain firmly focussed on the stage. In reality David Byrne was the Talking Heads and he retains the interest throughout with his energetic individual performance. The film is directed by Jonathon Demme just before he directed Silence of the Lambs and Philadelphia. This lends the film some credibility on a wider front. I was lucky enough to see this set live and it truly was a memorable concert. I can't imagine that anybody who wasn't a Talking Heads fan would like the film though. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Tripe","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I had to sit through this video- of a concert by the title group recently. I can't see what all the fuss about this group was. The vocals are lame, their playing is amateurish and they have no stage persona at all. How can a good director like Demme squander his talents on an extended MTV style video like this? As you probably have guessed by now, I do not like this group. As a matter of fact, I HATE them. Yet for some reason, the music critics just loved them. I remember them fawning over them in the 1980s. I just didn't get it then just as I can't get it now. Music is highly unoriginal and seemed to rehash almost everything pop music threw at us then. The front man David Byrne has just about as much charisma as a faceless musician on a Muzak recording session, that is if real artists actually did these recordings at all. Not worth your time. In plain English, this film sucks.I really do not like to use vulgar langusage on my reviews, but I could not think of a better word to describe this garbage. Zero stars. "}]